16-09-2020||India||Ties with neighbours haven’t declined: MoS||New Delhi Amid the dragging border standoff in Ladakh sector and the first use of guns along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since 1975, the minister of state for external affairs wrote in response to a question to Parliament that India’s relations with its neighbours, including China, has not deteriorated recently. “No,” was minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan’s written reply to a question from Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Roy in Lok Sabha on whether bilateral ties with neighbours such as Nepal, China, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Myanmar had deteriorated recently. The government accords highest priority to relations with neighbours and India is an “active political and economic partner of its neighbours and is involved in various projects, including development projects, with these countries”, the minister added.Interestingly, the minister appeared to contradict himself; in response to another question he reiterated India’s position that there had been enhanced deployment of troops and armaments by China in border areas and along the LAC since April-May, and that the Chinese side “attempted to transgress the LAC in several areas of the western sector” since mid-May. These attempts received an “appropriate response” from India, and China departed from the consensus for disengagement reached at a meeting of corps commanders on June 6 and “tried to unilaterally change the status quo”, he said. This resulted in a “violent face-off” in Galwan Valley on June 15, in which both sides “suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the senior commanders level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side”, Muraleedharan said.People familiar with developments said the minister of state’s answer was in response to a question about an overall assessment of India’s relations with all its neighbours collectively, and not on a particular bilateral relationship. On the specific issue of India-China relations, defence minister Rajnath Singh had outlined New Delhi’s position in his detailed statement in Parliament on Tuesday, the people said on condition of anonymity. Singh had said in his statement the current situation in the border areas with China was very different from past standoffs “in terms of the scale of troops involved and the number of friction points”. He also said the Chinese side had engaged in provocative military manoeuvres and violated agreements by amassing troops. On September 11 following external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting, the ministry said that the Indian side had made it clear to the Chinese that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas is “essential to the forward development of ties”, and that recent incidents in eastern Ladakh had “inevitably impacted the development of the bilateral relationship”. In a written reply to another question in Lok Sabha on whether India has started discussions with China regarding the recent tensions on the border, Muraleedharan noted the contacts between the foreign and defence ministers, military commanders and Special Representatives of the two sides and meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border issues since June. He noted that Jaishankar and Wang agreed on a five-point roadmap during their meeting in Moscow on September 10, whereby both sides will take guidance from the consensus reached by the top leadership, work to quickly disengage troops, abide by all agreements and protocols boundary affairs, continue dialogue through various mechanisms, and expedite work on new confidence-building measures for the border areas. “Accordingly, it is expected that the two sides will continue to have meetings of military and diplomatic officials to implement the agreements reached between the two foreign ministers and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” Muraleedharan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ties-with-neighbours-haven-t-declined-mos/story-OrkMdaFfSmDw9O2dmQoktN.html
16-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha MP Balli Durga Prasad Rao passes away; PM Modi, President Kovind express grief||Lok Sabha MP Balli Durga Prasad Rao died at the age of 65 in a hospital in Chennai on Wednesday, family members said. The minister was undergoing treatment after testing positive for Covid-19.The YSR Congress leader was admitted to the hospital three weeks ago after contacting coronavirus and undergoing medical treatment, PTI cited his family members as saying.Balli Durga Prasad Rao, a former state minister and three-time MLA, is survived by his wife, a daughter and two sons.Many expressed grief over the passing of Tirupati MP Balli Durga Prasad Rao, who was the first-time MP from the Tirupati (SC) reserved constituency.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy were among those who condoled the minister’s death.“Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP, Balli Durga Prasad Rao Garu. He was an experienced leader, who made effective contributions towards the progress of Andhra Pradesh. My thoughts are with his family and well-wishers in this sad hour. Om Shanti,” PM Modi tweeted.The President, in a tweet, said, “Anguished by the demise of Shri Balli Durga Prasad Rao, Member of Parliament from Tirupati. He worked tirelessly for the welfare of the people of Andhra Pradesh. Condolences to his family, friends and well-wishers.”Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Reddy said in a message, “Loss to the party. He strove for people’s welfare as MLA, Minister and MP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-mp-balli-durga-prasad-rao-passes-away-pm-modi-president-kovind-express-grief/story-11klOSdu7RygtAKdWDeX6J.html
16-09-2020||India||With Durga Puja a month away, Bengal govt gears up for festive season amid pandemic||With the festive season starting from Thursday and just around a month left for the Durga Puja, the Mamata Banerjee administration has started its preparations on how to organise the festival and the puja during the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government has asked the police commissioners and superintendents of police of the districts to gather information about the pujas that are held in their respective areas. The local police stations would be asked to collect information about the pujas that would be held this year. “Even though such information is collected every year for crowd management, this year information would be gathered on how they plan to sanitise the pandals and maintain social distancing among visitors. Special stress would be given on crowd management this year,” said a senior government official. Also read: Union minister Nitin Gadkari tests positive for Covid-19, attended Day 1 of Parliament monsoon sessionChief minister Mamata Banerjee had said that the government would urge puja organisers to keep the pandals as much airy and open as possible to maintain free flow of air. This would stop the virus from spreading. The suggestion had come from the global advisory body set up by the government with Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee. The state government would hold a meeting with prominent puja organisers on September 25 to finalise the crowd management plans and other aspects of the festival this year. The festive season starts from Thursday with the Viswakarma Puja and Mahalaya. “We have already come up with an informal list of dos and don’ts for the members to follow. That needs to be finalized. We would soon hold a meeting with the government. The puja would be held this year but the festivities and the grandeur would be scaled down,” said Saswata Bau, general secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab. Out of the 4500-odd community pujas held in Kolkata alone, the forum has more than 370 of the most prominent and biggest pujas under its banner, including the ones that are patronised by some senior ministers in Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet. More than one lakh pujas are held across the state. This is the biggest festival in West Bengal. The forum had come up with a set of guidelines in July. The list of Dos and Don’ts includes reducing the size of pandals and idols so that they could be sanitized, restricting the number of pandal hoppers to 25 at a time, less decorative lighting to discourage crowding at night and allowing food stalls in pandal premises sans any seating arrangements, among others measures. “The 17-point code prepared by the forum also calls for offering only whole fruits to the goddess, less of interior decoration and airy pandals which can be seen from outside, thermal guns and sanitizers to be provided at pandals. No visitors would be allowed without wearing a face mask,” said Partha Ghosh, a member of the forum’s executive committee. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was apparently keen on organizing the festival this year despite the pandemic. “Durga Puja is coming. We have to organize it. For that we have to stay fit from now,” she had said in July while addressing local clubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-durga-puja-a-month-away-bengal-govt-gears-up-for-festive-season-amid-pandemic/story-FBqxv2xTYCJwqvlM0qkMhK.html
16-09-2020||India||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally surges past 1.12 million with over 23,000 fresh cases||With 23,365 more infections reported in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally has soared past 1.12 million while the toll has gone up to 30,883, according to figures released by the state health ministry on Wednesday.Of the 1,121,221 confirmed cases in the state, 2,97,125 are active while 792,832 people have recovered from the viral disease.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here With 474 deaths reported in a day, the state’s Covid-19 fatality rate stands at 2.75% whereas the recovery rate has gone up to 70.71% with 17, 559 people discharged from hospital/home isolation today, the health department said.Earlier in the day, the Union health ministry said that Maharashtra contributes to about one-fourth of the country’s total new recoveries while at the same time the state also leads the tally of active cases, accounting for nearly 30% of India’s total active cases.The state has so far conducted Covid-19 tests on 5,506,276 people and of them, 11,21,221 have tested positive which is 20.36%, the state government said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt added that currently 17,53,347 people are under home isolation and 36,462 are in institutional quarantine.Meanwhile, the state has also undertaken the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign that kicked off on Tuesday. Under the campaign, health workers will conduct door-to-door surveys to check residents’ body temperature and oxygen levels, besides other symptoms of the coronavirus disease, including tiredness, throat pain, dry cough, diarrhoea, and the loss of smell and taste, officials said.Each team comprising a health worker and two volunteers will survey each and every family of the state twice in over a month.In Mumbai, there are 175,974 confirmed cases while the toll is at 8,280 with 2,378 new cases and 50 fatalities, reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-surges-past-1-12-million-with-over-23-000-fresh-cases/story-wcKXt8mu2pN8Gb0Rj3N51M.html
16-09-2020||India||Karnataka cabinet expansion, flood relief in Yediyurappa’s Delhi visit plan||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa will be travelling to Delhi on Friday to seek financial aid for flood relief but is also likely to discuss cabinet expansion, which has been hanging fire due to the outbreak of Covid pandemic.Revenue minister R Ashoka, speaking to the media in Raichur, said that since the state had suffered Rs 8,071 crore losses due to floods this year, the CM will meet several union ministers at the Centre to discuss special relief for the state. The minister also pointed out that for the third successive year, large parts of Karnataka had been ravaged by floods and the Centre had sent a team recently to assess the extent of damage.During his visit, Yediyurappa is also likely to discuss cabinet expansion and reshuffle. Several aspirants, including some who crossed over from Congress and JDS to help BJP form the government, are waiting in the wings to get into the cabinet. A senior cabinet minister who did not want to be identified said: “This exercise has been overdue and everybody has been waiting patiently as all attention has been consumed in combating Covid. Not just aspirants who came from other parties to help us form government but some of our loyal MLAs who are 5-6 term legislators. They also need to be rewarded.”Some of the BJP MLAs like Umesh Katti, MP Kumaraswamy, Appachu Ranjan, Murgesh Nirani, Paranna Munavalli and N Thippa Reddy have been vocal about how they are aspirants for ministerial positions. While Yediyurappa has tried to accommodate some as chairmen of various boards and corporations of the state run entities, some have rejected those offers. Political analyst Manjunath said that the CM needs to do a careful balancing act of taking care of caste and regional interests as well as those of loyalists. “While ostensibly he is going to ask for immediate release of flood relief, cabinet expansion which has been stalled for nearly six months now would definitely be on the agenda. There are six vacancies, so some ‘non-performing’ ministers might be dropped and others accommodated with a few vacancies remaining to ensure that there is no trouble.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-flood-relief-in-yediyurappa-s-delhi-visit-plan/story-MSoEjHD4uIrWRqPF9ii04O.html
16-09-2020||India||Bangalore drug scandal: After Ragini, Sanjjanaa too shifted to Prapanna Agrahara Jail||Popular Kannada film industry couple Diganth Manchale and Aindrata Ray appeared before the Central Crime Branch (CBB) in Bangalore for questioning after they were summoned by the police on Monday in the ongoing investigations in the Bangalore drug scandal.A case has been registered in the Cottonpet police station in the city under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) in which fifteen people, including some actors and well-known personalities, have been named.Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) said that Diganth and Aindrata had been questioned about several issues including their association with some of those who have been arrested in the drug scandal. Later speaking to media, Diganth said, “Investigations are on. We are cooperating with the authorities. If called again, we will appear before them.” A senior police officer said that the couple is likely to be summoned again for further details.Meanwhile, actor Sanjjanaa Galrani, whose police custody ended today, was produced before the 1st ACMM court which remanded her to judicial custody for the next two days. Galrani was later moved to Parpanna Agrahara Jail on the outskirts of the city where her colleague Ragini Dwivedi is already lodged. Two others accused, Viren Khanna and Ravi Shankar, were remanded to 14 days judicial custody by the same court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangalore-drug-scandal-after-ragini-sanjjanaa-too-shifted-to-prapanna-agrahara-jail/story-zShadSAP855DCsTUb3RjaL.html
16-09-2020||India||Nitin Gadkari tests Covid +ve 2 days after attending monsoon session||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday tested positive for coronavirus. Gadkari had attended Parliament monsoon session on Monday and was seated in the front row for a brief moment.The minister has isolated himself and has requested everyone who has come in his contact to follow required protocols. After feeling weakness on Tuesday, Gadkari consulted his doctor regarding his health. During medical check up, the minister tested positive for Covid-19.Watch | Covid: Union minister Nitin Gadkari tests positive, goes into self-isolation “I am at present doing well with the blessings and good wishes of all. I have isolated myself,” Gadkari wrote on Twitter. Yesterday, I was feeling weak and consulted my Doctor. During the course of my check up, I have been tested COVID 19 positive. I am at present doing well with the blessings and good wishes of all. I have isolated myself.Gadkari is the second minister this week to have tested positive for coronavirus. Earlier this week on Monday, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had informed everyone that he has tested Covid positive and has self isolated himself.“Right now there is no fever or any other complication. I am completely fine. By your good wishes and blessing, I will soon return to work,” Sisodia wrote on Twitter in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-nitin-gadkari-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-xlf66nV72gAWzetRI6ZY2O.html
16-09-2020||India||India-Brazil-South Africa (IBSA) calls for speedy global efforts to reform UN Security Council||India, Brazil and South Africa on Wednesday called on the world community to redouble efforts and strengthen commitment for an “accelerated and comprehensive reform” of the UN Security Council. The call was made in a joint statement issued after external affairs minister S Jaishankar chaired a customary meeting of foreign ministers of the India-Brazil-South Africa (IBSA) grouping via video conference. The other delegations were led by Brazil’s vice-minister for national sovereignty Fabio Marzano and South Africa’s minister of international relations Grace Naledi Mandisa Pandor. The ministers discussed ways to further IBSA cooperation and exchanged views on global issues such as security, countering terror, climate change, sustainable development, multilateral trading system, non-proliferation and South-South cooperation. They also shared the experiences of their countries in countering the Covid-19 pandemic and appreciated the work done by the IBSA Fund for poverty alleviation and hunger. Also read: China belts out Punjabi numbers for Indian soldiers at Ladakh. It is a ‘62 trickThe joint statement reiterated the IBSA joint ministerial statement of September 2019 seeking reform of the multilateral system and sought united efforts to create a “more inclusive, responsive and participatory international governance architecture”. The three countries said they remain committed to enhancing the voice and representation of emerging and developing countries in decision-making bodies of multilateral institutions. “In light of the increasingly complex and inter-connected international challenges, we emphasise that the existing international governance structure is obsolete and cannot be fit-for-purpose to effectively address current peace and security challenges,” the joint statement said. While there has been some progress in international efforts for a comprehensive reform of the UN system, “advancing the reform of the Security Council should remain an urgent and key priority”, it added. The failure to reform the Security Council has “serious implications for international peace and security”, and accelerated reform is critical to ensure that the body is more representative, effective and responsive, the three countries said. Also read: Rajnath Singh to make statement on LAC in Rajya Sabha tomorrowThe grouping also expressed frustration at the slow progress in inter-governmental negotiations on Security Council reforms, which lacks transparency, and said the time has come to “move towards a result-oriented process, with provision for substantive negotiations based on a single comprehensive text, in a formal setting”. Brazil and South Africa congratulated India on its election as a non-permanent member of the Security Council for 2021-22. The ministers also agreed to enhance IBSA cooperation at multilateral forums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-brazil-south-africa-ibsa-calls-for-speedy-global-efforts-to-reform-un-security-council/story-Zh5NsQcUHeQ4Rh66Dv5AaL.html
16-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha passes bill to bring co-operative banks under RBI supervision||Protecting depositors’ interests, the Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, to bring co-operative banks under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman assured the House that the legislation empowers the central bank to regulate only the banking activities of co-operatives and it is not applicable to a primary agricultural credit society or a co-operative society providing finance for agricultural development.The Bill is not to “undermine” the importance of co-operatives, she said. “But, if a co-operative is performing banking functions, there is a need to regulate it... so that it functions professionally,” she said while replying to queries raised by members.The amendments do not affect existing powers of the state registrars of co-operative societies under state co-operative laws.Referring to the woes of depositors of Mumbai-headquartered Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC) and Bengaluru-based Sri Guru Raghavendra Co-operative Bank due to their lack of professionalism, she said while 430 co-operative banks faced liquidation in the last two decades, not a single commercial bank, whose depositors are protected by the Banking Regulation Act, have gone for liquidation. The legislation also enables making of a scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation of a banking entity for protecting the interest of depositors without resorting to moratorium that freeze withdrawals by depositors. The Bill replaces an ordinance that was promulgated in pursuance of the commitment “to ensure safety of depositors across banks” by the President on June 26.Sitharaman said the government was compelled to come out with an ordinance during the lockdown period because conditions of cooperative banks were “grave” and there was “uncertainty” regarding the normal legislative business due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government had tabled the bill in the Parliament in March this year, but it could not be enacted due to the outbreak of the pandemic.“During the budget session in March, we introduced this bill in order to have the amendments brought in so that depositors’ interest will be taken care of. But unfortunately, during the budget session, we could not have this bill passed,” Sitharaman said.Moving the bill in the House, Sitharaman said that financial health of several cooperative banks was becoming “very delicate”. She said that 277 urban cooperative banks were reporting loss and 105 co-operative banks were unable to meet the minimum capital requirement.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said, “Cooperative banks have been under severe criticisms with rising scams especially involving small retail depositors. State Governments and their respective regulatory Boards have not been able to keep up the monitoring mechanisms efficiently over these institutions. The Government was waiting for an opportune moment to bring them under the purview of RBI and the timing couldn’t have been better.”“Capital adequacy ratios of most of these banks are concerning and the present regulatory structure does not make the restructuring of these institutions practically feasible. The Bill strikes the right chord and has given a mechanism to restructure these banks and also significantly improves their regulatory oversight by a competent and efficient regulator, the RBI. This move should certainly improve the confidence in the cooperative banks and the interest of all the stakeholders would be protected in the long run,” he said.Keeping agricultural cooperatives outside the ambit of the Bill is a tactical move, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-bring-co-operative-banks-under-rbi-supervision/story-4OhrZF52GG8EgWkWeDT6hP.html
16-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: One-fourth jails in India report Covid-19 cases, says report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.‘One-fourth jails in India report Covid-19 cases, many ‘highly’ congested’, says reportA non-government organization (NGO) on Wednesday said that 26 percent of India’s 1,350 jails have reported Covid-19 infections since the outbreak of the pandemic in March, adding that most of these jails are “highly” congested. Read moreRajnath Singh to make statement on India-China border issue in Rajya Sabha tomorrowDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday will make a statement on the India-China border issue in the Rajya Sabha. Read moreDelhi riots case: Police file over 17,000-page charge sheet, name 15 peopleOut of the 21 persons arrested so far, police charge-sheeted 15 accused based on scientific, documentary and testimonial evidence gathered during investigation. The remaining 6 persons are expected to be charge sheeted in due course after collecting sufficient evidence and completing statutory and procedural requirements. Read moreBan on export of PPE coveralls, hydroxychloroquine, sanitizers liftedThe restrictions on the export of medical supplies, including PPE coveralls, 2/3 ply masks and sanitizers, which are key in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been lifted, Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday. Read more‘Hard to go past him’: Ricky Ponting names the most dangerous player of Mumbai IndiansThe two-time World Cup-winning former Australia skipper Ricky Ponting, who had passed on the baton of leading Mumbai Indians to Rohit Sharma back in 2013, termed India opener as MI’s ‘dangerman’. Read moreBJP MLA Nitesh Rane requests security for Disha Salian’s fiance Rohan Rai, says there may be ‘pressure from influential people’BJP MLA Nitesh Rane, in a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, requested security for Disha Salian’s fiance Rohan Rai. Disha, former manager of Sushant Singh Rajput, died just days before the actor. Read moreHappy Birthday Nick Jonas: From the MET Gala to Cannes, here are Priyanka and Nick’s most stylish looksPriyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas look stylishly perfect at all times, from sidewalk paparazzi shots to carefully curated red carpet looks, the couple never has a hair out of place. On National Jiju’s birthday, here’s a look at some of the couple’s best looks together. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-and-all-the-latest-news/story-PYxWqWWKsM5nT4LutnBiQL.html
16-09-2020||India||‘How many police stations have CCTV cameras?’: SC asks states to respond in 2 months||Two years after the Supreme Court directed installation of CCTVs in police stations across the country, a three-judge bench on Wednesday issued orders to Chief Secretaries of states and Union territories to inform the progress on affidavits before November 24.“The Registry (of Supreme Court) is directed to issue notice to the Chief Secretary of each State and Union Territory to respond on the following points: what exactly is the position with respect to CCTV cameras fitted in each and every Police Station in the State or Union Territory and what is the position qua constitution of Oversight Committees in accordance with our order dated April 3, 2018,” said a bench of Justices RF Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee.The Court, in its April 2018 order, had approved the “Centrally Driven Plan of Action” suggested by a Committee of the Ministry of Home Affairs to strengthen the rule of law. This talked about audio-video recording of statement given by accused to police under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and videography of crime scene. Additionally, the Court directed, “With a view to check human rights abuse, CCTV cameras be installed in all police stations as well as in prisons.” The order further required every state to have an independent oversight committee that would study the CCTV camera footage and periodically publish reports of its observations.Also read: China belts out Punjabi numbers for Indian soldiers at Ladakh. It is a ‘62 trickReviving the case in an incident involving alleged custodial torture in Punjab, Justice Nariman appointed senior advocate Siddharth Dave as amicus curiae and sought a report on steps needed to check such violations. The Court even requested Attorney General KK Venugopal to assist in the matter.Speaking to HT, amicus curiae Siddharth Dave said, “The affidavits filed by the Centre from time to time do not mention whether all states/UTs have installed CCTV cameras in all police stations and prisons. No details of police stations having CCTV cameras have been provided by states either. There is a Central Oversight Body under the Ministry of Home Affairs monitoring the directions of the Court passed in April 2018 but not much progress has been made.”On Wednesday, the AG could not appear but Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Madhavi Divan told the bench that details of CCTV installation in prisons and police stations are in the process of being gathered. The bench gave further time to the Centre to collect the same and added states and UTs for compilation of statistics by the amicus.“We expect the Chief Secretary of the States and Union Territories to take this matter seriously and in right earnest, since it involves the fundamental rights of the citizen under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the Court observed in its order and posted the matter for hearing on November 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-many-police-stations-have-cctv-cameras-sc-asks-states-to-respond-in-2-months/story-tJGCL0PANHYTlBsX5Z7TRJ.html
16-09-2020||India||Kozhikode air crash: Report to be submitted within 5 months, says Hardeep Singh Puri||The five-member panel, which is inquiring into the Kozhikode plane crash last month in which 21 people died, will submit its report within five months, civil aviation minister Hardeep singh Puri said on Wednesday. Five people who were injured in the Kozhikode air crash last month are still receiving medical attention at hospitals, the minister said.On August 7, an Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 21 people, including the pilots.A day after the crash, Puri had said 149 people have been admitted to hospitals, 23 have been discharged, while three were critically injured in the B737 plane crash. In a written reply to a question, Puri told Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, “As on 14.09.2020, there are five persons who are still receiving medical attention at hospitals.” On August 13, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB) had announced the formation of a five-member panel to inquire into the circumstances of the Kozhikode plane crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kozhikode-air-crash-report-to-be-submitted-within-5-months-says-hardeep-singh-puri/story-UeEQJIqUGIf0ItKH7CHN3L.html
16-09-2020||India||‘One-fourth jails in India report Covid-19 cases, many ‘highly’ congested’: Report||A non-government organization (NGO) on Wednesday said that 26 percent of India’s 1,350 jails have reported Covid-19 infections since the outbreak of the pandemic in March, adding that most of these jails are “highly” congested.The National Campaign Against Torture (NCAT) said 351 of 1,350 jails across 25 states and Union territories in the country have reported Covid-19 cases till August 31.“Among the Covid-19 infected prisons, 52 prisons had overcrowding from 101 percent to 312 percent as of 31.12.2018 as per the ‘Prison Statistics of India -2018’ of the National Crime Records Bureau,” the report, ‘Status of Covid-19 in Indian Prisons’, stated.The report highlighted that there was a direct correlation between overcrowding in jails and the Covid-19 cases. In Mumbai Central Jail and Tihar Jail in Delhi, the number of inmates is almost three times of the sanctioned capacity, the number of inmates getting infected was also high.Also read: Ban on export of PPE coveralls, hydroxychloroquine, sanitizers lifted“We may not conclusively say that congested jails reported higher Covid-19 cases as sufficient data is not available. However, states such as Punjab and Rajasthan moved prisoners from congested jails to lesser congested ones to prevent spread of Covid-19,” said NCAT coordinator Suhas Chakma.A study by Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative in July said that about 61,100 inmates or about 15.4 percent of total prisoners were released from jails in a bid to decongest the jails because of the pandemic. “The overall reduction of 15.4 percent in overall occupancy is not adequate to address the overcrowding of 40 percent of the Indian prisons,” Chakma said.As Covid-19 started spreading in jails, several state governments took steps, such as mandatory quarantine for new prisoners in temporary jails, mandatory Covid-19 tests for new inmates and release of those inmates arrested for non-heinous crimes, to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Maharashtra prison department spokesperson Shahu Darade said they imposed strict lockdown at each prison with staff not allowed to go home for a month and new prisoners tested for Covid-19. The state created 78 temporary prisons, released 11,000 prisoners in past five months and tested half of 26,000 inmates for Covid-19, he said. So far, around 9 percent of the inmates have tested positive.Also read: US outlines sweeping plan to provide free Covid-19 vaccinesOdisha’s additional director general of police (prisons) Santosh Upadhyay said every new prisoner testing positive for Covid-19 was send to Covid Care Centers. “The inmates are being sent to regular jails only after their recovery,” he said. Odisha released around 17,000 under-trials and moved 1,202 to lesser congested prisons.Like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh director general (prison) Anand Kumar said new prisoners were first lodged in 85 temporary jails for 14-day quarantine before sending them to regular jails where they were put in 14 days quarantine again. In addition, all 1.32 lakh inmates and staff in UP jails have been tested for Covid-19. Till now, 7,295 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from UP jails of which 6,129 have recovered, he said. Besides following protocol for jails as enumerated above, Rajasthan Director general (DG), prisons, BL Soni said, special Covid Care Centers were set up for inmates and prison staff who tested positive for the infection. “We are also giving special immunity-boosting diet to prisoners,” he said.Chakma said the report shows that the infection was fast spreading in jails and Covid-19 protocols were not being followed. “States are not proactive in providing information on Covid-19 cases in jails and that prevents effective intervention,” he said.(With inputs from bureaus in Mumbai, Lucknow, Bhuvaneshwar and Jaipur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-fourth-jails-in-india-report-covid-19-cases-many-highly-congested-report/story-Fb3z8MvZEtHIvXQBOYFtZK.html
16-09-2020||India||Amid border row, Indian army busts myth of PLA’s might||The recent actions by Indian Army amid the border tension demonstrate India’s determination to stand up to China’s bullying and its efforts to use coercion to have its way, experts have said.The armies of the two countries are in close proximity in some areas of eastern Ladakh. The Chinese PLA, which has not fought a war since it got a bloody nose against Vietnam, might have underestimated India’s resolve to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity.For all their famed strategic thinking and planning, they failed to take into account the bravery and courage of Indian soldiers.Defence minister Rajnath Singh has made it clear that India was ready to deal with “any situation”.“I want to assure you that we are ready to deal with any situation. I request this House to pass a resolution that we stand shoulder to shoulder with our armed forces who are guarding our borders to safeguard India’s sovereignty and integrity,” Singh said in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday.“Violent conduct of Chinese troops is a violation of all past agreements. Our troops have done counter deployments in the area to safeguard our borders,” he said.Singh said that China has mobilised a huge number of Army battalions and armaments along LAC and inner areas.“There are many friction points in eastern Ladakh, Gogra, Kongka La, Pangong Lake’s north and south banks. Indian Army has made counter deployments in these areas,” he said.The two countries have been engaged in a standoff position since April-May and the Chinese have refused to vacate areas in the Finger area and other friction points in the Eastern Ladakh area.In many ways, India has shattered the myth of Chinese indomitable military might. Strategic experts acknowledge that the recent developments at the India-China border have changed the so-called ‘asymmetry in power’ argument.India holding on at the border ‘head-on’ for over four months in the face of China’s much-vaunted military and economic might, a fact that the Chinese propaganda machinery never fails to highlight, has proved that the asymmetry of power argument does not hold water any more.Indian force mobilisation has been effective and it has a competitive advantage in mountain warfare owing to the Indian Army’s experience of being deployed at high altitudes.The gallant action by Indian soldiers in Galwan clash in June was acknowledged the world over.India capturing tactically important commanding heights on the top of the five posts to the south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30 tilted the balance in favour of India, experts said.The operations to secure the heights on those features were undertaken by the Special Frontier Force (SFF) comprising Tibetans. Taking those heights could lead to interception of Chinese forces, giving India a tactical advantage.The experts said Indian troops can intercept Chinese moving from Chushul to Demchok through the valleys below.In a bid to showcase its military might, the PLA has deployed 50,000 strong troops with modern weaponry ready to unleash their power against India. The Chinese have also made many diplomatic statements that were coercive.These have come from their Ministry of Foreign Affairs, their Defence Ministry, their Western Theatre Command and from the Communist Party mouthpiece Global Times. The different Chinese statements have appeared interventionist, prescriptive and coercive, the experts said. Consequently, China faced reverses on the Indian front.After the Pentagon’s annual report on China declared the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) as “the largest navy in the world” and highlighted its increasing capabilities, the former Director of National Security Council Secretariat of India, Tara Kartha observed that such forecasts and warnings did not affect Indian decision to counter Chinese belligerence in Ladakh.“For India, warnings of Chinese aggressiveness were ‘superfluous’ given the ongoing conflict. Forecasts of superior Chinese power did not affect Delhi’s decision to meet the threat head-on, something that other countries need to acknowledge. China is certainly a power to reckon with, but it is not quite the dragon that the Pentagon or Beijing paints it to be,” Kartha quipped.“There was this argument that India being a $2-trillion economy and China being five times that meant that China had a major advantage. They have a much stronger military force, much bigger economy, bigger military spending etc so India is no match for China - that myth has been busted. Concerted action on the part of India has yielded results,” said Srikanth Kondapalli, Chinese affairs professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University.A leading US publication Newsweek reported that the Chinese President Xi Jinping he has risked his future with the high profile incursions into Indian territory that ‘unexpectedly flopped’ in the face of a ferocious fightback by the Indian Army.The Chinese army’s failures on the Indian border will have consequences, it said, adding “you can say the Indians are more aggressive or more aggressively defensive, but they are in fact bolder and better. The setback in the Himalayas poses problems for Xi, which means it poses a problem for everyone else.”Now, the Chinese side seems to have climbed down and changed tack suddenly, the experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-border-row-indian-army-busts-myth-of-pla-s-might/story-Snr1vWgFzzgWrlPFhmkX5I.html
16-09-2020||India||37-year-old Indian expat nurse from Kerala dies of Covid-19 in Oman||A 37-year-old Indian nurse working in Oman died due to Covid-19, making it the first case of coronavirus related deaths among health workers in the country’s ministry of health, according to media reports on Wednesday.The Indian expat nurse Blessy Thomas, who was from Kerala, was admitted at the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Royal Hospital after testing positive for Covid-19.She passed away on Tuesday, the Gulf News reported.The ministry of health in Oman expressed condolence for the first Covid related death among its health workers in the country.“With great sadness and sorrow, the Ministry of Health of the Sultanate of Oman mourns the passing away of nurse Blessy Thomas at the Royal Hospital ICU due to Covid-19. This is the first death among health workers in MoH,” the ministry said in a statement released on Tuesday, according to a report in PTI.Calling Thomas a “true hero”, the ministry said she was a role model of hard and sincere work.“The Minister of Health, as well as the MoH personnel and all health workers in Oman express their heartfelt condolences to the family of the deceased,” the statement read.Thomas is survived by her husband and two children.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/37-year-old-indian-expat-nurse-from-kerala-dies-of-covid-19-in-oman/story-Nx2iwtR4g1P3dBA0NlezTK.html
16-09-2020||India||‘Anguished’: PM Modi on Rajasthan’s Chambal river boat accident that killed 13||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the accident where a boat, carrying over 30 devotees, capsized in the Chambal river of Rajasthan’s Bundi district, killing at least 13.The prime minister expressed his anguish over the incident. “Anguished by the capsizing of a boat in Kota, Rajasthan. My thoughts are with those who have lost their near and dear ones,” ANI quoted PM Modi as saying.Over 40 people from Gothda Kala village got on to the boat to go to Kamleshwar Dham across the Chambal river in Bundi district. At least 13 people were feared drowned on Wednesday morning after their boat capsized in the river. “About 20 of them swam to safety and 13 are feared dead; 11 bodies have been recovered so far,” Kota district collector Ujjawal Singh Rathore.The police has booked the owner for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The boat was illegal, police added.The state government has announced a compensation of Rs 1 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased from the CM Relief Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anguished-pm-modi-on-rajasthan-s-chambal-river-boat-capsize-accident-that-killed-13/story-RXuhK16tJvHtFcoiUyCjBK.html
16-09-2020||India||Govt has info that some individuals, including from South, joined IS: MoS Home||Some instances of individuals from different states, including from southern ones, having joined terror group Islamic State have come to the notice of government agencies, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered 17 cases related to the presence of IS in the southern states of Telangana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, and arrested 122 accused.“Some instances of individuals from different states, including southern states, having joined Islamic State (IS) have come to the notice of central and state security agencies,” he said in a written response to a question.The minister said NIA investigations have revealed that the Islamic State is most active in Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.“The IS is using various internet based social media platforms to propagate its ideology. Cyber space is being closely watched in this regard by the agencies concerned and action is taken as per law,” he said. The minister said the government has information on how these people are being funded and whether they are getting any foreign funding to activate their terror activities. Reddy said the Islamic State, Islamic State of Iraq and Levant, Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, Daish, Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), ISIS Wilayat Khorasan, Islamic State of Iraq and the Sham-Khorasan (ISIS-K) and all its manifestations have been notified as terrorist organisation and included in the First Schedule to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 by the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-info-that-some-individuals-including-from-south-joined-is-mos-home/story-aJmRkBZjV2PoxrQLSPgfzM.html
16-09-2020||India||Jaya Bachchan is doing politics over Ravi Kishan’s drug claim, says Jaya Prada||Actor-turned-BJP leader Jaya Prada on Wednesday slammed Samajwadi party MP Jaya Bachchan for her rousing speech in Parliament for which she has earned praises from several Bollywood personalities. In an attempt to exonerate the film industry from the onslaught of attacks, Jaya Bachchan on Tuesday said the image of the industry can’t be tarnished because of a few people. “They are biting the hand that feeds them,” the actor-politician said, a day after Bhojpuri actor-turned-BJP MP Ravi Kishan raised the issue of drug addiction problem in Bollywood. Also Read | Kangana Ranaut responds to Jaya Bachchan’s thali comment: ‘They offered 2 min roles, item numbers, that too after sleeping with hero’Extending her support to Ravi Kishan, Jaya Prada, who was defeated by SP’s Azam Khan on Rampur Lok Sabha seat, said, “I completely support Ravi Kishan ji’s remarks about saving youth from the problem of drug trafficking/addiction. We need to raise our voice against the use of drugs & we need to save our youth. I think Jaya Bachchan ji is doing politics over the issue.”On Monday, Ravi Kishan raised the drug addiction issue in the Lok Sabha, which Bachchan termed as a “tactic” to divert attention from graver issued like unemployment and economy. “I think the government must stand by the entertainment industry because it always comes forward to help the government in whatever good work it takes up,” Jaya Bachchan said.On Wednesday, a day after Jaya Bachchan made her statement in Parliament, Mumbai Police provided security at Bachchan residence in Mumbai, Jalsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaya-bachchan-is-doing-politics-over-ravi-kishan-s-drug-claim-says-jaya-prada/story-8eWSDWLHVEXacdxi5QDx3K.html
16-09-2020||India||‘Maha govt’s circular shouldn’t affect oxygen supply to Covid-19 patients in MP’: HC||In an interim relief to Madhya Pradesh government, MP High court’s Indore bench on Wednesday ordered that supply of liquid medical oxygen will continue uninterrupted to the state without being influenced by a Maharashtra government’s circular.Through its September 7 circular, the Public Health Department of Maharashtra government had directed all oxygen production units in the state to supply 80 percent of oxygen to Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra hospitals and remaining 20 percent for industrial purposes. This affected the supply of liquid oxygen to Madya Pradesh by a Maharashtra-based private company. The company used to supply 20 tonnes of medical oxygen daily to Madhya Pradesh. The circular affected and led to a shortage of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients in several districts of Madhya Pradesh. On September 10, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had a talk with Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and urged him to restore the supply of oxygen. The central government too intervened with the secretary of health ministry writing to all chief secretaries to continue the supply. Also read: Russia partners with Dr Reddy’s for trials, distribution of Sputnik vaccineIssuing an interim order on Wednesday on a petition filed by Dr PS Thakur, superintendent of Maharaja Yeshwantrao (MY) Hospital in Indore, the high court’s bench of Justice SC Sharma and Justice Surendra Shukla said, “By way of interim relief M/s Inox Air Products Pvt Ltd is directed to continue uninterrupted supply of liquid medical oxygen to the state of Madhya Pradesh including the petitioner hospital, without being influenced by the circular dated September 7, 2020.” The court said, “It has been argued by the advocate general that a common man cannot afford to avail treatment in the hospitals like Bombay Hospital, Apollo Hospital, Vedanta Hospital and other private super-speciality hospitals and the petitioner hospital is the only ray of hope for the poor people.”Quoting advocate general Purusheaindra Kaurav, the court said, “Madhya Pradesh is importing liquid medical oxygen from Maharastra, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh. As on date, the total requirement of oxygen in the state is about 100 tonnes per day and keeping in view the increase in number of Covid-19 patients, the hospitals will be requiring 270-280 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen per day as on October 31, 2020... He has drawn the attention of this court towards an agreement executed by the petitioner hospital with respondent Inox Air Products Pvt. Ltd…The agreement between the petitioner and the respondent is very much in force.”“The advocate general has stated that there cannot be discrimination between Covid-19 patients of various states and if a Covid-19 patient of Maharashtra is in need of liquid medical oxygen, the Covid-19 patient of Madhya Pradesh is also in need of liquid medical oxygen. He cannot be given nitrogen in place of liquid medical oxygen… He has argued before this court that it is very unfortunate that even after the intervention of the Government of India, the oxygen supply is being discontinued. He has also informed this court that a large number of patients are dying because of Covid-19 and state cannot close its eyes towards those who are dying on account of non-supply of liquid medical oxygen.”The court directed issuance of notices to five respondents namely secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; principal secretary, Public Health Department, Maharashtra; Inox Air Products Pvt Ltd and Medical Education and Public Health and Family Welfare departments of Madhya Pradesh. The next date of hearing is fixed on October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-govt-s-circular-shouldn-t-affect-oxygen-supply-to-covid-19-patients-in-mp-hc/story-5n4TUBHV8I72Oe2pmbNNgI.html
16-09-2020||India||Postal ballot facility for Covid-hit in Kerala local body election||The Kerala government on Wednesday decided to introduce necessary amendments in the state Panchayati Raj Act to extend postal ballot facility to Covid-19 patients during the local body polls. The local body elections in the state are likely to be conducted by mid-October. Trends in the local body polls that precede the assembly elections are usually indicative of voter preferences. Since the assembly is not in session it will be brought as an ordinance, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office. Earlier state election commissioner V Bhaskaran had proposed to the government to bring amendments in the act to facilitate either proxy voting (a voter can delegate his family member or others to cast his vote) or postal ballot for those who are Covid-19 positive and placed under quarantine. But the opposition Congress and BJP have opposed proxy voting and said they were not averse to the postal ballot. The ruling CPI() feels that it is unfair to keep a large number of people out of the poll process due to the pandemic situation. In some areas in the state, reverse quarantine is strictly implemented and in that case people above 65 will also face problems. Reserve quarantine is a practice of separating vulnerable people, aged or people with co- morbidity conditions from the rest and monitoring their health indicators closely. Meanwhile, the state has reported the highest single-day tally with 3830 Covid cases, taking the total number of Covid-19 infected to 1,17,806. Some 84,608 have recovered and the active cases stand at 32,709. With 14 more casualties, the death toll went up to 480. Kerala was the first state in the country to report a coronavirus case in January but half of the total cases in the state have come up in the last one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postal-ballot-facility-for-covid-hit-in-kerala-local-body-election/story-q9SmtVnw3fgDtyOEZkm8SM.html
16-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to make statement on India-China border issue in Rajya Sabha tomorrow||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday will make a statement on the India-China border issue in the Rajya Sabha. On Tuesday, the defence minister spoke in the Lok Sabha where he said that any serious situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is bound to impact the bilateral relations between India and China.Also Read | China again engages in blame game against India on border tensions“The amassing of the troops by China goes against our 1993 and 1996 agreements. Respecting and strictly observing the Line of Actual Control is the basis for peace and tranquillity in the border areas and explicitly recognised in both agreements. While our armed forces abide scrupulously by it, this has not been reciprocated by the Chinese side... In the recent incidents, this year, the violent conduct of Chinese forces has been in complete violation of all mutually agreed norms,” Singh said in the Lok Sabha.Singh’s statement in the Lok Sabha triggered reactions from China. China claimed on Wednesday that it has been honouring agreements signed with India and is committed to maintaining peace in border areas.“For the Chinese side, we have been honouring the agreements signed between China and India. We are committed to peace and stability in the border area,” foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said when asked to comment on Singh’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-make-statement-on-india-china-border-issue-in-rajya-sabha-tomorrow/story-qBIGonYEXbvNzL7uW0c4iM.html
16-09-2020||India||Ban on export of PPE coveralls, hydroxychloroquine, sanitizers lifted||The restrictions on the export of medical supplies, including PPE coveralls, 2/3 ply masks and sanitizers, which are key in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been lifted, Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday.In a written reply in the Lok Sabha, Goyal informed that prohibition on the export of various medical items such as face shields, hydroxychloroquine API and its formulations, and 13 other pharmaceutical APIs and its formulations have been removed.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Sanitizers too can now be exported except when in containers with dispenser pumps. The government has also lifted the ban imposed on the export of ventilators.While the export of diagnostic kits, N-95/FFP2 masks is currently restricted, they can be exported in a limited monthly quota, the commerce ministry said in the statement.The ban on the export of medical supplies was put in place earlier this year to ensure domestic availability of the items in the view of the rising numbers of Covid-19 cases in the country. The curbs have been relaxed following a time-to-time assessment of the domestic requirement, production capacity and the availability of surplus products for export, the statement added.The government also hailed the increased domestic production of the items to meet the requirement amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Goyal said that prior to March 20, India was importing PPE coveralls as there was very limited domestic production. However, now the domestic production has gone up to 1.5 crore units per month and hence, the lift of the export ban, he added.The availability of alcohol-based hand sanitizers that was at 10 lakh litres per annum earlier has subsequently increased to 38 lakh litres per day, enabling the prohibition on its export to be removed, he said in a statement.The minister also pointed towards the ramped-up production of domestically manufactured ventilators, which he said, was negligible prior to January 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-export-of-ppe-coveralls-hydroxychloroquine-sanitizers-lifted/story-mVZtOtPMCD5kdsU3lNLgVK.html
16-09-2020||India||‘2020 could be turning point for climate change’: TERI director-general Ajay Mathur||Two global reports this week have indicated that the world is undergoing a massive transition in energy use and carbon dioxide emissions. The BP Energy Outlook 2020 released on Monday indicated that global CO2 emissions may have already peaked in 2019 and are likely to decline hereafter depending on how countries build back after Covid-19. It also said there is a declining role of fossil fuels, offset ‎by an increasing share of renewable energy.The Energy Transitions Commission (ETC), a coalition of energy-producing companies, environmental NGOs, banks, et cetera., has released a report, ‘Making Mission Possible’, on Wednesday which said developed countries could reach a net-zero emissions by 2050 and developing countries like India could do so by 2060 with large scale changes in energy use.Ajay Mathur, co-chair, ETC and Director General, The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) said it is possible that the global CO2 emissions have already peaked in 2019. Here are the excerpts from the interview:Q. Where will the money come from for the transition to net-zero emission (overall balance in CO2 emitted and CO2 removed) economy?A. All developing countries are growing. They are going to invest in new capital because of growing demand and also to replace existing capital stock as it finishes its life. We need the money in any case. The question is under what circumstances will that money flow? Money will flow if it is making profits. Whether it is domestic banks or international funds they will invest. Invested in renewable energy in India right now, investments will happen because investors see money coming back with a profit. If you consider the total amount of money that is needed between 2020 and 2050 is 1 to 2 percent of the additional cost to transition to net-zero scenario in this period. We need profit-making investment opportunities. (Achieving net-zero emissions by 2050 would cost an estimated 1 trillion-2 trillion dollars a year of additional investments according to ETC).Also read: Russia partners with Dr Reddy’s for trials, distribution of Sputnik vaccineQ. The BP energy outlook report indicated that global CO2 emissions may have peaked in 2019? Is that possible?A. Globally, it may be possible. If the US and China have started recording declining CO2 emissions at least between 2019 and 2020 then clearly the world is on a declining path. In India, the question is slightly different. We still haven’t reached our peak electricity consumption. Everyday electricity demand is more than what it was yesterday. Where does that electricity come from? Today solar is the cheapest electricity we have but only when the sun is shining. At night coal electricity is the cheapest. In the short term, we will have a share of coal and renewable energy increase. This will continue till renewables plus storage (battery) produce electricity which costs less than coal. Last month, Solar Energy Corporation of India tenders said that solar plus storage will be provided at a price which is competitive to coal electricity in two years’ time. It will then not make sense in investing in energy generation from coal. It is quite possible that we may have peaked but like they say, ‘one swallow does not a summer make’. We have to see how things change.Q. Did the pandemic contribute to the fact that we may have peaked earlier than expected?A. We saw a peak for energy demand in February or March this year which was less than energy demand last year. How the recovery now occurs is anybody’s guess. It’s too early to say. There are many people who think the way I do who are investing in renewable energy but it’s very difficult to forecast.Q. Your report speaks about achieving net-zero emissions by 2060. What does that mean for the common man?A. For a common person, I will suggest five things. 1) Buy the most energy-efficient air conditioner you can. The largest source for the increase in demand for electricity in India is from air conditioners. We have 50 percent more efficient air conditioners than those available in 2007. 2) Anybody who has the option should set up rooftop solar. It makes economic sense. 3) Use electric two-wheelers, they make sense in urban areas. Even electric cars and taxis make sense but this will depend on the building of charging stations. 4) For industries, it makes sense to consider electricity or hydrogen instead of coal but reliability of supply matters. 5) Steel is looking at tripling capacity in the next 15 years in India. We mix coke and iron ore to make steel. Can we use something else instead? Our report talks about using hydrogen. A company in Sweden is trying hydrogen technology. We need scale to grow and prices to decline. This is the kind of picture we see till 2060 which will help the world to move toward zero carbon.Q. What are the global factors, conditions which have led to this transition in energy?A. It’s difficult to find one or two reasons. One is the regulatory requirement in many parts of the world to move towards renewable energy. Countries like Germany were ready to accept and move at a higher cost. Production promoted economies of scale and led to prices coming down. We started seeing a decline in prices of renewable energy so that they became competitive with fossil fuel energy. Regulatory requirements and decrease in cost are the two main reasons for the shift we are seeing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-could-be-turning-point-for-climate-change-teri-director-general-ajay-mathur/story-7gsf2egEJ84hJ2J09CTomI.html
16-09-2020||India||Minister asked in Parliament if ties with neighbours have slumped. He replies||Amid the dragging border standoff in Ladakh sector and the first use of guns along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since 1975, the minister of state for external affairs wrote in response to a question to Parliament that India’s relations with its neighbours, including China, has not deteriorated recently. “No,” was minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan’s written reply to a question from Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Roy in Lok Sabha on whether bilateral ties with neighbours such as Nepal, China, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Myanmar had deteriorated recently.The government accords highest priority to relations with neighbours and India is an “active political and economic partner of its neighbours and is involved in various projects, including development projects, with these countries”, he said.Responding to another question, also from Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Roy, on whether China has good relations with any of India’s other neighbours, Muraleedharan said the country’s relations with other countries “stand on their own footing and are independent of the relations of those countries with third countries”. People familiar with the matter said the minister of state’s answer was in response to a question about an overall assessment of India’s relations with all its neighbours collectively and not on a particular bilateral relationship. On the specific issue of India-China relations, defence minister Rajnath Singh had outlined New Delhi’s position in his detailed statement in Parliament on Tuesday, the people said on condition of anonymity. Singh had said in his statement that the current situation in the border areas with China was very different from past standoffs “in terms of the scale of troops involved and the number of friction points”. He also said the Chinese side had engaged in provocative military manoeuvres and violated agreements by amassing troops. The stand taken by the government in Parliament comes days after the external affairs ministry statement on September 11 following external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting. According to the statement, the Indian side had made it clear to the Chinese that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas is “essential to the forward development of ties”, and that recent incidents in eastern Ladakh had “inevitably impacted the development of the bilateral relationship”. In a written reply to another question in the Lok Sabha on whether India has started discussions with China regarding the recent tensions on the border, Muraleedharan noted the contacts between the foreign and defence ministers, military commanders and Special Representatives of the two sides and meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border issues since June. He noted that Jaishankar and Wang agreed on a five-point roadmap during their meeting in Moscow on September 10, whereby both sides will take guidance from the consensus reached by the top leadership, work to quickly disengage troops, abide by all agreements and protocols boundary affairs, continue dialogue through various mechanisms, and expedite work on new confidence-building measures for the border areas. “Accordingly, it is expected that the two sides will continue to have meetings of military and diplomatic officials to implement the agreements reached between the two foreign ministers and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” Muraleedharan said. Muraleedharan reiterated India’s position that there had been enhanced deployment of troops and armaments by China in border areas and along the LAC since April-May, and that the Chinese side “attempted to transgress the LAC in several areas of the western sector” since mid-May. These attempts received an “appropriate response” from India, and China departed from the consensus for disengagement reached at a meeting of corps commanders on June 6 and “tried to unilaterally change the status quo”, he said. This resulted in a “violent face-off” in Galwan Valley on June 15, in which both sides “suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the senior commanders level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side”, Muraleedharan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-asked-in-parliament-if-ties-with-china-have-slumped-he-replies/story-AOXNIf0GnexRiJc7E3yZDN.html
16-09-2020||India||Tatas’ bid puts them in front to bag new Parliament building contract||Two Mumbai-based construction companies - Larsen & Toubro Limited and Tata Projects Limited - on Wednesday submitted financial bids after qualifying in the technical round for the tender to construct the new Parliament complex in which Tata Projects has emerged as the lowest bidder.A spokesperson for Tata projects Ltd confirmed that the firm has emerged as the lowest bidder for the project. Tata Projects Ltd has quoted a figure of Rs 861.90 crore and Larsen and Toubro Ltd has quoted its bid of Rs 865 crore for constructing the new Parliament complex. According to the CPWD’s tender, the estimated cost of construction for the new building is Rs 889 crore. In total, three bidders had qualified in the technical round but only two firms ended up submitting their financial bids. The firms were scheduled to submit the financial bids on Wednesday.“Only three parties had technically pre-qualified in the first round and only two have quoted their bids today. The firm that bags the contract will be issued a letter of award within a few days,” a senior government official said requesting anonymity.The contract is likely to be awarded to the lowest bidder, the official added. To be clear, in infrastructure projects the firm is finalised only after getting the letter of award for the project.The government had narrowed the list of choices for building a new Parliament complex to three Mumbai-based construction companies -- Larsen & Toubro Limited, Tata Projects Limited and Shapoorji Pallonji & Company Private Limited -- after disqualifying four other entities that bid for the contract, bringing it a step closer to tendering out the project, Hindustan Times had first reported on August 12.In the technical round Mumbai-based construction and civil engineering company ITD Cementation India Limited, Hyderabad-headquartered NCC Limited , PSP Projects Limited of Ahmedabad, and Uttar Pradesh state government’s UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Limited were disqualified from the project by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD).Based on an evaluation, CPWD disqualified four companies for reasons including non-fulfilment of the criteria mentioned in the bid document.The tender laid out strict eligibility criteria based on a firm’s past work — such as having constructed an assembly hall with a minimum capacity of 1,000 people and a building with a basement — as well as ongoing projects, average monthly turnover, and net worth, among other factors.Bidders had to specify similar work completed in the past seven years, ongoing projects, as well as tentative plans to meet their manpower requirement, source of construction materials, and establishment of facilities such as those meant for fabrication.The proposed work is of very prestigious nature and is required to be completed strictly within the prescribed time limit of 21 months with the highest standards of quality and workmanship, the bid document said. The bid document also specified that 50% of the workers will need to be skilled for work of stone masonry, carving, fresco, furniture, and adequate health and safety measures would need to be taken in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.Initially seven firms had evinced interest in the construction of the new Parliament building after pre-qualification bids invited by the Centre for its ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project.Work on the new Parliament, a ground plus two-storey triangular-shaped building, is expected to begin after the ongoing monsoon session, HT reported on September 15.India’s national emblem is likely to sit atop the new Parliament building, according to the latest design iteration prepared for the tendering process, replacing a spire that was meant to come up in an earlier version.The new complex, with a built-up area of approximately 60,000 metre square, is set to come up on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate, which currently houses a reception, boundary walls and other temporary structures.It will be among the first projects to be finalised and tendered out as part of the Central Vista redevelopment, which includes plans to turn North and South Block, situated opposite each other on Raisina Hill and which house top central government ministries, into a museum and the construction of new administrative offices with an underground metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tatas-bid-puts-them-in-front-to-bag-new-parliament-building-contract/story-mtPueojPUNA2RbL1w3A3ML.html
16-09-2020||India||‘Big experience in winter warfare’: Army officer amid border row||Indian soldiers have a huge experience of winter warfare, said Indian Army officer on Wednesday, adding the troops are psychologically tuned to operate at a short notice. The comment comes on the back of bursts of bullets fired into the air last week on the northern bank of Pangong Tso amid a protracted stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). It may be stated that retired Indian army generals and defence analysts anticipate a long haul and a hot winter in the eastern Ladakh this year. “India is a peace loving country and wishes to have good relations with its neighbours. India always prefers to resolve issues through dialogue. While talks are in progress to resolve the issue of borders with China in Eastern Ladakh, at military level it is well prepared for the prolonged stand-off,” said the officer. Also read: China blames India, claims it’s honouring border pacts“Altitudes in Ladakh range from high to super high and there is a lot of snowfall, after the month of November up to 40 feet of snow is experienced. Coupled with this, temperature dipping down to minus 30 to 40 degrees is a usual phenomenon. Wind chill factor makes matters even worse for the troops. The roads also get closed due to the snow. But despite all this, the most encouraging part for India is that the Indian soldiers have a huge experience of winter warfare and are psychologically tuned to operate at a short notice. While this fact is known to the world, the operational logistics capabilities are hardly known,” he added. It is important to understand that the Army has experience of Siachen where conditions are much more demanding than the frontiers with China. Traditionally, there were two routes for moving into Ladakh, that is through Zojila and Rohtang Passes. Recently, India commissioned the third road from Darcha to Leh which is much shorter distance wise and less prone to closure. Completion of Atal tunnel on the Rohtang route has force multiplied the logistic capacities. Special fuel and lubricants for tanks and armoured personnel carriers have also been stocked adequately, including spares for their maintenance. Water points and tube wells have been established for the troops and animals like mules and yaks. The living barracks have also been prepared which are comfortable and warm. Facilities such as the central heating system are some of the high points of these facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-experience-of-winter-war-army-s-northern-command-amid-border-row/story-bgUfaiF1pVhUNdmne8yAYI.html
16-09-2020||India||Covid grounds Ludhiana’s ‘Hawai Adda’ eatery||Covid-19 pandemic can be fatal not only for humans, it can sound the death knell even for the inanimate things. Amid news of businesses wrapping up due to unviable conditions, Ludhiana lost its iconic restaurant — Hawai Adda — set in an Airbus A320 on Ferozepur Road. After remaining closed for nearly five months, the plane was dismantled late on Monday evening and its parts quietly removed in trucks to a godown on Tuesday morning. The exact reason behind the move couldn’t be established as the owners of the facility were incommunicado. The restaurant that opened in January 2017 had become a landmark of the city. The only one of its kind restaurant in the region, the owners had made great efforts to turn the idea into a reality. They procured an Airbus A320 in scrap and converted it into a vegetarian multi-cuisine restaurant in four months. In the initial months when the restaurant opened, dining there had become a craze as locals would wait in queue for hours for space. It was especially popular among children. Commuters would halt at the spot to take selfies and photographs. A case regarding the leased-out property between the owners of the restaurant and Milkfed, the state-run cooperative, is also sub-judice in the high court. The lease of the property expired in March 2018 and the owners were demanding extension and Milkfed a hike in rent.Damanjit Kaur of Nehru Nagar said, “It was always a joyful experience to have dinner inside the plane, especially for those who have never been inside a plane. We were planning a dinner at the restaurant with our daughter-in-law, who is from Lucknow; sadly we missed.” Ludhiana Verka plant general manager Rajkumar said, “The lease period of the property had expired in March 2018 and new tenders were floated. A bidder quoted ₹5.20 lakh monthly rent for the property against ₹1.21 lakh being paid by the owners of the Hawai Adda. The owners were asked to make a higher bid or vacate the land. But they moved court and the case is pending. We have no idea why the plane has been shifted from the site,” he said. Owner of Hawai Adda Jaswinder Singh did not respond to calls made by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/covid-grounds-ludhiana-s-hawai-adda-eatery/story-IQoCGlfsTTNpFsBjl9FBmM.html
16-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘No breach on hospital, cops’ end’: MSHRC on Rhea’s visit to morgue to see Sushant and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.‘No breach on hospital, cops’ end’: MSHRC on Rhea’s visit to morgue to see SushantThere was no breach on part of the Mumbai police or the hospital when Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty visited the mortuary to see Sushant Singh Rajput’s body before the funeral, the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC) ruled on Wednesday. Read more India registers record daily Covid-19 recoveries, recovery rate at 78.53%The number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India has been on a steady rise with the country logging record 82,961 recoveries in a single day as of Wednesday. Read more China blames India, claims it’s honouring border pactsChina claimed on Wednesday that it has been honouring agreements signed with India and is committed to maintaining peace in border areas, a day after defence minister Rajnath Singh said Beijing is not respecting the customary alignment of the boundary. Read more Police file over 15,000-page charge sheet in Delhi riots case, name 15 peopleThe Delhi Police has named fifteen people as accused in charge sheet filed over the violence that took place in national capital in February this year. The accused have been named for orchestrating the riots that killed at least 53 people. Read more IPL 2020: ‘He is the best all-rounder in the world’ - Rinku Singh’s high praise for KKR teammateRinku is known to be good friends with West Indies star Andre Russell. In a recent interaction on Kolkata Knight Riders official website, the 22-year-old revealed how and when the two cricketers started bonding. Read more Indian auto industry needs road map for localisation push: ReportExports and a focus on the domestic market offer major potential opportunity areas for the Indian auto industry but the sector needs a road map for localisation, according to a report by consultancy firm EY. Read more Xiaomi announces ‘Smart Living’ event in India, to launch Mi Band 5Xiaomi is all set to launch its Mi Band 5 fitness band in India soon. The product is expected to launch on September 29 as a part of Xiaomi’s ‘Smart Living’ event. Although the company has announced the event date and time, it has not revealed what it will launch. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-no-breach-on-hospital-cops-end-mshrc-on-rhea-s-visit-to-morgue-to-see-sushant-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YcGaTn5JtD0uuXgBQovgmO.html
16-09-2020||India||J-K govt forms committees for panchayat, block development council bypolls||Jammu and Kashmir government has framed an apex level and two divisional level committees to conduct preparatory work for by-elections for panchayats and block development councils (BC) in two divisions of the Union Territory.Earlier, the government had planned to hold these polls in March, however, the elections were deferred even after issuing notifications for these polls.In an order, the Jammu ad Kashmir government said that the Apex Level Committee will draw a roadmap and detailed schedule for conducting elections to vacant panchayats and BDCs across the Union Territory.“The Apex level Committee would do its exercise based on inputs provided by the Divisional Level Committees and upon assessment of the ground-level situation taking security, logistics, personnel, equipment into consideration. The Apex Committee will be headed by Principal Secretary to the Government, Home Department,’’ the government order said.Also read: China belts out Punjabi numbers for Indian soldiers at Ladakh. It is a ‘62 trickThe order further said that based on the assessment of manpower, security, logistics, transport, equipment and all other requirements, the Divisional Level Committees will submit an outline of the possibilities and constraints to the Apex Level Committee for holding Panchayat and BDC elections.“The Divisional Level Committees in Jammu and Kashmir will be headed by the respective Divisional Commissioners. The Divisional Level Committee will submit its report to the Apex Level Committee by September 21, while as the Apex Level Committee shall submit its report to the Government by September 28,” the order stated.Earlier, apprehending trouble and on inputs from security agencies, J&K’s Chief Electoral Officer had postponed the polls for vacant panchayat seats that were scheduled to begin from March 5.The panchayat elections for the vacant 11,639 seats in Jammu and Kashmir was scheduled to be held in eight phases and government had issued notification for filling those vacancies.The panchayat elections were held in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018, however, despite the polls, more than 60 percent seats in Kashmir remained vacant as at many places candidates did not file the nomination papers or resigned after getting elected.The highest number of vacant panchayat wards, 2,163, are in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district, followed by Anantnag (1,995). Budgam and Pulwama districts have 1,940 and 1,437 vacant wards, respectively. Similarly, of the total 2,182 sarpanch vacancies in Kashmir, 923 are still vacant.Since the 2018 polls, more than 504 panches have resigned over different reasons. Highest number of resignations came from south Kashmir’s Anantnag with 129 resignations, followed by central Kashmir’s Budgam district with 81 while in Baramulla and Kupwara districts 67 and 61 panches submitted their resignations. After getting elected, 12 sarpanches also resigned with one each resigning in Anantnag and Baramulla districts. Five sarpanches resigned in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district while one resigned in Baramulla, Budgam and Bandipore districts of Kashmir, respectively. Five panchayat members were killed by militants in last one year and many panchayat members have been taken to high-security zone after security forces got inputs that these members are on the radar of militants.In the last panchayat polls, prominent mainstream political parties - National Conference and Congress didn’t participate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-govt-forms-committees-for-panchayats-block-development-council-bypolls/story-PMvKVh9xfRsslx8m5g0zYM.html
16-09-2020||India||Kedarnath search operation restarts||Ten Uttarakhand police and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams on Wednesday restarted a search operation along the treacherous mountainous routes leading to Kedarnath to trace the remains of hundreds of people, who remain missing since flash floods and landslides ravaged the region 3,553 m above sea level in June 2013. Kedarnath is the site of a revered Hindu temple in Uttarakhand’s Rudraprayag district.Rudraprayag police superintendent Navneet Singh Bhullar said each team comprises two police and SDRF personnel each as well as local guides and medical experts. “Seven teams will undertake the search operation for four days while the three teams for six days.”The fresh search effort comes a month after the Uttarakhand government constituted a high-level multi-institutional expert committee to suggest appropriate technology or methodology for searching the remains of 3,075 missing people. Remains of 699 people have been recovered since tens of thousands of Hindu devotees, who visit the region annually for the pilgrimage to Kedarnath, Gangotri, Badrinath, and Yamunotri, were trapped as record rains triggered landslides and floods. Villages were buried and gushing waters washed away roads and homes. The devastation, which was dubbed as the Himalayan tsunami, led to one of the largest rescue operations involving the Indian Air force. Over 100,000 people were airlifted from the devastated areas. As many as 545 remains were recovered in 2013, 63 in 2014, three in 2015, 60 in 2016, seven in 2017, and 21 in 2018. The state government in May 2017 constituted five special investigation teams to trace and cremate the bodies of the missing people months after the Uttarakhand high court directed it to do so in November 2016.In June, the high court directed the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology to suggest scientific ways that can be adopted to trace the remains of 3,075 people without harming the Himalayan environment.The search operation has been launched even as rains have been lashing parts of the state.Bhullar said the operation had to be restarted before the weather in high attitude Kedarnath area makes it difficult to conduct it.Bhullar said the teams have been provided with body bags, trekking gear, sleeping bags, and other tools to help them trace the remains during their treks along the routes.He added the medical experts will collect samples for DNA testing and keep a record of the remains found. “The remains will be brought back in the body bags so that their last rites could be held as per the Hindu tradition.”Delhi-based activist Ajay Gautam, who moved the Uttarakhand high court in 2014 seeking directions to the authorities to expedite the search for the missing, said he is happy that the search operation has been restarted. “This will help so many families to find closure and perform last rites of their loved ones who died in the tragedy.”The Uttarakhand government provided the first official estimate--5,748--of the missing persons in July 2013, making their families eligible for financial relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-search-operation-restarts/story-Qipv0Y6EtFlAHwuZeTusrK.html
16-09-2020||India||Delhi riots case: Police file over 17,000-page charge sheet, name 15 people||The Delhi Police has named fifteen people as accused in charge sheet filed over the violence that took place in national capital in February this year. The accused have been named for orchestrating the riots that killed at least 53 people and injured hundreds.Out of the 21 persons arrested so far, police charge-sheeted 15 accused based on scientific, documentary and testimonial evidence gathered during investigation. The remaining 6 persons are expected to be charge sheeted in due course after collecting sufficient evidence and completing statutory and procedural requirements, police said in a statement.The charge sheet filed by Delhi police special cell at Karkardooma Court is over 17,000 pages. Packed in steel boxes, 2,692 pages of the vast charge sheet specifies the charges against the accused whereas the rest pages include the annexure. Among those named in the charge sheet are Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Ishrat Jahan, Meeran Haider, Safoora Zargar and Khalif Saifi.In February, Delhi was shaken up with communal riots, worst in at least three decade, with clashes between Hindu and Muslim groups in several parts of the city. Houses were burnt and broken into, while vehicles were set on fire. It all started as clashes between pro- and anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act groups,but further escalated into communal violence with rioters from both communities, taking to streets armed with swords, stones and guns.The fifteen people named in the charge sheet have been accused under sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, IPC and Arms Act. For the investigation in the case, the police on Wednesday said they are relying on WhatsApp chats and call records. Twenty-five Whatsapp groups were created for each of the protest sites, police said.“There was an impression that it was an anti- CAA protest but conspirators were being guided through the protest sites,” said police.The charge sheet filed by police on Wednesday does not name Umar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam as accused in Delhi riots case. Umar and Sharjeel were arrested a few days ago and their names will be in the supplementary charge sheet.- Delhi Police registered 751 cases -In connection with the riots that took place in Delhi, police received over 16,000 PCR calls and registered a total of 751 cases.Of 751 cases, 59 cases were assigned to SIT constituted in the Crime Branch, 691 cases were investigated by the district police and one case, which was registered on March 6, 2020 to investigate the larger conspiracy behind these riots, was assigned to the Special Cell, police said in a statement.In order to investigate specific offences committed during these riots, police has seized 12 pistols, 121 empty cartridges, 92 live cartridges, 61 glass bottles filled with noxious chemicals and an assortment of sharp-edged weapons in the matter.- Took 195 days to complete first phase of investigation -Further in the statement, police said that it took 195 days for Delhi police’s special cell to complete the first phase of investigation, during which, 747 witnesses were questioned.Police has seized at least 75 electronic devices as part of the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-files-over-10-000-page-charge-sheet-in-delhi-riots-case-names-15-people/story-rM0CIS1I68oZtYRHiLV3xL.html
16-09-2020||India||100 tonnes of hilsa from Bangladesh reaches Bengal, more on the way||With festive season round the corner, around 100 tonnes of the Bangladeshi hilsa fish have already reached the market in West Bengal, while another 1,350 tonnes is expected to arrive in a phased manner till October 10.Hilsa is often tagged as the Queen of Fish for its taste and the Bangladeshi-hilsa is considered to be tastier than its Indian counterpart. “This year they (Bangladesh government) are sending 1450 tonnes of hilsa, of which 100 tonnes have arrived since Monday. While around 20 tonnes arrived on Monday, another 40 tonnes reached on Tuesday. On Wednesday the remaining 40 tonnes have arrived,” said SA Maqsood, secretary of the Fish Importers’ Association in West Bengal. In 2012, Bangladesh had imposed a ban on export of hilsa to India. The Sheikh Hasina government in 2019 decided to allow 500 tonnes of the fish as a puja gift to Bengal. The festive season starts from Thursday with the Vishwakarma Puja and the Mahalaya.“The imported fish weigh between 600 grams to 1.2 kilos and costs around Rs 600 to Rs 1,300 per kilo. The Bangladeshi variety is tastier and more meaty and oily than the Indian counterparts,” said Maqsood. This comes at a time when millions of Bengalis are facing a crippling shortage of their favourite fish. This year many had thought that with cleaner rivers post-lockdown there would be a big hilsa harvest. Experts had said that as pollution in the river Ganga and its tributaries was less this year because of the lockdown, there were chances that schools of hilsa would migrate upstream to breed. “But in reality the hilsa catch has gone down over the past three to four years. In 2016 there was a huge harvest of a few hundred tonnes. Compared to this we have been able to harvest less than 20 tonnes this year,” said Pranab Kumar Kar, chairman of United Fishermen Association, one of the largest associations of fishermen in West Bengal.Monsoon is the main season when these fish are available. Such is the craving for Bangladeshi hilsa that the item is often smuggled through the porous Indo-Bangla border in south Bengal. The BSF have seized a few hundred kilos of Bangaldeshi hilsa this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-tonnes-of-hilsa-from-bangladesh-reaches-bengal-more-on-the-way/story-CRyURBTEbgJoNzPOHKhJnO.html
16-09-2020||India||India registers record daily Covid-19 recoveries, recovery rate at 78.53%||The number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India has been on a steady rise with the country logging record 82,961 recoveries in a single day as of Wednesday.As many as 3,942,360 have recovered from the viral disease and been discharged from home isolation or hospitals, pushing the recovery rate to 78.53%.According to the health ministry, Maharashtra alone contributes about a quarter of the new recoveries (19,423), followed by Andhra Pradesh (9,628), Karnataka (7,406), Uttar Pradesh (6,680) and Tamil Nadu (5,735).Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Even as these states account for about 60% of the country’s active cases, their recovery figures continue to keep hopes high as they contribute to nearly 59% of the total new recoveries.As of Wednesday, the number of recoveries exceeded the number of active cases by 2,946,427 — the recovery number being 3.96 times the active cases. The seven-day moving average of the recoveries shows a consistent surge, the ministry said in a statement.However, despite the highest number of recoveries in the world, the nation’s Covid-19 tally has surpassed five million.As the infections continue to rise at an alarming rate, Russia’s sovereign wealth fund’s deal with an Indian pharma firm is likely to bring respite.Pharmaceuticals major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has reached an agreement with the Russian body to cooperate on clinical trials and distribution of the Sputnik V vaccine for Covid-19 in India. “Upon regulatory approval in India, the RDIF shall supply to Dr Reddy’s 100 million doses of the vaccine,” the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has said in a statement.Also, as multiple vaccine candidates against Covid-19 are under trials in the country, health minister Harsh Vardhan had last week said that a vaccine may be ready by the first quarter of the next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-record-high-daily-covid-19-recoveries-recovery-rate-at-78-53/story-ihqY190Ds3C66TCNYbbhIN.html
16-09-2020||India||First PDP meet takes place in Srinagar after removal of Article 370||For the first time after the revocation of Article 370, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) youth leaders met to deliberate on several issues at party headquarters in Srinagar after their failed first attempt. The meeting was attended by party vice president Abdul Rehman Veeri and general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone and several youth leaders. Earlier, the PDP leaders’ attempt to hold their first meeting had failed since they were disallowed from leaving their houses. The second meeting was called after the party’s youth wing sought permission from the government.PDP youth president Waheed Para said they were allowed to organise the meeting at the party office wherein several leaders participated.Party officials said PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s continued detention was also discussed as the former chief minister is the only remaining prominent mainstream leader still booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA).Also read: No infiltration along LAC during last six months - MHA tells ParliamentEarlier, PDP leaders also held a demonstration seeking Mehbooba’s release and raised the issue of alleged human rights violations. Seven party leaders were detained during the demonstration and subsequently released.Para said the resident had suffered a lot. “There’s unending insecurity among the young with fresh fears of a demographic change, assaults on jobs, culture and language,” he said, adding that their voices have been ignored and the institutions erased. “We cannot afford to remain silent any longer. We need to speak now to restore our dignity and take charge of our destinies,” Para added.National Conference vice president, Omar Abdullah welcomed the first political meeting held by the PDP.“Good to see @YouthJKPDP make a start with political meetings. Political activities must resume unhindered & the administration is duty bound to ensure a level playing field for all political parties,” Abdullah tweeted.The National Conference has held a series of meetings in Srinagar over the last few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-pdp-meet-takes-place-in-srinagar-after-removal-of-article-370/story-nmYLvmBhbOQ0Y8IJNGrAvK.html
16-09-2020||India||‘No breach on hospital, cops’ end’: MSHRC on Rhea’s visit to morgue to see Sushant||There was no breach on part of the Mumbai police or the hospital when Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty visited the mortuary to see Sushant Singh Rajput’s body before the funeral, the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC) ruled on Wednesday. The commission’s chairman MA Sayeed was quoted as saying by news agency ANI that it had looked into the matter based on media reports. MSHRC had sent a show-cause notice to the Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital and the Mumbai police on August 25 for allowing Chakraborty and her family members to enter the mortuary when Rajput’s post-mortem was being conducted.Panel’s chief MA Sayeed had told a daily that he had asked the legal wing to look into the matter after he saw videos of Chakraborty visiting the mortuary. “We don’t know how and under what circumstances the permission to visit the mortuary was given. It should not have been so,” he was quoted as saying.Amid uproar on why Chakraborty was allowed access to the morgue, the 28-year-old actor had earlier told the media that she saw Rajput’s body for a few seconds as it was being transferred to the van from the mortuary for his funeral and touched his feet and apologised. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is currently probing Rajput’s death on June 14, while the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are investigating the money laundering and drug-related angle in the case. Rajout’s father KK Singh has filed an FIR against Chakraborty for driving his son to suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-breach-on-hospital-cops-end-mshrc-on-rhea-chakraborty-s-visit-to-morgue-to-see-sushant-singh-rajput/story-YyPFr8VBxN75STfvlQMYYP.html
16-09-2020||India||‘Does not forget Muharram’: BJP leader taunts Bengal CM over no to ritual||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is running a “tees per cent logon ki sarkar (a government that serves only 30 per cent of the state’s population)”, alleged Kailash Vijayvargiya, national general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday, after the Kolkata Police stopped a religious programme of his party. The BJP leader added that the CM “does not forget Friday rituals and Muharram”.VIjaywargiya did not specify as to which section he was referring to as 30 per cent. “The rights of 70 per cent of the population have been taken away. Yeh tees per cent logon ki sarkar hai (this is a government of 30 per cent people). Can’t we even hold tarpan (a Hindu ritual) in Bengal during Mamata Banerjee’s rule?” said the BJP leader this afternoon after the Kolkata police stopped a religious programme of his party. “Mamata Ji does not forget Friday rituals and Muharram. But she is always against the Hindus. Is it a crime to observe Hindu rituals in West Bengal?” added Vijayvargiya.The BJP state unit had organised traditional Hindu rituals on the banks of the Hooghly river to pay homage to the souls of 32 party workers who the leadership said had died in political clashes in the last 12 months. A pandal was set up on the banks of the river at Baghbazar. BJP president JP Nadda was supposed to attend it virtually from Delhi. Children and widows of the dead BJP workers were brought to the city for the Vedic ritual called tarpan. Earlier in the day, the Kolkata police removed the pandal, saying social distancing norms were being violated and the programme could not be allowed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. This led to chaos. Vijayvargiya and other senior leaders had an argument with the police and left the spot. Around noon, BJP workers held the rituals at another part of the river bank but the leadership stayed away. “The police used the pandemic as an excuse to stop us. This is the first time we are seeing that people need permission from the police to hold tarpan. This government will surely be overthrown in the 2021 elections,” said BJP national executive member Mukul Roy, who was present at the spot. “Our movement will not stop till this government is immersed in the river,” added BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) defended the police action.“A religious programme was being politically used by the BJP. I was told the police did not allow it because social distancing norms were violated. This could not be allowed,” said Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member and spokesperson.On Monday, the chief minister’s decision to give monthly stipend and houses to Brahmin priests triggered a debate, with the Congress, Left and BJP calling it a desperate move to secure Hindu votes before the crucial assembly polls next year.Banerjee announced that her government will give a monthly stipend of Rs 1,000 to some 8000 Brahmin priests facing financial crisis and also provide houses to those who need one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-not-forget-muharram-bjp-leader-taunts-bengal-cm-over-no-to-ritual/story-U8ZVyUeZVYQf2bmwRDNwkL.html
16-09-2020||India||Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra to witness thunderstorm, lightning in next 12 hrs: IMD||India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls over Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Odisha, coastal and south interior Karnataka and Kerala between September 19 till September 20. Whereas coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, coastal and north Interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe will most likely receive widespread rainfall in next 3 days, IMD said.In its weather bulletin, the Met department further said that isolated places such as west Madhya Pradesh, Vdarbha, Bihar, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura,Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, coastal Andhra,Yanam and Telangana will witness moderate thunderstorm with lightning during next 12 hours.At least 28 people were killed in separate incidents of lightning strike in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-west-bengal-maharashtra-to-witness-thunderstorm-lightning-in-next-12-hrs-imd/story-9PvlWydh4P4jopxjy2ge0H.html
16-09-2020||India||Russia’s sovereign wealth fund partners with Dr Reddy’s for trials and distribution of Sputnik V vaccine in India||Russia’s sovereign wealth fund on Wednesday said it had reached an agreement with Indian pharmaceuticals major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to cooperate on clinical trials and distribution of the Sputnik V vaccine for Covid-19 in India.“Upon regulatory approval in India, the RDIF shall supply to Dr Reddy’s 100 million doses of the vaccine,” the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said in a statement.“The Sputnik V vaccine, which is based on well-studied human adenoviral vector platform with proven safety, is undergoing clinical trials for the Coronavirus pandemic. Deliveries could potentially begin in late 2020 subject to completion of successful trials and registration of the vaccine by regulatory authorities in India,” the statement added.Russia’s envoy to India, Nikolay Kudashev, has held discussions with Indian officials in recent weeks on cooperation in the development of a vaccine, including joint development and production of Sputnik V.The Russian side also formally shared modalities for cooperation on the vaccine with Indian authorities which are yet to take a call on the matter, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The vaccine is also believed to have figured in discussions held during external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s visit to Moscow last week for a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) states. Also read: China, UAE report positive results in phase 3 trials | All you need to knowRDIF said its agreement with Dr Reddy’s “reflects the growing awareness of countries and organisations to have a diversified anti-Covid vaccine portfolio to protect their populations”.The CEO of RDIF, Kirill Dmitriev, said, “We are very pleased to partner with Dr Reddy’s in India. Dr Reddy’s has had a very well-established and respected presence in Russia for over 25 years and is one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in India”. “India is amongst [the] most severely impacted countries from Covid-19 and we believe our human adenovirus dual vector platform will provide a safe and scientifically validated option to India in the battle against Covid-19,” he added.Dmitriev said the RDIF’s partners will receive an “effective and safe drug” and the platform of human adenoviral vectors, which forms the core of the Russian vaccine, has been “tested in more than 250 clinical studies over decades, and it has been found safe with no potential negative long-term consequences”.GV Prasad, co-chairman and managing director of Dr Reddy’s, said the phase I and phase II results “have shown promise, and we will be conducting phase III trials in India to meet the requirements of the Indian regulators”. Russia’s health ministry registered the Sputnik V vaccine developed by Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology on August 11. A research paper on the results of phase I and phase II clinical trials of Sputnik V published in The Lancet, a leading international medical journal, on September 4 said it had demonstrated no serious adverse effects and a stable immune response in 100 percent of participants. Also read: No central data on death, injury to people during Covid-19 lockdown - Govt in Rajya SabhaPost-registration clinical trials of Sputnik V, involving 40,000 volunteers, are currently ongoing, the RDIF said. More than 55,000 volunteers applied to join the post-registration trials and the first results of these trials are expected to be published in October-November, it added.The Serum Institute of India is also working with Oxford University and AstraZeneca on another Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-s-sovereign-wealth-fund-partners-with-dr-reddy-s-for-trials-and-distribution-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-in-india/story-SPPpdsi7Bzd6mnA2rhZqRN.html
16-09-2020||India||Govt to hold crucial meet with Opposition parties today, passage of key bills to be discussed||The government will hold a crucial meeting with the Opposition parties on Wednesday evening to chalk out a strategy for smooth running of the monsoon session of Parliament. The meeting is scheduled to take place at 5 pm.Defence minister Rajnath Singh and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi will represent the government. The Opposition parties have deputed their floor leaders for the meeting.The issues to be taken up during the meeting are yet to be decided, according to people aware of the developments.The government is expected to seek the Opposition’s help for speedy passage of key bills, but the other side is keen on holding debates on the India-China border situation and the state of the economy.On Wednesday, the third day of the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Anand Sharma gave a short duration discussion notice in Rajya Sabha over ‘the incursion of the Chinese army across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and military standoff between the armies of the two countries on the LAC’.The defence minister had given a statement in Lok Sabha over the issue.In his statement, Rajnath Singh said that India has conveyed to China that its attempt to unilaterally alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was unacceptable and noted that the Chinese actions reflect a “disregard” of various bilateral agreements between the two countries. The two countries have been engaged in a standoff since April-May and China has refused to vacate locations in the Finger area and other friction points in the Eastern Ladakh area.Multiple rounds of talks have also failed to yield any significant result in defusing the tensions and now the Indian side has prepared itself for long-term deployment in the high mountainous region.The monsoon session of Parliament began on September 14 amidst Covid-19 pandemic and will continue till October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-hold-crucial-meet-with-opposition-parties-today-passage-of-key-bills-to-be-discussed/story-Egvf9R1X2Ly2VUoNf7E3yL.html
16-09-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti’s PDP holds 1st meeting after Article 370 abrogation||For the first time after revocation of Article 370, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) youth leaders met to deliberate on several issues at party headquarters in Srinagar after their failed first attempt. The meeting was attended by party vice president, Abdul Rehman Veeri and general secretary, Ghulam Nabi Lone, both former ministers and several youth leaders. Earlier, the PDP leaders’ attempt to hold their first meeting had failed since they were disallowed from leaving their houses. The second meeting was called after the party’s youth wing sought permission from the government.PDP youth president Waheed Para said they were allowed to organise the meeting at the party office in which several leaders participated.Party officials said PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s continued detention was also discussed as the former chief minister is the only remaining prominent mainstream leader still booked under the Public Safety Act or the PSA.Also Read: Road to Daulat Beg Oldi will allow tank movement by Oct 15 as army prepares for Ladakh winterEarlier, PDP leaders also held a demonstration seeking Mehbooba’s release and raised the issue of alleged human rights violations. Seven party leaders were detained during the demonstration and subsequently released.Para said that the resident had suffered a lot. “There’s unending insecurity among the young with fresh fears of a demographic change, assaults on jobs, culture & language,” he said, adding that their voices have been ignored and the institutions erased. Also Read: LG says J&K to get economic package soon“We cannot afford to remain silent any longer. We need to speak now to restore our dignity and take charge of our own destinies,” Para added.NC vice president, Omar Abdullah welcomed the first political meeting held by the PDP.“Good to see @YouthJKPDP make a start with political meetings. Political activities must resume unhindered & the administration is duty bound to ensure a level playing field for all political parties,” Omar Abdullah tweeted.The National Conference has held a series of meetings in Srinagar over the last few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-s-pdp-holds-1st-meeting-after-article-370-abrogation/story-htBpTV8GrB3SsDgYQmoboI.html
16-09-2020||India||Congress says PM lied about Chinese transgressions in Ladakh, June 19 ‘black day’ in history||The Congress on Wednesday called June 19 a “black day” in India’s history, alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi “lied” to the nation about the Chinese transgressions in Ladakh that day. The party also attacked the Modi government for taking loans to the tune of $750 million (Rs 5,521 crore) from the Beijing-based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) to provide financial support the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), a scheme launched to help the poor hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic, at a time when the armed forces were fighting China’s People’s Liberation Army in eastern Ladakh. Addressing reporters outside the Parliament House complex, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera claimed that the Union ministers are speaking in different languages on the India-China border standoff. Also Read: J-K, Ladakh fully integrated into mainstream India, says Centre“June 19 is a black day in the history of India because that was the first time that any Prime Minister lied to the nation. Not only did he give a clean chit to China that day, but also signed a loan agreement with the Beijing-based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) to the tune of $750 million (Rs 5,521 crore),” he said. “By then, 20 of our brave soldiers had sacrificed their lives while protecting our sovereignty in violent clashes with Chinese troops,” added Khera. China is the largest shareholder in AIIB. Earlier, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi too attacked the government on the issue. “Understand the chronology: PM said no one has entered Indian territory, then took loans from China-based bank, then defence minister said China has intruded into our territory and now home minister says no infiltration along India-China border. Is the Modi government with Indian armed forces or with China? Why is there so much of fear?” he tweeted. आप chronology समझिए:🔹PM बोले कि कोई सीमा में नहीं घुसा🔹फिर चीन-स्थित बैंक से भारी क़र्ज़ा लिया🔹फिर रक्षामंत्री ने कहा चीन ने देश में अतिक्रमण किया🔹अब गृह राज्य मंत्री ने कहा अतिक्रमण नहीं हुआमोदी सरकार भारतीय सेना के साथ है या चीन के साथ?इतना डर किस बात का?Khera told reporters that two “shocking revelations expose the lies, double speak, hoodwinking and hypocrisy” of the Modi government on the issue of ongoing border tensions with China on the eastern border in areas such as South Pangong, Razun La and the finger area. He said the government accepted in the House on Tuesday that India took two loans amounting to Rs 9,202 crore from the Beijing-based multilateral development bank. “The bank was formed in 2016 and is headquartered in Beijing. With 26.6% voting share, China is the largest shareholder of the bank. The first loan of $500 million was taken on May 8 amid reports of Chinese incursions at multiple points in eastern Ladakh, including the Pangong lake,” Khera claimed. Also Read: China actions sparked LAC standoff; India ready: Govt“The second loan of $750 million was taken on June 19; four days after the Galwan massacre where we lost 20 of our bravehearts. Incidentally, it was also the same day when Prime Minister Modi lied to the country by saying that no one had entered our territory,” he added. The Congress leader said the stated and much-touted policy of the Modi government of cracking down on Chinese business relationships with India stands exposed. “We would like to ask Mr S Jaishankar (foreign minister) whether he still stands by his statement ‘there cannot be business as usual in the face of Chinese attempts to unilaterally changing the facts on the ground along the border’”. Khera said the nation is “shocked at such brazen duplicity” of the Modi government in handling China’s territorial aggression. He said the “second shocker” came in the form of an answer by the Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai to an unstarred question, in which the minister categorically denied any infiltration by China during the past six months. “This is a shameless insult to the martyrdom of our brave soldiers on the night of June 15 in the Galwan valley. Is the government trying to say that the Galwan clash happened in Chinese territory? By saying so, is the government blaming the Indian army of trespassing into enemy territory?” asked Khera. “Isn’t this just another clean chit to China but also a handle given to China by our government whereby China can now... tell the world that we are not the aggressor but India is? The response of the government dilutes the resolve of India and its mighty army to protect every inch of our valuable territory,” he said. “The defence minister Rajnath Singh talks about differing perceptions of the line of actual control (LAC) and now the MoS Home categorically gives a clean chit to China by saying that no incursions have taken place,” he said. “Is this a public handover of Indian territory to China by the government of the day? The defence minister and the entire government need to give a clear answer to four of our questions.” Khera said. “Are we able to patrol the same areas we were able to before April 2020? What is the pressure under which the Prime Minister gave a clean chit to china? The Ministry of Defence removed the document that acknowledged the Chinese transgression in eastern Ladakh on August 7 under what pressure? Is the entire government now trying to justify that one big lie of the Prime Minister of June 19? What did the defence minister mean when he said that the talks with China might not be fruitful?” asked the Congress. “A clear message should go across the world that India and its government stand with the Indian army and will not legitimise China’s claims over our territory. The LAC is clearly marked in our military maps. There is no differing perception of LAC as far as we are concerned. Every single Indian seeks answers from the government and wants to see the restoration of status quo ante,” Khera added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/june-19-black-day-in-indian-history-congress/story-2hb5eSHCCvBn1CTIJ2KCZM.html
16-09-2020||India||No central data on death, injury to people during Covid-19 lockdown: Govt in Rajya Sabha||The Centre on Wednesday said it has no data on death or injury caused to people in enforcing the countrywide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy’s written reply in Rajya Sabha came in response to Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge’s question in this regard.“Data pertaining to complaints and cases registered, First Information Report (FIR) regarding harassment, injury, death of individuals in enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown across the country is not maintained centrally,” Reddy said.The minister also said police and public order are State subjects as per 7th schedule of the Constitution of India. Hence, the actions are taken by the respective State governments, he said. Kharge had asked whether there has been any instance of excessive police measures leading to harassment, injury, death of individuals in enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown across the country and if so, the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-central-data-on-death-injury-to-people-during-covid-19-lockdown-govt-in-rajya-sabha/story-91Gjo2GMRY4oc0Xq3YfYoK.html
16-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition case verdict on Advani, Joshi, Bharti on September 30||A special CBI court has fixed September 30 for judgment in the decades-old Babri Masjid demolition case, in which former deputy Prime Minister LK Advani, BJP stalwarts Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti are among the 32 accused. The date for judgment in the Ayodhya criminal conspiracy case was set on Wednesday by Surendra Kumar Yadav, judge, special CBI court, Lucknow. Earlier this month, the court completed all proceedings in the case by recording statements of all 32 accused. Lawyer KK Mishra, who is representing 25 out of the 32 accused in the case, including senior BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh, Uma Bharti, confirmed the date set by the court for delivering the verdict. The expected date of judgment is also in line with the one month extension granted by the Supreme Court, instructing the special CBI court to wind up the case by September 30. The earlier deadline for judgment had expired on August 31. The sensitive case involving senior politicians of the BJP has dragged on for a long time despite several deadlines for its completion set by the Supreme Court.Last year in July, the SC had extended the deadline for completion of criminal trial in Ayodhya case by six months and given a total of nine months for delivering the final order. The deadline expired on April 19 this year and another extension till August 31 was granted by the apex court.On April 19, 2017, the Supreme Court had ordered the special judge to conduct a day-to-day trial, concluding it in two years. It also called the demolition of the disputed structure a crime, which shook the “secular fabric of the Constitution”, and allowed the CBI plea for restoration of criminal conspiracy charge against the VIP accused. Also Read: Ayodhya readies for grand Ramleela over 9 days, Bollywood stars to performThe SC had termed the Allahabad high court’s February 12, 2001 verdict dropping conspiracy charge against Advani and others as “erroneous”. Before the 2017 verdict of the apex court, there were two sets of cases relating to the demolition, going on in Lucknow and Rae Bareli. The first case allegedly involving unnamed “kar sevaks” proceeded in a Lucknow court and the second set of cases relating to eight VIPs was being heard in a Rae Bareli court. In April 2017, the Supreme Court transferred the Rae Bareli case to the Special CBI court in Lucknow. Also Read: Days after cheque fraud, SBI returns Rs 6 lakh to Ram Janmabhoomi TrustThe accused in Babri Masjid demolition case LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Sudhir Kakkar, Satish Pradhan, Ram Chandra Khatri, Santosh Dubey and Om Prakash Pandey, Kalyan Singh, Uma Bharti, Ram Vilas Vedanti, Vinay Katiyar, Prakash Sharna, Gandhi Yadav, Jai Bhan Singh, Lallu Singh, Kamlesh Tripathi, Brij Bhushan Singh, Ramji Gupta, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Champat Rai, Sakshi Maharaj, Vinay Kumar Rai, Naveen Bhai Shukla, Dharamdas, Jai Bhagwan Goel, Amarnath Goel, Sadhvi Ritambhara, Pawan Pandey, Vijay Bahadur Singh, RM Srivastava and Dharmendra Singh Gujjar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-case-verdict-on-advani-joshi-bharti-on-september-30/story-H0JSyIkyW5IsZlSykJx0XI.html
16-09-2020||India||Bills for farmers’ benefit but Cong creating hurdles, says Nadda||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday said the three bills --- The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 --- have been introduced in Parliament with the intent to benefit farmers, but the Congress is creating hurdles in their all-round development by opposing them. BJP president JP Nadda addressed media persons on the three key bills that are to be passed by Parliament during the 18-day uninterrupted monsoon session, which started on Monday, amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic across the country. “These bills are far sighted. They are related to the empowerment of the farmers and are truly revolutionary. Farmers will be free to sell their produce in a competitive market of their choice. But the Congress is opposing them. The party is hampering the farmers’ all-round economic growth and development,” Nadda said.On Tuesday, the Lok Sabha (LS) passed Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; and it will now be taken up for discussion in the Rajya Sabha (RS). The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; are listed for discussion in the LS on Wednesday.The Congress has opposed the ordinances related to the agri-marketing practices that seek to create new structures on the grounds that it would undermine the existing food security net. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh had said last week that revenues of agri-dominant states would be negatively affected by these three ordinances and private companies would benefit because of their corporate farming initiatives.Nadda lashed out at the Congress for what he alleged was the rival party’s doublespeak. He said the bills would ensure that farmers get good prices for their produce and investments in the agriculture sector would also be encouraged.“These are very beneficial from the point of view of agriculture. The Essential Commodities Act has been in force since 1955 when we used to face an acute shortage of food grains. About 10 million tonnes (MT) of wheat was produced in 1955, which has since gone up by 10 times. In 1955, rice production was 25 MT, which now stands at 110 MT. This bill was introduced when there was food grain shortage and there was a need to regulate things to ensure there is no hoarding and commodities can be sold at the right price,” he said.The BJP president, who is also a member of the RS, said that the government is making an attempt to benefit farmers by ensuring they can sell the produce with ease.“At present, farm produce can be sold only through mandis. These bills allow them to sell the produce outside of mandis as well and also determine their own price,” he said referring to the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, which seeks to allow intra-state and inter-state trade of farmers’ produce beyond the physical premises of agricultural produce market committees (APMCs). State governments are prohibited from levying any market fee, cess or levy outside APMCs.The BJP president said a transparent process, where farmers could take a call on where they would get the best price for their produce would be in place after the bill is passed.“This bill also has the provision of giving information on prices. Farmers can be told which places are offering a fair price,” he said. He also cited The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill. 2020; that seeks to develop a framework for contract farming and trade agreements for the sale and purchase of farm produce.Nadda said it would offer protection to farmers who would understand the details of agreements that would be drawn up in regional languages.“All these three bills are in the favour of the farmers. All the bottlenecks have been removed between a farmer and market. The Congress is opposing these bills because it has a double face. The party always plays politics. In 2013-14, the Congress had told its own state governments to denotify fruits and vegetables from APMC. The Congress in its 2019 parliamentary election manifesto had also promised that it would repeal the APMC Act, 2003,” Nadda alleged.The BJP’s ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), had opposed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the LS. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal described the bill as anti-farmer and said his party was not consulted when the ordinances were framed. The party has also said it would oppose the other two bills as well. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-bills-for-farmers-benefit-but-cong-creating-hurdles-says-nadda/story-mR10SZTUI2vuWvl2fNXkIO.html
16-09-2020||India||5.4 crore Covid-19 samples tested; 40 lakh people under surveillance: Govt||As many as 5.4 crore samples have been tested for coronavirus and 40 lakh people are under surveillance, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday.Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said India is testing about one million samples a day at 1,697 laboratories across the country.“As on September 10, a total of about 40 lakh persons have been kept under surveillance. A total of 5.4 crore samples have been tested so far,” he said in a written reply to a question.The minister said that as on September 10, a total of 15,290 Covid-19 treatment facilities with 13,14,171 dedicated isolation beds, without oxygen support, have been created.Also, a total of 2,31,269 oxygen-supported isolation beds and 62,694 ICU beds (including 32,241 ventilator beds) are available in the country, he said.Guidelines on clinical management of Covid-19 have been issued and are being updated regularly, he said.Rai said states are being supported in terms of supply of logistics and as on 10th September, 1.39 crore PPE kits, 3.42 crore N-95 masks, 10.84 crore Hydroxychloroquine tablets and 29,779 ventilators and 1,02,400 oxygen cylinders have been supplied to states, union territories and central government hospitals.The central government has taken a series of actions to prevent, control and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 and India followed a ‘whole of government and whole of society’ approach, he said. Rai said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a high-level Group of Ministers (GoM), the Cabinet Secretary, a Committee of Secretaries and senior officers in the Union Health Ministry continue to monitor public health response to Covid-19 in the country.Public health actions were taken in a preemptive, proactive and graded manner based on the evolving scenario, he said.The minister said a number of travel advisories were issued restricting the inflow of international travelers, and commercial flights were suspended on March 23. A total of 14,154 flights with 15,24,266 passengers have been screened at airports and screening was also done at 12 major and 65 minor ports and land border crossings, he said.Rai said that in the initial part of the pandemic, India evacuated a large number of stranded passengers from then Covid-19 affected countries (China, Italy, Iran, Japan, Malaysia) and again in the un-lockdown phase, a total of 12,43,176 passengers have been brought back (as on September 9) and followed up.He said the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) is conducting contact-tracing through community surveillance.In the earlier part of the pandemic, this was done for travel-related cases and subsequently for cases being reported from community as a part of containment strategy, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-4-crore-covid-19-samples-tested-40-lakh-people-under-surveillance-govt/story-pfGGCJlhGzixtwx5S1Nn3O.html
16-09-2020||India||Revenues of Indian airlines fell by 85.7 per cent in April-June period due to Covid-19: Puri||The revenue of Indian airlines fell by 85.7 per cent to Rs 3,651 crore during the first quarter of 2020-21 in comparison to the corresponding period a year ago due to Covid-19, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday. Moreover, employee count at the Indian carriers went down from 74,887 on March 31 to 69,589 on July 31, a decrease of 7.07 per cent, Puri stated in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha. “The revenue of airport operators has reduced from Rs 5,745 crore during April-June 2019 to Rs 894 crore during April-June 2020,” he said. The minister said the employee count at airports has reduced from 67,760 on March 31 to 64,514 on July 31. Scheduled domestic flight services were suspended in India from March 25 to May 24 due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. They were resumed from May 25 but in a curtailed manner. The employee count at ground handling agencies fell by 22.44 per cent to 29,254 in April-July period, Puri said. In his written reply, Puri was giving information about the “impact of Covid-19 on the civil aviation sector”. “The revenue of Indian carriers has reduced from Rs 25,517 crore during April-June 2019 to Rs 3,651 crore during April-June 2020,” the minister said. Air India’s total revenue has reduced from Rs 7,066 crore during April-June 2019 to Rs 1,531 crore during the first quarter of 2020-21, Puri stated. Puri stated the domestic air traffic in the country fell to 1.2 crore during March-July period as compared to 5.85 crore in the year-ago period. International traffic dropped to 11.55 lakh in March-July period as compared to 93.45 lakh in the year-ago period, he added. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revenues-of-indian-airlines-fell-by-85-7-per-cent-in-april-june-period-due-to-covid-19-puri/story-IoIaB7DZto6LgokEuhjFvM.html
16-09-2020||India||India received 2.5 billion dollars from World Bank to fight Covid-19: Govt||India has received three loans worth $2.5 billion to fight the deadly coronavirus disease outbreak, the government said on Tuesday. The loans were provided under three classifications – health, social protection and economic stimulus, union minister Anurag Thakur told the Rajya Sabha. Stating that all Indian states and union territories have benefitted from the loan, Thakur told the Rajya Sabha that the first loan was signed on April 3, shortly after India announced a nationwide lockdown to aid the virus related health measures. The first loan was extended by the World Bank to partly finance India’s measures to prevent, detect and respond to the threat posed by the disease outbreak, in addition to strengthening national machinery for public health preparedness. Out of the total $1 billion, 502.5 million stands disbursed, Thakur’s reply to Rajya Sabha stated. Thakur added that the second instalment of World Bank’s financial assistance to India came on May 15 and has been fully disbursed. The reply submitted in Rajya Sabha stated, “The second loan relating to social protection measures worth $750 million was signed on 15th May, 2020 as budgetary support to Government of India for ‘Accelerating India’s Covid-19 Social Protection Response Programme’ to support relief measures to beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP).” The third loan aimed at boosting economic stimulus worth $750 million was signed on July 6, 2020 as budgetary support to Government of Indian government in order to support MSMEs under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Package (ANBP). From the first date of World Bank’s assistance, India has reported over 5 million positive cases and 82,066 deaths due to Covid-19. With an increasing surge in cases, India has become the second worst-hit nation due to the disease outbreak and third worst-hit in terms of deaths reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-received-2-5-billion-dollars-from-world-bank-to-fight-covid-19-govt/story-T6lEaVxfGIbth4TdTB67uI.html
16-09-2020||India||Covid treatment rates set by Goa govt for private hospitals brews anger||The rates set by Goa government for treatment of Covid-19 infected patients in state’s private hospitals have invited sharp criticism from Opposition parties who have accused the ruling party of profiteering in the times of the pandemic. The chief minister has however, defended the rates, claiming it needed to be sustainable for the private sector. The Goa government recently capped the rent for a bed in a general ward of a private hospital at Rs 12,000 per day for Covid patients. The rates for rooms-- on a twin sharing basis-- was capped at Rs 15,000 per day and Rs 18,000 per day was the upper limit set for a single private room, while Rs 25,000 per day was set for a bed in an ICU with a ventilator.The charges include all regular expenses including bed charges, nursing services, resident doctor fee, nutritional diet, PPE kits for the staff and routinely prescribed medicines, but is exclusive of charges incurred for consulting a specialist, an intensivist, a diagnostic intensivist, or the cost of special drugs or equipment or any other procedures or surgeries carried out during the treatment. “This is loot. The Goa BJP Government is looting the people in the name of Covid. At these rates, people will prefer to die at home than be treated in hospitals,” Congress spokesperson Amarnath Panjikar said. “If affordability is the concern, then the government should take control of all private hospitals as needed under the National Emergency and Epidemic Act... The interest of the citizens is sacrosanct,” Aashish Kamat an activist said. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant however claimed that the rates were decided in consultation with medical professionals while keeping the expenses private hospitals need to bear for caring for their patients. “We have decided these rates in consultation with the medical professionals and with the private hospitals themselves. We have to take them into confidence, too, and keep in mind that it is affordable for them. They have also said that they need to be able to manage the facilities with dedicated staff who end up getting infected and who then need to be rotated with fresh staff,” Sawant said. “Besides, they also ensure that a resident doctor is there to attend to the patient besides nurses,” he added. The Goa government’s decision to cap the rates comes after several weeks of reluctance to do so. Earlier health minister Vishwajit Rane had said that those getting admitted to private hospitals were doing so out of their personal choice since similar treatment was available at government run facilities for free. Since then, however, a bed shortage has begun to choke the government-run facilities and a bed at a private facility is proving to be prohibitive cost-wise. Those treated at private facilities include Union minister Shripad Naik, Goa’s director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa and several MLAs who were infected with severe symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-treatment-rates-set-by-goa-govt-for-private-hospitals-brews-anger/story-tZMTuHeAncewUkzvEAyLQJ.html
16-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Former PM Manmohan Singh among 16 MPs to remain absent in Parliament monsoon session and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Parliament monsoon session: Former PM Manmohan Singh, 15 others to remain absentFormer Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is among the Rajya Sabha MPs who have sought the Upper House’s permission to remain absent for a part of or the entire monsoon session. Read more‘No infiltration reported along Indo-China border during last six months’: MHA in Rajya SabhaThe Union home ministry on Wednesday said in Parliament that no infiltration has been reported along the border with China in the last last six months. Read more‘Investigate Karan Johar’s party video’: Politician files complaint with NCB against Deepika Padukone, Vicky Kaushal and othersFormer Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Manjinder Singh Sirsa, perhaps encouraged with the current conversation around Bollywood’s alleged drug abuse problem, has once again raked up Karan Johar’s house party video. Read moreIPL 2020: Five penalty runs will stop teams from Mankading, says Muttiah MuralitharanWithout bowling, life is ‘boring’ for Muttiah Muralitharan. So at the slightest of excuses, cricket’s greatest spinner is found doing what he does best: befuddling batsmen. His recent outing came at a Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) training session, because there were “not as many net bowlers.” Read moreStudy of cities reveals Delhi saved 3 days of commute time during Covid lockdownIn a study of how much time commuters in global cities saved between March and July, New Delhi has come out on top with 79 hours that would have otherwise been spent in getting from one location to another. Read moreApple Watch 6, Watch SE, iPad Air, iPad 8th gen go official, check India prices hereApple made a host of announcements late last evening through a virtual Apple Event. Unlike every other year, Apple did not announce a new iPhone lineup this September and unveiled four other devices instead - the Apple Watch Series 6, Apple Watch SE, the 8th generation iPad and a new iPad Air. Read moreVishwakarma Puja 2020: Significance, Date, Timing and MuhuratVishwakarma Jayanti, also known as Vishwakarma Puja, marks the birth of the Hindu god, Vishwakarma, who is believed to be the creator of the world, and is referred to as the divine architect. Read moreCovid-19: India hits 5 million, cases yet to peak; Sputnik V trials to beginHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; country’s hotspots witnessing a rising curve; trials for Sputnik V to begin in india; scientist revives ‘lab-origin theory’; rise of cases in the national capital. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-former-pm-manmohan-singh-among-16-mps-who-may-skip-monsoon-session-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cCEkHg1iNJBXxWl4u5HUjO.html
16-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Indian economy to recover gradually, says RBI Governor||The Indian economy, reeling under the impact of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, will recover gradually, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das said on Wednesday.“Economic recovery is not fully entrenched; it will be gradual,” Das said in a virtual meeting of FICCI National Executive Committee.The central bank chief also said that the RBI stands battle-ready to take whatever steps that are needed to be taken for the economy. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageReferring to the GDP contraction of 23.9 per cent in the first quarter (Q1), Das said that it is the “reflection of the ravages of the Covid-19”.He further noted that high-frequency indicators like agricultural activity, Purchasing Managers Index for manufacturing, certain private estimates for unemployment, point to some stabilisation of economic activity in the second quarter of the current year.“Contractions in many other sectors are simultaneously easing,” Das said.The deadly Covid-19 has severely hit businesses and livelihoods across the country.The government and RBI have been taking measures for mitigating the impact of pandemic on the economy by introducing stimulus packages, reforms, and interest rate cuts.However, the revival is expected to take time as there is still high uncertainty regarding Covid-19 cases across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-indian-economy-to-recover-gradually-says-rbi-governor/story-PQNEL1jbDKbMZx0hhhcRgL.html
16-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill||The Rajya Sabha (RS) on Wednesday passed the Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill, 2020.The institute will be declared an institution of national importance following the passage of the bill and will be instrumental for the promotion of quality and excellence in education, research and training in Ayurveda.The bill seeks to merge three institutes into one integrated centre. It will be called the Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, which will be based in Jamnagar, Gujarat. It will be the first Ayurveda institution to be given the status of institution of national importance. Also read: Rajya Sabha to hold discussion on Harsh Vardhan’s statement on Covid-19“The institution has been chosen in the most careful manner because it is the oldest Ayurveda centre created by the government way back in 1956. This is the number one institution that deserves this status,” said Dr Harshvardhan, Union minister for health and family welfare in the RS while discussing the bill.The Institute of Post Graduate Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Shree Gulabkunverba Ayurved Mahavidyalaya and the Indian Institute of Ayurvedic Pharmaceutical Sciences will be merged with the Jamnagar-based proposed institute. The proposed institute will be situated on the campus of Gujarat Ayurved University in Jamnagar.“In the past 20 years, students have come from 65 countries to learn in this institution. It has got international recognition in several fields and has helped in the growing popularity of Ayurveda. It will set a precedent for other institutions that may also be included to the list in the near future,” the minister added.Earlier, the bill was passed in the Lok Sabha’s budget session.Dr Harshvardhan had introduced the bill in Parliament on Tuesday on behalf of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) minister Shripad Yesso Naik.Naik was diagnosed with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in August and is recovering from the viral infection..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-institute-of-teaching-and-research-in-ayurveda-bill/story-Y4wAVaNPhFUm8zdAB2alBL.html
16-09-2020||India||Odisha student among 2 killed while on way to collect mid day meal rice||A school student and a parent died and six others going to collect mid-day-meal rice were injured after a truck hit an auto rickshaw they were travelling in on a hilly road of Mayurbhanj district of Odisha.Police officials in Mayurbhanj said at least 12 persons including 4 children were travelling in an auto rickshaw to Suliapada area from a village in Bisoi block this morning for collecting mid- day-meal rice when a truck hit the vehicle from behind.Mayurbhanj SP Smith Parmar said the auto rickshaw was going down the hilly road in Bangiriposi ghat on NH-49 when it was hit by the truck from behind, resulting in the auto toppling. “The deceased suffered grievous injuries as they were thrown out of the auto rickshaw. The vehicle has been totally damaged,” he said.Soon after the accident, the injured were shifted to a local hospital with the help of local people and fire services team. It is not clear why children were travelling in the auto rickshaw.Also Read: Odisha to amend GST Act to make fraud in input tax credit non-bailableAs schools have been shut due to Covid-19 pandemic, the government has made provisions for distribution of the MDM rice to the parents of the school children as per Odisha Mid Day Meal Rules, 2016. As per the rules, if Mid-Day Meal is not provided in school on any school day, then the state government would pay food security allowance as well as the quantity of foodgrain allocated for each child and the cooking cost.As per Odisha MDM rules, each child in the primary section is entitled for 100 gm of rice everyday while for the upper primary students it is 150 gm. Similarly, the food security allowance is Rs 5 for primary and Rs 8.12 for each upper primary student every day. At least 45 lakh students of class 1-8 in various schools are entitled for mid day meals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-student-among-2-killed-while-on-way-to-collect-mid-day-meal-rice/story-n8fFbhPqONFcJSPSyKBOBK.html
16-09-2020||India||Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai tested positive for Covid-19, he informed in a tweet on Wednesday. The home minister said that he is asymptomatic and is under self-isolation.He also urged all those who had come in contact with him to test themselves immediately.“The infection was confirmed in the Covid-19 test yesterday for a working boy in our home. Against this backdrop I have also been tested and I have been infected, have no symptoms and are healthy and isolated at home,” he said in a tweet. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Those who have recently come in direct contact with me are urged to get tested immediately and take appropriate precautions,” he also said.Before Bommmai, state chief minister chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, Congress state president DK Shivakumar had also tested positive for the viral disease. They have been discharged after being cured.Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 tally surpassed five-million mark with a spike of 90,123 new cases in the last 24 hours. As of Wednesday, the number of total cases stood at 5,02,0359. The death toll reached 82,066 after 1,290 fresh fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-home-minister-basavaraj-bommai-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-rMMG44RNkGLLxFJpyI72BI.html
16-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: Former PM Manmohan Singh, 15 others likely to remain absent||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is among the Rajya Sabha MPs who have sought the Upper House’s permission to remain absent for a part of or the entire monsoon session of Parliament On Wednesday, Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu said the lawmakers had sought leave of absence for health reasons. The requests have come amid the Covid-19 pandemic.. Besides Manmohan Singh, two other senior Congress leaders -- Oscar Fernandes and P Chidambaram -- have also asked to be excused. Other MPs who have sought leave include Parimal Nathwani of the YSR Congress Party; A. Navaneethakrishnan of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam; KG Kenye of the Naga People’s Front; Banda Prakash and Lakshmikantha Rao of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi; nominated MP Narendra Jadhav; Hishey Lachungpa of the Sikkim Democratic Front; Trinamool Congress’s Manas Ranjan Bhunia; Anbumani Ramadoss of the Paattali Makkal Katchi ; Sushil Kumar Gupta of the Aam Aadmi Party; and Mahendra Prasad of the Janata Dal (United). On Monday, the House was informed that Subhasish Chakraborty and Sukhendu Sekhar Ray of the Trinamool Congress had also sought permission to stay away for the duration of the session, which ends on October 1, on health grounds. Also Read: Covid-19: Fake news led to migrants’ exodus, says home ministryAmid the Covid-19 pandemic, both Houses of Parliament have made extensive arrangements to ensure that physical distancing and other health protocols in place for preventing the spread of the virus are adhered to. Rajya Sabha proceedings are being held between 9am and 1pm; some of the members have to sit in galleries as well as the Lok Sabha chambers to follow the physical distancing requirement. MPs also had to undergo a mandatory Covid-19 test before being allowed to attend the session, which got underway on Monday. Also Read: J-K, Ladakh fully integrated into mainstream India, says CentreRajya Sabha members raised the issue of an oxygen shortfall in several states. Congress’s Digvijay Singh said oxygen prices had gone up from Rs 10 to Rs 50 per cubic metre. In Devas, Madhya Pradesh, four patients died due to the lack of oxygen; Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat have seen an increase in prices as well, he said. “The Essential Commodities Act is being amended. The heath minister did not address the issue of oxygen shortage in his statement,” Singh said. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bhagwat Karad also stressed the need for adequate oxygen supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-former-pm-manmohan-singh-15-others-to-remain-absent/story-Ms5GT1TzjnHpAfYh5eKjpI.html
16-09-2020||India||UP hospital put Covid patient without diabetes on Insulin for 10 days||Anil Kumar Gupta, 59, a resident of Dharamshala Bazar in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur is not able to forget the nightmare he went through while under treatment at the Covid ward of BRD Medical College, Gorakhpur for 19 days and wants to write to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to draw his attention to the state of affairs at the above mentioned hospital, said Gupta. “For 19 days, it seemed, I was not in a hospital, but in a virtual hell where patients are tormented. But with God’s blessings and my inner strength, I fought the infection to return home,” said Gupta, who is the president of India-Nepal Friendship Association. Recounting his days in the ward, he said: “On August 18, I had symptoms of Covid infection - high fever, dry cough and breathlessness. Family members took me to the medical college. After a sample test, staff told me that I have tested positive for SARS- CoV-2. As I was facing problems in breathing, instead of home isolation, I preferred admission to a designated Covid facility.” “The doctors put me on ventilator support in the ICU, later I was put on an oxygen support system. A nurse came to collect my blood sample. After pricking my finger, she did not even press it with cotton or apply antiseptic lotion and the blood continued to flow on the bed sheet,” he recalled. “After three days, a doctor told me to get an injection from the open market as it was not available in the hospital. The price of the injection was Rs 41,000. The doctor told me that my health condition was not good and I should take assistance from the ward staff to go to the toilet but when I called for assistance in the night, the doctor on duty started shouting at me,” said Gupta. Gupta said there was a complete lack of hygiene at the hospital. He recalled that he was forced to use an extremely dirty and unhygienic toilet since there were only 4 portable urine containers to be used among 40 patients. He added that the bed sheet was not changed for a week despite requests and the quality of food served to patients was substandard at best. Recounting perhaps the most dangerous of the callous act by the medical staff, Gupta said: “The nurse told me that the doctor has prescribed me insulin injections to control diabetes. I told her that I have no history of diabetes and the sugar test was also normal, yet she gave me an insulin injection. For 10 days, I was put on insulin,” added Gupta. Also Read: $1 trillion economy, herculean task’: UP govt tells to-be-consultant in revised RFP On September 4, the medical staff shifted Gupta to another ward, where the medical officer in-charge asked the nurse why Gupta was given insulin injections and pulled up the staff. “I started praying for my well-being,” said Gupta recalling the traumatic experience. Gupta said his family finally managed to get him discharged from the hospital after he tested negative for the disease and didn’t let his stay get extended as was being advised by the hospital.“I wish to write a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, drawing his attention towards the mismanagement in the BRD Medical College,” Gupta said.Also Read: Possibility of partial reopening of schools in UP looks bleak: Deputy CM Dinesh SharmaDuring his visit to Gorakhpur in August and September, the chief minister had directed the medical college and district administration officers to provide quality health services to patients admitted to Covid facilities. The state government had released funds for the care of patients, supply of quality food, procurement of equipment and life-saving medicines. “There is a need to check the stock supplied in the medical college stores, senior administrative officers should conduct surprise checks in Covid wards as well as the kitchen running in the hospital,” said Gupta. HT tried to contact officers of the BRD Medical College for their version, but there was no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-hospital-put-covid-patient-without-diabetes-on-insulin-for-10-days/story-RLcNjzTkxJM2FvWMkn3FbP.html
16-09-2020||India||Indian, Chinese soldiers fired burst of bullets in air near Finger 4 before Moscow talks||In a major escalation of tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), Indian and Chinese soldiers fired bursts of bullets into the air last week on the northern bank of Pangong Tso when the Indian Army took control of key heights overlooking the People’s Liberation Army’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline, officials familiar with the developments said on Wednesday.This was the third incident of bullets being fired at the LAC since August 29-30 - the current border confrontation with China has seen bullets flying at the LAC for the first time in 45 years.The firing incident took place at heights where Fingers 3 and 4 merge into the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh, the officials said requesting anonymity. The lake’s northern and southern banks are at the heart of the current border standoff between India and China, and among the four friction areas where both armies are holding forward positions. Indian and Chinese soldiers are barely a few hundred metres at friction points on both sides of the lake.Shots were fired on the lake’s southern bank too - the Indian Army last week said that Chinese troops fired their weapons into the air on September 7 to intimidate its soldiers holding dominating heights at Mukhpari peak near Rezang La on the southern bank during a failed attempt to close in on a forward position controlled by India.Defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament on Tuesday that China has engaged in massive mobilisation of troops at the LAC, aggressive behaviour, and sought to unilaterally change the status quo — all in contravention of existing border agreements and pacts between the two countries. Also Read: Indian Army changes posture at LAC after China’s failed midnight attemptIn the face of this, he said, India’s armed forces have shown both restraint when needed and courage when required, and will defend Indian sovereignty and territorial integrity in any situation. There was no mention of the firing incidents in the minister’s statement. He said the current friction areas in eastern Ladakh included Gogra, Kongka La and the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso. Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4, the army would patrol right up to Finger 8 that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers 4 and 8 are eight km apart. The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger 8, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger 4. Also Read: India, China reach 5-point consensus on easing border tensions at Jaishankar-Wang meetIndia is making vigorous attempts to provide logistics support to its soldiers deployed in the eastern Ladakh theatre where more than 50,000 Indian troops are likely to remain stationed through the winter months to deal any provocation by the Chinese forces, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday. China has deployed sizable military assets in the eastern Ladakh theatre including 50,000 troops, 150 aircraft, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems, with India matching every military move made by the neighbour. The Indian Army controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the most significant heights being held by India on Rezang La and Reqin pass where the PLA is making desperate attempts to regain lost ground.In Lok Sabha, Singh suggested on Tuesday that in the past too, there have been long standoffs which were peacefully resolved, but acknowledged that the scale of troop mobilisation and number of friction points made the current situation different. “We are ready to face any situation,” he said.Singh said that India, in its communication with China, had clearly laid out three principles — the need to respect the LAC and adhere to it strictly; the need to not change the status quo; and the need to respect all pacts and agreements. But on August 29 and 30, even as discussions were underway, Singh said that the PLA tried to unilaterally change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Tso, but “timely action” by Indian armed forces repelled the design.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-soldiers-fired-burst-of-bullets-in-air-near-finger-4-before-moscow-talks/story-ISRSmKSVpfI7QdDUlE3JhO.html
16-09-2020||India||‘Covid-19 battle far from over’: Rajya Sabha to hold discussion on Harsh Vardhan’s statement||The Rajya Sabha will on Wednesday hold a discussion on the statement made by Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan a day earlier on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The upper house of Parliament will also discuss the steps taken by the central government to curb the spread of Covid-19.This comes as various leaders raised Covid-19 issue in Parliament. As the session began on Wednesday, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MP Manoj Jha gave a zero hour notice in the Rajya Sabha over “Covid-19 and its impacts on the migrant workforce”.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP Veer Singh also moved a zero hour notice over increase in unemployment due to lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic.Speaking in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, Vardhan had said that the battle against Covid-19 is far from over and the government is taking all necessary measures to prevent the spread of the disease.“I want to remind the members that battle against Covid-19 is far from over. I wish to inform the house that government is taking all necessary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in India,” the health minister had said.He also said that the countrywide lockdown prevented approximately 14 lakh to 29 lakh cases of Covid-19 and 37,000 to 78,000 deaths.With various precautionary measures at place, the monsoon session of Parliament commenced from Monday. The 18-day long session will conclude on October 1.Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 tally surpassed five-million mark with a spike of 90,123 new cases in the last 24 hours. As of Wednesday, the number of total cases stood at 5,02,0359. The death toll reached 82,066 after 1,290 fresh fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-to-hold-discussion-over-statement-made-by-health-minister-regarding-covid-19/story-BRvHxXe6grfWkaVyJt5F8L.html
16-09-2020||India||‘No infiltration reported along Indo-China border during last six months’: MHA in Rajya Sabha||The Union home ministry on Wednesday said in Parliament that no infiltration has been reported along the border with China in the last six months.The response was given Nityanand Rai, minister of state for Home in the Rajya Sabha.“The government has adopted a multi-pronged approach to contain cross border infiltration, which inter-alia include multi-tiered deployment along the international border/ Line of Control, improved intelligence and operational coordination, border fencing, deploying technological solutions and taking pro-active action against infiltrators,” Rai said.The written response to an unstarred question also listed the infiltration attempts on India’s border with Pakistan.The minister’s answer listed 47 instances of infiltration attempts from February to June. The highest number of attempts were made in the month of April, the answer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-infiltration-reported-along-indo-china-border-during-last-six-months-mha-in-rajya-sabha/story-8s9M8qetLO7L1HJ1ejqR7K.html
16-09-2020||India||Struck by lightning seven killed in Madhya Pradesh||Bhopal/Sagar: Seven people, including three from a family, were killed on Tuesday evening when they were struck by lightning in Damoh district, which is located 264 kilometres (km) east of the state capital Bhopal, in Madhya Pradesh’s (MP) Bundelkhand region, said police. Five of the deceased belonged to Chhoti Lamti village under the jurisdiction of the district’s Tejgarh police station. They were identified as Lakhan Yadav (35), his wife Savitri Bai (32), their son Narendra (7), Jalam Adivasi (31) and Prem Bai (50). Tejgarh police station in-charge Vikas Singh Chauhan said, “The deceased were working in their agriculture fields when lightning struck them. Another son of the Yadav couple, who is 12-year-old, was also struck by the lightning. He is undergoing treatment in the district hospital.” Similarly, lightning claimed two more lives in Kunwarpur and Sataria villages in the district, an official said. MP Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the leader of the opposition in the state assembly Kamal Nath have condoled the death of the lightning victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/struck-by-lightning-seven-killed-in-madhya-pradesh/story-SJEx51aww4wlOXLH9VQHGO.html
16-09-2020||India||Road to Daulat Beg Oldi will allow tank movement by Oct 15 as army prepares for Ladakh winter||Preparing for a long winter ahead facing the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in East Ladakh, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has decided to allowed Srinagar-Zoji La-Kargil Leh axis to be closed only for 45 days from past average 95 days due to snow this year and will strengthen all the bridges on Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) road to bear the load of tank plus truck trailer by next month.Authoritative government sources told Hindustan Times that the BRO, under the defence ministry, will also keep the new Darcha-Padam-Nimu-Leh road clear of snow throughout December and January 2021 so that military supply route is maintained route the clock. The Modi government is now considering to prepare for the shortest tunnel at Shinku La on Darcha-Padam axis so that this road this snow free throughout the year.Given that the PLA is showing no signs of abiding with the agreements between the Special Representatives on Boundary Talks (July 5, 2020) and between foreign ministers (September 10, 2020) on total disengagement to restore status quo ante on LAC, the Indian Army is rushing in supplies with the BRO ensuring that 17,580 feet high Chang La pass and 17,582 feet Khardung La on route to contested Pangong Tso is kept snow free throughout the year.With an aim to keep weapon deployment in East Ladakh to match the PLA build-up in occupied Aksai Chin, the BRO is expected to strengthen all bridges and culverts to Class 70 on the DSDBO road by October 15. Class 70 bridge means that it can bear a load of 70 tons, which is more than the weight of a fully loaded tank trailer. In strategic terms this means that in case of worst case scenario, the DSDBO road can be used to deploy T -90 tanks, infantry combat vehicle and surface to air missiles all along the eastern Ladakh Line of Actual Control with Tibet.While the BRO is expected to validate the Darcha-Padam-Nimu-Leh axis for heavy vehicle traffic this month, there is intense discussion within the Ministry of Defence on the length and alignment of the tunnel under 16000 feet Shinku La. The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) has been tasked to study the shortest possible alignment for the tunnel so that it can be readied in next four years.Majority of the stake-holders, including ministry of surface transport, are in favour of a shorter 4.5-km tunnel alignment on the current axis rather than a 13-km alignment suggested by Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) of the Defence Ministry. The longer alignment will not only delay the project with a host of studies and detailed project report to be completed. It has now been left to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to take a final call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/road-to-daulet-beg-oldi-will-allow-tank-movement-by-oct-15-as-army-prepares-for-ladakh-winter/story-2DMzLy5y1rZCyWvLWAd6tO.html
16-09-2020||India||Crack trains: How railways put goods movement on fast track during Covid 19||The Indian Railways has successfully put into motion Mission Raftaar (speed) to accelerate the movement of freight to meet the increasing demand for essential commodities’ transportation in an efficient manner. These trains run by the north eastern railways during the pandemic are being called the Crack trains.These freight trains operate nonstop between the originating point and the destination, resulting in prioritized and swift transportation of goods. In the last three months alone, NER has operated around 1,590 Crack trains transporting grains, sugar, salt and petroleum products to different parts of the country. “Though the concept is not new but yes we are executing it thoroughly and this has made a big difference. In July and August, our division ferried more than 1000 Crack trains. Among these, the longest one was from Chhapra to Roza, covering the distance of 572 km within 10 hours. The entire train was managed by a single crew. Crack trains have not only increased the efficiency or railways but is also the time-effective way of transporting goods,” said Monica Agnihotri, divisional railway manager (DRM), Lucknow Division, NER, who spearheaded mission ‘raftar’ at NER. Also Read: In a first, railways announces 40 ‘clone trains’; will begin service from Sep 21Ensuring non stop movement of freight traffic isn’t as easy as it sounds. “It requires a whole team of officials, who need to keep a continuous track on the train movement and to provide a kind of ‘green corridor’ to the train to ensure non-stop movement,” Agnihotri said, adding several changes had been introduced to make the movement of these crack trains more efficient.“Changing of crew used to take 15 minutes or almost an hour and so it was decided to run the trains with the same crew. To encourage loco pilots and board controllers to increase the average speed of the train, a point based incentive system was introduced. The top performers, who scored maximum points, get ranked and awarded. We have introduced different categories including platinum, gold, silver and bronze categories,” she said. Also Read: Centre approves Palwal-Sonipat rail project to decongest NCR network“Since crack trains run on a priority basis, they are monitored live via a 3-tier mechanism of board controller, chief controller and officer. These officers keep all, from controllers to station masters, informed about the train movement,” she said. NER division, considered a crucial link between agricultural and industrial hubs, now plans to increase the speed of these trains further. “We intend to run goods trains at par with the express trains in order to further expedite the entire goods transportation process,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crack-trains-how-railways-put-goods-movement-on-fast-track-during-covid-19/story-RFjQQ6np6gwoBlIdwpZf0J.html
16-09-2020||India||Results of 2nd national sero survey to be out by September-end: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is on the verge of completing its second national sero survey to check the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) prevalence in the country. The results of the sero survey would be made public by the end of September, said Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general, ICMR . “The second national sero survey is almost done. We have completed the exercise in 68 out of 70 districts, and the analysis is in progress. We should have the results by the end of September,” said Dr Bhargava. “Sero survey tells us about the prevalence or trend of the Covid-19 pandemic in a particular area. One sero- survey alone will not be enough. If you will look at the Geneva sero survey, they did it for five weeks. The findings were published in Lancet, but they did not show many changes. The National sero survey, which was conducted in April and May, is being repeated after three months,” he added. Also Read: Over 90,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 in last 24 hours, 1,290 deaths in India; active cases near million markThe sero survey also seeks to determine the infection fatality rate (IFR), a key component of the exercise, said Dr Bhargava. “If you look at the results of the National sero survey, which was conducted in April and May, the IFR was between 0.5% and 0.6%. The IFR was much lower than Europe and the United States of America (ISA) that have an IFR ranging between 1.2% and 1.8%,” he said. The findings of the first national population-based sero survey indicated that 0.73% of adults in India were exposed to SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. The blood sample is tested to check for the presence of antibodies against the virus.Also Read: Covid-19 led to global disruptions in TB testing, careThe data published on the first sero survey in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR) showed that an estimated 6.4 million people had contracted the infection around early May when swab samples were collected for analysis. Based on the overall adjusted sero-prevalence of 0.73% and reported Covid-19 cases, it was estimated that for every Covid-19 case --- determined by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test -- there were between 82 and 130 cases of contagion in the country. The sero-prevalence ranged between 0.62 and 1.03% across the four strata of districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/results-of-2nd-national-sero-survey-to-be-out-by-september-end-icmr/story-Cvf7VHTStdWruigMJ1YpcO.html
16-09-2020||India||CBI books ex-HAL employee for attempting to lease company property illegally||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked a former employee of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) for allegedly trying to lease out a 6.5-acre of land belonging to state-run aircraft manufacturing company to a private firm in Bengaluru, people familiar with the development said. The accused, S Velmurugan, who worked as deputy general manager (DGM), (human resources) in the rotary wing and research design centre of HAL in Bengaluru, has been booked for cheating, criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988 by the central probe agency. However, the CBI did not mention the year when the alleged fraud was committed.According to a complaint received by the CBI from HAL, it is alleged that while being posted there, Velmurugan had “misused his official position and unauthorisedly promised M/s Evehans Academy, Bengaluru for leasing out an HAL land measuring about 6.5 acres situated at Doddanakundi, opposite the ISRO Complex ”. The complaint is part of the CBI’s first information report (FIR), accessed by HT. “Velmurugan was not authorised to lease out any HAL property to anyone without obtaining approval from competent authority. By abusing his official position, he corresponded through HAL letterheads with an intention to defame the reputation of HAL,” the FIR added. Velmurugan could not be located by HT for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-ex-hal-employee-for-leasing-company-property-illegally/story-s2q6CKdY31KnMyBSRiihtO.html
16-09-2020||India||Over 90,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 in last 24 hours, 1,290 deaths in India; active cases near million mark||India on Wednesday recorded 90,123 new cases of the coronavirus disease, according to Union health ministry update. The total number of cases now stand at 5,02,0359.The number of active cases have reached close to the million-mark; it’s currently at 9,95,933, according to the health ministry. The active cases have increased by 5,872 in the last 24 hours. Nearly four million patients (39,42,360 to be exact) have recovered and discharged from hospitals.The active cases in the country account for 19.84 per cent of the total caseload. The country recorded 1,290 fatalities during the said period which took the death toll to 82,066, according to health ministry update.A total of 39,42,360 people have recovered so far in the country, according to the health ministry. States like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh continue to report highest number of active cases, accounting for 60 per cent of the total cases in the country. Maharashtra and Karnataka are also among the two states reporting the highest number of deaths in the last 24 hours. While 515 people succumbed to the viral contagion in Maharashtra, 216 died in Karnataka, the health ministry’s data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-90-000-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-last-24-hours-1-290-deaths-in-india-active-cases-near-million-mark/story-E0PWLvCjkCiloo15WxrywJ.html
16-09-2020||India||Covid-19 led to global disruptions in TB testing, care||People suffering from tuberculosis (TB) faced significant challenges in getting tested for TB and coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and accessing treatment and care due to disruption of health services because of the pandemic, according to a new report released on Tuesday. The report is called “The impact of Covid-19 on the TB epidemic: A community perspective”.It has warned that the world may not achieve the sustainable development goal (SDG) of ending TB by 2030, if services and TB care remain disrupted due to Covid-19.Over 70% of healthcare workers from various parts of the world reported that there was a decrease in the number of patients, who visited healthcare facilities to get tested for TB. While 36% of TB patients, who participated in the survey, said the health facilities they visited for TB care were closed during the Covid-19-induiced lockdown period. TBAnd, 70% of officers from Global Fund-implementing countries reported a decrease in the number of people with TB receiving treatment. Globally, 50% of workers reported the healthcare facility they worked for have reduced TB care services. But 50% of TB patients surveyed in Kenya and India said they had received additional medicines to continue their treatment at home amid the viral outbreak.There is an urgent need for a recovery plan to get TB responses back on track to achieve SDG commitments to end TB by 2030. “Covid-19 has demonstrated the important role that affected communities play in responding to health crises, reporting barriers to access, supporting peers and filling gaps in services. The pandemic is an opportunity for national TB responses to become more people-centred and to involve communities,” the report said.A human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), TB and Covid-19 survivor from India shared his experience of delayed diagnosis during a webinar by TB advocacy and research organisations to launch the report on Tuesday. “I faced a lot of stigma and challenges during the diagnosis of Covid-19. Just before that I was diagnosed with chronic kidney disease. I have been on antiretroviral therapy. It was a very scary situation. Then, I was put on various steroids for Covid-19 with no idea of what was the right treatment for me, I felt very scared,” said the patient.“After my Covid-19 experience which I had contracted in February, I realised how we need patient- centric care in the US. Because of lack of patient-centric care, TB patients often don’t complete TB treatment. The impact of Covid-19 and TB are compounded due to stigma and delayed diagnosis,” said US-based Aakriti Pandita, a TB and Covid-19 survivor, who is also an expert in infectious diseases (IDs).“This report shows that the Covid-19 pandemic is absolutely devastating for our quest to end TB. If we were climbing a mountain before Covid-19, that mountain has now become Mount Everest. We need to work extra hard to mitigate the damage and stay focused on TB for the long haul. Collaboration and solidarity within the TB community are critical if we are to have any hope of getting back on track to reach the SDG goals,” said Madhukar Pai, an epidemiologist and the director of The McGill International TB Centre in Canada, in the report.TB is the world’s leading ID, killing around 1.5 million people annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-led-to-global-disruptions-intb-testing-care/story-YCZmPE0auyBcQXxNoe1LZJ.html
16-09-2020||India||Nearly 5 persons died every day in custody during FY19-20: MHA to Parliament||Almost five persons died daily in custody in India during the financial year 2019-2020, according to data shared by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) with Parliament on Tuesday. The total number of people killed either in police custody or jails between April 1, 2019 and March 31, 2020 stood at 1,697. The maximum number of deaths in judicial custody at 400 was reported from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and most police custody deaths at 14 were reported from Madhya Pradesh (MP). Out of the total 1,697 custody deaths, MHA said 1,584 and 113 died in judicial and police custody, respectively. Tamil Nadu (TN) and Gujarat recorded 12 deaths each in police custody. Also Read: J-K, Ladakh fully integrated into mainstream India, says CentrePolice are often accused of high-handedness in India while dealing with people taken into custody. Tamil Nadu Police is under scanner for the killing of P Jeyaraj (58) and his son Benicks (37) inside a police station in Tuticorin on June 22. At present, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is investigating the case. According to the latest MHA data, while UP recorded maximum deaths (400) in judicial custody, which usually includes inside a jail or while taking an accused to a court, the second-highest such deaths were reported from MP (143), followed by West Bengal (115), Bihar (105), Punjab (93) and Maharashtra (91). The MHA said in its reply that altogether 112 encounters were reported from all the states/union territories (UTs) during this period --- between April 2019 and March 2020 --- out of which the maximum took place in Chhattisgarh (39), followed by UP (26) and Jharkhand (6). The ministry hasn’t provided the reasons for these deaths in police or judicial custody.Also Read: China actions sparked LAC standoff; India ready: GovtHowever, officials, who didn’t wish to be named, said usually such deaths take place due to torture by police, jail staff, suicides, illness, and gang rivalries inside prisons.There are a total of 1,350 prisons across the country, which have a cumulative capacity to lodge 4,03,739 prisoners.But almost all the jails are overcrowded, the MHA data revealed. Currently, there are 4,78,600 inmates lodged in all the prisons. UP’s 72 jails have the highest number of inmates at 1,01,297, while the capacity is 60,340. In his written reply in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, Union minister of state (home affairs) G Kishan Reddy said that the Centre has issued an advisory on July 13 to all the states and UTs requesting them to sensitise and direct all the functionaries of the state, district and below level to follow and adhere to law of the land and the guidelines issued by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on custodial deaths, and to act firmly against any abuse of law in respect of custodial deaths. He added that members, special rapporteurs and senior officers from NHRC carry out periodical visits to various jails to evaluate the living conditions and make recommendations for better protection of human rights..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-5-persons-died-every-day-in-custody-during-fy19-20-mha-to-parliament/story-GNjgY0iutXfTMzkVn7nDTN.html
16-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: State emblem may crown new Parliament building and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.State emblem may crown new Parliament buildingIndia’s national emblem is likely to sit atop the new Parliament building, according to the latest design iteration prepared for the tendering process, replacing a spire that was meant to come up in an earlier version. Read moreCDC study on Covid-19 in US shows greater toll on Black, Hispanic youthA study by the United States’ Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has shown that a disproportionate percentage of Covid-19 deaths have been recorded among Black and Hispanic people younger than 21. Read more‘Good’ air days over as AQI starts to spike?After a spell of clean air and several days on which a clear blue sky was visible, seasonal changes and resumption of businesses and commercial activities are leading to meteorological conditions that aren’t favourable to the dispersion of pollutants hanging over Delhi, scientists said. Read moreDid you know there is a record for farthest eyeball pop? See video to believe itWeird world records are not something unusual. However, some are so bizarre, they leave you gasping in surprise or shock. Just like this record of farthest eyeball pop. Read moreSpotify criticises Apple’s new all-in-one subscription bundle on antitrust groundsSpotify has criticised Apple’s announcement of an all-in-one subscription bundle. The music streaming company said that Apple was misusing dominant position to push its own services. Read moreManoj Bajpayee says people forgot to celebrate Sushant Singh Rajput: ‘TRP has become focus now, who cares he used to code’Actor Manoj Bajpayee has said that he still cannot believe that actor Sushant Singh Rajput has died. Manoj said that all the debate and discussion around his death has led to people forgetting all about celebrating the actor. Read moreIPL 2020: Staying in bio-bubble is like living in Big Boss, says Shikhar Dhawan - EXCLUSIVEIn his long career with Delhi, India and in the Indian Premier League (IPL), two things have been constant for Shikhar Dhawan—aggression as a batsman and a calmness that borders on the monkish away from the playing field. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-state-emblem-may-crown-new-parliament-building-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9LBFNOIxe2jnvgiyz1SdEO.html
16-09-2020||India||Body decomposing for 10 days at top Indore hospital, probe ordered||A highly decomposed and unidentified body was found unattended lying on a stretcher in a morgue of MY hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore on Tuesday, leading to an inquiry ordered by the hospital authorities, as per the hospital staff. MY hospital is one of the biggest hospitals in Madhya Pradesh and the teaching hospital of MGM Medical College, Indore. According to a hospital staff, the body was about 10-days old, lying abandoned on a stretcher in the morgue. The matter came to light when an unbearable stench started emanating from a particular portion of the morgue. “In case of unidentified bodies, we keep them in the freezer for at least seven days after which we inform the municipal corporation to dispose of them respectfully. Now, we are inquiring why this particular body was not shifted to the freezer and whether or not the municipal corporation was informed about it.” Also Read: Questions on BJP win, PM Modi, quota in MP varsity paper irk CongressThe bodies of Covid-19 patients and others are received at the morgue of MY hospital. Sometimes in a day, more than 20 bodies come to the morgue and we have only 16 freezers. Hence, we have also requested the authorities concerned to increase the number of freezers, said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-decomposing-for-10-days-at-top-indore-hospital-probe-ordered/story-VrV0MZKq67jeejfRXjL1vO.html
16-09-2020||India||Congress writes to Rajya Sabha chairman, demands four-hour debate on Covid-19||Rajya Sabha, Parliament’s Upper House, will hold the first debate on Covid-19 on Wednesday amid the criticism the government has faced from the Opposition over the handling of the pandemic. It was not immediately clear how much time would be allotted for the discussion. The government is expected to defend its handling of the situation and highlight its successes in keeping the Covid-19 death rate lowest among major nations. The Congress has objected to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu’s move to club clarifications on health minister Harsh Vardhan’s statement on the pandemic with a debate on Covid-19.Also Read: J-K, Ladakh fully integrated into mainstream India, says CentreIndia’s Covid-19 tally crossed the five million mark as 91,136 new cases were reported on Tuesday when the toll from the pandemic mounted to 82,091. The cases have continued to rise at an alarming rate.India’s tally is behind only the US, which is the worst-hit country with 6.76 million confirmed infections. India accounts for nearly one-sixth of all Covid-19 cases recorded worldwide since the outbreak originated in China nine months ago. The country also has the worst-ever daily infection rate recorded anywhere in the world. The Congress has demanded a separate, full-fledged discussion on the loss of livelihoods of millions because of the pandemic and Indian economy’s contraction by 23.9% in the June quarter, the steepest in four decades.“If we cannot have a full-fledged discussion on the Covid-19 situation without being circumscribed by the minister’s statement what is the point of having this session of Rajya Sabha in the first place?” Congress chief whip, Jairam Ramesh, said in a letter to Naidu on Tuesday.He said the decision to combine the debate with clarifications on the statement “runs contrary to what V Muraleedharan [junior minister for parliamentary affairs] had assured me this morning that the two will be taken up separately”.Ramesh sought a minimum four-hour debate on Covid-19. “In the BAC [Business Advisory Committee meeting] held on September 13, you yourself had said that it is very important to have a discussion on the prevailing public health situation. Today’s decision of yours goes against the spirit of your own statement.”Also Read: China actions sparked LAC standoff; India ready: GovtThe Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill and the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Bill have separately been listed for passage in the Upper House on Wednesday.In the Lok Sabha, fireworks are expected as the government has listed three contentious bills for passage: The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill.The Congress and other opposition parties have opposed the bills to replace related ordinances even as many experts have hailed them as reformist legislation to unshackle Indian farmers.Congress leaders have maintained the move will only help corporate buyers of crops and weaken the Minimum Support Price, which protects farmers from any fall in prices.Congress government in Punjab and its Haryana state unit have also objected to the legislation amid farmer protests against the proposed new laws.Left parties have staged protests both inside and outside the Parliament and they too would oppose the bills.The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill is another flashpoint. The Congress has raised five major objections related to it. It has said cooperative banks are part of the structure of cooperatives and ought to be regulated by the state governments and not by the Centre. “If the ordinance becomes law, all key financial intermediaries will come under the control of the Central Government, there will be more centralisation. Congress Party stands for decentralisation and for empowering states,” the party said in a statement last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-writes-to-rajya-sabha-chairman-demands-four-hour-debate-on-covid-19/story-WLOilIGTWbJoPV0n5i41mM.html
16-09-2020||India||Ayodhya readies for grand Ramleela over 9 days, Bollywood stars to perform||As the temple town gears up to celebrate a star-studded Ramleela this Dussehra, a three-member production team reached Ayodhya from New Delhi to carry out a survey of the venue on Tuesday. Nine-day Ayodhya ki Ramleela will be performed at Laxman Quila on the banks of the river Saryu from October 17-25 in which Bollywood actors will play various characters of the epic.“The production team of Ramleela visited Ayodhya to survey the spot,” said Rishikesh Upadhyay, Mayor of Ayodhya. Bindu Dara Singh, son of the late wrestler/actor Dara Singh who had played the iconic role of Lord Hanuman in Ramnand Sagar’s Ramayana, will follow in the footsteps of his father by essaying the same role in the Ramleela in Ayodhya.Also Read: Month-long testing of foundation pillars for Ram temple beginsManoj Tewari, actor-turned-BJP MP from north-east Delhi, will play the character of Angad, son of king Bali of Kishkindha, while famous Bhojpuri actor and now Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan will play the character of Bharat, lord Ram’s younger brother. The role of Sita will be essayed by Kavita Joshi and that of lord Ram by Sonu Sagar. Legendary Bollywood comedian Asrani will slip into the role of Narad Muni. Other Bollywood actors involved in the production include Raza Murad, Shahbaz Khan, Avtar Gill, Rajesh Puri and Rakesh Bedi. If the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic subsides by then, spectators will be allowed to witness the grand Ramleela. Otherwise, the week–long show will be streamed live on social networking platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Instagram. It will also be telecast live on national broadcaster Doordarshan and other entertainment channels. Also Read: Ayodhya saints at loggerheads with Champat Rai for comment on Shiv Sena chief After the BJP formed government in the state in March 2017, the Yogi government has been organising grand Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya on Diwali eve. The state government organised three successive Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya in 2017, 2018 and 2019 with chief minister Yogi Adityanath presiding over these celebrations. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic Deepotsav celebrations will not be on a grand scale this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-readies-for-grand-ramleela-over-9-days-bollywood-stars-to-perform/story-7KT2FoVzGNPloQxcwzyi6O.html
16-09-2020||India||Covid-19: DCGI gives nod to Serum Institute of India to resume clinical trial of Oxford vaccine||Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) Dr V G Somani on Tuesday gave permission to Serum Institute of India to resume clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the country while revoking its earlier order of suspending any new recruitment for phase two and three trial.The DCGI, however, put certain conditions like taking extra care during screening, providing additional information in informed consent and close monitoring for adverse events during follow-up of the study which have to be “scrupulously” followed by Serum Institute of India (SII).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSII has also been asked to submit to the DCGI’s office details of medication used in accordance with the protocol for management of adverse events.The DCGI had on September 11 directed Serum Institute of India to suspend any new recruitment in the phase two and three clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate till further orders in the backdrop of pharma giant AstraZeneca pausing the clinical trials in other countries because of ‘‘an unexplained illness’‘ in a participant in the study.On Saturday, British-Swedish biopharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford said clinical trials for their coronavirus vaccine have resumed in the UK after the Medicines Health Regulatory Authority’s (MHRA) confirmed that the trials were safe.SII, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine candidate for Covid-19, on Tuesday submitted the recommendations of the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), UK and DSMB, India, and requested for permission to restart enrolment in the clinical trial.According to Tuesday’s order issued by DCGI, the DSMB, UK, recommended that the investigators recommence all immunization in their clinical trials subject to certain conditions.DSMB, India, also has recommended to continue the study and enroll the remaining participants in the clinical trial as per protocol subject to certain conditions.According to the order, SII has submitted revised participant information sheet, revised informed consent form and additional safety monitoring plan for the evolved participants.The Pune-based firm has also submitted a summary of safety follow up of seven days post first vaccination, stating that no serious adverse events were experienced by any of the subjects till the date of the reporting, and the reported adverse events were stated to be mild, resolved on their own and did not have any sequale.“In view of the above, I Dr V G Somani, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Licensing Authority, after careful examination of your reply and the recommendations of the DSMB in India and in UK revoke herewith the order dated September 11 issued under Rule 30 of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019.“You may recommence the clinical trial as recommended by DSMB, India, as per already approved protocol and the provisions laid down under the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019, subject to the conditions mentioned,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-dcgi-gives-nod-to-serum-institute-of-india-to-resume-clinical-trial-of-oxford-vaccine/story-X0710LMZBHOsVWEowbvG5M.html
16-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra set to cross 1.1 million cases||Maharashtra is set to surpass another grim landmark of 1.1 million confirmed Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The state has recorded 1,097,856 Covid-19 cases so far of which 305,243 were recorded in the first 15 days of this month. Its average number of daily cases comes to 20,349.Tuesday saw Maharashtra’s highest death toll reported in a day with 515 Covid deaths. The state crossed 30,000 fatalities on the day. The number of fatalities continues to be a concern for state authorities as it is still the highest in the country. Figures show that the state’s contribution to total Covid-19 casualties is around 37.64%, with 80,776 deaths reported across the country.Also read: India’s economy to Indian economy to contract 9% this fiscal, says reportThe state’s overall positivity rate is hovering over 20% --Tuesday saw a positivity percentage of 23.28%. The state tested 87,944 samples of which 20,482 were positive. So far, the state has tested over 5,400,000 samples (5,409,060).The state government in Tuesday launched ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign to tackle Covid-19. Under the campaign, health workers will conduct door-to-door surveys during which they will check residents’ body temperature and oxygen levels, besides other symptoms, including tiredness, throat pain, dry cough, diarrhoea, and loss of smell and taste, officials said.“Those with Covid-19 symptoms will be recommended a swab test. People with ailments such as diabetes, heart and kidney disease as well as obesity will be referred for treatment. Besides, health workers will also impart health education to people, especially on Covid-19,” said a health official.Each team comprising a health worker and two volunteers will survey each and every family of the state twice in over a month. The state is also assigning one doctor to five teams. The first phase of the survey is starting Tuesday. The volunteers are expected to complete it by October 10. The second phase will be conducted between October 12 and 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-set-to-cross-1-1-million-cases/story-ivrb20H4DFEKHCkhJM567O.html
16-09-2020||India||Pakistan extends Kulbhushan Jadhav’s appeal time||Pakistan’s Parliament has extended by four months an ordinance issued earlier this year to allow death row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav to appeal against his conviction and sentencing in court, in line with a ruling from the International Court of Justice (ICJ). The International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance was promulgated in May and was set to expire on September 17. The National Assembly or lower house of Parliament extended it through a voice vote on Monday. Earlier, the Pakistan government had approached the Islamabad high court to appoint a defence lawyer to represent Jadhav for filing the appeal. The court heard the case for the second time on September 3 and directed the federal government to give India another opportunity to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav. The case will now be taken up on October 3. The Pakistan government has said only a lawyer allowed to practice in the country can be appointed as Jadhav’s counsel, but India has been insisting that it should be allowed to select a lawyer of its choice. It has also sought legal documents related to Jadhav’s case that it says Pakistan has so far failed to provide. The Islamabad high court’s direction came after attorney general Khalid Javed Khan informed a larger bench comprising Chief Justice Athar Minallah and justices Aamer Farooq and Miangul Hassan Aurangzaib that the federal government hadn’t received a reply from the Indian government on the issue. Khan said Jadhav has maintained he doesn’t want to benefit from the ordinance for a review of his case, and that he had requested his mercy plea, already pending with the Pakistan Army chief, should be considered instead. On August 6, the Islamabad high court had formed a three-judge larger bench at the government’s request to appoint a lawyer for Jadhav so that an appeal could be filed against the death sentence given to him by a military court. At that time, the high court had also directed the Pakistan government to make another offer to India and Jadhav, through the Foreign Office, to hire a lawyer. The court also said it was refraining from appointing a lawyer for Jadhav, who should be informed by the Pakistan government about his rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. Jadhav, 50, was arrested by Pakistani security agencies in Balochistan in March 2016 and charged with involvement in spying. India rejected these allegations and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-extends-kulbhushan-jadhav-s-appeal-time/story-GDeEwHcaskVSjtfhsoKuPP.html
16-09-2020||India||NIA arrests key accused in Vizag naval spy ring case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested key accused Giteli Imran, in the Visakhapatnam naval spy ring case. Imran is alleged to have deposited money in the accounts of navy officers in lieu of sensitive information that was sent to Pakistan, officials said. Imran, 37, a resident of Godhra in Gujarat, was arrested on Monday under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and Official Secrets Act. The case pertains to an international espionage racket in which Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India for collecting classified information regarding locations and movement of Indian ships and submarines, and other defence establishments. The racket was unearthed last December||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-key-accused-in-vizag-naval-spy-ring-case/story-SLV7oe9oMEBPXS1QRzN73M.html
16-09-2020||India||Revived grass root democracy in J&K despite attempts by a country to derail the process: India||India on Tuesday said it has revived grass root democracy and provided a new momentum to social and economic development in Jammu and Kashmir despite persistent attempts by a neighbouring country to infiltrate terrorists to derail this process. Speaking during a debate at the 45th Session of the Human Rights Council, India’s permanent representative Indra Mani Pandey also expressed regret over the UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet ’s reference to the region.  Pandey said that India remains committed to upholding all human rights. He said the human rights agenda and discourse must be pursued in a transparent and impartial manner with respect for national sovereignty and territorial integrity and non-interference in internal affairs of States.Referring to the abrogation of the Article 370 in 2019 that revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, Pandey said that since the changes, people in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir have been enjoying the same fundamental rights as people in other parts of India.  “We have been able to revive grass root democracy and provide a new momentum to social and economic development, despite the challenge posed by Covid-19 pandemic and persistent attempts by one country to infiltrate terrorists to derail this process by all possible means,” he said, in a veiled reference to Pakistan.“Over the past one year, the Government’s efforts aimed at socio-economic development and ensuring better governance have yielded unprecedented results. By extending coverage of positive and affirmative federal legislations and repealing discriminatory or outdated local laws, the Government has reaffirmed its commitment to delivering socio-economic justice to disadvantaged people in the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir, including women, children, minorities and refugees,” he said.“We regret that the High Commissioner in her oral update made a reference to the situation in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” he added.He noted that as the largest and most vibrant democracy, India has been, since independence, an ardent supporter of human rights.“We have encouraged OHCHR to continue engaging States in a constructive manner, while emphasising the need to specifically avoid politicisation of the discourse on human rights, which is not conducive to achieving our collective goal of promoting and protecting human rights,” he said.“We urge the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to recognise the enormity of challenges that we face due to our large and very diverse population of 1.3 billion and act as our partner in a cooperative and constructive spirit in our endeavour to secure for our people all their basic human rights,” he said. He added that India will continue its constructive engagement with the Council and OHCHR for the promotion and protection of human rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revived-grass-root-democracy-in-j-k-despite-attempts-by-a-country-to-derail-the-process-india/story-X6K1v0LFnp3NIpHinowzKP.html
16-09-2020||India||Meerut: Woman gang-raped in moving car||A woman was abducted and gang-raped in a moving car, and thrown out at a secluded place under Meerut’s Medical police station area on Monday night, the police said. Two of four suspects in the incident have been arrested.Devendra Singh, station head officer (SHO) of Medical police station, said,“A case of gang-rape has been lodged against them on the complaint of the woman,” said Singh.Senior superintendent of police Ajay Sahni said once of the suspects and the woman frequently talked on the mobile phone. On Monday night, the suspect asked her to come to a place where he was waiting. Sahni said the vehicle has been recovered and it has the logo of a media channel. An ID of the company has also been recovered from one of the suspects.The woman, a resident of Bhawanpur, works in a private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meerut-woman-gang-raped-in-moving-car/story-IgiRRjrsrVkO2IkJA3GOYO.html
16-09-2020||India||Supreme Court halts broadcast of ‘insidious’ show||A television programme relating to the civil services exams gives an impression that it is being aired with the objective of vilifying the Muslim community and bringing it into disrepute, the Supreme Court observed on Tuesday, issuing an injunction barring the channel Sudarshan News from televising the programme for the time being.A three-judge bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud took strong exception to the contents of the show, Bindas Bol, which spoke of “UPSC jihad”, observing that the claims made by the channel appeared to be “insidious” and also cast aspersions on the credibility of the Union Public Service Commission exams.“Prima facie (at first sight), it does appear to the Court that the intent, object and purpose of the episodes which have been telecast is to vilify the Muslim community. An insidious attempt has been made to insinuate that the community is involved in a conspiracy to infiltrate the civil services. The drift, tenor and content of the episodes is to bring the community into public hatred and disrepute…Any attempt to vilify a community must be viewed with disfavour by this court as a custodian of Constitutional values,” said the bench, which also comprised justices Indu Malhotra and KM Joseph.The court reconsidered its stance of August 28 when it had declined to impose a pre-broadcast ban on the controversial programme, citing freedom of speech and expression. It noted on Tuesday that there has been a change in circumstances because the tone and tenor of the programme emerged only after four episodes were telecast from September 11 to 14.The hearing also saw a lengthy discussion on regulating media, particularly the electronic media. The court suggested the appointment of a committee of five distinguished citizens to frame standards for regulation of the electronic media.The case will be heard again on Thursday. Justice KM Joseph said that freedom granted to the media was not absolute and the manner in which certain television channels conduct news debates left a lot to be desired. “Certain channels mute panelilsts when they express views which go against the anchor’s views. This is unfair. No freedom is absolute, not even journalistic freedom,” justice Joseph said. He asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for Central government, to explore options for disclosing the shareholding pattern and revenue model of media houses in the public domain. Mehta said the freedom of a journalist was supreme and any regulation of it would need extensive debate.Tuesday’s order was passed in the face of vehement opposition by Sudarshan News lawyer, senior counsel Shyam Divan, who said such an order would amount to prior restraint on publication of news and would violate free speech.“I reserve my right to fair criticism of the order after the hearing of the matter is over... Arguments were contrary to facts and records. My client has never said anything about Muslim community. We are concerned with the issue of national security,” advocate Vishnu Jain, who also represented Sudarshan News, told HT.The court was hearing a petition by advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan, who submitted that the programme contained statements which were derogatory about the entry of Muslims into the civil services. In the programme’s trailer, which was widely shared on social media platforms, the anchor and editor-in-chief of Sudarshan news, Suresh Chavhanke was seen questioning how there had been a sudden increase in the number of Muslims succeeding in Indian Administrative Service and Indian Police Service exams.Chavhanke went on to ask about what the consequences would be if “Jihadis from Jamia” (Millia Islamia) would hold positions of authority and power like those of collector and secretary.The court, while hearing the matter, on August 28 issued notices to central government, Press Council of India, Sudarshan News and News Broadcasters Association, but had declined a stay on its telecast.In a case related to the same show before the Delhi high court, notices were issued on September 11, but no stay was granted. Sudarshan News then proceeded to telecast four episodes of the show.Chandrachud said every single person who applies to take the UPSC exam goes through the same selection process and the insinuation that one community was trying to infiltrate civil services does great disservice to the nation. “What has been happening does not do credit to our democratic system. We are a melting pot of cultures, civilizations, religions and languages,” said justice Chandrachud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-halts-broadcast-of-insidious-show/story-gSZhiCqAvvPIgxtjfM4n3I.html
16-09-2020||India||J-K, Ladakh fully integrated into mainstream India, says Centre||The Centre said on Tuesday that the Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh have been fully integrated into the mainstream and the decision to revoke the region’s special status over a year back “brought about socio-economic development”, even as the government continues to face criticism from the Opposition over the August 5 move.Responding to All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen leader Asaduddin Owaisi’s query, in which he asked about the impact of the decision to revoke the special status and bifurcate the erstwhile state of J-K into two UTs, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy told the Lok Sabha that benefits of all central laws were now available to the region.On August 5 last year, Parliament effectively nullified Article 370, which conferred special status on J-K, removed Article 35A, which empowered the state legislature to define permanent residents for government jobs and property ownership, reorganised the state into two separate administrative units of J-K and Ladakh, and made them both UTs. Regional parties have issued a joint statement, pledging that they will fight the constitutional changes.Speaking in Parliament, convened for the first time amid unprecedented arrangements prompted by the Covid-19 pandemic, Reddy said: “...The change has brought about socio-economic development in both the new UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. Empowerment of people, removal of unjust laws, bringing in equity and fairness to those discriminated since ages who are now getting their due along with comprehensive development are few of the important changes that are ushering both the new UTs towards the path of peace and progress.” Detailing the funds being infused in the region, the home ministry said that besides regular flow of money under various schemes by different ministries of the Centre, an amount of ₹30,757 crore was allocated in the financial year 2020-21. Replying to another query in the Lok Sabha, the home ministry said that there were 111 successful infiltration incidents into J-K from across the border between August 2019 and July this year. Between March and August this year, 138 terrorists were killed, while 50 security personnel have also laid down their lives, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-ladakh-fully-integrated-into-mainstream-india-says-centre/story-GxbfI7H6uPUXgt22YQoSgP.html
16-09-2020||India||Monsoon veers off forecast||The Southwest monsoon stuck to the theme of 2020 — deviating significantly from the geographical distribution forecast by India Meteorological Department (IMD) in June. Peninsular India has recorded 26.3% excess rain this monsoon since June 1 and 78.6% excess rain in September (till September 14). It is expecting more rain due to a well-marked low-pressure area that has developed over the Bay of Bengal. Northwest India has seen 13.5% lower rainfall since June 1 -- this isn’t a deficiency though because rainfall that is between -19% and +19% of the long period average is termed normal. However, there are parts within this region that have done worse -- west Uttar Pradesh has seen 30% lower rains; Himachal Pradesh, 18% lower; Uttarakhand, 15% lower; Jammu and Kashmir 27% lower; and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, 6% lower. Rainfall that is between -20% and -59% of the average is termed deficient. West Rajasthan, also in the same region has seen a 30% surplus. Scientists said the north-western region is unlikely to record heavy rain between now and the end of the monsoon.IMD in its long-range forecast in June predicted above normal monsoon rain over northwest India at 107% of the average, and normal rains over peninsular India at about 102% of long period average (LPA; monsoon average for 50 years), central India (103%), and east and northeast India (96%). Central India has recorded 14.5% excess rain so far (it is still in the normal category, though).This monsoon has been characterised by several unique features , such as no low-pressure areas forming in July, resulting in the monsoon trough (line of low pressure) oscillating to the Himalayan foothills very frequently bringing rains mainly to the peninsular region and northeast India in July while leaving northwest India dry.Five low pressure systems formed in August which brought excess rains to the central and western region but not much to the north-western region again.“Long range forecasts have a 9% error margin. They are only indicative because they are forecast several days in advance,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD, explaining the divergence.“In the first half, particularly up to July northwest India had a very large rain deficiency. Low pressure areas didn’t form and a couple that formed did not move up to northwest India. We are not expecting any improvement in rain deficiency over northwest India now because we are heading towards monsoon withdrawal. The long-range forecast doesn’t capture these peculiar patterns that can develop during the monsoon,” said DS Pai, senior scientist, IMD Pune.The divergence highlights the challenge of forecasting weather, one expert said. “The monsoon models usually consider parameters such as La Nina or El Nino (cold and warm currents in the southern Pacific) and other weather parameters which may develop during the course of the monsoon. But there are years when the complete forecast goes wrong. The models also consider the impact of climate change. One of the possible impacts of climate change is the path of the low-pressure systems. They are moving west wards but are not impacting the north-western region. Forecasting geographic distribution is a bit tricky,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate and meteorology, Skymet Weather, a private forecaster. Both 2018 and 2019 also saw divergences. The long-range forecast for monsoon 2019 was 96% of LPA with a model error of ± 4% . The actual rainfall recorded was 110% of LPA. The forecasts issued in May for season rainfall over northwest India, Central India, northeast India and South Peninsula were 94%, 100%, 91% and 97% of the LPA respectively all with model errors of ± 8%. But the actual rainfall recorded over these regions were 98%, 129%, 88% and 116% of the LPA respectively. Central India and Peninsular India didn’t meet the forecast. In 2018, the forecast for northeast India was 93% but only 76% rain was recorded.Normally, the withdrawal of monsoon is supposed to begin from September 17 when rains begin to reduce across the country until completely withdrawing on October 15.But this year, IMD’s extended range forecast shows extensive and heavy rains along the west coast between September 11 and 24 and then until October 1 over several parts of central India. “We haven’t got any indication as yet of monsoon withdrawal from northwest India. Another low-pressure area is likely to develop over Bay of Bengal around August 17 but we need to assess the models further to be certain. Monsoon withdrawal can begin only once anti-cyclonic flow is established and moisture reduces significantly over the region,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-veers-off-forecast/story-KrJQKirqqzUourMhX8tdiL.html
16-09-2020||India||2 indigenous Covid vaccine candidates completed phase 1 trials;||The two indigenous vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have completed Phase 1 human trials, and their developers have recruited subjects for Phase 2 trials, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday.Phase 2/3 human trials on the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate by the Serum Institute of India (SII) were also underway in the country until last week, when they had to be paused after a trial participant in the UK developed an unexplained adverse reaction. “...Zydus Cadila’s has completed Phase 1 human trials, and Phase 2 recruitments have been completed. For this three doses are to be given 28 days apart. For Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate also, the Phase 1 trial is done, and so is recruitment of trial participants for Phase 2. For this trial, two doses are to be given. Results are being analysed,” Bhargava said at a media briefing. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) asked SII to suspend new recruitments, and submit clearances from the data safety monitoring boards of both the UK and India, and obtain a clearance from the central drugs regulator to restart the trials. Dr Bhargava said: “Serum Institute of India (SII) has completed Phase II trials, for which 100 participants have been given the vaccine dose. There’s a seven-day pause and after that they plan to begin Phase 3 trials with about 1,500 participants across 14 sites.” Another Covid-19 vaccine candidate, for which talks are on for trials to be conducted in India, is the one developed by Russia called Sputnik V. “Russia has just started Phase 3 trials for this vaccine,” said Bhargava, adding that a high-level Indian government committee, the Russian government and diplomats were engaged in talks on conducting the trials in India.“The first study of safety and efficacy of this vaccine candidate in 76 patients was published in The Lancet. For trials to start in India necessary regulatory clearances would be required,” said Dr Bhargava. No Covid-19-specific drug or vaccine is available yet globally. The government’s national task force and joint monitoring group is also reviewing the benefits of plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients. “Plasma therapy is in use for more than 100 years now for different infections, whether it benefits or not needs to be investigated. It requires randomized control trials. Under ICMR, a study was done with 464 patients in 39 hospitals across 25 districts in 14 states, and even though it didn’t show much benefit, the data is still in pre-print stages and will be reviewed further and a considered view will be taken,” said Dr Bhargava.Plasma therapy uses the blood of a recovered patient to create antibodies in infected individuals. The ICMR director general also said India hadn’t attained the peak of the disease of the kind that has been seen in western countries because of the measures that the government took well in advance to contain the outbreak.“In India we have been able to distribute the curve because of the very effective measures, so we did not have a peak in that sense,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-indigenous-covid-vaccine-candidates-completed-phase-1-trials/story-cwZXztBcGBsJRLOpCdBFzM.html
16-09-2020||India||CSIR collaborates with Aurobindo Pharma to develop Covid-19 vaccines||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and Aurobindo Pharma Limited on Tuesday announced a collaboration to develop vaccines for Covid-19. As per the release issued by the Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB), under the signed agreement between CSIR- CCMB and Aurobindo Pharma, Aurobindo will partner with CSIR for the development of several novel Covid-19 vaccines.“Three CSIR labs namely CCMB Hyderabad, Institute of Medical Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh and Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB), Kolkata are developing vaccine candidates using different technology platforms. Aurobindo will undertake clinical development and commercialization of the vaccines,” it said.Commenting on this partnership, Dr Shekhar C Mande, Director General, CSIR, said that “Joining of hands of premier CSIR labs with industry for the development of vaccines will amplify India’s efforts in indigenous vaccine development and also help in preparedness for future pandemics”.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDr. Rakesh Mishra, Director, CSIR-CCMB, while talking about the development strategies for the vaccines said, “Our labs are working on novel proteins for vaccine development that has the potential to address the need for a second-generation vaccine. We are happy to partner with Aurobindo who have proven manufacturing and commercialization capabilities.”Aurobindo Pharma Limited also expresses pride over the collaboration with CSIR for developing vaccines to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and said that is already setting up a large-scale facility in Hyderabad for manufacturing the vaccine.“We are proud to join hands with CSIR for developing vaccines to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. This collaboration further strengthens our Covid-19 vaccine development efforts. We are already setting up a large-scale facility in Hyderabad for manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine and other viral vaccines,” said N. Govindarajan, Managing Director, Aurobindo Pharma Limited.The release said that apart from this collaboration, Aurobindo is already developing a vaccine for Covid-19 (SARS COV-2) through its wholly-owned US subsidiary Auro Vaccines.“The SARS COV-2 vaccine candidate is based on the company’s proprietary replication-competent, attenuated, recombinant vesicular stomatitis (VSV, VesiculoVax™) vaccine delivery platform,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/csir-collaborates-with-aurobindo-pharma-to-develop-covid-19-vaccines/story-VbdabXBYj9GEy0vMsGhWpJ.html
16-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 5 million-mark as cases continue to surge at an alarming rate||The number of coronavirus infections in India crossed the 5 million mark with 91,136 new cases reported on Tuesday, as infections continued to rise at an alarming rate in the nation with the worst-ever recorded case rate.India’s tally of total cases stands at 5,017,914, behind only the United States, which at 6.76 million confirmed infections, is the worst-hit nation in the world. Also, 1,284 new deaths were reported on Tuesday, taking the nationwide death toll to 82,091. A total of 3,937,066 people who have been infected have so far recovered, according to HT’s dashboard.At 998,757, the number of active cases in the country was a little below the million mark till late Tuesday night.India now accounts for nearly one-sixth of all Covid-19 cases recorded worldwide since the outbreak originated in China nine months ago.The country also has the worst-ever daily infection rate recorded anywhere in the world. The seven-day average of daily cases in India stands at 93,334, much higher than the peak in the US — where the number touched 69,373 for the week ending June 25, according to worldometers.info.Unlike the US, India’s trajectory has shown no indication of a peak so far and has also been growing steady. The seven-day average has increased 50.7% in the last 30 days — it was 61,933 on August 17.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayIn terms of deaths, though, India has fared much better. The case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of infected people who have died from the disease — is 1.64%, which is not only better than the global average of 3.16%, but has also been improving steadily. The CFR in the US is 2.95%, and in Brazil it is 3.04%.The rapid increase in daily cases has meant that active cases in India have been seeing a near steady increase. Active cases — which is calculated by subtracting the number of deaths and recoveries from the total caseload — is a key metric because it reflects the toll on a region’s health care facilities. In the past 30 days, active cases have increased from 672,269 to 998,757 — a rise of nearly 50%.One of the key characteristics of the outbreak in India so far has been that almost all of the country’s hot spot regions are still seeing a rising curve — daily cases in these regions continue to grow and have shown no significant drop.The seven-day average of daily cases in Maharashtra, the state with the highest cases and deaths, has nearly doubled — from 11,406 to 22,012 in the last 30 days. In Andhra Pradesh, on the second spot in total cases, this number has increased from 8,726 to 9,798 in the same time period, and in Karnataka it has grown from 7,276 to 9,011. In Uttar Pradesh (fifth highest cases) this has grown from 4,499 to 6,509.Tamil Nadu (on the third spot), however, is one of the regions that appear to be experiencing a prolonged plateau — average daily cases in the state dropped marginally from 5,876 to 5,610 in 30 days.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic In Delhi, average daily cases have nearly quadrupled in the same time period — from 1,033 to 4,094. At the start of August, the Capital was one of the only major regions in the country that had managed to successfully contain its outbreak when average daily cases dropped to under 1,000. Cases, however, spiked again and are now at an all-time high. To be sure, Delhi’s increase in cases has come with a record rise in daily tests.Testing, in fact, has been one of the spheres where the country has reported massive improvements and rising daily tests have been a common factor across most regions. Average daily tests across the country have increased from nearly 780,000 to 1,100,000 in the last 30 days.The government said on Tuesday that India has “learnt from the experience of nations” that suffered high mortalities. India was able to “distribute the curve” of coronavirus infections due to the nationwide lockdown enforced at the end of March, government officials said during the Union health ministry’s weekly Covid-19 press briefing on Tuesday.“The US and European nations experienced a peak, then the cases dropped down and now there’s a second wave there. We took our lesson from the first wave there. We distributed the curve in a way that we did not have many deaths. It was because we had an effective lockdown, we did not have a huge peak at all,” said Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-5-million-mark-as-cases-continue-to-surge-at-an-alarming-rate/story-yHXfPQxXIhOunNswg0P95K.html
16-09-2020||India||Self-reliant Bihar a must for Atmanirbhar Bharat: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that the NDA government in Bihar was striving to usher in inclusive growth in the state by ensuring basic amenities to its people to set the stage for a self-reliant Bihar.“Bihar suffered a lot in the past due to misplaced priorities, vested interest and scams of past governments. As a result, rural areas were put on backward trend, while urban infrastructure became irrelevant for want of upgrade as per the growing population,” said PM Modi in an apparent swipe at the RJD-led dispensation.The PM was speaking after inaugurating and launching work on the Rs 541 crore infrastructure projects, which included operationalisation of two sewerage treatment plants (STPs) along with network at Beur and Karmalichal in Patna, costing Rs 152 crore, through video conferencing. He also laid the foundation stone of river front development in Muzaffarpur and unveiled water supply schemes at Chapra and Siwan.PM Modi said that the NDA government under Nitish Kumar and Sushil Modi had been working hard to revive self-confidence of the people by empowering them through a slew of initiatives like empowering girls through education and significant participation of deprived people in local bodies and panchayati raj system. “Local bodies have been strengthened to plan and execute scheme as per local needs,” he said.He said that the joint efforts of the Centre and the state government had resulted in qualitative change in urban infrastructure to ensure basic amenities to all. “The government is committed to make Bihar self-reliant to achieve the objective of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Enhancement in urban infrastructure will ensure ease of living for the people and create an ambience suitable for ease of doing business,” said Modi, adding that Bihar had been a land of inventions and innovations.The PM said that about 2 crore houses were connected with tap water supply under the Centre’s Jal Jivan mission in last one year. “In Bihar, about 12 lakh households would get supply water once the undergoing schemes are complete. Currently, 6 lakh families have tap water supply in their houses under AMRUT scheme. Unlike the previous government, Nitish Kumar’s government work with commitment and finishes the projects on time,” said Modi, adding that the dolphin conservation project being developed from Patna to Bhagalpur stretch of Ganga would benefit the state in many ways.During his address, Modi sought to connect the people by invoking the most popular Chhath puja saying that the renovated Ghat at Muzaffapur would let women celebrate the festival in its traditional spirit. He also lauded role of migrant workers, who returned to Bihar due to the Covid-19 outbreak, saying that they contributed a lot for timely completion of water supply schemes in Bihar.The PM also paid tribute to M Vishweshwaraya and said that engineers had played a crucial role in the development of Bihar.This is third time in the last one week that the Prime Minister laid foundation stones of or inaugurated various schemes in the state in the run up to the elections. On Sunday, he launched three petroleum projects in Bihar, costing Rs 900 crore. He had on Thursday unveiled projects worth Rs 294.53 crore related to agriculture and animal husbandry in the poll-bound state.Chief minister Nitish Kumar said that the water resources department was devising plans to use treated water from the SPTs for agriculture purposes, instead of releasing it in Punpun River. While welcoming the Centre’s gesture to help the state government achieve a holistic growth, Kumar urged the people to abstain from misusing supply water and put avoidable strain on ecology.Earlier deputy CM Sushil Modi said that the operation of the STPs under Namami Gange project would help the government’s drive to stop discharge of untreated waste in Ganga, which is currently highly polluted. “Efforts are on to check the flow of waste water, chemical and industrial affluent in the river to make it pure,” said the Deputy CM.Governor Fagu Chauhan, Union ministers Gajenda Singh Shekhawat, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Hardeep Singh Puri also participated in the programme through video conferencing.Reacting to the string of launching events lined up for the PM in Bihar, Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra said that Modi had stepped in steer the poll campaign after he realised that Nitish Kumar alone would not be able to counter the burgeoning anti-incumbency against the ruling dispensation. “BJP’s internal survey also hints at serious depletion of the credibility of Nitish Kumar,” said the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-reliant-bihar-a-must-for-atmanirbhar-bharat-pm-modi/story-mdl5M8XQYhrbIoqVrrWApJ.html
16-09-2020||India||China actions sparked LAC standoff; India ready: Govt||Defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament on Tuesday that China has engaged in massive mobilisation of troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), engaged in aggressive behaviour, and sought to unilaterally change the status quo — all in contravention of existing border agreements and pacts between the two countries. In the face of this, he said, India’s armed forces have shown both restraint when needed and courage when required, and will defend Indian sovereignty and territorial integrity in any situation.In the first official statement by the government on the floor of the Lok Sabha on the India-China standoff in eastern Ladakh, Singh provided the historical backdrop of the border question; emphasised the importance of maintaining peace and tranquillity at the border for bilateral relations to progress; chronologically outlined the series of aggressive moves by China and “violent conduct” since April this year; acknowledged how the current situation is qualitatively different from the past in terms of the number of troops involved and the number of friction points; laid out the Indian position and principles on the need to respect the LAC; and alluded to the recent understanding between the foreign ministers of both countries in Moscow, putting the onus categorically on China to disengage. “The amassing of the troops by China goes against our 1993 and 1996 agreements. Respecting and strictly observing the Line of Actual Control is the basis for peace and tranquillity in the border areas and explicitly recognised in both agreements. While our armed forces abide scrupulously by it, this has not been reciprocated by the Chinese side... In the recent incidents, this year, the violent conduct of Chinese forces has been in complete violation of all mutually agreed norms,” Singh said.“As of now, the Chinese side has mobilised a large number of troops and armaments along the LAC as well as in the depth areas. There are several friction areas in eastern Ladakh, including Gogra, Kongka La and north and south banks of the Pangong Lake. In response to China’s actions, our armed forces have also made appropriate counterdeployments in these areas to ensure that India’s security interests are fully protected. The House should have full confidence that our armed forces will always rise to the challenge and do us all proud,” he added. Singh suggested that in the past too, there have been long standoffs which were peacefully resolved, but acknowledged that the scale of troop mobilisation and number of friction points made then current situation different. “We are ready to face any situation,” he said.  The defence minister also urged the House to pass a resolution expressing admiration for the bravery of Indian soldiers at the front line and solidarity with the troops — as Parliament has done in times of crisis. The Congress walked out after it was not allowed to speak under House rules after the defence minister ended his address. Adressing reporters outside Parliament, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s absence from Parliament when the defence minister made a statement showed that how the government was afraid of a discussion on the face-off. Also read| ‘Don’t be afraid to name China’: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe after Rajnath Singh’s LAC statement“For the Congress, the country is the most important. We are proud of our armed forces. This government did not allow us to speak in Parliament. They are afraid of Congress asking questions that they will not be able to answer,” he said. Singh began his speech by offering the context to the long-festering border dispute between India and China, and said that customary alignments, geographic principles, historic use and border pacts have not been accepted by Beijing. China is, the defence minister said, in possession of 38,000 square km of Indian territory in Ladakh; 5,180 sq km of Indian territory in Kashmir given to it by Pakistan in 1963; and has claimed Arunachal Pradesh. But since 1988 (when then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi visited China), Singh said that both countries decided that the border issue needed patience and a “fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution”. And while on the LAC itself both countries had differing perceptions, they agreed that peace at the border was essential for the progress of bilateral relations. This, then, led to agreements in 1993 and 1996 — which stipulated minimal troop presence, respect and adherence to the LAC, and an understanding to arrive at a common perception of the LAC, a process China stalled in 2003.Turning to the present crisis, Singh said that in April, China began mobilising both troops and armaments. In May, it interrupted regular patrolling patterns in the Galwan valley where there was a face-off, and it also attempted transgression in the western sector in mid-May, in Kongka La, Gogra and Pangong Tso. Singh said that India conveyed to China, through diplomatic and military channels, that attempts to change the status quo unilaterally won’t be acceptable.Also read| India inflicted heavy casualties on Chinese forces in June: Rajnath SinghOn June 6, there was an understanding on disengagement. But on June 15, in Galwan, Singh said, “China created a violent situation”. Indian troops made sacrifices and secured the border, but, Singh said emphatically, there were also “heavy casualties” on the Chinese side. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the violent brawl in Galwan valley.Singh said that India, in its communication with China, had clearly laid out three principles — the need to respect the LAC and adhere to it strictly; the need to not change the status quo; and the need to respect all pacts and agreements. But on August 29 and 30, even as discussions were underway, Singh said that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) tried to unilaterally change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Tso, but “timely action” by Indian armed forces repelled the design. India, Singh said, engaged in counterdeployment so that Indian security interests were safeguarded no matter what the situation. But he added that there were sensitive operational matters involved, which he, even if he wanted to, could not discuss. The defence minister then turned to the state of negotiations, while emphasising that India wants a resolution of the situation peacefully. He spoke about his meeting with the Chinese counterpart in Moscow, where they had an in-depth discussion. “I made it clear that even as we wanted to peacefully resolve the issue and would like the Chinese side to work with us, there should also be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.” He then referred to foreign minister S Jaishankar’s meeting with his Chinese counterpart. “The two have reached an agreement that, if implemented sincerely and faithfully by the Chinese side, could lead to complete disengagement and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas.”Experts hailed the clarity in the minister’s statement. “I think the defence minister has unequivocally laid the responsibility for the current tensions on the actions of the PLA and the complete disregard for past agreements and protocols. He has also clearly stated that while we would prefer that the matter be resolved through dialogue, there will be no compromise with our territorial integrity. This is a firm and clear statement of our intent,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General (retired) DS Hooda. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said Singh’s statement was a combination of clarity, candour and confidence and reflected the new phase in the standoff following the meeting of the foreign ministers in Moscow and the five-point roadmap for the way forward.“It is a strong statement reflecting India’s national determination. It addressed three constituencies – our own people, who have been taken into confidence on what is happening and India’s strategy to tackle the situation; the international community because a clear-cut message hadn’t been going out to the world that it was China which created this situation by violating all agreements and that India still wants a peaceful resolution and if this doesn’t happen, it could lead to further deterioration; and the Chinese government and elite, to say that it is still India’s preferred option to resolve things through negotiations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-actions-sparked-lac-standoff-india-ready-govt/story-RfOjALQOoPvW9cupFsjYmO.html
16-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand Space Application Centre develops geospatial mechanism to locate Covid-19 patients||The Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC) has developed a geospatial application to locate Covid-19 infected people in any given area of Dehradun city, which could help the administration in taking crucial decisions like the declaration of containment zones in quick time, officials said on Monday. A Geospatial application relates to data which is associated with a particular location in a given area. The application developed over a period of one week could also enable any common man to see how many people are infected with the virus in the area he or she is living in, officials said. “The geospatial application developed by us will be very helpful to the administration as it could provide real-time data of the total number of Covid-19 positive people in any specific area of the city. If the authorities want to declare an area as a containment zone by knowing the number of infected people, they could do that just by feeding their query in the application and take a decision accordingly with the results provided,” MPS Bisht, director USAC said. Bisht said that the application is also able to provide the data on the number of infected people on gender and age segregation also. “The application, which is yet to be launched, has been developed with the data provided by the Dehradun district administration and the health department on the people who have tested positive for the disease,” Bisht said. His subordinate and programme system manager in USAC, Hemant Bisht who was involved in developing the application said, “The application is a web-GIS (geographic information system) based application which is similar to the working of the Google search engine.” “Like in Google where one can put his query on the search bar and get results, in this application too he could just put in his query and get results in the form of an interactive map. It will be similar to Arogya Setu app which can alert the user on the infected people around him but on a larger scale,” he said. The application is, however, yet to be launched as it is to be reviewed by the Dehradun district administration. “We would soon present a demonstration on its working before the district administration. If it’s approved then gradually it will include the whole state,” Bisht said. He also added, “Once launched the authorities would only have the right to make an addition to the data on the infected people in the application.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-space-application-centre-develops-geospatial-mechanism-to-locate-covid-19-patients/story-k8LGDnsasvldDhSa5Lq3gI.html
16-09-2020||India||India, US say Afghan peace process must lead to ceasefire and political roadmap||The US and India said on Tuesday the peace process in Afghanistan must lead to a political roadmap and a permanent ceasefire, and the Afghan sides should ensure that the country’s territory isn’t used by any terrorist group against any country. This was among the outcomes of a meeting between the US special representative on Afghanistan reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, and external affairs minister S Jaishankar. The meeting was also attended by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla. On Tuesday, Khalilzad travelled to New Delhi from Doha, where representatives of the Afghan government and the Taliban have begun the much-delayed intra-Afghan negotiations to hammer out a final political settlement. Khalilzad met Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa and other senior officials during a visit to Islamabad on Monday, following which he had returned to Doha. “The United States and India share the view that the peace process must continue until there is agreement on a political roadmap and a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire. The Afghan sides should ensure their territory must not be used by any terrorist group against any other country,” said a statement issued by the US embassy after Tuesday’s meeting. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Khalilzad briefed the Indian side about the US assessment of the intra-Afghan negotiations and also shared the American perspective on the Afghan peace process. “The two sides discussed future steps and possible cooperation between India and the US in furthering the Afghan peace process,” one of the people cited above said. “They also discussed how to promote regional and international cooperation with regard to Afghanistan,” the person added. The US embassy statement quoted Khalilzad as saying that regional and international support is critical for the success of the intra-Afghan negotiations and the implementation of any agreement. “India and the US will work together in support of this objective,” he said. The US and India “expressed similar views on the importance of long-term assistance, trade and investment for consolidating a peace agreement for the benefit of the people of Afghanistan, the region, and beyond”, the statement added. Khalilzad last travelled to New Delhi to brief the Indian side on developments in the Afghan peace process on May 7, and this was his fifth visit to India since January 2019. He also appreciated India’s participation in the inauguration of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha on September 12, the people said. Tuesday’s discussions reflect the India-US strategic partnership, which provides for close consultations between the two sides on bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual interest, the people cited above said. During his visit to Islamabad on Monday, Khalilzad had held talks with GenBajwa and Mohammad Sadiq, Pakistan’s special representative for Afghanistan, on regional security and the intra-Afghan talks. Bajwa told him that Prime Minister Imran Khan had provided a “clear vision regarding peace and connectivity in the region” and Pakistan is working to make that vision a reality. Jaishankar had laid down India’s expectations from the peace process in his address at the inaugural ceremony for the intra-Afghan negotiations on Sunday. He had said New Delhi expects that Afghan soil will never be used for any “anti-India activities”, and it supports an “immediate, comprehensive ceasefire” since the rising levels of violence cannot continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-say-afghan-peace-process-must-lead-to-ceasefire-and-political-roadmap/story-2P84TQo6Ew8lKQHiGtq9RI.html
16-09-2020||India||Kerala minister KT Jaleel to be interrogated again in gold smuggling probe: ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday denied reports that the central agency has given a clean chit to Kerala higher education minister K T Jaleel in the gold smuggling case and said he will be questioned again. The clarification from ED director SK Mishra came in the wake of social media reports that he was given a clean chit in the case. The ED director said the minister was questioned by the agency twice and he will be summoned again after examining his statements. There was a big campaign on social media, mostly by left–supported cyber activists, saying that he was given a clean chit and there won’t be any further questioning in the case. The state is in the midst of an agitation by opposition activists seeking his resignation and many party workers have been injured in baton-charging earlier.However, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday defended the beleaguered minister again. “A probe agency questioning a minister is nothing unusual. Opposition parties are targeting Jaleel due to political reasons. It is sad a smoke screen is being created over holy books. The BJP may have reasons for it, but it is sad that the Muslim League and Congress are also supporting it,” he said. The CM dismissed any possibility of the minister’s resignation and dubbed the ongoing agitation a move to destroy the state’s “spirited fight against the Covid-19 pandemic”. Trouble began for the minister after phone call records of Swapna Suresh, main accused in the gold smuggling case, were leaked to the media. The minister’s phone number figured prominently on the list. Soon after the list came out, the minister said he had called Suresh as a consular employee in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate in the state capital.But the minister’s clarification invited more trouble for him as he is not supposed to accept any funds or freebies without the consent of the ministry of external affairs and experts said it was a clear violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). During the gold smuggling investigation, the Customs also found that a huge consignment came on March 4 in 31 bags, weighing more than 4,000 kg and they were taken to Malappuram. The minister later admitted that he took these packets to his constituency but said they were religious books.During investigation, the Customs also found that between 2017 and 2018 about 17,000 kg of dry dates was imported by the consular office. A senior officer said customs will examine details of all imports from October 2016, when the consulate was opened in the state. The smuggling case came to light on July 5 after seizure of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic consignment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-minister-kt-jaleel-to-be-interrogated-again-in-gold-smuggling-probe-ed/story-atq2GF3XZ8LF4HXAW3QaII.html
16-09-2020||India||Facebook in contempt, warns Delhi Assembly panel||A committee of lawmakers on Tuesday said Facebook was in contempt of the Delhi assembly, and gave the social media company a “final warning” to heed to summons to appear before it, while dismissing a letter sent by the executives of the firm declining to make themselves available.In the letter, Facebook’s director (trust and safety) Vikram Langer told the Peace and Harmony Committee of the Delhi assembly that the company’s India head, Ajit Mohan, could not appear before the panel because it was already deposing before a parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, and contended that the firm‘s content regulation was outside the jurisdiction of the state assembly.The committee’s head, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha, rejected the contention, saying the state legislative functions are independent of the parliamentary functions, and Facebook’s stance went against India’s federal structure. “The Delhi legislative committee is operating in its constitutionally lawful jurisdiction and does not conflict or weaken the jurisdiction of the Central government on similar issues,” he said. He added that if the company does not heed to the next summons, the committee “shall be constrained to invoke its power to initiate breach of privilege proceedings”, including penalties.While the committee is looking into possible inaction by Facebook in screening inflammatory posts before and during the Delhi riots in February, the developments came on a day when reports suggested that the company’s services may have also been misused for possible interference in the Delhi assembly elections around the same time. Also read: Umar Khalid in 10-day custody, police to show him 1.1mn pages of dataThis prompted the assembly committee to club the two issues together.The decision of Facebook India’s Mohan not to appear as a witness “is contempt of the Delhi legislative assembly and disregard of the Assembly’s privilege. The indifference exhibited by the representative of the Facebook India is also a contempt to the people of Delhi who have reposed their faith in the committee to examine the current issue,” Chadha said.The MLA also read out portions of the Facebook letter, which he described as “interesting”, in response to the panel’s September 10 summons. In it, Facebook cited two grounds to state that the Delhi Assembly had no jurisdiction over its content regulation.“As you are well aware, the regulation of intermediaries like Facebook falls within the exclusive authority of the Union of India and in exercise of this power to regulate ‘communications’, the Parliament has enacted the Information Technology Act, 2000. Further, the subject of ‘law and order’ in the National Capital Territory of Delhi also fall within the exclusive domain of the Union of India,” the company said. But, Chadha said, that the “proceedings before Parliament are in no way connected to the role of Facebook in the north-east Delhi riots. The notice of appearance issued to Facebook is directly related to the riots, whereas the proceedings in the Parliament are on the subject of ‘safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space”.HT reviewed the September 10 summons by the Assembly committee, which stated: “Pertinently, the committee has received numerous complaints alleging inter alia intentional omission and deliberate inaction on the part of social media platform Facebook to apply hate speech rule and policies which has allegedly led to serious repercussions and disruption of peace and harmony across the NCT of Delhi.”Experts said no rule exempts private companies from the mandatory nature of such summons. “It is true that a Delhi Assembly panel, because of the nature of Delhi’s own limited constitutional rights, does not technically have the power to summon even the Delhi police commissioner because the Delhi Police comes under the Centre’s jurisdiction through the LG. However, when it comes to appearing before the panel, no rule states that representatives of a private firm cannot be summoned,” said SK Sharma, former secretary of the Lok Sabha and Delhi assembly. He added the findings of the inquiries of the committees are “reccomendary in nature”. “They submit it to the Speaker, who in turn submits it to the government, and it is up to the government what it wants to do with it. In this case, even if the government forwards it to the Delhi Police, the recommendations may not be executed, unless it comes from the LG,” he added. Another constitutional expert who did not wish to be named called Facebook’s contention that it won’t appear before the assembly panel because a parliamentary standing committee is already looking into the matter as “frivolous”.“Facebook’s justification is frivolous because there is no bar on two committees of the Parliament and the state legislature examining the same matter. If the subjects are different then the company’s plea does not stand at all,” this person said. A Facebook spokesperson did not respond to emails, text messages and calls for comment. (With inputs from Binayak Dasgupta)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-in-contempt-warns-delhi-assembly-panel/story-L2xYTcQBElc7Po0o1rN2BM.html
16-09-2020||India||State emblem may crown new Parliament building||India’s national emblem is likely to sit atop the new Parliament building, according to the latest design iteration prepared for the tendering process, replacing a spire that was meant to come up in an earlier version.A housing and urban affairs ministry official said that the design with the state emblem has been finalised for the construction tender.According to a presentation by HCP Design Planning and Management Private Limited, which has been tasked with redeveloping Delhi’s Central Vista, the current design incorporates the state emblem instead of the spire.“We have narrowed down on the 17th version, and I think that’s the final one,” the company stated in the presentation, reviewed by HT. Work on the new Parliament, a ground plus two-storey triangular-shaped building, is expected to begin after the ongoing monsoon session, a spokesperson for the architecture firm said. The design will be finalised once construction is scheduled, they added.In the previous design, a spire would have crowned the triple-heighted central foyer, even as a tricoloured beam in the colours of the Indian flag would have lit up the night sky overhead. Last month, the government narrowed the list of choices for building a new Parliament complex to three Mumbai-based construction companies, Larsen & Toubro, Tata Projects and Shapoorji Pallonji & Company, who have qualified for the submission of financial bids. According to officials aware of the development, submissions must take place before September 16. “The project report has been prepared and construction drawings are in progress,” the HCP spokesperson told HT. The national emblem is an adaptation of the Lion Capital of Ashoka at Sarnath, a fine sculpture that dates back to around 250 BC at the time of Emperor Ashoka’s reign, and which depicts four lions, each facing the four directions, placed atop the Ashoka pillar. A two-dimensional representation of this sculpture depicting three lions was officially adopted on January 26, 1950, the day the Constitution of India came into effect.The new Parliament building with a built-up area of approximately 60,000 metre square, is set to come up on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate, which currently houses a reception, boundary walls and other temporary structures. The central foyer has been renamed the Constitution Hall as it is expected to display the Constitution for public viewing. A library will also come up near the central foyer.“It will have sculptures of parliamentarians and images representing the diversity of India. At one side of the Constitution Hall will be the Constitution gallery, where the Constitution will be displayed,” HCP stated in the presentation.The triangular complex is designed to include 120 offices with six separate entrances for member of the public, MPs and VIPs, including the Speaker and the vice president.The new Parliament will house enlarged chambers for the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha; the latter has been designed to accommodate 1,350 MPs in case of joint sessions. The public gallery will seat more than 336 persons. The current Parliament building is over 90 years old. HCP, which won the bid last year, will also construct a separate building to house MP offices where the Transport Bhawan and the Shram Shakti Bhawan currently stand. The new Parliament complex was expected to be completed by 2022, but government officials said the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown has slowed the project’s timeline.The Central Vista redevelopment project has come under criticism from different quarters. While the Opposition has called for suspending the ₹20,000 crore project due to the pandemic, some conservationists have argued that it would change the historic nature of Lutyens’ Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-emblem-may-crown-new-parliament-building/story-QIwJUAzFoIHmYGSWTdzuLJ.html
16-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||In Dispatch 156, I wrote about why it did not make sense to use rapid antigen tests all the time, or be overly dependent on them — like Delhi continues to be.To recap, such tests give out too many false negative results (identifying an infected person as uninfected) to be reliable. And the protocol in place (which, to make things worse, isn’t strictly followed by anybody) of ensuring symptomatic individuals who test negative in a rapid antigen test are administered a molecular test such as the RT-PCR one as a follow-up is pointless — at least 40% and as high as 80% of those infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), are asymptomatic.Sure, there is a context in which it makes sense to use rapid antigen tests. After all, they provide results within the hour, as compared to the minimum of 24 hours it takes for an RT-PCR test (and in practice, with logistical delays and backlogs, this goes up to three to four days sometimes). So, in containment zones, in airports and railway stations, and ahead of public events (such as the JEE and NEET entrance examinations; no test was administered the candidates, frittering away a great opportunity to test a large number of people) — wherever time is a constraint — it makes sense to use rapid antigen tests. And sure, it makes sense to ensure that a follow-up RT-PCR test is administered to symptomatic individuals testing negative in an antigen test.I have previously suggested a hack that could make antigen tests more accurate — two tests administered in parallel to two samples from the same patient (if there is a discrepancy between the two results, a molecular test is administered). This reduces the chances of a false negative by half.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicFinally, I have also written about new rapid antigen tests (one was launched by Abbott Laboratories, but only in the US recently), which are fast, inexpensive, and as accurate as molecular tests. We must get those. At the time of writing the column referred to in the first instance — it also mentioned Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, two other states overly dependent on rapid antigen tests — I did not expect that an opportunity to use a real-life example to explain why such tests shouldn’t be used indiscriminately would present itself in a few days. The math presented in that column was simple, but because it concerned a hypothetical situation, administrators in Delhi, Lucknow and Patna may have missed its import.And so, with that elaborate prelude, let’s look at Exhibit A: The Delhi assembly.This is what we know: 50 lawmakers attended the Delhi assembly’s special one-day session on Monday. All of them had previously taken RT-PCR tests, but not all the results had come in by Monday morning. A rapid antigen test was administered to these lawmakers. It isn’t immediately clear how many were administered the test. It was also administered to assembly officials and journalists covering the session. One MLA tested positive and was immediately sent into quarantine. The others tested negative, and the session began. The positive RT-PCR results of two MLAs came even as the session was in progress — they left the assembly immediately, but, by then, their colleagues had been exposed to them. While all 47 of them have tested negative, they have shared a closed room (a large one) with the two lawmakers, should ideally go into quarantine, and have themselves tested after five days (if they are infected, it will show up by then).Also read| Battle against Covid-19 far from over: Harsh Vardhan in ParliamentDelhi’s administrators, who continue to rely overly on antigen tests (last week, these accounted for 83% of the total 397,722 tests conducted), couldn’t have asked for a better demonstration of their (the tests’) inaccuracy, and how the erroneous results could, in turn, have cascading implications. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was in the House at the time, although it isn’t clear whether he came in contact with the infected lawmakers. A mere greeting, or passing an infected person in the corridor, is unlikely to be dangerous — the infection comes from prolonged exposure. But, building on several research studies, a bunch of talking heads in a room are more at risk than a bunch of silent ones.I hope those plexiglass partitions in Parliament are tall enough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-G7e47i4v2pbEghXyXrWx6J.html
16-09-2020||India||No intel on nexus between bollywood, drug traffickers: MHA||NEW DELHI: The issue of a nexus between the Hindi film industry and drug traffickers came up in Parliament on Tuesday; while the union ministry of home affairs (MHA) informed Lok Sabha that it hasn’t come across any actionable intelligence, which suggests a nexus between Bollywood celebrities and drug traffickers; in the Rajya Sabha several members raised objection that the whole industry was being tarnished because of the actions of a few.In a written reply, the MHA informed the Lok Sabha that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is under the ministry, is investigating a case in this regard. The anti-drugs investigation agency had on August 28 registered a second case, an offshoot of probe against actor Rhea Chakraborty, to investigate link between various persons in Mumbai in the supply of drugs. “During the period of Covid-19 lockdown, no such actionable inputs were received by NCB revealing the nexus between people in the film industry and drug traffickers. However, a case in this regard has been registered by NCB Mumbai Zonal unit on 28.08.2020,” MHA said in reply to a question.It went on to add, “Drugs such as Ganja, Hashish, Tetra Hydro Cannabinol and Lysergic acid De-ethylamide have been seized in the operation.”The ministry was responding to a query from Kumbakudi Sudhakaran, a Congress lawmaker from Kerala, who asked if the government had conducted a detailed enquiry in the nexus between people in the film industry and those involved in drug trade during Covid-19. The agency has already arrested 10 persons in this particular case, mainly drugs suppliers and conduits. Based on a reference from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), NCB had filed a case against Rhea and her family members on August 26. She was arrested on September 8 and is currently in judicial custody. Earlier in the day, Samajwadi Party leader Jaya Bachachan who is also an actor said the industry was being unfairly targeted. The SPMP said the entertainment industry in a country which provides direct employment every day to 5 lakh people and indirect employment to 5 million is being called a “gutter”.“At a time when the financial situation is in a depressing state unemployment is at the worst level, in order to divert the attention of the people, we are being used to be flocked by the social media and the government’s non-support. People who have made their name in this film industry have called it a gutter,” she said.The actor said the government must standby the entertainment industry because it has always stepped forward to help the government in whatever work that it takes up. “If there is a natural calamity, they come forward, they give money and they give their services. I think it is very important that the government must support this industry and not kill it,” Bachchan said.Without naming Lok Sabha MP Ravi Kishan she said she was embarrassed and ashamed that someone who is from the industry had spoken ill about it.On Monday, Ravi Kishen had said drug addiction is in the film industry too. He said the central government should take strict action against the culprits.Actor Kanagana Ranaut however questioned if Bachchan’s stance would change if her children were involved.“Jayaji would you say the same thing if in my place it was your daughter Shweta beaten, drugged and molested as a teenage, would you say the same thing if Abhieshek complained about bullying and harassment constantly and found hanging one day? Show compassion for us also,” Kangana said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-intel-on-nexus-between-bollywood-drug-traffickers-mha/story-mdZT8eU0rqL8ON610U6TTM.html
16-09-2020||India||Journalists allegedly beaten by security forces in J-K’s Pulwama district||At least two photojournalists were allegedly beaten by security forces when they were covering a gunfight between militants and security forces in south Kashmir's Pulwama district on Tuesday, prompting protests by members of the fraternity in the Valley.Kamran Yousuf, a multimedia journalist working with a news portal, and Faisal Bashir, a freelancer, were beaten by policemen near the site of the shoot-out in Marwal Kakapora village of Pulwama. Yousuf had to be hospitalized in Srinagar for treatment of injuries to his limbs, and the doctors told him he had suffered a mild fracture in his right leg.The alleged assault triggered outrage among the journalistic fraternity in the Kashmir Valley, where calls were made to the lieutenant governor and the police top brass to “sensitise” members of security forces about how media professionals function. According to Yousuf, many journalists reached the outer security ring near the encounter site in the morning on Tuesday to cover the shoot-out and started taking pictures when they were told by Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel present there to move a bit farther.“When we started leaving, suddenly some policemen came rushing towards me. They told me to stop and simply started raining batons [on me] without asking anything,” Yousuf said. “I was surrounded by them and if somehow I had not managed to slip away, I would have been severely injured by their assault. They even chased me.”Bashir also said he was assaulted without any reason. “I was on the bund of the Jhelum when they told me to come down. They rained batons on my back and also hit my camera. After assaulting me, they caught hold of Kamran who was behind me,” he said.Inspector general of police Vijay Kumar did not comment on the incident and urged the media to instead contact Pulwama superintendent of police Ashish Kumar Mishra ,who did not respond to a call from HT.Senior journalist Yusuf Jameel said beating up,harassing and intimidating journalists in Kashmir wasn’t something new. “We’ve lived with & endured it for yrs.What is,however,more disgusting rather despicable is the authorities,after every such incident,assuring ‘it will not happen again.’ I see it also as rubbing salt in the wound, “ he wrote in a tweet. The Kashmir Press Club (KPC) and Kashmir Editors Guild (KEG) slammed the police for the assault.“Going by the account of Kamran, it is clear that the police has targeted the journalists to stop them from carrying out their professional work which is reprehensible,” the KPC said in a statement, and demanded action against the police who took part in the assault.KEG demanded that the police leadership in Kashmir sensitize members of the force on how the media operates and to investigate the assault.“It has emerged as a routine for the police and the security forces to assault the journalists while covering the happenings on the ground…The Guild want the LG Jammu and Kashmir to personally look into the assault,” the editors’ body said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalists-beaten-up-in-valley/story-uzSBRZiGs7lnZVNstlYb3L.html
16-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha nod to bill for 30% salary cut of MPs for a year due to Covid crisis||Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed a bill to reduce the salaries of MPs by 30% for one year “to meet the exigencies” arising out of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Opposition leaders cutting across political lines supported the bill to reduce MPs’ salary by 30% but spoke unequivocally against the temporary scrapping of MPLAD funds for two years. Discussing the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which was brought on Monday to replace an ordinance that was promulgated on April 7, Parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi defended the move and said “charity should begin from home”. Replying to the debate on the bill, Joshi said that funds are needed to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and pointed out that Members of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) funds have been temporarily stalled for two years.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic Congress floor leader in lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury called for a unanimous resolution in the House to restore the MPLAD fund, arguing that 93% of the funds have been utilised and the bulk of them were used for welfare activities for SCs, STs and villagers. He also said that the government is giving tax relief to corporate but taking away MPLAD fund, dubbing it as “penny-wise and pound-foolish”. Aam Aadmi Party’s Bhagwant Mann, independent member from Maharashtra Navneet Ravi Rana, BSP’s Ritesh Pandey and AIMIM’s S I Jaleel said that government can reduce their salary further but the MPLAD fund should be restored as it belongs to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-nod-to-bill-for-30-salary-cut-of-mps-for-a-year/story-OLSxuRFX0ewNjnew9jLyLP.html
16-09-2020||India||India walks out of SCO meet after Pakistan uses ‘fictitious map’||India on Tuesday walked out of a virtual meeting of national security advisers of member-states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) after the Pakistani representative projected a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of the two countries. “At the meeting of the national security advisers (NSAs) of member-states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), hosted by the chair of the SCO (Russia), the Pakistani NSA deliberately projected a fictitious map that Pakistan has recently been propagating,” said external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. “This was in blatant disregard to the advisory by the host against it and in violation of the norms of the meeting. After consultation with the host, the Indian side left the meeting in protest at that juncture,” he said. Srivastava added, “As was to be expected, Pakistan then went on to present a misleading view of this meeting.” People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Pakistan’s use of a “fictitious map” as a backdrop for its representative, which depicted sovereign Indian territories as parts of Pakistan, was a blatant violation of the SCO charter and went against all established norms of the grouping for safeguarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of member-states. “India issued its strong objection to the use of this illegal map by Pakistan. The Russian side, as the chair, tried very hard to persuade Pakistan not to do so,” said one of the people cited above. Russian NSA Nikolai Patrushev conveyed to the Indian side that he was personally very grateful to his Indian counterpart Ajit Doval for attending the SCO meeting, the people said. “Russia doesn’t support what Pakistan has done and hopes Pakistan’s provocative act won’t affect India’s participation in SCO and definitely not cast any shadow on Patrushev’s warm personal relationship with the Indian NSA, for whom he has the highest regard,” the person added. Patrushev also said he hoped to see Doval at forthcoming events, according to the people. Pakistan issued a new map on August 4 that laid claim to India’s union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and parts of Gujarat state on the eve of the first anniversary of the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. India had reacted to the move by describing it as an “exercise in political absurdity” with no legal validity. The political map was released by Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan during a meeting in Islamabad that was attended by his cabinet and senior officials, including his special assistant on national security affairs, Moeed Yusuf. Khan had said the map was the first step towards a political struggle to achieve the right of self-determination for Kashmiris. Pakistan currently doesn’t have a formally appointed NSA and Yusuf represents the country at meetings such as the one held on Tuesday. Before the external affairs ministry spokesperson’s statement, Yusuf tweeted: “Bizarrely, my Indian counterpart chose to walk out of Pakistan and Russia’s speech. Left a bad taste at a forum whose whole spirit is cooperation.” Yusuf also tweeted he had “highlighted that unilateral & illegal actions in an internationally recognised disputed territory of [Jammu and Kashmir] is a threat to regional peace & prosperity”. SCO currently comprises eight member-states. China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan are the other members, alongside India, Pakistan and Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-walks-out-of-sco-meet-after-pak-uses-fictitious-map/story-O5ZxKvny3Vblb7A5WT8toO.html
16-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Fake news led to migrants’ exodus, says home ministry||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that the exodus of migrant workers from the cities to the countryside in their home states was triggered by fake news on the duration of the lockdown imposed in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19). Migrant workers were also concerned about the availability of basic necessities like food, drinking water, access to health services and shelter during the lockdown enforced on March 25, it said.Responding to a query posed in the Lok Sabha, minister of state for home Nityanand Rai said the central government had been “fully conscious” of the concerns of migrant workers , and taken measures to ensure that during the “inevitable lockdown” that followed the outbreak of the pandemic, no citizen is deprived of the basic amenities of food, drinking water, medical facilities and so on.Also read: Lok Sabha nod to bill for 30% salary cut of MPs for a year due to Covid crisisSpeculation, including in the media, on how long the lockdown would last and loss of livelihoods after the closure of factories and business establishments to curb the spread of the disease contributed to the reverse migration of workers to their home states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. The total lockdown lasted 68 days before government started easing the restrictions.An estimated 10.4 million migrants travelled back home during the lockdown, the government informed Parliament on Monday, saying it had no data on job losses among migrant workers since the outbreak.To mitigate the problems faced by migrant workers, the Centre set up control rooms in the home ministry under the supervision of senior officers of the level of joint secretary and comprising representatives of key central ministries, MHA said on Tuesday. “These control rooms, inter alia, attended to the grievances of stranded persons including migrant workers and promptly resolved these grievances relating to food, transport, shelter, etc. States and Union Territories were also advised to set up control rooms with helplines and to appoint nodal officers,” Rai said in his written reply. The minister of state added that the Centre also allowed state governments to tap the state disaster response fund (SDRF) for arranging temporary accommodation and providing food, clothing and medical care to migrant workers as well as the homeless. “To augment the funds with the states, Central government released an advance Rs 11, 092 crores from the SDRF to the states on April 3, 2020,” he added. To a query from Congress MP Manish Tewari on why the nationwide lockdown was imposed with a notice of just four hours, the minister said the decision was taken to forestall any mass movement. “Covid-19 is a highly infectious disease. Any mass movement of people would have spread the disease very fast amongst people in all parts of the country,” said Rai. “By imposing the countrywide lockdown, India successfully blunted the aggressive spread of Covid-19,” he added. The lockdown period also helped the nation reinforce its health infrastructure to tackle Covid-19, according to the minister, who cited efforts to sharply increase the number of dedicated isolation and intensive care unit (ICU) beds for patients of the viral infection, and develop local capabilities to manufacture personal protection equipment, masks and ventilators.According to the government, the lockdown, by slowing the progress of the pandemic, has prevented an estimated 1.4 to 2.9 million Covid-19 cases and 37,000 to 78,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-news-led-to-migrants-exodus-mha/story-AEYej7C7jaLAkuQ2dCIcML.html
16-09-2020||India||Congress corners govt over LAC standoff||The Congress on Tuesday questioned the absence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Lok Sabha when defence minister Rajnath Singh made a statement on the India-China border standoff, and alleged that the government was shying away from a parliamentary discussion on the subject. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who is in the United States accompanying his mother Sonia Gandhi for a health check-up, attacked the Prime Minister for “misleading” the country over Chinese transgressions. “The country has always stood by its armed forces and will continue to do so in future. But Modiji, when will you stand against China? When will we take back the land of our country from China? Don’t be scared of taking China’s name,” he tweeted in Hindi. Congress members staged a walkout from the House soon after the defence minister’s statement, alleging that they hadn’t been allowed to raise certain issues related to the India-China border row. They later protested in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statute in the Parliament House complex. In his statement in the Lok Sabha, the defence minister said India was committed to a peaceful resolution of the border standoff with China, but wouldn’t accept any attempt by the neighbour to unilaterally alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control. Singh also said Indian troops had inflicted heavy costs, including casualties, on the Chinese side during a violent clash with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the Galwan valley on June 15. The clash left 20 Indian soldiers, including Colonel B Santosh Babu, dead. Addressing reporters outside Parliament, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the Prime Minister’s absence from Parliament when the defence minister made a statement in the Lower House on the India-China situation showed that the government was afraid of a discussion on the face-off. “For the Congress party, the country is the most important. We are proud of our armed forces. This government did not allow us to speak in Parliament. They are afraid of Congress asking questions that they will not be able to answer,” he said. “It is our entitlement to put forward our views. When the defence minister made a statement on the India-China situation in the Lok Sabha, the Prime Minister was not present. He is afraid of conducting a discussion on the issue in Parliament,” Chowdhury alleged. In 1962, when the India-China war took place, he said then opposition leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee sought to know what was the situation on the border. Then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru agreed to his demand, and a two-day discussion took place in Parliament on the war and the border situation, he added. Chowdhury said Congress members staged the walkout because they weren’t allowed to send a message to the country and the armed forces. Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala also said the government should give an answer on whether China had encroached on Indian territory at specific positions across the border. “The entire country is proud of the armed forces and that is why we are talking here. But why is the Prime Minister shying away from a discussion,” he asked. “Our questions are very straightforward. Has China occupied Indian territory? Have the Chinese encroached on Depsang Plains, Gogra, Pangong Tso till Finger 8, Y-junction in Bhutan, Lipulekh Pass in Uttarakhand and in Arunachal Pradesh?. The government should answer these questions,” said Surjewala. He said the Prime Minister should apologise to the nation if the answers in the affirmative to the questions posed by the Congress because he told an all-party meeting on June 19 that the Chinese had not entered and occupied Indian territory. Congress’s deputy leader in the Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi told reporters that Chowdhury and his other party colleagues wanted to send a message of solidarity with the armed forces and also issue a stern warning to China that it should not test India’s patience. “Unfortunately, the government feels as if only they can speak in support of the army,” he added. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “The Defence Minister excoriated China for transgressing the LAC, could the Govt explain why the Prime Minister had issued an extraordinary statement claiming that China had not entered our territory? Presumably, the Government has changed the PM’s stand?” “Another question: since the defence minister says that both countries have now agreed in talks to respect the LAC, but separately says the two countries have differing perceptions of where LAC lies, isn’t that a recipe for another clash? Shouldn’t we just insist on status quo ante?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-corners-govt-over-lac-standoff/story-y7RZ6RPqb80gMOK8JXot1L.html
16-09-2020||India||Govt hints at closed-door meet with Opposition on LAC||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has dropped hints to some opposition leaders that a closed-door meeting on the India-China border situation may be considered , after expressing its reluctance to engage in a full-fledged public discussion on the sensitive issue in the monsoon session of Parliament. A final decision on any such meeting, where the opposition parties would be briefed on the military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), is yet to be taken, functionaries involved in the talks said. To be sure, the government has not contacted all opposition parties so far. According to the proposal, which follows Opposition accusations that the government was shying away from a discussion on the issue in Parliament, the defence ministry brass may brief floor leaders of different parties behind closed doors on efforts to normalise the situation, and reply to queries they may have on the subject.“A senior minister had called me to say that the government is thinking of a briefing meeting for floor leaders of different parties on the Indo-China situation if they agree. The proposal is at a nascent stage and needs further discussion,” said a senior non-NDA leader, requesting anonymity. Also read| China actions sparked LAC standoff; India ready: GovtAdhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Congress floor leader in the Lok Sabha, questioned the usefulness of such a meeting. He said: “If newspapers can discuss, public can discuss and everyone else can discuss, then why can’t Indian Parliament discuss such a situation?” Defence minister Rajnath Singh read out a statement in Lok Sabha on Tuesday on the Indo-China border situation, but opposition leaders were not allowed any seek any clarifications. Angry Congress leaders, including Chowdhury and Shashi Tharoor, staged a protest in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue in the Parliament complex.Government managers maintained that at this stage, when India and China are trying to resolve the situation, an open debate marked by conflicting views and criticisms is best avoided. Chowdhury reminded the government that in 1962, when then Opposition leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee had demanded a debate on the Indo-China war, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru agreed to hold a debate that went on for two days. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi quickly pointed out that the 1962 debate took place after the war was over and not when the two sides were trying to find a solution. Also read| ‘PM misled country on Chinese intrusions’: Rahul reacts to Rajnath’s LAC statementOther leaders, including the Biju Janata Dal’s Pinaki Mishra and Trinamool Congress’s Kalyan Banerjee, did not support Chowdhury. Banerjee took the stand that the party wanted to hear what the minister had to say before taking a decision. Mishra agreed with the government’s point of view that a divisive debate must be avoided. Minutes before the Parliament session started on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the situation and added that he expects the House to send out a unanimous message of solidarity with the armed forces. “Today the brave soldiers of our army are on the borders. They are defending the borders with great courage and high spirits, in the difficult terrains,” he said.“The entire House stands with the brave soldiers of the country with one voice; I believe that this House and all the honourable members. too, will give out a very strong message,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-hints-at-closed-door-meet-with-oppn-on-lac/story-yDdLJrw6abKGCJlrnCjd1I.html
16-09-2020||India||Troops gear up for long haul in Ladakh||India is making vigorous attempts to provide logistics support to its soldiers deployed in forward areas in the eastern Ladakh sector, where over 50,000 Indian troops are likely to remain stationed through the winter months to deal with any possible provocation by the Chinese forces, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday.Military planes and helicopters are flying to Ladakh almost every day with their cargo holds filled with crucial supplies and gear — from specialised winter clothing to rations and arctic tents to portable heaters — that soldiers would require in the inhospitable mountain terrain, the officials said, requesting anonymity.Fresh images coming out of Ladakh on Tuesday provided glimpses of the extraordinary effort being made by the military to support its high-altitude deployments in the sensitive sector. Necessary steps have also been taken for equipment sustenance, the officials saidIn a statement made in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “I can assure you that the morale and motivation of our armed forces is very high…They are being provisioned with suitable clothing, habitat and the required defence wherewithal.”Also read: Govt hints at closed-door meet with Opposition on LACArmy chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane visited forward locations in Ladakh on September 3 to review the army’s operational preparedness and the logistics arrangements for sustenance of forces through the winter. China has deployed sizeable military assets in the eastern Ladakh theatre, including 50,000 troops, 150 aircraft, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems, with India matching every military move made by the neighbour.“The determination of our troops is praise-worthy. They are capable of serving at forbidding altitudes with scarce oxygen and in extremely cold temperatures, something that they have effortlessly done over the last many years on Siachen and in Kargil,” Singh said in the Lok Sabha.He said the Lower House should pass a resolution in support of the armed forces that have been defending the country at towering heights, braving inclement weather in Ladakh.Top Indian and Chinese military commanders are likely to hold a meeting along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) this week to reduce military tensions in eastern Ladakh, where the situation remains tense after a series of recent manoeuvres by the two armies in the Pangong Tso area.Corps commander-ranked officers have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock. They will now be meeting for the first time after the Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied key heights to prevent the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.The Indian Army controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the most significant heights being held by India on Rezang La and Reqin pass, where the PLA made some desperate attempts to regain ground earlier this week.The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other. The Chinese side has mobilised a large number of troops and weapon systems along the LAC as well as in the eastern Ladakh theatre, where the current friction areas include Gogra, Kongka La and the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/troops-gear-up-for-long-haul-in-ladakh/story-okikvCfll4iZcaI17GyE7K.html
16-09-2020||India||No discrimination in riots probe: Delhi Police commissioner to Julio Ribeiro||Responding to questions raised on the probe into Delhi riots by veteran cop Julio Ribeiro, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava wrote to him Tuesday saying the investigation was being carried out without any discrimination based on caste or religion, and was backed by documentary and scientific evidence. Ribeiro, a Padma Bhushan awardee who has served as Mumbai police commissioner and director general of Punjab and Gujarat and the Central Reserve Police Force, had said that the Delhi Police has “deliberately failed to register cases against those who made hate speeches, which triggered riots in north-east Delhi. “I write to you with a heavy heart. As a true patriot and a former proud member of the Indian Police Service, I appeal to you to ensure a fair probe into the 753 FIRs registered against peaceful protesters who rightly apprehend injustices born from bias and hate against a minority community. The Delhi Police has taken action against peaceful protesters but deliberately failed to register cognizable offences against those who made hate speeches which triggered the riots in Northeast Delhi. It troubles sane and apolitical persons, like me, why Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma have not been arraigned before the courts of law while deeply hurt Muslim women, peacefully protesting against discriminations based on religion, were lodged for months together in jail,” Ribeiro wrote in his letter titled “miscarriage of justice in northeast Delhi”.Responding to Ribeiro on Tuesday, Shrivastava said that it was his duty to put things in the correct perspective. Shrivastava said the Delhi Police have examined a large number of persons who either have a role in north-east Delhi riots or have information that will “help arrive at the truth”.Also read: Facebook in contempt, warns Delhi Assembly panel“It (police) has questioned persons without regard to their religion and party affiliation. It has collected documentary evidence, including scientific evidence, to support its case,” Shrivastava wrote. He said the “specific details, understandably, cannot be shared at this stage”.Dismissing allegations that the police were targeting a particular community, Shrivastava said “the arrestees are almost equally distributed among both communities”. “It (police) has arrested 1,571 persons irrespective of their caste or religion. Almost all the accused persons arrested in heinous offences have been remanded to judicial custody by courts of law and not admitted to bail. Chargesheets in many cases have been filed while investigation is continuing in many others,” the Delhi top cop said.Giving details of the FIRs registered in the riots cases, Shrivastava explained 410 cases were registered on the complaints by the minority community. “Police does not differentiate a complainant on the basis of caste or religion, it may be mentioned solely for the purpose of clearing any doubt in the minds of people questioning our probe, that more than 410 FIRs were registered on the complaints of minority community. The other community accounted for over 190 FIRs. The remaining were registered on the basis of (police’s) Daily Diary entries.”In his letter, Ribeiro, who led the Punjab police during the insurgency in the state, also questioned the police interrogating people like DU professor Apoorvanand. “The not-so-subtle attempt by the Delhi Police to entangle true patriots, like Harsh Mander and Prof Apoorvanand, in criminal cases is another matter for concern... Kindly revisit the actions of the police under your command in Delhi to determine if they have been true to their oaths taken at the time of their induction into service,” he said.Apoorvanand had been summoned by the special cell but has not been named in any charge sheet. In the context of criticism of the riots probe by several quarters, including IPS officers and civil society, Shrivastava said, “Several entities who have their reasons to weave a web of deception and to push a false narrative of bias and insensitivity on the part of the police.”“It is best that the criminal justice system, with its inherent checks and balances may be allowed work, lest lending one’s name inadvertently imparts a false aura of credibility and authenticity to these concocted and motivated stories. Also, anybody aggrieved with the investigation can always seek judicial remedies,” the Delhi Police commissioner said.The Delhi top cop said that he valued the suggestions while mentioning that Ribeiro was at the zenith of his career when he had just joined the police service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-discrimination-in-riots-probe-delhi-police-commissioner-replies-to-julio-ribeiro/story-8YDaZz6IpVrlm1N6JIYx4H.html
16-09-2020||India||Ajit Doval walks out of SCO meet of NSAs over ‘fictitious’ Pak map that violates norms||India on Tuesday walked out of a virtual meeting of national security advisers of member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) after the Pakistani representative projected a map that inaccurately depicted the borders of the two countries. “At the meeting of the national security advisers (NSAs) of member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), hosted by the chair of the SCO (Russia), the Pakistani NSA deliberately projected a fictitious map that Pakistan has recently been propagating,” said external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava.WATCH | After USA rebuke, India snubs Pak & walks out of meet over wrong map | Explained“This was in blatant disregard to the advisory by the host against it and in violation of the norms of the meeting. After consultation with the host, the Indian side left the meeting in protest at that juncture,” he said. Srivastava added, “As was to be expected, Pakistan then went on to present a misleading view of this meeting.” People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Pakistan’s use of a “fictitious map” as a backdrop for its representative, which depicted sovereign Indian territories as part of Pakistan, was a blatant violation of the SCO charter and went against all established norms of the grouping for safeguarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of member states. “India issued its strong objection to the use of this illegal map by Pakistan. The Russian side, as the chair, tried very hard to persuade Pakistan not to do so,” said one of the people cited above. Russian NSA Nikolai Patrushev conveyed to the Indian side that he was personally very grateful to his Indian counterpart Ajit Doval for attending the SCO Summit, the people said. “Russia doesn’t support what Pakistan has done and hopes Pakistan’s provocative act won’t affect India’s participation in SCO and definitely not cast any shadow on Patrushev’s warm personal relationship with the Indian NSA, for whom he has the highest regard,” the person added. Patrushev also said he hoped to see Doval at forthcoming events, according to the people. Pakistan issued a new map on August 4 that laid claim to India’s union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and parts of Gujarat state on the eve of the first anniversary of the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. India had reacted to the move by describing it as an “exercise in political absurdity” with no legal validity. The political map was released by Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan during a meeting in Islamabad that was attended by his cabinet and senior officials, including his special assistant on national security affairs, Moeed Yusuf. Khan had said the map was the first step towards a political struggle to achieve the right of self-determination for Kashmiris. Pakistan currently doesn’t have a formally appointed NSA and Yusuf represents the country at meetings such as the one held on Tuesday. Before the external affairs ministry spokesperson’s statement, Yusuf tweeted: “Bizarrely, my Indian counterpart chose to walk out of Pakistan and Russia’s speech. Left a bad taste at a forum whose whole spirit is cooperation.” Yusuf also tweeted he had “highlighted that unilateral & illegal actions in an internationally recognised disputed territory of [Jammu and Kashmir] is a threat to regional peace & prosperity”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-walks-out-of-meeting-of-nsas-of-shanghai-cooperation-organisation-states/story-CLn2UzGwQoWfpHFsqT0NRP.html
16-09-2020||India||Forgotten diseases hit poorest billion||Forgotten diseases have hit the poorest billion the hardest during the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a new Lancet Commission report. It says that for the first time, non-communicable diseases and injuries (NCDIs) caused more deaths and disability at every age among the world’s poorest billion than in wealthy countries.These conditions account for over a third of the burden of disease among the poorest, including almost 800,000 deaths annually among those aged under 40 years, and killing more people than HIV, tuberculosis and maternal deaths combined.Among the poorest billion, people with a diverse set of severe NCDs – such as Type 1 diabetes, rheumatic and congenital heart disease, and paediatric cancers – live 20 fewer healthy years than in high-income countries. Yet less than $100 million – or just 0.3% of development assistance for health – is allocated to NCDIs among countries that are home to the poorest.Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayProgressive implementation of affordable, cost-effective, and equitable NCDI interventions between 2020 and 2030 could save the lives of over 4.6 million of the world’s poorest.“No disease should be a death sentence in one country but treatable, preventable or curable in another. Universal health coverage is unobtainable unless the global health community broadens geographies and conditions covered by action on non-communicable diseases,” said Lancet NCDI Poverty Commission co-chair Ana Mocumbi, from Universidade Eduardo Mondlane and Instituto Nacional de Saúde in Mozambique.“Even before the pandemic started, low-income countries did not have the resources to deliver a truly comprehensive set of public health services,” said Chelsea Clinton, commissioner, Clinton Foundation.Also read: CM hails Delhi’s Covid-19 model, says it worked due to teamworkThe commission has helped to establish National NCDI Poverty Commissions, groups, and consortia in 16 countries that are doing analyses and identifying pro-poor priorities based on the best locally available data. India is one of the 16 countries that have organized these national commissions as of August 2020, according to the report.It says India spends only 1·1% of its gross domestic product (GDP) on health, putting it at the low end of countries ranked by public investment in health care. Estimates based on local and central government budgets indicate that slightly more than one-fourth of total health expenditure targets NCDIs, and about four-fifths of this expenditure takes place at the state level.“Managing non-communicable diseases is on top of the government agenda... early detection and putting patients on treatment in time is crucial in reducing the overall economic burden in the long run,” said a health ministry official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forgotten-diseases-hit-poorest-billion/story-KjfdklvLtgIhWXnhOktuTL.html
