17-09-2020||India||Appoint Indian lawyer or Queen’s counsel for Kulbhushan Jadhav, says MEA||India on Thursday asked Pakistan to appoint an Indian lawyer or Queen’s counsel for death row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav so that he receives a fair trial in his death sentence review.Queen’s Counsel is an advocate or a barrister or advocate who is an appointed Counsel to the UK Crown on the recommendation of the Lord Chancellor.Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday said the Pakistan has not been able to fulfil its obligations to implement ICJ judgement in Kulbhushan Jhadav case.“It has not yet addressed the core issues, which include provision of all documents related to the case, providing unconditional and unimpeded consular access to Kulbhusan Jadhav and appointment of an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s counsel to ensure a free and fair trial,” Srivastava said at a video conference with media, as quoted by PTI. Pakistan’s Parliament recently extended four months an ordinance that allowed Jadhav to file an appeal against his death conviction in a high court as required by the International Court of Justice (ICJ).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appoint-indian-lawyer-or-queen-s-counsel-for-kulbhushan-jadhav-says-mea/story-CCqR5vfGee9WmhYcZsgQgI.html
17-09-2020||India||‘System of MSP, govt procurement retained’: PM assures farmers after passage of agricultural reform bills||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Thursday assured farmers that the minimum support price (MSP) system and government procurement will remain unchanged after the passage of the three agriculture and farm sector bills. In a series of tweets, he applauded parliamentarians for the passage of bills in Lok Sabha. Modi said the bills will free the farmers from the “middlemen and other obstacles.” लोकसभा में ऐतिहासिक कृषि सुधार विधेयकों का पारित होना देश के किसानों और कृषि क्षेत्र के लिए एक महत्वपूर्ण क्षण है। ये विधेयक सही मायने में किसानों को बिचौलियों और तमाम अवरोधों से मुक्त करेंगे। #JaiKisanPrime minister tweeted, “The passage of historic agrarian reform bills in the Lok Sabha is an important moment for the farmers and agriculture sector of the country. These bills will truly free the farmers from middlemen and all obstacles. #JaiKisan.”इस कृषि सुधार से किसानों को अपनी उपज बेचने के लिए नए-नए अवसर मिलेंगे, जिससे उनका मुनाफा बढ़ेगा। इससे हमारे कृषि क्षेत्र को जहां आधुनिक टेक्नोलॉजी का लाभ मिलेगा, वहीं अन्नदाता सशक्त होंगे। #JaiKisanPM Modi also asked farmers to not be misled and highlighted that these three bills are key to bringing new improvements to the farming and agriculture sector. इस कृषि सुधार से किसानों को अपनी उपज बेचने के लिए नए-नए अवसर मिलेंगे, जिससे उनका मुनाफा बढ़ेगा। इससे हमारे कृषि क्षेत्र को जहां आधुनिक टेक्नोलॉजी का लाभ मिलेगा, वहीं अन्नदाता सशक्त होंगे। #JaiKisanHe tweeted, “A lot of power is engaged in confusing the farmers. I assure my farmer brothers and sisters that the system of MSP and government procurement will remain. These bills are really going to empower the farmers by giving them many more options. #JaiKisan”किसानों को भ्रमित करने में बहुत सारी शक्तियां लगी हुई हैं। मैं अपने किसान भाइयों और बहनों को आश्वस्त करता हूं कि MSP और सरकारी खरीद की व्यवस्था बनी रहेगी। ये विधेयक वास्तव में किसानों को कई और विकल्प प्रदान कर उन्हें सही मायने में सशक्त करने वाले हैं। #JaiKisanHe also shared the video of union minister Narendra Singh Tomar explaining the technicalities of the bill in Lok Sabha on Twitter and requested farmers to listen to him. किसानों और कृषि क्षेत्र से जुड़े सभी लोगों से मेरा अनुरोध है कि वे लोकसभा में कृषि सुधार विधेयकों पर चर्चा के दौरान कृषि मंत्री @nstomar जी द्वारा दिए गए भाषण को जरूर सुनें। #JaiKisan https://t.co/IPbQpBgGRqUnion minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has resigned from the cabinet over the passage of these three bills. I have resigned from Union Cabinet in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter & sister.Last week, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Sunday said that these bills will affect ‘pillars of food security”. Farmers also held protests against the ordinances in Kurukshetra on September 10 over the introduction of these ordinances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/system-of-msp-govt-procurement-retained-pm-assures-farmers-after-passage-of-agricultural-reform-bills/story-gvR5JcKP4fKwa6nxGADzjN.html
17-09-2020||India||‘He avoided responsibility’: Goa Lokayukta faults ex-CM Parrikar for shielding cabinet colleague||The Goa Lokayukta has faulted late former Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar of “shirking his responsibility” in failing to sanction the registration of an FIR against his then cabinet minister and current BJP MLA Pandurang Madkaikar who was facing charges of amassing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. The Lokayukta has ordered the Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) of the Goa Police to register an FIR against him.Passing an order based on a complaint that the Anti-Corruption Branch had failed to register the FIR, the Lokayukta has also called for action against the then Superintendent of Police for “dereliction of duty”.“The file was sent to the then chief minister for the purpose of getting permission to register FIR and to investigate thereafter. However, the note sheets indicate that the then chief minister has merely endorsed that ‘since the matter was pending before the Lokayukta there was no necessity of parallel investigation’,” the Lokayukta noted in the order.“It is crystal clear that the then CM avoided the responsibility obviously because the present respondent was serving a minister and an MLA belonging to the ruling party,” Goa Lokayukta Justice PK Misra said in his order.Justice Misra pointed out that the chief minister, being the home minister, was well aware that “the Lokayukta with its royal force of two constables and two head constables (two have since been repatriated to the police department by now) was not in a position to make any investigation relating to disproportionate assets.”Also read: ‘Desist from regulating electronic media’ - Centre urges Supreme Court“It is evident that the ACB and the then chief minister have shirked and shied away from their responsibility by not registering FIR and conducting any investigation whatsoever on the pretext that the matter was pending before the Lokayukta,” the Lokayukta noted.“As a matter of fact, all the postings of investigative staff in the Lokayukta had been done through the vigilance department and therefore it has to be presumed that the ACB, including the then chief minister, were aware that only two constables and two head constables had been appointed in the Institution of the Lokayukta as part of investigating staff (two have been repatriate in the meantime),” he said.“In other words, the then chief minister of Goa expected that the Lokayukta was to undertake investigation relating to a disproportionate assets case with the assistance of two constables and two head constables and on that basis the then chief minister evaded and avoided the responsibility of the registration of FIR and investigation into the alleged response,” he noted.“Prima facie there has dereliction in duty by the then SP... the office is directed to initiate a suo motu proceeding against the then SP for gross dereliction of duty so that appropriate recommendation can be made,” the order read.A complaint was filed before the Anti Corruption Branch that a Nikitasha Realtors Pvt Ltd, which is owned by BJP MLA and former minister Pandurang Madkaikar, has constructed a ‘lavishly built’ home that was valued at around Rs 200 crore, despite declaring a family of only Rs 1.68 lakh for the year 2015-16, when the construction was realised.Complainant advocate Aires Rodrigues then approached the Anti Corruption Branch with but later claimed that no action was being taken by the ACB, which he said was dragging its feet. He later approached the Lokayukta.Madkaikar in his reply has denied the allegations made relating to having disproportionate assets and explained that the building was constructed by Nikitasha Realtors which is a separate private company in the real estate business and he being the Managing Director of the company was only allowed to stay in such a building.He also claimed that the construction of the building was within the means of the private company based on its valuation and assets, and that he could not be indicted unless it was demonstrated that he holds assets beyond his known source of income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-avoided-responsibility-goa-lokayukta-faults-ex-cm-parrikar-for-shielding-cabinet-colleague/story-u6TRz7Ranj0ML0iSs2l7TI.html
17-09-2020||India||‘Acquit all in Babri case for unity’: Muslim litigant Iqbal Ansari||Iqbal Ansari, who was one of the litigants in the Ayodhya title suit in the Supreme Court, on Thursday appealed to the special CBI court to acquit all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case in the larger interest of Hindu-Muslim unity.The special CBI court in Lucknow will deliver its verdict in the Babri demolition case on September 30, in which veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti, among others, are the accused. “The Supreme Court has resolved the Ayodhya dispute. Now, both Ram temple and mosque are being constructed in Ayodhya (at separate locations). Several accused in the (Babri demolition) case have died. It is my personal opinion that the CBI court must acquit all 32 accused to end the dispute and pave the way for Hindu-Muslim unity,” said Ansari. On November 9 last year, the apex court had paved the way for construction of the Ram temple at what was known as the disputed site till then. The court also ordered the government to allot land for the construction of a mosque elsewhere in Ayodhya.“When the Supreme Court has resolved the dispute (Ayodhya title suit), the CBI court (Lucknow) must also end the dispute and acquit all accused in the larger interest of the nation,” added Ansari. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust had invited three Muslims for the Ram temple bhoomi pujan on August 5 – Iqbal Ansari, Mohammad Sharif, both from Ayodhya, and Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board chairman Zufar Ahmed Farooqui of Lucknow. But only Ansari attended the ceremony. Ansari was also against the All India Muslim Personal Law Board’s decision to file a review petition in the Supreme Court against the top court’s Ayodhya verdict. The Supreme Court dismissed all review petitions in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acquit-all-in-babri-case-for-unity-muslim-litigant-iqbal-ansari/story-X7icC4k3QALOUSWJi6g1iO.html
17-09-2020||India||Playroom, park for Covid-19 infected kids at Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital||Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital, the biggest Covid-19 treatment facility in the city, has now opened a separate ward for children who come in with the viral infection. The ward has posters with Hindi and English alphabets along with pictures on it. There is also a play area with colourful posters and matting with alphabets on it, and toys for the children being treated at the hospital. A small park with slides and swings has also put set up for the children.“We get many children who are Covid-19 positive and are admitted to the hospital along with their parents. However, if the parents develop complications and need to be moved the intensive care units then the children used to cry. They wanted to go back home. So, we felt very bad about how the pandemic was affecting little children and wanted to do something about it,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, director of the hospital.The hospital has also installed seven televisions sets that play cartoons for the children. So far, 415 Covid-19 positive children have received treatment at the hospital. There is also a separate ward for children who do not have the infection.Also read: ‘Yoga in burqa’ - Uttarakhand boxer girl fights all odds to teach yoga to women“Sometimes the patients have travelled to Delhi from UP, Haryana and Punjab and they do not have any place to leave their children behind. So, we have also created a ward for such children to stay in while their parents get treated,” said Dr Suresh.The facility has been created in the paediatric ward of the hospital. At any given time, there are 30 to 40 children admitted to these wards.At present, 811 patients are admitted to the hospital, according to data from the Delhi Corona app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/playroom-park-for-covid-19-infected-kids-at-delhi-s-lok-nayak-hospital/story-M9VjkqWHtuNRKFnA9aN5tK.html
17-09-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Koshi rail bridge tomorrow. Why it is significant||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday will inaugurate Koshi rail mega bridge through videoconferencing along with other rail projects for Bihar, ahead of Bihar Assembly Election 2020.The PMO has described the opening of the bridge as a watershed moment. Here is why* The bridge will connect Bihar to the northeast* The project was sanctioned in 2003-04.* The bridge has strategic importance along the India-Nepal border.* The construction of the 1.9-km bridge was completed during the pandemic and migrant workers were also involved, PMO said. * In 1887, a meter gauge link connected Nirmali and Bhaptiahi Saraigarh), which was washed away in 1934’s earthquake. Since then, there has been no rail connectivity here.The 12 other rail projects, which PM Modi will also inaugurate, include a new railway bridge on the Kiul River, two new railway lines, five electrification projects, one electric locomotive shed and third line project between Barh and Bakhtiyarpur. PM Modi will also flag off the Saharsa-Asanpur Kupha train from the Supaul station, PMO said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-koshi-rail-bridge-tomorrow-why-it-is-significant/story-vVNqke2JyIdJ9qXAClXE8H.html
17-09-2020||India||Protests banned within 200 m of Kedarnath shrine; won’t budge, say priests||The Uttarakhand government on Thursday prohibited any protests within 200 metre of Kedarnath shrine after yatris complained about agitation by priests making them uncomfortable. The priests have been protesting against the formation of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board since June.A statement released by Rudraprayag district administration on Thursday stated, “…under section 15 (5) (6) of Devasthanam Management Act, orders have been passed to comply with the said order prohibiting any sit-in demonstration in the 200-meter radius of the shrine and the main access road from the Valley Bridge to the temple.” Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said that the decision was taken after complaints by yatris that they were disturbed with the priests protesting outside the shrine. “We got a few complaints from yatris that priests are sitting outside the shrine bare chested and protesting, making the yatris feel uncomfortable. We had also learnt that the priests tried to convince yatris to join their protest. Representatives from the Board have tried talking to the priests along with attempts from the district administration also, but they are not budging. Now, we have said that they are free to carry out their protests, but not in the temple premises,” said Raman. He added that if the priests do not comply with the orders then it can also lead to imprisonment and will have criminal implications also. Vinod Shukla, president of Kedarnath Tirtha Purohit Mahasabha, said, “We have been protesting since months now and the government has not paid heed to our demands. The government has released this order, which goes against our rights, we have been holding a peaceful protest. Now, our protest will continue and we will intensify it with support from people of the whole Kedarnath valley and we will not move till the chief minister comes to talk to us.” When asked whether the district administration or members of the Board approached them for talks, Shukla denied any meeting from the Board’s side. On June 21, The Uttarakhand high court (HC) dismissed the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha (RS) member Subramanian Swamy against the state government’s takeover of the Char Dhams and 51 other shrines through the formation of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board. The court ruled that the ownership of the temple properties would vest in Char Dham shrines and power of the Board would be confined only to the administration and management of the properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-banned-within-200-m-of-kedarnath-shrine-won-t-budge-say-priests/story-b5Ia1pt40Fpr87YCvPWmpL.html
17-09-2020||India||Section 144 in Mumbai: Does anything change? All you need to know||Mumbai Police on Thursday reimposed Section 144 in the city from midnight to September end, triggering concerns of whether the maximum city is at the threshold of a second Covid-19 wave. The ministry of home affairs has already dismissed rumours that India might impose a strict lockdown from September 25 in the wake of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases being reported daily. The re-imposition of Section 144, which prohibits the gathering of four or more people in an area, effectively doesn’t change anything, it has been clarified. Here is all you need to know1. The order is an extension of the existing order. Section 144 was already imposed in Mumbai. No additional restriction has been added.2. Exemptions which have already been granted will continue.3. Movement and gathering of people are prohibited except for listed emergency and non-emergency services, as it was there.4. Existing restrictions in containment zones will continue.Also Read | ‘No need to panic’: Aaditya Thackeray on Section 144 imposed in Mumbai due to rising Covid-19 cases5. “Whereas Mumbai city continues to be threatened with the spread of Covid-19, it is considered expedient to issue prohibitory order for restricting any presence or movement of one or more persons in public places or gathering of any sort anywhere, including religious places to prevent further spread of the Covid-19 virus in the areas under the control of Commissioner of Police, Greater Mumbai,” the order said.6. WhatsApp messages started circulating leading to panic over new restrictions. Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray took to Twitter and clarified no new restrictions have been imposed.7. The Covid-19 situation of Maharashtra was raised in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Maharashtra has contributed 40 per cent of the Covid-19 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours.8. Mumbai recorded 2,411 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 178,385.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/section-144-in-mumbai-does-anything-change-all-you-need-to-know/story-4WMeBvo5LgnBqsvNHgG4WN.html
17-09-2020||India||Union minister Harsimrat Kaur resigns, BJP runs into trouble with old ally||The Bharatiya Janata party and the Shiromani Akali Dal alliance has run into rough weather over the latter’s disapproval of the three farm bills being pushed by the government in the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament.On Thursday, after SAD’s Harsimrat Kaur, who is a minister for food processing, announced her resignation from the Modi cabinet, the BJP remained tight lipped. However, a party leader said there is no threat to the alliance.The SAD, which clarified that it continues to be part of the NDA government, is opposed to the farm bill moved by the government, alleging that it is anti-farmer.Also Watch | Harsimrat Kaur resigns from Union Cabinet in protest against farm bills SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said that the farmers’ produce trade and commerce (promotion and facilitation) Bill 2020 and the farmers (empowerment and protection) agreement on price assurance and farm services Bill 2020 do not have the party’s sanction. The third bill, the Essential Commodities (amendment) Bill 2020 has already been passed in Lok Sabha, though the SAD opposed that as well.A senior BJP functionary on condition of anonymity said the “outstanding issues will be taken up” and sought to downplay the differences that have cropped up between the allies.After the 2019 general election, this is the second time that the BJP has been drawn into a disagreement with an ally. Soon after the Maharashtra assembly election; the BJP fell out with its oldest ally, the Shiv Sena over power sharing in the state. At the time, Sena had demanded a rotational chief minister, but the BJP turned down the suggestion. Eventually, the two allies parted ways and the Sena joined hands with the Congress and the NCP to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition government in the state.On Wednesday, BJP chief JP Nadda described the three bills as revolutionary, adding that this farsighted legislation will lead to empowerment of farmers. He said the farmers would be free to sell their produce in a competitive market of their choice and only the Congress is opposed to them. When asked about the SAD’s opposition to the bills, Nadda indicated the issues had been resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-harsimrat-kaur-resigns-bjp-runs-into-trouble-with-old-ally/story-rnLsiN1xUAd6mQiRAkIM1K.html
17-09-2020||India||Harsimrat Kaur ejects out of Cabinet over farm bills, her party stays in NDA||Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has resigned from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, as the BJP ally on Thursday opposed the two farm bills that seek to liberalise the agriculture sector, exposing a crucial rift on the issue of farmers and agricultural reforms.“I have resigned from Union Cabinet in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter & sister,” tweeted Harsimrat Badal.The party, however, continues to be a part of the ruling National Democratic Alliance. While announcing the SAD’s decision to withdraw their minister from the Modi Cabinet, her husband and party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said the SAD would continue to support the government and BJP, but will oppose the anti-farmer policies. Watch | Harsimrat Kaur resigns from Union Cabinet in protest against farm bills “These bills have many provisions that go against farmers’ interests. We have repeatedly asked the government that please address the apprehensions of farmers, but the government has done nothing. Therefore, I oppose these bills,” SAD MP from Ferozpur, Sukhbir Singh Badal said in the Lok Sabha during the debate on the The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, which replace similar ordinances.The SAD had been requesting the Centre not to go ahead with the three agriculture-related bills for approval of Parliament “until all reservations expressed by farmers’ organisations, farmers and farm labourers” are addressed.On September 12, the party had formally asked the Centre not to enact three farm ordinances during the monsoon session of Parliament, which began on September 14.On Tuesday, Sukhbir Badal, the MP from Punjab’s Ferozepur, voted against the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha, saying the proposed legislation was “against the interests of farmers”.“The legislation will affect the entire procurement system. It is not just about mandis. It doesn’t take into account the realities of our farm sector,” Badal said, opposing the bills today.The SAD was a party of farmers, Sukhbir Badal said. The Centre would have done better to organise a meeting with farmers before moving ahead with the bills and adequately address their concerns, he said.The Congress government in Punjab had passed a resolution in the Vidhan Sabha against the ordinances, prompting the SAD to fiercely oppose the bills after initially supporting it.The SAD’s core committee had issued a press release saying they had met farm organisations, farmer representatives and representatives to take their views. “Farmers are against these bills because it would make them vulnerable,” Badal said.Farmers are already protesting these ordinances in food bowl states, such as Haryana and Punjab, and influential farmers’ unions are also preparing to square off with the government on the demand of making profitable sales in the form of minimum support prices, or MSPs, a legal right.The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a front for nearly 200 farmers’ groups, has opposed the bills. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh is also unhappy with the ordinances. It demanded safeguards for the farming community, so has the Bhartiya Kisan Union.Farmer groups said they feared the new changes would lead to big monopolies. This would be just as bad as current cartelisation in mandis known as agricultural produce market committees (APMCs).“We want the ordinances to be signed into law with appropriate safeguards, such as a national portal of farm trade corporations,” said Mohini Mohan Mishra, all-India secretary of the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-anti-farmer-legislation-union-minister-harsimrat-badal-resigns/story-DLHabSd0dUchJAc6sKr0yO.html
17-09-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh assembly bypolls: BSP makes U-turn, decides to contest all 8 seats||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Thursday decided to field candidates on all the eight assembly seats, bypolls to which are to be held later this year. This is in contrast to the BSP’s earlier policy of not contesting the polls. The decision was taken at a meeting of senior party leaders, under the chairmanship of party chief Mayawati in Delhi.A senior party leader said, “The decision was taken in view of the 2022 assembly elections and the party wishes to revitalise its cadre by contesting the assembly by-election. The bypoll will also reflect the mood of the voters before the assembly election and the party will have ample time to strengthen itself after analyzing the bypoll results,” he said. Party sector in-charges were directed to announce the names of candidates after approval by the party president, he said.On Wednesday, the BSP had announced the name of Kuldeep Sankhwar as party candidate on Ghatampur (Kanpur) assembly seat. A meeting of senior BSP leaders will be held on September 21 in the eight assembly segments to discuss the election strategy. Also read: Union minister Harsimrat Badal resigns over Centre’s new farm billsMeanwhile, the BSP expelled its chief sector in-charge of Chitrakoot division, Jitendra Sankhwar, on the charge of anti-party activities.Of the eight assembly seats going to bypoll, six seats - Naugawan Sadat, Deoria, Ghatampur, Bulandshahar, Tundla and Bangaramu - were won by the BJP in the 2017 assembly polls while two constituencies – Malahani and Suar (Rampur) - were won by the Samajwadi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-bypolls-bsp-makes-u-turn-decides-to-contest-all-8-seats/story-IlMAU5zcwgBjJQPODl9s0J.html
17-09-2020||India||Police bust militant hideout in J&K’s Awantipora, recover huge cache of arms, explosives||A major attack has been averted after police on Thursday claimed to have busted a militant hideout and recovered huge cache of arms and ammunition including explosives from Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipora village.Acting on a tip-off about the presence of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorist, a joint search operation by police, 42 RR (Rashtriya Rifles) and 130 BN CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) was conducted of the nursery arear near forests of Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipora village.“During search of the forest area two explosive dumps were found which were concealed underground in two different 250 liters plastic tanks. In one plastic tank 416 high explosive gelatin sticks were kept concealed and have been recovered,” the police said.In another plastic tank, police recovered 50 detonators. “The detonators were destroyed by the Bomb Disposal Squad on the spot, due to their risk of carrying and transporting,” police said.By this recovery, the police said it is evident that forces have been able to avert some major terror attack by means of explosive substances.A case has been registered by Awantipore police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-bust-militant-hideout-recover-huge-cache-of-arms-explosives/story-OC7rnAsLMsNlVJr2po374J.html
17-09-2020||India||‘Vasooli Bhabhi’: Meet Madhya Pradesh’s women recovery agents for outstanding power bills||With a smile on her face and folded hands, saree clad Malti Pradhan, 37, of Madhya Pradesh’s Palasi village softly requests people to pay their pending electricity bills. Pradhan is among 500 newly appointed women recovery agent of the state-owned power distribution company, MP Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitran, who have replaced men across 16 districts for the job.Like men, they also get five to ten percent commission of the money recovered, depending on the amount recovered, from defaulters and have been trained to use an online application to track power bills and default in payment. On average, a woman recovery agent earns, between Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 per month, which these women say is enough for rural parts of Madhya Pradesh. There are additional incentives for preventing power theft in the villages, said Manoj Diwedi, public relation officer of the company.Pradhan says because of their work they have earned sobriquets such as ‘Vasooli Bhabhi’, ‘440-volt current’. Many villagers think that the work is not suitable for them. Also read: Union minister Harsimrat Badal resigns over Centre’s new farm bills“Earning from my husband’s grocery shop decreased due to Covid-19 lockdown. In June, I learnt about the new job opportunity for women in the power district company and I immediately joined it without even thinking how will I be able to do it,” Pradhan, who has a bachelors degree in education, said. She recalled that in the first month people used to ridicule her, show distrust and some elderly advised her that the work was not suitable for her. Overcoming all odds, she made some people pay bills after a month and earned Rs 500. “Now, people have started respecting me and also offer me a chair to sit,” she said. Rashmi Meena, 30, of Sonasavri village in Itarsi district, has to prevent power theft in addition to recovering money. “I couldn’t be harsh with villagers and lodge complaints on noticing power theft because of their poor financial condition,” she said. Every morning she runs into agriculture fields outside the village and urge villagers with folded hands not to steal power. “I tell them that they may have to go to jail for power theft and their children will not get government schemes benefits,” she said, adding that many villagers have now stopped power theft. Some of the women, like Nisha Vishwakarma, 42, of Bairasiya in Bhopal district, have got the support of their husbands in doing the job which is primarily male-dominated. “When people mocked my wife’s job by saying that now she would climb the electric pole too as a lineman, I just tell them that no work is gender-specific and it’s a matter of pride for me that women have been handed over a job which men failed to perform,” said her husband Balmukund Vishwakarma. Madhya Pradesh’s energy minister Pradyuman Singh said, “With their soft approach and hard work, these women are giving a befitting reply to scorn directed to them by men. The scheme has borne good result and these women have received Rs 10 lakh so far.” Diwedi said the agents get up to 15 percent of the commission depending on the pending amount and 10 percent on reporting power theft. More money recovered, higher is the commission. They also get commission on initiating new power connections, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vasooli-bhabhi-meet-madhya-pradesh-s-women-recovery-agents-for-outstanding-power-bills/story-QVmGCNWNtVEODK4Ccw91SJ.html
17-09-2020||India||Union minister Harsimrat Badal resigns over Centre’s new farm bills||Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Thursday quit the Modi government opposing the farm bills that seek to liberalise the agriculture sector. The move came shortly after Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced in the Lok Sabha that the minister will quit protesting the Centre’s anti-farmer move.Harsimrat Badal is the only SAD representative in the Modi government. The Punjab party is the oldest BJP ally.While announcing the SAD’s decision to withdraw their minister from the Modi Cabinet, Sukhbir Badal said the SAD would continue to support the government and BJP, but will oppose the anti-farmer policies.Watch | Harsimrat Kaur resigns from Union Cabinet in protest against farm bills I have resigned from Union Cabinet in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter & sister.The Congress government in Punjab had passed a resolution in the Vidhan Sabha against the ordinances, prompting the SAD to fiercely oppose the bills after initially supporting it. The SAD had been requesting the Centre not to go ahead with the three agriculture-related bills for approval of Parliament “until all reservations expressed by farmers’ organisations, farmers and farm labourers” are addressed. On Tuesday, the SAD voted against the contentious farm bill that was passed in the Lok Sabha. Sukhbir Singh Badal, participating in the debate, had described the bills as anti-farmer and said that the Centre never consulted his party before the ordinances were framed.Three farm sector-related ordinances were cleared by the Union cabinet recently and the corresponding bills were tabled in Lok Sabha on Monday. One of them -- the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 -- was taken up for a discussion and passed by a voice vote. Sukhbir Badal refuted suggestions that his party initially supported the three ordinances, which these bills seek to replace, and asserted that Harsimrat Kaur Badal had expressed her concerns in the Cabinet meeting and also wrote to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, highlighting “flaws” in the proposed legislations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsimrat-kaur-badal-will-quit-modi-govt-to-protest-farm-bills-sukhbir-singh-badal-says-in-lok-sabha/story-WtsiaoNSyYajqnYEag0QqN.html
17-09-2020||India||WHO spotlights safety of health workers amid Covid-19, releases charter||A day after the Centre said it had no national database on the number of health workers who had died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the World Health Organization on Thursday released a Health Worker Safety Charter that calls on governments to address persistent threats to the health and safety of healthcare staff and their families who are facing disproportionately high risk of infection and death.Health worker safety is critical to ensure continued availability, access and delivery to health services. While health workers represent less than 3% of the population in the large majority of countries and less than 2% in almost all low and middle-income countries, around 14% of Covid-19 cases reported to WHO are among health workers. “No country, hospital or clinic can keep its patients safe unless it keeps its health workers safe.… Every day, health workers are exposed to stress, burnout, stigma, discrimination and even violence. Now more than ever, we have a duty to give health workers the safe working conditions, the training, the pay and the respect they deserve,” said Dr Tedros A Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General, at the launch of the charter. At least 136 million people are employed in the health and social services sector globally, according to the WHO. “Some of the factors that are contributing to an alarming number of infections among health workers are the lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) or the proper training to use it. WHO has been supporting countries to address this issue by providing PPE to countries along with masks and face shields, gowns, gloves and goggles; and training health workers on their use and infection prevention and control,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region, of which India is a part. Data from India is woefully inadequate. Since health is a state subject, the Union health ministry does not have national data on Covid-19 infections and deaths among health workers, according to the ministry of health and family welfare statement in Parliament on September 15. The Centre only has records of the deaths of only 155 health workers whose families had sought relief under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Package that offers an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for loss of life or accidental death for people on Covid-19-related duty. In India, 64 doctors, 32 nurses, 14 Asha (community health workers) and 45 support staff, such as ambulance drivers, ward boys, cleaners, and cremation staff have sought the insurance cover, according to the government statement. This is a fraction of the deaths attributed to Covid-19 by Indian Medical Association (IMA), which said 382 doctors have died, with the youngest being 27 and the oldest, 85 years old. “If we can have national data for Covid-19 cases and deaths, why can’t we have national data for cases and deaths among doctors and other health workers? Blaming the lack of nationwide data on health being a state subject is inexcusable. Like soldiers, health workers fight in the frontlines, but unlike soldiers, we also risk taking the infection home to our homes,” said Dr Ranjan Sharma, national president, IMA. The physical risks are accompanied with psychological stress from working in high-risk settings for long hours, constant fear of infection, separation from family, and social stigmatisation. Two in five healthcare professionals on Covid-19 duty have trouble sleeping, and one in five report depression and anxiety, with the rates of depression and anxiety being higher in female health workers and nursing staff than men, found an analysis of data from 13 studies of 33,062 frontline workers during the Covid-19 pandemic. The study was published in the journal,Brain, Behaviour and Immunityin August.“Reducing the workload and stress on health workers is imperative. Healthcare workers are in need of psychosocial support in these trying circumstances. Communities can play their part by adopting behaviours that reduce disease spread so that healthcare systems, and as result health workers, are not burdened. We all have a role to play,” said Dr Khetrapal Singh. The charter also calls for ensuring adequate rest breaks, safe staffing levels, and fair duration of working hours for optimal physical and mental health.Among the other key recommendations of WHO’s Health Worker Safety charter are establishing synergies between health worker and patient safety strategies through infection prevention and control programmes, and reporting, licensing and accreditation standards; ensuring occupational health and safety; and zero tolerance to violence among health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-spotlights-safety-of-health-workers-amid-covid-19-releases-charter/story-P1t4f5elKZWg5HVkOBpPLJ.html
17-09-2020||India||‘Did not incur any financial expenses’: Govt on ‘Howdy Modi’ event held in Houston||The government on Thursday said it did not incur any expenses for the ‘Howdy-Modi’ event in the US city of Houston in September last year and that it was organised by a not-for-profit group. Prime Minister Narendra Modi received a thunderous reception when he, accompanied by US President Donald Trump, addressed a crowd of over 50,000 Indian-Americans at the event in a stadium in Houston on September 22, 2019. “A US-based not-for-profit organisation namely the Texas India Forum Inc. organised an event titled, ‘Howdy, Modi! Shared Dreams, Bright Futures’ in Houston on September 22, 2019,” Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said in the Rajya Sabha.He was replying to a written question on the event.Specifically asked whether the government incurred any financial expenses for the event or funded its organisers, Muraleedharan said “no”.He said the chairperson of the Texas India Forum Inc. was Jugal Malani, an Indian community member based in Texas.“Prime Minister, as part of his visit to the US, participated in the event at the invitation of the organisers and addressed a gathering of members of the Indian-American community and many of their elected representatives,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-not-incur-any-financial-expenses-govt-on-howdy-modi-event-held-in-houston/story-CUD5nGfP14DrXWXVsTyI6L.html
17-09-2020||India||‘Desist from regulating electronic media’: Centre urges Supreme Court||The central government on Thursday urged the Supreme Court to refrain from undertaking the exercise of laying down guidelines to regulate electronic media like television channels, stating that the field is already governed by laws made by Parliament and judgments delivered by the top court in the past.In an affidavit filed before the apex court on Thursday, the centre said that no further guidelines are required but in the event the court embarks upon the process, then it should first be undertaken with regard to digital media like web portals, YouTube channels, et. cetera., which the centre claimed has a faster reach and wider range of viewership in comparison to mainstream media.“This court may not undertake the exercise of laying down any further guidelines… it is desirable that if this court decides to undertake the exercise, it should first be undertaken with regard to digital media as there already exists sufficient framework and judicial pronouncements with regard to electronic media and print media,” it was submitted.Also read: ‘It may be a long winter’ - Singapore envoy amid India-China tension at LACThe affidavit was filed in the case against television (TV) channel Sudarshan News which was thrust into the limelight after it telecast a show called “Bindas Bol” relating to the entry of Muslims in civil services.On September 15, the top court had barred further telecast of the controversial programme after it took strong exception to the contents of the show observing that the first four episodes of the show gave an impression that it was being aired with the insidious objective of vilifying the Muslim community and to bring it into disrepute.The bench, which also comprised Justices KM Joseph and Indu Malhotra, had also expressed inclination to hold a detailed hearing to decide on the regulation of TV news channels and suggested the appointment of a committee of five distinguished citizens to frame standards for regulation of the electronic media.In its affidavit, the Centre submitted that no such exercise needs to be undertaken merely based on few episodes telecast by one channel, Sudarshan News.“Even if this court considers it appropriate to undertake the said exercise, there is no justification to confine this exercise only to mainstream electronic media. Digital media has faster reach from a wider range of viewership/readership and has the potential to become viral because of several electronic applications like Whatsapp, Twitter (and) Facebook,” the affidavit stated. The case will be taken up for hearing on Friday.Meanwhile, Sudarshan News also filed its response in the matter on Wednesday defending the programme and the use of the term “UPSC Jehad” in the programme.The Noida based channel maintained that it has no ill-will against any particular community or individual and does not oppose the selection of any meritorious candidate. The programme, it claimed, is intended to highlight the allegedly dubious sources of foreign funding received by an organization, Zakat Foundation, which supports and provides coaching to civil service aspirants.“Zakat Foundation has received funds from various terror-linked organizations. It is not that all contributors to the Zakat Foundation are terror-linked. However, some of the contributors are linked to organizations or are organizations that fund extremist groups. The funds received by the Zakat Foundation, in turn, are used to support aspirants for IAS, IPS or UPSC,” Sudarshan News submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/desist-from-regulating-electronic-media-centre-urges-supreme-court/story-ui90RktPPqVZ0ekNawmBfP.html
17-09-2020||India||Will levy user charge to redevelop railway stations, says Niti Aayog CEO||The Indian Railways will soon start levying a ‘user fees’ as part of train fares for redeveloping railway stations and modernising infrastructure for bringing in investment, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Thursday. The user development fees model will be used by the national transporter for the first time. User Development Fee (UDF) is part of the tax paid by air passengers. UDF is charged at various airports and the rate of UDF varies from airport to airport based on various factors. Railways plans to levy the user fees across nearly 700-1000 railway stations.“We are going to keep a very small amount for the user charge. We will issue a notification for the user charge for all stations including both who are getting redeveloped and those which are not. When the redevelopment of the stations gets completed the money will go to the concessionaires, till then that money will go to the railways for improving facilities across stations. It will be an affordable amount, but it is important to levy if we want to provide world class facilities similar to the airport developments. We want to upgrade all our major railway stations,” railway board CEO VK Yadav said.“We will not levy the charge across all our 7,000 stations but all major stations where the footfall of passengers is increasing over the next five years. It will be done in about 10-15% of all our stations where we expect the footfall to increase,” he added. This comes in the backdrop of the government’s plan to bring in private investment in the national carrier. The railways plans to redevelop 50 railway stations, and monetise its land. The redeveloped hubs will be called ‘Railopolis’, according to the railways. It will lease the land out for 60 years for commercial purposes.“We want railways to drive India’s growth story. In countries like Japan and South Korea the growth story was also driven by railway infrastructure. We are confident going forward railways will contribute 1-2% towards India’s growth,” Kant said. Apex policy think-tank Niti Aayog had, in October, pulled up the ministry of railways for delayed implementation of the Centre’s plan. Niti Aayog had recommended an empowered group of top bureaucrats to develop 50 stations on priority basis.The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had in 2016 announced its plan of redeveloping 400 railway stations during its first tenure. As per the plan, the cost of station redevelopment project was to be met by leveraging commercial development of land and air space in and around the stations.The railway ministry also began the formal process to allow a private company to run trains on 109 routes -- a process that aims to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy.“The focus is Make in India, even the global companies that participate in this will have to follow the Make in India norms by the DPIIT. This will bring in manufacturing capacity in India. When Alstom and Bombardier can manufacture metro trains in India then why can’t trains be manufactured. Everything will set up in India,” Kant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-levy-user-charge-to-redevelop-railway-stations-says-niti-aayog-ceo/story-hOJsYLpiEg7MXDOPlcIdWI.html
17-09-2020||India||Nothing came to me on a silver platter, says Anangsha Biswas||Actor Anangsha Biswas feels that OTT platform has opened a new pathway for talented actors. “There are many actors like me who have talent as their only support and OTT has turned out to be our life-saving platform, offering several well crafted characters to play. Cinema making is a huge undertaking with a lot of money riding on it that’s why many producers think twice before investing on actors who are still in the process of carving a niche for themselves. Whereas, OTT show makers are readily taking chances on good actors who are still striving to make a mark,” said Anangsha over the phone. The ‘Mirzapur’ and ‘Hostages’ actor believes that the industry over the time has become more talent centric, “If you are talented you will get good work. If you are not, you won’t — it’s as simple as that.” On selection of roles, she said, “If my character is performance based rest does not matter to me. In ‘Mirzapur’ I had just four scenes and didn’t expect to get noticed amid stalwart actors. I took the risk expecting more from the second season. But, the kind of love Zareena got was literally amazing. It gave me maximum exposure.” For Anangsha size of the role has become is never a priority as long as it’s a strong storyline. “Nothing came to me on a silver platter. So, I had to take risks to move ahead else I wouldn’t have been where I am today. Whatever little I have achieved till day it has been my hard work and probably that is why I am able to express myself easily.” Though ‘Mirzapur’ was wrapped up in Varanasi but all her scenes were shot in Mumbai. However, this time Anangsha got an opportunity to shoot for a show in Lucknow, “This was my first visit to the city. I really like the architecture and monuments there. And when I got two days break, I travelled all across the place. Luckily, I also got to taste biryani, kebabs and other Awadhi cuisine.” Anangsha has another connection with city. She was launched by Sudhir Mishra in ‘Khoya Khoya Chand’ (2005) and then got her major break with his OTT debut directorial ‘Hostages’ and its second season in which Mishra is series director. “I was in top 16 of ‘Cinestar Ki Khoj’ (2014) where he was one of the judges. In 2010, I shifted to Mumbai from Kolkata and started with theatre. I did ‘Luv Shuv Chutney Tey Chicken Khurana,’ and then went to Australia for a year for acting studies.” Next I am going to shoot for a film with Saumitra Singh, director of ‘The Wallet.’ “Because of Covid situation I’m not taking too much work as I believe this year it’s more about survival than anything else.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/nothing-came-to-me-on-a-silver-platter-says-anangsha-biswas/story-k8Kp3eBC6dooio9NdvVsTI.html
17-09-2020||India||‘I never let my learning get stagnant’||Actor Gagan Anand feels the process of learning something new should never stop, “We just have one life time and so we should try to add new perspective to it, else monotony will kill us before death. Learning and unlearning are two sides of a same coin for me. I always try to soak in maximum creativity that is happening in my surroundings,” said the ‘Ye Hai Mohabbatein,’ actor. Last seen in shows like, ‘Ek Veer Ki Ardaas Veera,’ ‘Bajirao,’ ‘Fixerr’ started his career being a fashion student and then a model. “After completing my course from NIFD Chandigarh, I took up modelling before designing fashion shows and trying photography. I never let my learning get stagnant. It was during studies, I started doing ramp shows and then I picked up designing the entire shows for fashion weeks. Soon I decided to try acting and started auditioning before landing my first acting project. I love working in-front of the camera as well as behind, so undertook assisting for web show ‘Baarish,’ season 1 & 2. Now soon I have plans to direct a Punjabi film,” he said.Gagan is in Benares, UP, for a shoot of his upcoming OTT series. Telling us more, he said, “This is the first time I got a chance to visit the holy city. And the feeling is so very amazing, I also had an opportunity to shoot on the ghats and trust me, I felt like being spiritually connected to the place. We are shooting for ‘Bicchoo ka Khel,’ that was supposed to be shot in March but was put on hold due to Covid crisis. As shoots resumed, we too got a green signal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-never-let-my-learning-get-stagnant/story-SdYeriHhrSMIXzaz8eAfnK.html
17-09-2020||India||Union home minister Amit Shah discharged from AIIMS in Delhi after five days||Union home minister Amit Shah, who was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi late Monday night for a complete medical check up, was discharged from the hospital on Thursday, according to people familiar with the development.Amit Shah was earlier admitted to Medanta hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 on August 2. After the home minister made a full recovery, he was discharged from the hospital on August 14.However, the minister was rushed back to AIIMS on August 17 for ‘post-Covid care’ and was released on August 30. Later, Shah was again admitted to AIIMS on September 12 for a complete medical check up as advised by the doctors and was discharged today.“Union home minister Amit Shah was discharged from AIIMS after post-Covid care on August 30. As per advice given at discharge, he has now been admitted for a complete medical checkup before the parliament session for 1-2 days,” the hospital had said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-home-minister-amit-shah-discharged-from-aiims-in-delhi-after-five-days/story-yaEejsH0AxKX9iuvw9CPCO.html
17-09-2020||India||‘It may be a long winter’: Singapore envoy amid India-China tension at LAC||It is imperative for India and China to find an amicable solution to their border standoff as any flare-up of tensions could have far-reaching implications for post-Covid-19 recovery efforts across the region, Singapore’s new high commissioner Simon Wong Wie Kuen said on Thursday. Expressing concern at the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in his first interview to the Indian media after presenting his credentials last week, Wong acknowledged the two sides could be in for a “long winter” and that efforts to find a solution may not be easy, though there is no alternative to dialogue. The envoy also spoke on Singapore’s priorities in its economic relations with India, participation in New Delhi’s plans to forge resilient supply and value chains, and collaboration in the Indo-Pacific. Asked about the implications of the India-China standoff, Wong said there is a “stalemate and a stare-down situation”. He said, “It may be a long winter, it will not have an easy solution but I think the messages coming out from both sides are very calm and the operating principle is still trying to figure out something of a resolution through diplomatic means.” He added, “We are good friends of both India and China. The last thing we want is to have skirmishes grow bigger and bigger because now both sides are in a stare-down position and the troop levels of both sides are very high. We don’t want any untoward incidents happening because from the Covid-19 recovery point of view, if we have two big economic engines suffer as a result, the whole Asian economy will suffer for a prolonged period of time. “We don’t want to see that happen, we have been urging both sides to stay calm and find an amicable solution to it…But we are concerned about what’s happening in Ladakh in particular, in Pangong Tso. We hope calmer heads prevail.” Responding to a question on whether resolving the border issue will be a protracted process even if current tensions dissipate, the envoy said it is “always problematic [in] relations between…two humongous neighbours to resolve [things]”. He suggested “harsh negotiations” would be better than an exacerbation of tensions. “If you were to have harsh negotiations and you cross with words, I think it’s easier because it’s common practice, even in FTA negotiations – harsh, tough negotiation postures, but thereafter, when the deal is done, you shake hands and that’s it,” he said. “But the memory of 1962 is very, very strong because it was a military conflict…My humble advice is that both sides should think very carefully how they want to move forward and to be sure, both sides understand this very clearly...in the operating principle, both sides should sit down and talk and resolve this diplomatically,” he added. Amid the Covid-19 crisis, the world being at an “inflection point” and a very “acrimonious US-China relationship”, Singapore’s priorities for the relationship with India include enhanced trade and investments and collaboration in areas such as healthcare for developing vaccines, Wong said. Even during the Covid-19 crisis, Singapore committed around $2 billion of new investments into India, and it is also keen to work with India on moves to forge new supply and value chains, he said. “Because we came in early to India, that conversation of plugging India into our part of the world is continuing non-stop…Cumulatively, Singapore has $85 billion committed to India. On your side, you have close to $60 billion. It is an equal partnership and we have about 650 Singapore companies set up in India and about 8,500 Indian companies are set up in Singapore. That notion of supply chain security and supply chain rework is always in play,” Wong said. Wong said there will be “a competition of ideas” in the Indo-Pacific and Singapore endorses the Asean vision for the region – “which is to say we keep the waters around our region peaceful, the organisation should be inclusive and not exclusive, it should not be targeted at one or two particular countries, and the focus should be on economics, and less military”. The Indian preference, he noted, is to “have Quad, Quad-plus or trilaterals”. He added, “India is free to have conversations with like-minded parties which share the same interests...I feel that down the road, India should also have a conversation with Asean on the configuration of your ideas and the Asean ideas.” Wong also spoke on Singapore’s efforts to help foreign workers, including some 100,000 Indians, affected by the pandemic. Besides free medical facilities and testing, Singapore has provided grants to companies so that salaries are paid even when workers don’t go to work. However, as many businesses that hire foreign workers have closed down, they may be sent home and the “next step is for us to make sure that they are fairly compensated and if they intend to stay on, we will have to look for jobs for them”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-may-be-a-long-winter-singapore-envoy-amid-india-china-tension-at-lac/story-lcXqJjK0DT0moPAReplpWI.html
17-09-2020||India||11,616 Indians abroad infected with coronavirus: MEA||Over 11,600 Indians abroad have been infected with coronavirus as per details available with the country’s missions, the government informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday.In a written reply to a question in the Upper House, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said Indian Missions arranged for the welfare of Indian nationals, where required, including through the Indian community associations.In some cases, arrangements were also made for screening and testing of stranded Indian nationals to enable them to return to India, as also for movement of patients via air ambulances for their treatment in India, he said.“As on September 10, 2020, as per the details available with Indian missions, the total number of Indian citizens abroad infected with coronavirus stood at 11,616,” he said.Out of the 11,616 Indians infected with COVID-19 abroad, 4,618 were in Singapore, 2,639 in Bahrain, 1,769 in Kuwait, 907 in Oman, 420 in Qatar, 308 in Iran, 238 in the UAE and 192 in Italy.During the COVID-19 pandemic, India has supported 150 countries with medicines and medical equipment, including around 80 countries under grants-in-aid, he said.In response to another question on the Vande Bharat Mission, Muraleedharan said the mission was launched on May 7, 2020 and more than 14,12,835 Indian nationals have returned to India via air, land and sea.To another question on the number of Indians abroad at present who have registered with the Vande Bharat Mission to return to India but have still not returned, Muraleedharan said according to the information available with the ministry, 4,80,738 Indians who have registered on MEA’s online ‘REPAT’ portal have not yet returned.“The actual number of people wishing to return may differ. As per information provided by the missions, many people who have registered may no longer wish to return. Moreover, as per latest guidelines of Government of India, passengers are no longer required to register for Air Bubble flights,” he said.“Most people with compelling reasons have safely returned to their homes by air, land and sea. The exercise to bring back stranded Indians is ongoing under the Vande Bharat Mission,” he said.“Our Missions have assisted more than 62,000 Indian nationals in distress involving an expenditure of nearly Rs 22.5 crores from the Indian Community Welfare Fund,” he said.Responding to a separate question on the number of students and workers brought back under the Vande Bharat Mission, Muraleedharan said 56,630 students and 3,08,099 workers had been brought back.Asked about the details of the facilities being given to the workers brought back to the country, the minister said, “With the aim of making the best of our skilled workforce returning to the country due to the ongoing pandemic, the Government of India launched an initiative SWADES (Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support) to conduct a skill mapping exercise of the returning citizens under the Vande Bharat Mission.” SWADES, a joint initiative of the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of External Affairs, is aimed to create a database of qualified citizens based on their skill sets and experience to tap into and fulfil demand of Indian and foreign companies.This was done to facilitate reintegration of migrant workers into the labour market and promote effective employment opportunities, he said.“For facilitating employment opportunities, details of SWADES registrations have been integrated with Skill India’s ASEEM (Aatmanirbhar Skilled Employee Employer Mapping) portal which was launched on July 10, 2020,” he said.All data regarding Indians returning under Vande Bharat Mission was also shared with relevant state governments, on a real time basis, he said.Muraleedharan also asserted that there was no delay in bringing back workers who were stuck in various countries in the Gulf region. He said priority has been given to countries in the Gulf region for scheduling flights to bring back the stranded workers under the Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-616-indians-abroad-infected-with-coronavirus-mea/story-6lJbazRTV1sKCnyUi1dkiJ.html
17-09-2020||India||3 militants, woman killed in encounter in Srinagar’s Batamaloo||Three militants and a woman were killed in an encounter in Batamaloo area of Srinagar on Thursday morning. A CRPF deputy commandant and another jawan were also injured in the encounter which was the seventh operation in the Srinagar city this year.Police and the CRPF launched an operation in the Firdousabad locality of Batamaloo early in the morning after they received a specific input about the presence of militants in a house, the police said. According to the police, militants opened fire on the search party which led to injuries to two CRPF personnel, including deputy commandant, who have been referred to the 92 Base Hospital. Three local terrorists were killed in the operation; they had joined militant ranks recently. Stone-pelting also broke out during the encounter and additional forces personnel were deployed in the area.Director-General of Police Dilbag Singh said that three militants were neutralized in the operation. ‘’Unfortunately, a woman also died in the cross-firing. We regret her killing.’’ The woman has been identified as Kounsar Jan of Batamaloo. The lady was hit in a lane as she was out to fetch bakery at the early hours.Also read: 23-year-old man detained by Sopore police found dead, magisterial probe orderedCRPF spokesman said that at about 0315 hours, the party zeroed in on the target house and upon finding the gate closed, a CRPF personnel, under command of Dy Commandant Rahul Mathur, scaled the wall and made an entry into the house from the rear.“As officer and his buddy started tactically searching the rooms of the house, one of the terrorists, who was hiding inside, suddenly opened fire on the party and officer received gunshot wound on his upper chest and abdomen. The injured officer retaliated the fire and gunned down the terrorist on the spot. The injured officer was evacuated to 92 Base Hospital of Army where he is in a critical condition.”The DGP said the militants killed in the operation were locals from south Kashmir, arms and ammunition were also recovered from them.He said the militants from other districts of South and north Kashmir keep attacking the security forces. “On August 14, they targeted our party and killed two policemen at Nowgam. Before that, they had killed two BSF men at Pandach on city outskirts. And then they made another attempt at Pantha Chowk where we lost a brave SoG man,”The DGP said that since the woman killed in the encounter had no links with militancy her body will be handed over to her family. He said in seven operations in Srinagar city this year 16 militants were killed. ‘’Five of them were residents of Srinagar.’’ He, however, termed the operation in which Hizbul Commander Junaid Sehrai was killed, the biggest success of this year.DGP Singh said that so far this year, the forces have conducted 72 operations in J&K. “This year has been successful for us compared to last year. We have killed 177 terrorists, 12 in Jammu and 165 in Kashmir. 22 terrorists from Pakistan were among those killed which shows the direct involvement of Pakistan.’’He said that there are large numbers of Pakistanis in the ranks of Jaish and Lashkar militant outfits. DGP Singh said that even if any militant wants to surrender during an exchange of fire they give him a chance and opportunity to do that. ‘’ There are many such examples when militants who wanted to surrender were given a chance.’’Singh said that many boys, after joining militancy, have returned in south Kashmir. ‘’Due to security reasons, we don’t mention about those cases, there are 20 such youths who have returned after joining the militant ranks.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-militants-woman-killed-in-encounter-in-srinagar-s-batamaloo/story-EPIhHxCrxPTF8W6qbrXI0H.html
17-09-2020||India||Delhi riots: Court takes cognisance of Delhi Police charge sheet, Natasha Narwal gets bail||The Karkardooma Court on Thursday took cognisance of the charge sheet Delhi Police filed accusing 15 people, including former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, of inciting violence in Northeast Delhi in February this year. Out of the 21 persons arrested so far, police charge-sheeted 15 accused, based on scientific, documentary and testimonial evidence gathered during investigation. The remaining 6 persons are expected to be charge sheeted in due course after collecting sufficient evidence and completing statutory and procedural requirements, police said in a statement on Wednesday. All 15 have been accused under sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, IPC and Arms Act. Also Read | Delhi riots case: Police file over 17,000-page charge sheet, name 15 peopleThe 17,000-page charge sheet named Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Ishrat Jahan, Meeran Haider, Safoora Zargar and Khalif Saifi.Meanwhile, Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal, who was arrested for Jaffrabad metro station protest, got bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-court-takes-cognisance-of-delhi-police-charge-sheet-natasha-narwal-gets-bail/story-ydXPOUipEPK6QAKgd4ZJMO.html
17-09-2020||India||Vaccine-maker Moderna releases Covid-19 trial plan||Moderna Inc. released details of its plan for analyzing data from its Covid-19 vaccine trial, offering an unusual under-the-hood look at the study of a top vaccine candidate.In a statement ahead of an investor meeting the company is holding on Thursday, Moderna said the trial has now enrolled 25,296 of an expected 30,000 volunteers, and more than 10,000 have received two doses of the vaccine.While the broad outlines of major drug trials are available on a U.S. government website, details of how and when data-monitoring boards overseeing the trials plan to analyze data are often kept confidential by pharmaceutical companies.However, the unprecedented push to get a vaccine to market quickly has increased interest in those details. The analysis of findings and what the rules are for stopping a trial if there are encouraging early signals could determine how quickly a shot receives emergency authorization from U.S. regulators.The shares gained 2% to $70.20 in pre-market trading in New York. They’ve more than tripled since the beginning of the year.Moderna decided to release its full trial plan to create public confidence that it is doing everything it can to ensure a vaccine is safe and effective, said Chief Executive Officer Stephane Bancel.“We have been working nine months to try to stop this virus by getting a vaccine to market,” Bancel said in an interview. “We want to make sure the general public has trust in vaccines by being transparent.”Under the Moderna plan, a data monitoring board will take a preliminary look at the efficacy results after 53 participants have contracted the coronavirus, and again after 106 cases are reached. The final analysis will occur after 151 cases, according to slides from the investor meeting.Moderna’s plan is more conservative than the 32-case benchmark being used by Pfizer Inc. for its first preliminary analysis of its Covid-19 vaccine. Pfizer has said conclusive efficacy results are likely by the end of October.According to a slide being presented at the meeting, Moderna’s trial is only likely to generate clear positive results at the first analysis if it turns out to be very highly effective, reducing Covid-19 cases by 74% or more.If the vaccine turns out to be a more modest 60% effective, the trial might have to proceed to the final efficacy readout in order to generate clear results, according to the 135-page trial protocol.November DataIn the interview, Bancel said the most likely scenario was that Moderna’s vaccine could generate preliminary efficacy data in November. It is “technically possible” for Moderna to get results in October, but this is unlikely, he said.Bancel said “it is extremely unlikely” everyone in the country could get vaccinated by the end of the first quarter of 2021, as a Trump administration official suggested on Wednesday. All three of the most likely initial vaccines are based on newer technologies, which means that the companies have had to create new manufacturing capacity, he said.There will likely only be enough vaccines approved for every American who wants a shot by the second half of next year, according to Bancel.Unlike an AstraZeneca Plc trial that has been put on hold twice to investigate possible neurological adverse events, Moderna’s trial hasn’t had any pauses to probe potential safety problems, Bancel said.The AstraZeneca vaccine trial in the U.K. resumed after a safety review was completed, while another AstraZeneca trial in the U.S. remains on hold. Documents sent to participants in the U.K. say the symptoms probably weren’t related to the AstraZeneca shot.In an email, an AstraZeneca spokeswoman said it had “no update as of right now” on its U.S. trial design beyond details already available in the U.S. database, clinicaltrials.gov.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-maker-moderna-releases-covid-19-trial-plan/story-24s1oOUllfpMULEapmPCGK.html
17-09-2020||India||Local trains will resume operations when states are ready, says Railway Board||Apart from Mumbai local trains which are only ferrying essential staff, suburban railway services have remained suspended even in Unlock 4. “We will consider resuming suburban railway services once the state governments concerned are ready and they approach us,” Railway Board chairman VK Yadav said on Thursday, addressing a press meet along with Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. “We have to minimise the spread of Covid-19. Once the state governments approach us, we will work the modalities to resume services,” Yadav said.On the resumption of the local trains in West Bengal, the chairman said, “We are in continuous touch with the West Bengal government. There have been frequent lockdowns in the state. Special trains were also suspended last month. Metro has started operations. We are discussing with the government over the resumption of local train services.”Lawyers in Mumbai have been allowed to take Mumbai locals, which were ferrying only essential staff so far. The facility will be available from September 18 to October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-trains-will-resume-operations-when-states-are-ready-says-railway-board/story-cidmIDTGD8Suh3S8JCq6DI.html
17-09-2020||India||CBI case against 6 companies for allegedly installing pop-ups to personal computers||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Thursday said that it has filed a case against six private companies for allegedly transmitting pop-ups with bogus warnings to personal computers of certain individuals. In a complaint filed with central agency, it has been alleged that these companies transmitted pop-ups to the victims’ personal computers by sending out warnings/bogus messages that said “serious technical problems” including malware infection in their Microsoft Windows systems, CBI said. Later, when the victims called on the helpline number to seek a solution to the pop-up issue arising on their computer, they were allegedly asked to pay a fee by clicking on a link on the interface for providing solution to the fake problems.The central agency so far has conducted raids in six cities. Searches are being carried out on Thursday at 10 locations including Jaipur, Delhi, Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Mainpuri (UP) at the premises of said companies and the residential premises of other persons.The employees of these six companies based in New Delhi, Noida, Gurugram and Jaipur, allegedly advise the victims to install a certain anti-virus or anti-malwares that are originally PUPs (Potentially Unwanted Programs).The CBI is currently investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-case-against-5-companies-for-allegedly-installing-pop-up-to-personal-computers/story-sljapJ3EFwXVAmrewdAt9I.html
17-09-2020||India||23-year-old man detained by Sopore police found dead, magisterial probe ordered||Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday ordered a magisterial probe into the death of twenty-three-year-old man who was detained by the police in Sopore town and was found dead on Wednesday.Deputy Commissioner Baramulla GN Ittoo on Thursday ordered magisterial probe which will be conducted by Additional District Magistrate, Baramulla, Mohammad Ahsan Mir.“Young boy Irfan Ahmad Dar of Sidiq Colony Sopore was found dead near stone query at Tujjar Sharief on September 16 under the jurisdiction of Police Station Bomai under mysterious circumstances. There was a huge outcry and it is reported in the media that the deceased was picked up by Sopore police on September 15 and was in their custody. Whereas, allegations are levelled against Sopore police for custodial killing of the subject. The incident was also reported by SSP Sopore,” the order of Deputy Commissioner, Baramulla, read. “Whereas to find the truth, it has expedient to institute a magisterial inquiry into the incident,” the order stated.To prevent the spread of protests, mobile internet was also snapped in Sopore town and its neighbouring areas.Irfan’s body wasn’t handed over to the family and was buried at Sonmarg. Irfan’s relatives had termed his killing a “cold-blooded murder”. Javaid Ahmad, Irfan’s elder brother had said, “My brother and I were taken away by the police on Tuesday for hiding some militant. I was kept separately from my brother. During custody, I was not feeling well. I told the policemen that there are CCTV cameras in our house and they can take the footage of the last month to see that nobody came to the house.” Also read: Why is Sikh soldier a bogeyman for Chinese army at LadakhDirector-General of Police Dilbag Singh said that probe has been ordered to know the facts. “Till then, we should not draw any conclusions.”Police spokesman said. “On Tuesday, at about 12:45 pm, an OGW (Over-Ground Worker) identified as Irfan Ahmad Dar of Sidiq colony, Sopore, was apprehended and two Chinese hand grenades were recovered from his possession. A case was registered at police station Sopore.”He said during the investigation, a police team visited Chairdaji area of Tujjar-Sharief along with the OGW for some more recovery on his disclosure. “However, the OGW took advantage of the darkness and managed to escape. A separate case was registered in this matter at police station Bomai. During searches, his body was found near Stone Quarry of Tujjar-Sharief,” the spokesman added. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah had demanded intervention of Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha in the matter. He tweeted, “The administration can’t possibly win back the confidence of the people if “encounters” like Shopian or suspicious deaths like Sopore are allowed to pass without the facts being established & guilt, when determined, fully punished. @manojsinha_must intervene in both these cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-year-old-man-detained-by-sopore-police-found-dead-magisterial-probe-ordered/story-CYR1AtHjrtfvo5zYAaZ6zM.html
17-09-2020||India||Railway privatisation a win-win situation, says Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant||Privatisation of the railways will create a win-win situation for both the Indian railways as well as the investors, and also the users, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Thursday, addressing a joint press meet, along with Railway Board chairman VK Yadav. LIVE NowPress Conference by Chairman & CEO, Railway Board and CEO @NITIAayogWatch on #PIB's YouTube: https://t.co/r7SL9OXWnWFacebook: https://t.co/p9g0J6q6qvhttps://t.co/jtn03zTwhM“It is like when private banks were set up in India. So many private players came in the banking sector. But that didn’t lead SBI to shut. Private investment will bring in newer technologies. It will create competition in the railway sector. Competition will increase efficiency and reduce fare — in the long run,” Kant said.Also Read | Crack trains: How railways put goods movement on fast track during Covid 19On airport-like user charge to be levied for redeveloped railway stations, Railway Board chairman VK Yadav said the charge, which will translate to a hike in railway fare, will be nominal. “The user charge will be nominal. Also, the charge will be applicable only for redeveloped stations. Not all stations are being redeveloped at present,” Yadav said. On the issue of private players being able to determine their own fares — as it has been decided by the Indian Railways — the railway Board chairman said as there will be competition from bus fares and air fares, private players will, in no circumstances, charge exorbitant fares.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-privatisation-a-win-win-situation-says-niti-aayog-ceo-amitabh-kant/story-8CpqZBm98awloA6vViy20H.html
17-09-2020||India||India-China flare-up could hurt post-Covid recovery efforts across the region: Singapore high commissioner||Singapore’s new high commissioner Simon Wong Wie Kuen has said it is imperative for India and China to find an amicable solution to their border standoff as the region is looking at the two countries to drive post-Covid-19 economy recovery efforts. In his first interview to the Indian media after presenting his credentials last week, Wong spoke on Singapore’s priorities in its economic relations with India, participation in New Delhi’s plans to forge resilient supply and value chains, and collaboration in the Indo-Pacific. Edited excerpts:As you begin your term in India, what items are at the top of your agenda, and what are your priorities for driving the relationship with India? We are caught in a very unusual situation. When I was assigned to India, the world was normal, there was no Covid-19, the world was at a stage where the US and China were still on fairly good terms. But all this changed very quickly in the beginning of this year. We have Covid-19, we have a very acrimonious US-China relationship. Coming to India during this time is challenging for us because the world order is probably at the inflection point, and big countries and small countries like us have to figure out where we want to land, how we are going to avoid when two big powers are at loggerheads. Coming to India is refreshing in a way, to see how India grapples with all these changes, plus you now have a border conflict with the Chinese. On the part of Singapore, how do I, in this larger context, navigate this relationship? First of all, the Singapore-India relationship is very frictionless, we don’t have a lot of baggage, we are very close friends and partners although India is a much larger country than Singapore. Indian leadership, people and businesses have seen us a very trusted partner and we too are an all-weather partner with India. Also Read: In coronavirus vaccine race, China inoculates thousands before trials are completedEven during Covid-19, investments are still coming in although not in numbers that we want. In the first eight months of the year, we have committed around $2 billion of new investments into India. CII [Confederation of Indian Industry] led a virtual delegation with six Singapore cabinet ministers on how to move commercial and business relations forward. In this gloomy situation, I dare say the Singapore-India relationship is in a bright area. I feel that despite all the difficulties, I am going to have a fruitful tenure in India because there are so many things for us to do. Will Singapore join India’s plans to create new and more resilient supply and value chains? For sure. Our first real big investments came into India in 1993, when India began to open up. Because we came in early to India, that conversation of plugging India into our part of the world is continuing non-stop. For the past 27 years, the investments across both countries are very big. Cumulatively, Singapore has $85 billion committed to India. On your side, you have close to $60 billion. It is an equal partnership and we have about 650 Singapore companies set up in India and about 8,500 Indian companies are set up in Singapore. That notion of supply chain security and supply chain rework is always in play. In Singapore’s belief, we feel this is perhaps the age of Asia, but we feel that in Asia, we shouldn’t have just one engine of growth, there should be several engines of growth. Singapore, being a small country, wants to partake in the push of all these engines going to the next level. We came in early to India, we want to partake in this exercise of growth in the Indian economy. What are Singapore’s plans for cooperating with India on Covid-19? What is the current status of Indian workers in Singapore? The pharmaceuticals sector is a high-value add sector in which India commands a niche, not only in manufacturing of vaccines and generic medicines but in research and development. Covid-19 suddenly pushed at least three or four Indian R&D companies into the limelight. Because of that, Singapore is very interested in collaboration, not just on the Covid-19 vaccine but perhaps on coronavirus vaccines, the more generic ones, and I think that’s a growth area. Both sides are in conversations already. Also Read: India’s economy likely to tank 9% due to Covid-19 distress: S&PWe feel that—as an immigrant society ourselves—we are very small and need foreign workers to help boost our economy. Foreign workers is a nebulous term, it could be people working in the shipyard, in construction business, in banks and IT industries. We feel we are indebted to foreign workers because they helped grow our economy. It is incumbent on us to take care of them. In Singapore, we had an outburst of virus infections in our [workers’] dormitories. The first thing that we did was isolation, it was rather harsh, to have everybody medically taken care of. It is free medical facilities and free testing and at the same time, we have given grants to companies so that salaries are paid even though the workers do not go to work. Now that we have flattened the curve two times in a row…workers are allowed to go back to work and then the grants will cease. We feel it is an obligation on the part of the government to help provide a safety net for our foreign workers. Having said that, the next point we worry about is because of Covid-19, many of the industries, businesses and shops that hire these foreign workers are challenged, they have closed down. Many of our food and beverage businesses and businesses related to hotels and travels, 40% of them will go under. As a result of that, foreign workers may be sent home because they are out of a job. The next step is for us to make sure that they are fairly compensated and if they intend to stay on, we will have to look for jobs for them. But at the end of the day, we see no difference between citizens and foreign workers. It has caused some unhappiness among the citizens, especially during these challenging times. As the region looks to post-Covid-19 recovery efforts, how do you view the India-China border standoff? Does Singapore have concerns about the situation? If I look at the situation at this moment in time, you have a stalemate and a stare-down situation...It may be a long winter, it will not have an easy solution but I think the messages coming out from both sides are very calm and the operating principle is still trying to figure out something of a resolution through diplomatic means. As a diplomat, my first instinct is that even if you disagree 100% between each other, you still need to sit down and talk because the talking process will calm things. We are good friends of both India and China. The last thing we want is to have skirmishes grow bigger and bigger because now both sides are in a stare-down position and the troop levels of both sides are very high. We don’t want any untoward incidents happening because from the Covid-19 recovery point of view, if we have two big economic engines suffer as a result, the whole Asian economy will suffer for a prolonged period of time. We don’t want to see that happen, we have been urging both sides to stay calm and find an amicable solution to it. Also Read: Vaccine by next year, but will take time to reach all: Harsh VardhanBut we are concerned about what’s happening in Ladakh in particular, in Pangong Tso. We hope calmer heads prevail. China’s border issues with other countries have sometimes taken decades to settle. In India, there are memories of the 1962 war. Even if the current tensions dissipate, do you think the border issue will linger on? I think it is always problematic [in] relations between neighbours, especially two humongous neighbours, to resolve [things] and from time to time, it will spike. Whether or not it will have long-term effects, it depends on how both sides resolve this problematic issue. If you were to have harsh negotiations and you cross with words, I think it’s easier because it’s common practice, even in FTA negotiations—harsh, tough negotiation postures, but thereafter, when the deal is done, you shake hands and that’s it. But the memory of 1962 is very, very strong because it was a military conflict. That will fundamentally, I think, change the perception of the relationship and the scars will be so much deeper. My humble advice is that both sides should think very carefully how they want to move forward and to be sure, both sides understand this very clearly...in the operating principle, both sides should sit down and talk and resolve this diplomatically. I think the Chinese side also wants this, the key now is what is going to happen in winter. I hope the lowering of the temperature will have cool heads prevail. How does Singapore perceive the increased activity with relation to the Indo-Pacific such as the trilateral meeting of India-France-Australia? If you read the story of the day, it is always with China in mind. You have had many papers and discussion points on the Indo-Pacific. You have the US version, the Indian version, the Asean version, which is largely an Indonesian suggestion, you have the Japanese version and, to some extent, the Australian version. All of these proposals on the table have different shades of colouring. Singapore, because we are part of Asean, we endorse the Asean version of it, which is to say we keep the waters around our region peaceful, the organisation should be inclusive and not exclusive, it should not be targeted at one or two particular countries, and the focus should be on economics, and less military. Also Read: No one can stop Army from patrolling: Rajnath to Rajya Sabha on China rowI think there’s going to be a competition of ideas. How the Indian version comes in—we take the 2018 speech [by Prime Minister Nrendra Modi] at the Shangrila Dialogue, because he set up the parameters of how India envisaged itself in the Indo-Pacific and I think a majority of elements of it are very similar to the Asian version. But in the actualisation of this idea, the Indian preference is to have Quad, Quad-plus or trilaterals. India is free to have conversations with like-minded parties which share same interests...I feel that down the road, India should also have a conversation with Asean on the configuration of your ideas and the Asean ideas. The more you talk to different interested parties, the more you understand where they’re coming from. It really depends on the shading. Now you have a border issue with China, so the shading tends to be more towards the anti-China side of the house but in politics, never say never. In the case of India, you are good friends with the US and Russia...I don’t think India will be so hot-tempered to say ‘I am going to cut off this relationship’...because the relationship is larger than that. I think we should also watch how Russia is positioning itself as a kind of informal mediator and informal channel for India and China to come to some kind of resolution. Do you think the India-China tensions will make it even more difficult for the Indian government to sell a concept such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) to the people? I feel my Indian friends share their emotions very publicly, they are very binary. And they’re very vocal about it. In the situation with China, you can look at social media, newspapers, TV talk shows and the youth—they’re very vocal in opposition. You need this to pass and hopefully by winter, I pray it’s a very cold winter so you have fix or six months of freezing, then the rational mind comes back. RCEP is a hard sell, you have a minority of reformists in India who see the benefit of it. I see industrialists who are exporters, who are very pro-RCEP but in general the idea of a community of FTAs does not penetrate that deeply into Indian consciousness because India is so big…It’s going to be an emotional issue. Coming from a country like Singapore that survives on trade and sealing deals in FTAs, we kind of don’t understand why some other countries do not embrace FTAs but we understand where India is coming from. I can say with 100% assurance that the CECA between India and Singapore is mutually beneficial. Since the signing in 2005 and till now, India has had a [trade] surplus and never once did Singapore complain...the reason is because we see in a long-term relationship there will be times [when] I may have a surplus with you, you may have a surplus with me. I don’t even mind prolonged surpluses…It’s just that Indian products are so well made, we buy them. It’s the question of your ability to sell, if you have good products, people will buy them and the importing country will suffer a deficit. But we look long-term not only at trade imbalances, we look at mutual investments. Because we have such good trade relations, it enables businesspeople from both sides to look at our market and therefore, have more investments coming in...this is not an asymmetric relationship, we are thankful that India sees us as an equal from the eyes of trade and commerce. I think RCEP members are all in sync on welcoming India when India is ready to come back in. I think that’s key.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-is-very-interested-in-collaborating-with-india-on-coronavirus-vaccines/story-oDbo4UI0ompwKQdMlqkN9O.html
17-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Police, opposition lawmakers injured in protests demanding Kerala minister’s resignation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Opposition leaders, police injured in protests demanding Jaleel’s resignationProtests erupted in several districts of Kerala on Thursday as opposition parties demanded the resignation of state education minister KT Jaleel, who is being questioned in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling case. Read more here. ‘Woman hit with iron rod, gagged using polythene bag by 2 minor sons’: CopsA 40-year-old woman in Bhubaneswar was allegedly hit with an iron rod and then suffocated to death using a polythene bag by her two minor sons late on Wednesday night. The police said the sons, who have been arrested, were reportedly being tortured by her. Read more here. ‘Have kept all options open’: Mumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma talks about his batting position in IPL 2020There have been times when Rohit Sharma has given up his preferred opening spot to add stability to the Mumbai Indians middle-order, but the MI captain hinted that he will be starting as an opener when IPL 2020 kickstarts with the defending champions taking on CSK in the tournament opener on September 19. Read more here. Vikram Bhatt says he was told ‘different drugs are offered on trays’ at high-profile Bollywood partiesFilmmaker Vikram Bhatt has said that he was told that drugs were served on trays at high-profile Bollywood parties, although he has never personally witnessed it. Read more here. Sony Xperia 5 II smartphone with 120Hz screen, Snapdragon 865 launchedSony last night unveiled the pricing of its PS5 gaming console. But that wasn’t it. A few hours after, the Japanese tech firm launched a new flagship smartphone in the market – Xperia 5 II. The handset will be going on pre-orders for $950 starting September 29, which shipping starting from December 4. Read more here. Shehnaaz Gill reveals how she lost 12 kgs during the coronavirus lockdown without any work outsWhile most of us have been scrolling through social media, saving fitness videos that we will never open, Shehnaaz Gill has gone ahead and made the most of the coronavirus lockdown and lost a bunch of weight, as she wanted to show people that, “main bhi patli ho sakti hoon” (sic). Read more here. WATCH | Faceoff over Covid: ‘Bhabhi ji ke Papad’ jibe; war over ‘clanging utensils’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-police-opposition-lawmakers-injured-in-protests-demanding-kerala-minister-s-resignation-and-all-the-latest-news/story-eQoacmleTtlcbd8ZBF3OcP.html
17-09-2020||India||Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel tests positive for Covid-19||Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel on Thursday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. The Bharatiya Janata Party MP has requested those who came in contact with him to be cautious. “Last night my coronavirus report came positive, I request those who met me on Tuesday to be cautious,” Prahlad Singh Patel wrote on Twitter.On Wednesday, Union minister Nitin Gadkari had announced testing positive for Covid-19 and going into self isolation. So far, Patel and Gadkari’s colleagues such as Amit Shah, Shripad Naik, Dharmendra Pradhan, Gajendra Shekhawat have tested positive for coronavirus.Recently seventeen people including staff and family members living at BJP’s Delhi office, tested positive for coronavirus. “All the staff members and their families who live on the Delhi BJP office premises were tested through rapid antigen test on Tuesday. Seventeen of them including a guard, a driver and two peons have tested positive,” PTI quoted Delhi BJP media cell head Ashok Goel as saying.Those who tested positive for Covid-19, were sent to COVID care centre, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-prahlad-singh-patel-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-UTMk33XIIOXHZ3hGRAJRxL.html
17-09-2020||India||PM Modi birthday: Ganga puja, cleanliness drive mark occasion in Kashi||Prayers, distribution of fruits, a cleanliness campaign and a plantation drive were among the events organised to celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday in his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Thursday.Uttar Pradesh minister Neelkanth Tiwari, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Kashi region spokesman Navratan Rathi joined the party workers for a special Ganga puja at Dashashwamedh Ghat.Another minister Anil Rajbhar distributed prosthesis among differently-abled children at a programme organised at Mahadev Degree College. His cabinet colleague, Ravindra Jaiswal, distributed fruits at two hospitals.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured all-round development of Kashi, including the construction of Deen Dayal Upadhyay Trade Facilitation Centre, a centre for perishable cargo, an inland port in Kashi, a road from the city to the airport and implemented various developmental schemes during the last six years,” Tiwari said. “Varanasi has become a healthcare hub. A super specialty hospital, two cancer hospitals and a general hospital were built. They became ready over two years ago and they are serving the patients.”He added Modi has gifted a number of developmental projects to Kashi. “So, Kashi celebrated his birthday with enthusiasm. We wish longevity and good health to Modi.”Special aarti was performed at temples and young Vedic students, known as batuks, cleaned a pond.Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal launched a plantation drive. Seventy saplings were planted and each was named after schemes launched by Modi.In 2018, Modi celebrated his birthday with children at a government primary school at Bhatsar in Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-birthday-ganga-puja-cleanliness-drive-mark-occasion-in-kashi/story-gTbFzHbubw3kRJJBhuQcBN.html
17-09-2020||India||RJD MLA Arun Yadav’s ‘not a Rajput’ remark on actor Sushant Singh sparks political row||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLA Arun Yadav’s recent comment on late actor Sushant Singh has triggered a controversy with several slamming the legislator. The RJD MLA had said that actor Sushant is not a Rajput as those belonging to Maharana Pratap’s dynasty do not die by suicideYadav’s remark came on Wednesday during an inauguration of a newly-built road in Saharsa district in Bihar, the RJD MLA’s assembly constituency. The comment has triggered a nationwide criticism with many asking Yadav to apologise for his remark against the late actor.#WATCH: He was not a Rajput, as descendant of Maharana Pratap cannot die by suicide... We are sad, he should not have died by suicide. He was a Rajput, he should have fought back: Bihar RJD MLA Arun Yadav#SushantSinghRajput (16.09.2020) pic.twitter.com/nRkciaG4CnBihar is currently prepping for the assembly election and with the late actor originally belonging from Bihar, his death has turned into a political issue.Slamming Yadav’s comment as ‘bizarre and shameful’, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad asked the MLA to apologise to Bihar and Sushant’s fans.“There cannot be a more bizarre and shameful statement than the one made by the RJD MLA on the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, which has moved the entire nation. The MLA should seek an apology from the people of the state and Sushant’s fans,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad was quoted by PTI as saying.Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Nikhil Anand condemned RJD MLA Arun Yadav’s comment and said its “rubbish and covered in casteism mentality”. He also slammed Rashtriya Janata Dal party by terming their leaders and workers as “habitual offenders”.Actor Sushant Singh Rajput died on June 14 at his Mumbai residence. Mumbai Police had declared it a case of death by suicide. However, Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, KK Singh registered an FIR in Patna under sections related to abetment to suicide and later demanded a CBI investigation.With a conflict between Maharashtra and Bihar government, the Supreme Court on August 19 had directed the central agency to investigate the case while holding that the FIR (first information report) registered in Patna over the actor’s death was legitimate. Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is currently probing the actor’s death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-mla-arun-yadav-s-not-a-rajput-remark-on-actor-sushant-singh-sparks-political-row/story-iailw2sWHu5o3I89an8yFO.html
17-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha MP Ashok Gasti remains in critical condition: Hospital||Rajya Sabha MP Ashok Gasti who is being treated at a hospital in Bengaluru after testing positive for coronavirus, remains in a critical condition with a multi-organ failure, said Dr Manish Rai, director, Manipal Hospitals on Thursday.Dr Rai said Ashok Gasti had been admitted to the Manipal Hospital with severe Covid-19 pneumonia and was on life support system in the Intensive Care Unit.The hospital statement was issued hours after Karnataka BJP leaders including Udupi Chikmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje incorrectly announced his death earlier on Thursday.News agency ANI said Karnataka health minister B Sriramulu made a similar announcement on Twitter. The twin announcements were followed by tweets by top BJP and government leaders to express their grief at the news.The first indication that there was something amiss came from Rajya Sabha chairman and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu.Naidu spoke to the Karnataka government and the hospital and said that the newly-elected Rajya Sabha MP remains in critical condition.The hospital’s health bulletin came soon after.The BJP leader had taken oath as a Rajya Sabha MP on July 22 this year.Ashok Gasti was admitted to the hospital on September 2 and is reported to have been suffering from breathing problems for the last few days.Gasti, a lawyer, is credited with the expansion of the BJP in Raichur district of Karnataka. He has risen through the ranks as an activist of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and earlier in his political career, headed the Raichur BJP’s youth wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-bjp-leader-and-newly-elected-rajya-sabha-mp-ashok-gasti-dies-was-being-treated-for-covid-19-in-bengaluru/story-c5xYaO9EqHGNg02OhxNVGM.html
17-09-2020||India||Vaccine by next year, but will take time to reach all: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said Thursday that while a vaccine could become available by the beginning of next year, it would still take time to reach everyone. Following distancing norms was the most important social vaccine against Covid-19 at the moment, he added.Vardhan was speaking at the Rajya Sabha wherein members raised various issues, including the availability and affordability of a vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Defending the government’s handling of Covid-19, Vardhan said that even before they found the first case in India, they had initiated steps to counter the pandemic.Also Read: No one can stop Army from patrolling: Rajnath to Rajya Sabha on China rowOn January 8, the matter was discussed with expert groups and on January 17, efforts were initiated towards detailed health preparedness and advisories were issued, he said. The first case was reported on January 20—a medical student who came from China. For that first case, 162 contacts were traced, he said. Vardhan also said the country had come a long way from the point when people on TV channels said there was a shortage of PPE kits, testing kits and masks; there were hundreds of labs across the country now, and no discrimination against any state.He added that when the pandemic broke out, even “advanced countries like United States of America were trying to learn about it”. Migrant labour faced difficulties, but the government tried to provide all facilities—64 lakh migrant labour were provided train and buses, he said.Also Read: Brief leaders on additional points of India-China conflict: Naidu to RajnathVardhan said clinical trials were being held for the Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) vaccine and there were vaccine candidates that had reached phases I, II and III.“We hope that by the beginning of the next year we will get a vaccine. We are also coordinating with World Health Organization (WHO) and other bodies. We are among the few countries that have managed to isolate the virus. There are around 40,000 samples that are being studied,” he said.He, however, added that even after the vaccine is ready, it will not be immediately available to everyone.“We have to break the chain of transmission. The mask is our greatest protector. After the lockdown was eased, people felt the virus had been controlled. But we need to follow hygiene protocols, continue distancing and wear masks. The transmission is taking place because of our carelessness. We should consider wearing a mask and maintaining a two-yard distance from other people as the best social vaccine,” Vardhan said. Vardhan also said that compared to India, the number of cases as well as deaths in US and Brazil was much higher. He said even India’s recovery rate had risen. Only America carried out more tests than us, he said.He said the mortality rate at 1.64% is the lowest in the world and the government is targeting bringing it down to less than 1%. He said though the number of cases may have crossed 50 million, the number of active cases was less than 20%.Earlier, several opposition party leaders had raised questions on the government’s handling of the situation.Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said the government had wasted “golden months in the fight to stop the spread of Covid-19”. He said the Congress party and its leaders were the among the first to apprise everyone about the tough challenge that was coming, he said.Azad, a former Union health minister, gave several suggestions, including setting up dedicated infectious disease hospitals rather than Covid-19 hospitals to avoid stigma. “We should start using the term physical distancing instead of social distancing,” he said.He also said that vaccines should be made available at affordable prices.“We must be ready for last-mile delivery. Advanced preparations should be made, unlike the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-by-next-year-but-will-take-time-to-reach-all-harsh-vardhan/story-4fzhvpDihioJ7y9fNtFhII.html
17-09-2020||India||What these new Covid-19 figures reveal about Maharashtra||While the number of India’s daily cases is only a few thousands away from the one lakh-mark, health ministry data reveals that only five states are contributing to the 60 per cent of the new cases, Maharashtra topping the chart with at least 30 per cent of new cases every day. Karnataka is second with 10 per cent cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh contributing 8.9 per cent of the cases. Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and contributing six per cent and four per cent, respectively.Also Read | India crosses 60 million mark for Covid-19 testingAs far as Covid-19 deaths are concerned, 1,132 deaths have been reported in the oast 24 hours, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said. Here too, Maharashtra is contributing a significant number with 474 deaths that constitute 40 per cent of the total deaths.  #COVID19 UPDATE👉 1132 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hrs.👉 With 474 new cases of mortality in, Maharashtra accounted for more than 40% of the new deaths. @PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/DIOiVXKIJ8New figures, released by the health ministry, reveals at least seven states have not reported any death in the last 24 hours. Total 19 states have recorded one to 20 deaths, three states reported 20 to 50 deaths, six states reported 50 to 100 deaths and only one state reported over 100 deaths.  #COVID19 UPDATE👉 Close to half (48.45%) of the Active Cases are concentrated in 3 States; Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. 👉 Together with the States of Uttar Pradesh & Tamil Nadu, these 5 states contribute nearly 60% of the total active cases. @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/Uhig0eIMJFThe issue of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 situation came up in the Rajya Sabha debate on Thursday, when Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut pointed to the number of recoveries and asked the detractors whether ‘Bhabhiji Papad’, endorsed by Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal, was responsible for the recovery rate in the state. The first Covid-19 case in Maharashtra was confirmed on March 9 in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-these-new-covid-19-figures-reveal-about-maharashtra/story-DZQf1Ye3C7YIKPFwjlSKYI.html
17-09-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls 2020: Here’s why 90% candidates might get debarred||The state election commission, Uttar Pradesh, has issued orders for preparation of voter list for the panchayat elections in the state. According to schedule issued by state election commissioner Manoj Kumar, booth-level officers (BLO) will visit each house to check voter list, from October 1.However, around 90% village heads and members of block development councils (BDC) and district panchayats from all districts in Agra zone might be debarred from contesting the elections. This is because new guidelines are being prepared for these polls, which were originally likely to be conducted in November-December but were deferred due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The panchayat elections are now likely to take place in April-May 2021.According to new guidelines, those villages heads and members of BDC and district panchayats, who fail to give details of expenditure from previous panchayat polls, would be debarred from contesting the upcoming polls. This also includes those who contested the elections but lost.According to Yogendra Kumar, ADM Finance and Revenue, around 90% candidates are yet to file these details.Also, there is a possibility of over 550 village head posts being cut. This is because 587 panchayats have been completely merged with urban areas, 680 have been merged partially. Of the 680 panchayats, wards of those with population below 1,000, might be merged in another panchayat.This has led to scrapping of 587 village head posts thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-panchayat-polls-2020-here-s-why-90-candidates-might-get-debarred/story-SKgq68Dtky2phsy8sdX5EL.html
17-09-2020||India||‘Woman hit with iron rod, gagged using polythene bag by 2 minor sons’: Cops||A 40-year-old woman in Bhubaneswar was allegedly hit with an iron rod and then suffocated to death using a polythene bag by her two minor sons late on Wednesday night. The police said the sons, who have been arrested, were reportedly being tortured by her.The woman, said police, who stayed with her two sons in an apartment in Sundarpada area of Bhubaneswar returned home in intoxicated condition which led to a shouting match among them.“The two sons then gagged her with a polythene and hit her with an iron rod resulting in the heavy bleeding and subsequent death of the woman. The two boys then bolted the home and fled. They were arrested on Thursday morning,” said Bhubaneswar deputy commissioner of police Dr Umashankar Dash.After the murder, the boys had kept the body in the toilet and fled with their pet dog, said police. They later called the building security guard, the police added, and informed that some outsiders had barged into their flat and beaten their mother to death.Following this, the guard along with some others went to enquire and found the flat locked from outside. The police were subsequently informed and the body of the woman was found inside the bathroom.Police said the two boys admitted to their crime and have been arrested. They would be sent to a correctional home. Police officials said the two boys who were staying in the apartment with their mother for the last 3 months, were being physically tortured by their mother. She used to come home intoxicated and hit them, police said.The woman’s husband works in Rourkela. The family had moved to the apartment from the Old Town area of Bhubaneswar recently.The body has been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-hit-with-iron-rod-gagged-using-polythene-bag-by-2-minor-sons-cops/story-K9FhySfSeU9mXF9OfPCHSI.html
17-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: AIIMS to submit final report next week||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences will share its final opinion on the Sushant Singh Rajput death case next week. The forensic board of AIIMS has been examining the case the Central Bureau of Investigation approached AIIMS for its opinion on post-mortem of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput who was found dead on June 14 in his Mumbai residence. “A medical board opinion will be given to CBI next week. I hope it will be conclusive without any confusion or doubts,” Dr Sudhir Gupta, the head of the forensic department at AIIMS, told ANI. On September 7, the AIIMS forensic team had conducted viscera test to check poisoning in Rajput’s deathHowever, the report is not likely to be shared as the issue is subjudice now.After a month of investigation in Mumbai, the Special Investigation Team of the CBI has returned to Delhi on Wednesday. Next week, it will hold a meeting with the AIIMS forensic team where the team will give their final opinion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-aiims-to-submit-final-report-next-week/story-MK1I7CqdsA3QRPEngfFSWJ.html
17-09-2020||India||Putin wishes PM Modi on his 70th birthday, lauds his contribution to strengthen Indo-Russia ties||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday extended greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday and lauded his personal contribution to the strengthening of strategic partnership between India and Russia. Prime Minister Modi, born on September 17 in 1950, turned 70 on Thursday.In a letter to Modi, Putin said, “Kindly accept my heartfelt congratulations on your 70th birth anniversary.” Praising Modi, Putin said his activity as India’s head of the government has earned him the well-deserved respect of compatriots and high international prestige. “Under your leadership India is successfully moving along the path of socio-economic, scientific and technical development,” he said. “It is hard to overestimate your personal contribution to the strengthening of the special and privileged strategic partnership between our countries,” Putin noted in the letter uploaded on the website of the Russian Embassy in New Delhi. The president said he values the kind, friendly relations that have developed between him and Modi.“I look forward to continue constructive dialogue with you and work closely together on topical issues of the bilateral and international agenda. From the bottom of my heart, I wish you good health, happiness, well-being and every success,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/putin-wishes-pm-modi-on-his-70th-birthday-lauds-his-contribution-to-strengthen-indo-russia-ties/story-ckm2cedzgJABoBy4ghEt3O.html
17-09-2020||India||Brief leaders on additional points of India-China conflict: Naidu to Rajnath||Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday suggested defence minister Rajnath Singh call leaders of political parties to his office for a briefing on “additional points” about the “actual situation” of the India-China border conflict. He referred to propaganda that India is divided over the issue and added a message should go from the House that “we stand united with our soldiers”.HT on Wednesday reported the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has hinted to some opposition leaders that a closed-door meeting on the India-China border situation may be considered. The government has been reluctant to have a full-fledged discussion on the issue during the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament.“I have a suggestion for the defence minister. If you agree, you may like to invite some leaders to your office to share additional information on the issue. Some officials can also come,” said Naidu after Singh read out his statement in Rajya Sabha on the issue. “They [political leaders] are all our own people. Everybody is interested in the country’s safety and security and they should also know the actual position.”Also Read: No one can stop our Army from patrolling: Rajnath to Rajya Sabha on China rowNaidu also lashed out at what he described as propaganda to show India is divided over the conflict. “As the chairman, I want to explain India’s culture is always of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam [the world is a family]. We have never attacked any country. This is a very sensitive issue. Our soldiers are at the frontier. Raksha Mantri [defence minister] has explained at length the situation. But there is propaganda running in international magazines that India is divided; it has major differences and all those useless comments.”Opposition parties have criticised the government for shying away from a discussion on the issue in Parliament. The defence ministry may brief floor leaders of different parties on efforts to normalise the situation along the border with China and reply to queries they may have on the subject.Also Read: India rejects Pak’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross border terrorism: MEA“A senior minister called me to say that the government may think of a briefing for floor leaders of different parties on the India-China situation if they agree. But the proposal is at a very nascent stage and needs further discussion,” said a non-NDA leader, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brief-leaders-on-additional-points-of-india-china-conflict-naidu-to-rajnath/story-CqsaUgTmdV6cURyLz2DwPI.html
17-09-2020||India||Rs 10 lakh hike in ex-gratia for Odisha cops and staff killed by Maoists||Odisha has hiked the ex-gratia amount, payable to the next of kin of police personnel, forest department personnel, home guards, gram rakhis and special police personnel apart from other state government employees dying in Maoist violence, by Rs 10 lakh.A finance department resolution released on Wednesday evening said Rs 10 lakh would be paid in retrospective effect from 2017 to the next of the kin of all police personnel, gram rakhis as well as state government employees in addition to the ex-gratia that was being paid to them. Though, the next of kin of police personnel, gram rakhis and forest guards were getting an insurance amount of Rs 10 lakh since early 2000, it had been stopped in 2017 after the state government stopped paying premium to insurance companies as the casualties of security forces declined considerably.However, next of kin of slain policemen were getting the non-insurance ex-gratia of Rs 10-20 lakh depending on their rank. While the families of slain gram rakhis were getting Rs 10 lakh, those of sub-inspector got Rs 16 lakh.The new ex-gratia announced by the state government would benefit the families of at least four policemen including the two from the special operations group, killed by the Maoists during an encounter on Kalahandi-Kandhamal border last week. It would also ensure that the polling personnel, who lost their lives to Maoist violence during last year’s Lok Sabha polls would get an ex-gratia amount of Rs 10 lakh.Also Read: Odisha CM urges top cop to be strict on Covid rulesHome department officials said the provision of Rs 10 lakh as insurance money was started as casualties among policemen in Maoist-affected areas increased after 2008. Between 2008 and 2020, Odisha police have lost 139 security personnel in the fight against the Maoists. The highest casualties came between 2008 and 2010 when 94 policemen were killed in the Maoist-affected districts of Malkangiri, Koraput and Rayagada. However, the state government stopped paying an annual premium of Rs 5 crore to insurance companies after 2017 as the casualties among policemen went down considerably--only 15 deaths reported among security forces since then.Also Read: Odisha to amend GST Act to make fraud in input tax credit non-bailableOdisha recently recommended that five districts in the state be dropped from the list of 15 Maoist-affected districts. Between 2015 and 2019, 161 Maoists surrendered while 83 Maoists were killed.In Odisha, 16 battalions of Central paramilitary force, 41 anti-Maoist SOG teams, 848 DVF jawans, 56 platoons of India Reserve Battalion, 74 platoons of State Security Battalion and 18 platoons of Odisha Special Striking Force are currently fighting the rebels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-10-lakh-hike-in-ex-gratia-for-odisha-cops-and-staff-killed-by-maoists/story-ihb6oYznVjrSGPTHeOKf1N.html
17-09-2020||India||No one can stop Army from patrolling: Rajnath to Rajya Sabha on China row||No power in the world can stop Indian forces from patrolling areas where they have traditionally done so, defence minister Rajnath Singh asserted in Rajya Sabha on Thursday, adding that China has amassed troops on the border for which the Army had made appropriate counter-deployments.In a detailed statement on the situation in the Upper House, Singh said the recent action of the Chinese forces of amassing a large number of troops reflects a disregard for bilateral pacts, adding that the Indian forces were capable of dealing with any challenge. He, however, underlined that the differences can best be dealt with peacefully.Also read: Spike in severe cyclones, extremely heavy rain over India, Earth sciences ministry tells RSResponding to concerns expressed by members on the Chinese side obstructing Indian patrols, Singh said no change in the patrolling pattern would be allowed.“On patrolling pattern, I want to make clear that that is the reason behind the face-off. The patrolling pattern is traditional and well defined. No power in the world can stop our jawans from patrolling. If our soldiers have made sacrifices, this is the very reason for doing so. And there will be no changes in the patrolling pattern,” Singh said.Earlier, several members, including former defence minister A K Antony, had expressed concerns about Indian patrol not being allowed up to traditional points. Many members also said there should be restoration of status quo ante.In a detailed statement in the House, Singh underlined that while India was committed to peace, it was also firm on protecting its boundaries. The defence minister said it had been conveyed to the Chinese side that the situation at the boundary will also have an implication on other areas.Singh told the Upper House that the India-China boundary issue is unresolved. China believes the boundary issue is still unsettled, he said adding that it also does not recognize the customary line.Both countries discussed this in the 50s and the 60s but there was no solution. China has occupied 38,000 sq km of Indian land, Singh said.He said during discussions, China has also accepted that a peaceful solution is needed. But till now, there is no commonly delineated Line of actual control on India-China border areas, he added.“India believes bilateral relations and boundary question can be discussed. But the situation on LAC will definitely have an impact on the bilateral issues,” Singh said, adding that there is often a perception overlap in many places.Singh said that this year, from April, China increased the number and weaponry on the border. “Our army took necessary measuress. We have made clear that unilateral status quo is not accepted under any circumstances,” Singh said.He added that China had initiated a very violent face-off in Galwan. “Our soldiers responded and also inflicted losses on the transgressing side,” Singh said.The defence minister said it was made to clear that LAC must be respected by both sides and there should be no unilateral attempt to alter the status quo.“It is clear from Chinese actions that there is difference between what is being said and being done,” Singh added. He said it was clear from the actions at the south bank of the Pangong lake but the Indian Army had dealt with the attempts effectively. Chinese actions reflect a “disregard” for bilateral pacts, he added.These pacts have detailed norms to deal with face-offs. The violent conduct of Chinese forces is a violation of all norms, Singh said. “The Chinese side has accumulated a large number of troops and ammunition.Our forces have also done appropriate counter-deployments. The House should be assured that our forces are capable of dealing with this challenge. Amid Covid-19, there has been a fast deployment of our forces. That is also because the government has focused on development of border infrastructure,” the defence minister said.In the interest of the country, whatever tough steps need to be taken, will be taken, the defence minister said. Singh said the aggressive demeanour and amassing of troops on the border are issues which he had raised with his Chinese counterpart in Moscow.“It is true we are passing through a challenging phase in Ladakh. But also rest assured that our forces are capable of dealing with it,” he said.Emphasising that India believed that it was best to deal with differences peacefully, Singh said that it is always possible for one to start a war but not easy to end it. Pointing to the nation’s resolve in defending itself, Singh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had himself gone to Ladakh to encourage the jawans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-can-stop-our-army-from-patrolling-rajnath-to-rajya-sabha-on-china-row/story-Si46xVB6dIHmM0zXRlwOUK.html
17-09-2020||India||Why is Sikh soldier a bogeyman for Chinese army at Ladakh||Not far from the Rezang La-Rechin La ridgeline that has emerged as a key friction point between Indian and Chinese troops, the Chushul brigade headquarters mess still houses artefacts including a gold statue of the Laughing Buddha seized by the Sikh regiments more than a century ago.The soldiers were part of an eight-nation mission to neutralise China’s Boxer Rebellion at the turn of the last century, an uprising led by young farmers and workers against foreign influence. The British Army had brought in Sikh and Punjab regiments among others.The alliance troops moved into Beijing after the Boxer fighters threatened foreigners and kept 400 foreigners holed up in Beijing’s Foreign Legation Quarter. The siege lasted 55 days before 20,000 alliance troops reached Beijing and fought their way in. Nearly 8,000 of them belonged to the British Army from India, many of them Sikh and Punjab regiments. After the victory, according to an account by one Indian sepoy, the British army indulged in looting: French and Russian troops killed civilians and raped women.Regiments decorated for lifting Boxer Rebellion siege91 Punjab Regiment24 Punjab Regiment20 Brownlow’s Punjabis51 Sikh Regiment14 Sikh Regiment7 Rajput Regiment122 Rajputana Infantry Regiment4 Gorkha Regiment88 Carnatic Infantry Regiment6 Jat Light Infantry Regiment15 Cavalry Regiment2 Lancers Regiment130 Baluch Regiment and126 Baluch RegimentThe statue of the Laughing Buddha at the army mess in Chushul was one of the items brought back by the soldiers. A gilded bronze bell dating back to the 1368-1644 Ming dynasty - one of the missing 16 - looted by a British general, was eventually returned by the Indian Army to Beijing’s Temple of Heaven in 1995.In his seminal book, India’s China War, Australian journalist Neville Maxwell said the Chinese leadership used the humiliation suffered after the revolution to build a movement to restore the country. Maxwell also believed there was a link between this mindset and the 1962 war.An Indian army commander said this historical context could be a reason why the China’s People’s Liberation Army psy-ops focuses so much on the Punjabi, or Sikh soldiers.China’s PLA has installed loudspeakers at the friction points that spew its propaganda on the standoff, accuse New Delhi of escalating tensions to divert from domestic issues and even belt out Punjabi pop numbers aimed at the Indian soldiers deployed to counter PLA.India and China have held several rounds of talks at the military and diplomatic level. The last one was at the level of external affairs minister S Jaishankar who had a two-hour-long meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow that helped ease tensions between the two countries. But there is no evidence yet that a resolution is round the corner.New Delhi is not impressed by the Chinese political rhetoric that India needs to disengage first, that the genesis of the present stand-off lies in August 5, 2019 nullification of article 370 and the redrawn Indian map or that, as the Chinese envoy Sun Weidong puts it, both sides need to meet halfway to restore peace at the border.India believes that China should restore status quo ante as prevailing on April 20 this year when the PLA parked itself closer to the Line of Actual Control, setting off a series of face-offs with Indian army patrol parties at several locations along the LAC in Ladakh and elsewhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-sikh-soldier-a-bogeyman-for-chinese-army-at-ladakh/story-4FuLsEa991pKKEuafxmKcL.html
17-09-2020||India||India rejects Pak’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross border terrorism: MEA||Indian government has rejected Pakistan’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism and emphasised that Islamabad should desist from laying untenable claims to Indian territories, which has neither legal validity nor international credibility, said the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) here on Thursday.While responding to an unstarred question on the new political map of Pakistan, V Muraleedharan, Minister of State in the MEA, said in Rajya Sabha that Pakistan had released the “so-called” map “making absurd assertions and laying untenable claims to territories in the Gujarat and Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh”.The new political map of Pakistan was unveiled by Prime Minister Imran Khan on the eve of the first anniversary of the withdrawal of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370.The map depicts the entirety of Jammu and Kashmir as a disputed territory while also incorporating Siachen as part of Pakistan. It also incorporates Sir Creek into Pakistani territory as well as parts of the erstwhile princely state of Junagadh.“On 4 August 2020, a so-called political map of Pakistan was unveiled by its Prime Minister making absurd assertions and laying untenable claims to territories in the Indian state of Gujarat and our Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh,” Muraleedharan said.“Government has rejected Pakistan’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism. It has also been emphasised that Pakistan should desist from laying untenable claims to Indian territories, which neither have legal validity nor international credibility,” Muraleedharan said. The minister said the government continues to respond appropriately to Pakistan’s “malicious actions and propaganda” including on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pak-s-obsession-with-territorial-aggrandisement-supported-by-cross-border-terrorism-mea/story-uHPOzzqzDO0Jlec3IdefgM.html
17-09-2020||India||UP businessman murder case: SIT focuses on big guns named for ‘extortion’||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the murder of Uttar Pradesh businessman Indrakant Tripathi may bring the people named in a video and five audio clips that have surfaced in the past four days into the ambit of their investigations, said officials aware of the development.The SIT reached Mahoba on Wednesday morning and took the video and the five audio clips into their possession. Names of a former district magistrate (DM), a SP, a former lawmaker and a hardcore criminal, figure prominently in the tapes.The probe team went through the clips and wrote down the names, mentioned in the clips, relevant to the investigation, officials quoted above said.Inspector general of police (IGP), Varanasi range, Vijay Singh Meena is heading the SIT, which has deputy inspector general (PAC) Shalabh Mathur and SP Ashok Tripathi as its members. The team would remain in Mahoba for three days.It will investigate Tripathi’s murder and corruption allegations against former Mahoba district police chief Manilal Patidar and other police officers. The team has seven days to submit its report.SIT members visited the site at Naya Daura highway, where Tripathi was found, and took several pictures of a vehicle apart from speaking to the villagers for more than an hour.The team first went to the Kabrai police station to collect documents related to corruption and the murder case.Tripathi was found under mysterious circumstances, with a bullet wound in his neck on September 9, two days after he had released a video accusing the then superintendent of police (SP), Mahoba, Manilal Patidar of demanding a monthly payment of Rs 6 lakh from him and expressing a fear that he could be killed by the police officer.Tripathi died on September 12 in a Kanpur hospital.Also Read: SIT formed to ‘probe’ interfaith marriages in KanpurThe audio clips allegedly contain solicitation of bribes from operators running stone-crusher machines. Two of them were supposedly linked to Tripathi, who levelled serious allegations against the then SP Mahoba, who was suspended last week.Patidar and three station house officers, Rakesh Saroj, Rajeev Singh, Devendra Shukla and a constable Rajiv Kashyap were named in an FIR lodged by the director of a company working on the Bundelkhand Expressway.Also Read: UP businessman comes to Mumbai to see actor, stabbed in Juhu; two arrestedThe director had alleged that the SP was asking for money and was harassing the firm and its staff including by stopping and fining company vehicles.Tripathi’s brother Ravi Kant had lodged a case of attempt to murder, which has been altered to that of murder.On the other hand, Samajwadi Party (SP) workers continued their protest, seeking the arrest of the former SP of Mahoba while Tripathi’s business associate Bal Kishore alleged that the police raided his house and ransacked it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-businessman-murder-case-sit-focuses-on-big-guns-named-in-audio-video-clips/story-weGgNvIkc5zfY7Ckl8lkLK.html
17-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi HC issues notice to Centre, Prasar Bharati, NBA on plea by actor Rakul Preet Singh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi High Court issues notice to Centre, Prasar Bharati, NBA on plea by actor Rakul Preet SinghThe Delhi High Court on Thursday issued notice to the I&B ministry, Prasar Bharati, News Broadcasters Association (NBA) and Press Council of India (PCI) after actor Rakul Preet Singh moved court alleging ‘media trial’ over reports she was named by fellow actor Rhea Chakraborty as among those within Bollywood who consume drugs. Read more.BJP MPs seek probe in ‘rights’ violations in Maharashtra, cite Ranaut, naval officer caseSeeking to corner the Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government in Maharashtra over recent incidents including the roughing up of a retired Navy officer, a group of BJP MPs led by party vice president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe has approached the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) demanding a probe into the happenings. Read more.In defending Maharashtra’s Covid-19 fight, Sanjay Raut takes ‘bhabhi ji ke papad’ jibe at ministerShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday hit out at ‘some Rajya Sabha MPs’ who he said had criticised the Maharashtra government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. Speaking in Rajya Sabha on day four of Parliament’s ongoing monsoon session, he pointed to the number of recoveries in the state. Read more.Rajnath Singh to answer Opposition’s questions on China in Parliament todayDefence Minister Rajnath Singh is expected to address the Opposition’s questions in Parliament on situation at India-China border in Ladakh. Rajnath Singh will comment on the border row in the upper house Rajya Sabha at 12pm. Read more.Deepika Padukone’s Mega Icons teaser: Ranveer Singh on her battle with depression, talks about a ‘ very scary’ episodeDeepika Padukone is all set to open her heart out about her journey as an actor and her emotional struggles on the National Geographic show, Mega Icons. The channel has shared a teaser of the upcoming episode, which will also feature her actor husband Ranveer Singh and Cocktail director Imtiaz Ali. Read more.Skoda Rapid TSI AT launched in India at Rs 9.49 lakhSkoda Auto on Thursday launched the new Rapid 1.0 TSI AT in the Indian market at a price tag of ₹9.49 lakh for the Rider Plus AT trim. The bookings for the new car have already commenced at a refundable amount of ₹25,000 across all the authorised Skoda dealership facilities in the country as well as on the Skoda Auto India website. Read more.Elderly man recovers from Covid-19, offers doctors rice grown in his field as giftA man’s special gesture towards the medical professionals who helped him recover from Covid-19 has tugged at the heartstrings of many. A tweet highlights how he gifted rice grown by him in his field as a way to thank the team that treated him. Read more.Dutee Chand: It is a great feeling to be able to do something for my countryConferred with the Arjuna Award on National Sports Day (August 29), the Odisha born athlete, Dutee Chand, says that this honour will motivate her to achieve “bigger feats” for the country. With unshaken motivation and determination over these years, Chand became the third ever Indian woman athlete to qualify for the Women’s 100 metres event at the Summer Olympic Games. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-hc-issues-notice-to-centre-prasar-bharati-nba-on-plea-by-actor-rakul-preet-singh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8sCC8ft1o177tOFUhfZVZJ.html
17-09-2020||India||‘No one should have doubts about our determination to protect India’s borders’: Rajnath Singh on LAC standoff||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday spoke in the Rajya Sabha on India’s border standoff with China, saying the issue in unsolved. He reiterated that China is not accepting the traditional alignment of the border.“The border issue is a complex one and needs to be resolved patiently. Both the countries believe that,” said Singh. “There is no commonly delineated Line of Actual Control (LAC),” he added.Also read: China belts out Punjabi numbers for Indian soldiers at Ladakh. It is a ‘62 trickTalking about the current situation on the India-China border, Singh said that the Chinese army created obstacles in the Ladakh sector for operations of Indian soldiers who were stationed there as per the agreements between the two countries. He said that Indian troops gave befitting reply to the Chinese soldiers.“No one should have doubts about our determination to protect the country’s borders,” he said.Singh also listed the various agreements and common understanding which both India and China arrived at over the years. “But after 2003, China did not show the will to honour these agreements,” the defence minister said.He also paid tribute to the 20 soldiers killed in Galwan Valley clash with the Chinese soldiers on June 15. Singh also said that the Chinese army suffered casualties in the incident.The defence minister had made a statement in Lok Sabha on Tuesday, the second day of the monsoon session of Parliament, where he said that tension at the border was bound to negatively affect bilateral relations between India and China.The defence minister had said that India is ready to deal with any situation regarding the India-China border tension.Singh said that China does not recognise the traditional customary alignment of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the border issue between the two countries remains unresolved.The two countries have been engaged in a standoff position since April and the Chinese have refused to vacate areas in the Finger area and other friction points in the Eastern Ladakh area.Multiple rounds of talks have also failed to yield any significant result in defusing the tensions and now the Indian side has prepared itself for long term deployment in the high mountainous region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-makes-a-statement-on-india-china-border-issue-in-rajya-sabha/story-GbdX7UOFZQ9tqmKIwUmBzM.html
17-09-2020||India||BJP, AAP clash over issue of Covid-19 management during RS debate||The Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP clashed over the issue of Covid-19 management in Rajya Sabha on Thursday, with the AAP terming as “foolish” the prime minister’s call to clap and beat utensils in honour of coronavirus warriors.BJP’s Sudhanshu Trivedi hit back, saying the PM’s move was symbolic and sought to unite the country socially just like Mahatma Gandhi chose the symbol of ‘charkha’ for national cohesion during the freedom struggle.Also read: AAP to oppose ‘anti-farmer’ bills in Parliament, says Kejriwal Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in March asked people to clap, beat steel plates and ring bells to express gratitude towards those risking their lives and working tirelessly during the coronavirus outbreak.Singh, while participating in the debate on Covid-19, further used the occasion to accuse the government of looking for opportunity in times of disaster and alleged corruption in the procurement of equipment to fight the disease including thermometers and oxymetres.“I want to ask this government, tell me any one research in the world that shows Covid can be prevented by clamping utensils and by clapping.“The entire opposition will not go home, but will clap with the prime minister and light ‘diyas’ in Parliament premises.“You bring such absurd and foolish schemes and expect the entire country to be befooled by you,” Singh said.Countering him, Trivedi said,”Burning diyas and beating utensils and clapping were symbolic in the fight against coronavirus..“Would the British have run away by the use of the ‘charkha’ (spinning wheel). The ‘charkha’ was symbolic which Mahatma Gandhi chose in uniting the country against the British. The same way, PM Modi made the ‘diyas’ and beating utensils symbolic in bringing together all Indians in the fight against Covid,” Trivedi said.Also read: In defending Maharashtra’s Covid-19 fight, Sanjay Raut takes ‘bhabhi ji ke papad’ jibe at ministerThe BJP member, without naming Rahul Gandhi, also too a swipe at the former Congress president for his vision of giving an early warning about Covid-19 and said he was himself not even in the country when the Congress was seeking a ban on international flights.He also countered the opposition charge that the lockdown was not imposed early as the BJP wanted to topple the Madhya Pradesh government of the Congress, saying at that time there were only 29 coronavirus cases in the country and not a single case was reported in Madhya Pradesh at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-aap-clash-over-issue-of-covid-19-management-during-rs-debate/story-04UhXgE2iKKQXZrVPnTAiK.html
17-09-2020||India||Delhi High Court issues notice to Centre, Prasar Bharati, NBA on plea by actor Rakul Preet Singh||The Delhi High Court on Thursday issued notice to the I&B ministry, Prasar Bharati, News Broadcasters Association (NBA) and Press Council of India (PCI) after actor Rakul Preet Singh moved court alleging ‘media trial’ over reports she was named by fellow actor Rhea Chakraborty as among those within Bollywood who consume drugs.The court’s action came after the actor filed a plea submitting media reports were being run in contravention with the I&B ministry’s guidelines.Rhea Chakraborty is currently being probed by several central agencies, including the CBI, ED and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for her alleged role in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June.Post Rhea’s arrest by the NCB, reports had emerged that during interrogation, she had named actors Rakul Preet Singh, Sara Ali Khan and fashion designer Simone Khambatta, among others, as drug consumers. Reports further claimed that the anti-drugs agency had prepared a list of 25 names from the industry who would be summoned for questioning.However, later, NCB deputy director KPS Malhotra clarified no Bollywood names have been listed to be summoned.“We have not prepared any Bollywood list. The list earlier prepared was of peddlers and traffickers. It’s getting confused with Bollywood. The names have not been zeroed upon,” Free Press Journal quoted the officer as saying.After the clarification, #Sorry Sara and #SorryRakul trended on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-issues-notice-to-centre-prasar-bharati-nba-on-plea-by-actor-rakul-preet-singh/story-2kynrPxTz001vctTd8c3bK.html
17-09-2020||India||Election Commission compensates slain CRPF jawan’s wife after 18 years||When Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) trooper Ramesh Kumar died in the line of duty during the 2002 Jammu and Kashmir elections, Rs5 lakh was the least his widow, Pramila Devi, expected as the compensation she was entitled to. Devi never imagined it would take her 18 years and repeated reminders to get the compensation.“The soldier died due a grenade being thrown at the polling station where he was working during the 2002 elections in Doda district of eastern Jammu,” said an official familiar with the matter. The Commission unanimously ordered the transfer of Rs 20 lakh into Devi’s bank account after she had an email sent to him last month about the pending payment around two decades after Kumar played a part in ensuring what has been described among fairest electoral exercises in the erstwhile state. The elections ushered in an extended spell of peace in the region, where rigged polls in the 1980s are widely believed to have triggered a protracted insurgency. Also Read: J-K govt forms committees for panchayat, block development council bypollsDevi, in her email, said that her husband had died while battling the Lashkar-e-Taiba at a polling booth in Doda during the 2002 elections. He was 31 years old and belonged to Haryana. “The compensation that the Commission provides has not been given to us,” she wrote. “I had written to you in December as well to apprise you of the situation… I request you to kindly help me get the compensation that has been due for over 18 years.” Devi was barely 28 years old when her husband died and had two sons, aged seven and two. In 2002, she made ends meet on the pension provided by the CRPF, which was Rs 5,025 back then. A resident of Bhiwani, she told Hindustan Times, that they didn’t even have a house in those days. “We didn’t know that the Election Commission gives compensation,” said Devi. “We were watching a case on TV and decided to file an RTI last year. Once the confirmation came, I wrote to the chief election commissioner,” said Devi. “They first sent us Rs 5 lakh, and five days later sent 15 lakh,” Devi said. She now receives Rs 23,000 per month as pension from the CRPF. Her younger son, Aakash, is pursuing B.Tech. In the email dated August 10, Devi wrote to Arora that Jammu & Kashmir’s chief electoral officer did not respond to her reminders for the compensation. Devi was entitled to Rs 5 lakh in 2002, but the Commission ordered the Rs 20 lakh transfer citing “extenuating circumstances” of the case. The families in such cases are currently entitled to Rs 10 lakh through cheques. The Jammu and Kashmir CEO had written to the Commission after an inquiry was sent stating that no request for ex-gratia payment had been received from the family. Arora emailed Devi on August 26, and in a rare gesture apologised for the delay and thanked her for her husband’s sacrifice once the compensation was processed. He has also written to all state election commissions to assess if any such cases were still pending with them. “Although money cannot compensate for his loss, but I would like to apologise for the delay and assure you that your husband’s sacrifice will not be forgotten,” Arora wrote in his email. The Commission has also asked the chief electoral officers to create a digital database to track the settlements of such legacy and all future claims. “A stern view has been taken of the institutional failure and lack of sensitivity, bordering on apathy, on part of the administrative machinery, which failed to respect the memory of the departed,” Arora said in the letter, a copy of which HT has seen.Also Read: 3 terrorists killed, woman dies in encounter in Srinagar’s BatamalooFor the Commission, however, processing the payment is not the end of the line. The EC has ordered an inquiry to probe whether any cases similar to that of Devi are still pending. Some states have asked for more time to submit the report, which has already been filed by 11 states on September 10. Officials said only two such cases were found related to Jammu & Kashmir and were being immediately addressed. The Election Commission is working out the modalities to ensure such payments are expedited, they added. “The idea is that once a death on duty is confirmed, the ECI [Election Commission of India] will directly transfer the compensation into the bank account of the next of kin if available,” said an official on condition of anonymity. Former chief election commissioner S Y Quraishi said since such payments are sensitive, they are normally processed as soon as possible. “Such cases of severe delay are rare,” said Quraishi. “Bank transfers make sense, as salaries and other benefits, too, have moved to that platform.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eci-compensates-jawan-s-widow-after-18-years-to-create-digital-database-to-track-settlements/story-8vWpq0pImvLIzCmBf1TFkN.html
17-09-2020||India||BJP MPs seek probe in ‘rights’ violations in Maharashtra, cite Ranaut, naval officer case||Seeking to corner the Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government in Maharashtra over recent incidents including the roughing up of a retired Navy officer, a group of BJP MPs led by party vice president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe has approached the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) demanding a probe into the happenings.In a letter to NHRC chairperson H L Dattu, the BJP MPs have claimed that there have been several violations of rights in Maharashtra since December 2019.In the letter, also signed by Rajya Sabha MPs Vikas Mahatme and Bhagwat Karad, it is claimed that right to freedom of speech, to life and to equality etc have been breached in Maharashtra during the stated period.The letter claimed that a man named Hiraman Tiwari was attacked over a social media post by those linked with Shiv Sena in December 2019. The letter also mentions the Palghar incident in which three Hindu seers were killed.The letter also mentioned that Madan Sharma, a retired Navy officer, was beaten up by 8 to 10 people over a social media post that was critical of the state government.“Physical attacks on the citizens over their exercise of rights such as freedom of speech to criticise the state government and the public servants ends up in state sponsored violence,” the letter claimed.Also Read: Sanjay Raut hits back at Rajya Sabha MPs for criticising Maharashtra’s handling of Covid-19The MPs also claimed that there were incidents of complaints being filed against journalists and actor Kangana Ranaut after their vocal criticism of the state government.“The government suppresses any voice of opposition with the help of state mechanism,” the letter said. “Whereas posting defamatory material against the prime minister or any other persons in opposition are conveniently overlooked due to the discriminatory practices adopted by the Maharashtra State government,” the letter claimed.Also Read: Kunal Kamra takes on Kangana Ranaut, questions her Y-plus security and attacks on Maharashtra govtAlleging there were incidents of human rights violations in the state including right to life, freedom of speech and right to equality, the BJP MPs asked the NHRC to conduct a probe.Shiv Sena Lok Sabha MP Arvind Sawant and party spokesperson declined to comment on the offensive mounted by the BJP. “Such things should not be even responded to. No comments,” he said. Rajya Sabha MP and Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut was unavailable for comment despite attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mps-seek-probe-in-rights-violations-in-maharashtra-cite-ranaut-naval-officer-case/story-ciR6lf7xXfuGwLVMPkoZdO.html
17-09-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi’s birthday: BJP organises ‘sewa saptah’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has organised several events as part of the “sewa saptah” programme to celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 70th birthday on Thursday. From blood donation camps to distribution of oximetres, food items etc, the party has organised a series of events to celebrate the PM’s birthday.BJP president JP Nadda will address a public gathering at Chandni Chowk on Thursday evening as part of the “sewa saptah”, where he will distribute pulse oximetres, tricycles and wheelchairs to people with disabilities and hearing aids etc. He will also participate in a tree plantation drive on GT Karnal Road. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi, Arvind Kejriwal wish PM Modi on his 70th birthdayThe BJP’s Delhi unit leaders cut a cake, weighing 70 kilograms (kg), made of ladoos at India Gate at midnight to kickstart the PM’s 70th birthday celebrations. BJP leaders said that the PM has taken numerous measures to make India “atmanirbhar”, or self-reliant. The event at India Gate was attended by Shyam Jaju, the party’s Delhi in-charge.At a time when the government is advising the public to maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) viral outbreak, no such measures were observed at the event, according to the videos put out by the party leaders on social media.Also Read: Nepal PM Oli, Russian President Putin greet PM Modi on his 70th birthdayDelhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, who is in home quarantine after he tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday, wished the PM on his 70th birthday via a Twitter message. He tweeted a video highlighting the PM’s achievements. On Thursday, BJP lawmaker Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is also leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, will distribute sport equipment to 70 children living in a slum cluster in Chilla khadar village in east Delhi.Union ministers and senior party leaders will attend events in various parts of the city as part of the celebrations. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will distribute ration kits to poor people in Defence Colony. Union ministers Jitender Singh, Faggan Singh Kulaste, Santosh Gangwar, G Kishan Reddy are among the other ministers, who will participate in the event.The state unit’s youth wing has organised 70 blood donation camps. Delhi BJP general secretary Rajesh Bhatia said, “Besides, blood donation camps, we will distribute fruits to poor people in slums and 70 hospitals in the city. Some BJP workers will pay school fees of 70 children. About 31,000 saplings will be planted in various parts of the national capital.”He added: “We have also planned to hold a 70-slide exhibition on the PM to tell the public about the work done by the BJP under his leadership. We will put up projectors at 10 locations in Delhi to show the exhibition. This will be done on the final day of the Seva Saptah on September 20.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-s-birthday-bjp-organises-sewa-saptah/story-eaXHwYWmDkHj4Uqlnwyn3I.html
17-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Airlines offer schemes to boost passenger confidence||In their efforts to boost passenger confidence, airlines are introducing schemes to attract a higher footfall. IndiGo recently announced two free round-trip tickets to every millionth passenger. The country’s largest airline is the only one to come up with such a scheme. The airline said that it is flying one million passengers every fortnight across over 50 destinations. It also claimed that it receives 70,000 passenger bookings across 500 locations daily.William Boulter, chief commercial officer, IndiGo, said, “We are consistently working towards strengthening consumer confidence in air travel and, as a fruit of our labour, close to 3 million passengers have already chosen IndiGo for their journey post the lockdown.”Also Read: Airlines in India seek $1.5 billion in interest-free credit lineFormer defence pilot and aviation expert Vipul Saxena said, “This scheme will only be able attract passengers up to a certain extent. Passenger load will actually increase only once airfares come down.” This is not the first time that an airline has come up with a scheme to attract passengers. GoAir, IndiGo and Vistara, in July, had allowed passengers to book seats adjacent to theirs at a discounted price so as to feel safe, which came after aviation consultancies pointed out the need to build confidence among passengers to opt for air travel. GoAir has also tied up with an application (available on mobile phones) to connect passengers to doctors who could guide them about travel during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and on health precautions to be taken during their travel. In August, SpiceJet announced a five-day sale on its one-way ticket and offered tickets at Rs 899. The airline, however, was asked to stop the sale by aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).According to sources, airlines have been struggling to fly more than 60% of their total seat capacity after domestic flight operations resumed on May 25. Also Read: Parliament monsoon session: Aircraft (Amendment) Bill passed by Rajya SabhaAccording to a survey in June by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), a trade association of the world’s airlines, there is a major problem in gaining passenger confidence now. Findings of the survey revealed that 60% of respondents in March had said that they would return to air travel in a couple of months. Focusing on the need to regain passengers confidence, IATA said that more than 50% of air travellers said that they would resume air travel only after at least six months. Whereas, 95% of the respondents said that they would return to air travel in a year. Industry experts unanimously said that beside a fear of the pandemic, mandatory quarantine is another factor that is keeping travellers away. Industry expert Mohan Ranganathan’s opinion, however, differed. He said, “When airlines are struggling to fly more than half of their total seat occupancy, how does an airline think that passengers will be ready to travel only for a couple of free tickets? Also, it is only applicable to every millionth passenger, which clearly means that it’s going to be like a lottery system. No educated person will fall for such a scheme.” A former DGCA official said, “Airlines need to increase their efforts for providing smooth and safe travel rather than coming up with such schemes. Not more than a handful of people will opt to fly for free tickets during this phase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-airlines-offer-schemes-to-boost-passenger-confidence/story-yGwHYhSSWo5PaMqUGxhwdN.html
17-09-2020||India||In defending Maharashtra’s Covid-19 fight, Sanjay Raut takes ‘bhabhi ji ke papad’ jibe at minister||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday responded to ‘some Rajya Sabha MPs’ who he said had criticised the Maharashtra government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. Speaking in Rajya Sabha on day four of Parliament’s ongoing monsoon session, he pointed to the number of recoveries in the state. He also remarked that even the World Health Organisation (WHO) has praised efforts of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for bringing the situation in Dharavi under control.“My mother and brother are infected with Covid-19. Many people in Maharashtra are recovering also. Today, the situation in Dharavi is under control. WHO has appreciated efforts of BMC. I want to state these facts as some members here were criticising Maharashtra government yesterday,” Raut said in the Upper House.“I want to ask the members how did so many people recover? Kya log bhabhi ji ke papad kha karke theek ho gaye? This isn’t a political fight but a fight to save the lives of people,” Raut further said.The bhabhi ji ke papad jibe was in reference to Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal ‘s endorsement of ‘Bhabhiji Papad,’ which, he had said, would help create antibodies to combat the deadly virus. However, days later, the minister himself tested positive for Covid-19.Maharashtra has been the worst-affected state in the country since the early days of the pandemic. As of Wednesday, the state’s Covid-19 tally stood at over 1.12 million, of which nearly eight lakh people have recovered.With a record spike of 97,894 in the last 24 hours, India has thus far recorded a total of over 5.1 million cases of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-political-fight-sanjay-raut-hits-back-at-rajya-sabha-mps-for-criticising-maharashtra-s-handling-of-covid-19/story-yy6TPGjznABkCON2Dsi44H.html
17-09-2020||India||As social distancing takes a backseat during tarpan, here’s all you need to know about norms for Durga Puja||The festive season started in West Bengal from Thursday with the Vishwakarma Puja and the Mahalaya. Durga Puja, however, is still a month away. Thousands of people performed tarpan—a ritual offering prayers to departed ancestors on Mahalaya—at the ghats along River Hooghly. The police and civic officials had made arrangements and maintained strict vigil since the early hours to ensure that people wore masks and maintain social distance while performing the tarpan. “But as the gathering was huge, it was difficult to ensure that everyone wore masks and maintained social distance,” said a senior police officer who was present at one of the ghats. Also Read: Bengal govt moves green court NGT to allow Chhath puja at Kolkata lakeMeanwhile puja organisers in Kolkata have come up with a set of guidelines on how the week-long festival that starts around October 22 could be held amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “The challenge will be huge, specially after what we saw in videos of tarpan that were circulating on social media on Thursday . Most people didn’t wear masks and there was hardly any social distancing,” said a puja organsier. The state government will hold a meeting with prominent puja organisers on September 25 to finalise crowd management plans and other aspects of the festival this year. “We have already come up with an informal list of dos and don’ts for the members to follow. That needs to be finalised,” said Saswata Bau, general secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab. Here is what you can expect this time 1. As the economy has been hit, organisers are slashing their budgets drastically. So expect a simple puja sans the grandeur and elaborate festivities 2. The height of pandal and idol will be smaller. This will ease sanitisation of the pandal and idol at least once a day. There will be special sanitisation facilities for visitors on Saptami, Astami and Nabami when the crowds peak. 3. Interior decorations will be kept at a minimum to avoid people gathering inside pandals. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has urged pandals should be airy and open. Not more than 25 people will be allowed at one time inside a pandal. 4. Long barricades will be placed at the entry gates so that queues can be formed which in turn would help maintain social distancing. Visitors will have to wear masks and sanitise their hands. 5. There will be minimum lighting so that people don’t gather only at night to see the elaborate lighting. 6. Food stalls will be erected with a gap of at least 3-4 feet between them. No one will be allowed to sit. Only takeaways will be allowed. 7. Rules of social distancing during rituals like sandhi puja, pushpanjali and sindur khela will have to be followed. Sliced fruits will not be allowed as bhog, whole fruits may be offered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-social-distancing-takes-a-backseat-during-tarpan-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-norms-for-durga-puja/story-EDMAEnxNaVbd7J2tshrvUK.html
17-09-2020||India||AAP to oppose ‘anti-farmer’ bills in Parliament, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will oppose in Parliament three “anti-farmer” bills that seek to replace ordinances introduced earlier this year to free up the country’s antiquated agriculture sector. The ordinances have triggered farmer protests, especially in Punjab and Haryana. The protesters say the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance in particular threatens the federally fixed minimum support prices they get for their produce.Also read: What to expect today on Parliament monsoon session Day 4The Congress, and the Left have opposed the proposed laws including the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance Bill and Farm Services Bill. They have backed farmers’ groups that oppose the bills and have called for coordinated protests in Parliament. The Opposition parties plan to stall the bills in Parliament and have sought to send them to parliamentary select committees for a review.“The three agriculture bills are anti-farmer in nature. Farmers across the country are protesting against them. The central government should roll back the law. The Aam Aadmi Party will oppose the three Bills in the parliament,” tweeted Kejriwal, who is also AAP’s national convenor.AAP has one member in the Lok Sabha from Punjab and three in the Rajya Sabha. It is the second biggest party in the Punjab assembly with 19 seats in the 117-member House. Farmers in Haryana and Punjab have been protesting against the three ordinances. The Bharatiya Kisan Union held a rally and blocked the National Highway 44 near Kurukshetra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-to-oppose-anti-farmer-bills-in-parliament-says-kejriwal/story-8zEbgcPEhqkSg2pClyVikI.html
17-09-2020||India||Spike in severe cyclones, extremely heavy rain over India: Earth sciences ministry to RS||The Union Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) has documented an increase in formation of severe cyclones over the north Indian Ocean, including the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, and a spike in cases of extremely heavy rainfall, measuring over 20 centimetres (20 cm), in the past three years.Though frequency of severe cyclones has increased, the loss of life has reduced to double-digit figures since 2013 because of better forecast, MoES said in Rajya Sabha in response to a question on Wednesday.On average, five cyclones developed over the north Indian Ocean between 1891 and 2017.But in 2018 and 2019, seven and eight cyclones were recorded, respectively. Five cyclones had developed over the Arabian Sea last year. The normal is one cyclone per year since 1902, the ministry said. More intense cyclones over the Arabian Sea were reported last year, according to the MoES. In 2018, out of seven cyclones, six were of severe intensity; while last year out of eight, seven were severe.“The country has witnessed intense to very intense rainfall activity leading to flood scenarios in the recent past,” the note said. It added that 554 weather stations reported extremely heavy rainfall, measuring over 20 cm, last year.It cited that out of 4,000 weather stations, 3,056 reported very heavy rainfall.The numbers were lower in 2018 and 2017, according to the MoES note. Also read: Glacier studies in Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh flag stark climate change impactIn 2017, 261 stations had recorded extremely heavy rainfall and 1,824 stations had recorded very heavy rain. “There is an increasing trend in heavy and extremely heavy rainfall cases, which I have said in the past also. But there are no conclusions to be drawn from the three-year data. This has been happening for some time now. It doesn’t mean that every year cases of heavy or extremely heavy rainfall will be higher than the previous year,” said Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general India Meteorological Department (IMD).In reply to a question on several low-magnitude earthquakes in recent months, the MoES stated that 413 tremors have been recorded by the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) between March 1 and September 8. Out of 413 tremors, 11 were between 5 and 5.7 magnitude on the Richter scale, while 135 were of less than 3.The ministry has said there are no plans for establishing more number of Cyclone Warning Centres as the requirements of the entire coastal belt of the country is covered.“IMD has demonstrated its capability to provide early warning for cyclones with high precision and has earned accolades globally and nationally for very effective, state of art early warning system for monitoring and prediction of cyclones. The cyclone forecast accuracy has significantly improved in recent years as has been demonstrated during cyclones Phailin (2013), Hudhud (2014), Vardah (2016), Titli (2018), Fani and Bulbul (2019) and Amphan & Nisarga (2020). Due to this, in recent years, the loss of life has been drastically reduced, being limited to double digit figures only,” it has said.According to “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region”, a report of the MoES released earlier this year, from 1950 onwards there has been a significant rising trend in the frequency and intensity of extreme heavy rainfall events over central India along with a decreasing trend in the moderate rain events.A study published in Nature journal in 2017 by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) has concluded that three-fold rise in extreme rains along the west coast and central India between 1950 and 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-severe-cyclones-extremely-heavy-rain-over-india-earth-sciences-ministry-to-rs/story-aAdGLkSOzspcR0KtClUlHP.html
17-09-2020||India||NIA questions KT Jaleel in connection with Kerala gold smuggling case||Kerala’s higher education minister KT Jaleel, who has been facing the heat in the gold smuggling cases, was summoned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday.Jaleel reached the NIA office in Kochi at 6 am in a private vehicle and was questioned for two hours.His name was found in prime accused Swapna Suresh’s phone call list. Suresh was arrested in July this year.Soon after the list of Suresh’s calls came out, the minister said he had called Suresh as a consular employee in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate in the state capital.There have been widespread protests across Kerala against Jaleel and demands have been made for his resignation.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has dismissed any possibility of the minister’s resignation. The ongoing agitation against the minister is a move to destroy the state’s “spirited fight against the Covid-19 pandemic”, he said.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had on Wednesday denied reports that Jaleel was given a clean chit in the case.The smuggling case came to light on July 5 after seizure of 30 kg gold from a diplomatic consignment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-questions-kt-jaleel-in-connection-with-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-obfOzN1f7B4YWF5D9j8nNP.html
17-09-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi, Arvind Kejriwal wish PM Modi on his 70th birthday||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday.“Wishing Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji a happy birthday,” the Congress leader tweeted.Also read: PM Modi turns 70, wishes pour in from all cornersWhile wishing Modi, Kejriwal prayed for his long and healthy life.“Narendra Modi wishing you a very happy birthday sir. I pray for your long and healthy life,” said Kejriwal.The BJP has organised a “Seva Saptah” from September 14 to 20 coinciding with the Prime Minister’s birthday.The party is undertaking social initiatives across the nation during this week-long event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-arvind-kejriwal-wish-pm-modi-on-his-70th-birthday/story-IxWYJWfEZ4zmEjdNoLg0YP.html
17-09-2020||India||India crosses 60 million mark for Covid-19 testing||India crossed the 60-million-mark for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests on Wednesday, as 11,36,613 tests were conducted on the single day.It has taken the country almost eight months to conduct 6,05,65,728 Covid-19 tests. The first Covid-19 swab sample in India was tested on January 23 at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.India had one NIV laboratory in January. Since then, the country has added 1,751 laboratories to its network to conduct Covid-19 tests, including 1,059 and 692 in the government and private sector, respectively.Also Read: Covid-19: Govt faces House heat on lockdown, migrants, cases“The laboratories are being added on a daily basis after due approvals. It has been a major effort to help establish, repurpose and even upgrade various virology laboratories across the country to equip them to conduct Covid-19 tests. Not just ICMR, other government departments such as Department of Biotechnology (DBT), the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), etc. have also been instrumental in scaling up the testing infrastructure, and that too at such a short span of time,” said an ICMR official, requesting anonymity. On average, India has been conducting one million tests daily to diagnose Covid-19 for the past three weeks, including reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid antigen detection (RAD) tests. RAD tests are up to 40% of the total Covid-19 diagnostics tests by volume, according to the ICMR data.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThere has been a progressive rise in Covid-19 tests in the country. Until April 8, 10,000 cumulative Covid-19 tests were conducted. The figure rose to a million by May 3; five million by June 10; 10 million by July 7; and crossed the 60 million mark on Wednesday.The average daily Covid-19 tests conducted in the country has seen a rise from 0.5 million (5,04,266) between July 29 and August 4 to about 1.1 million (10, 94, 592) this week, according to the latest data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW). However, the high Covid-19 positivity rate in some states, which are conducting large scale testing, is an area for concern.Also Read: Monsoon session: We must fight the Covid crisis together, says Himachal CM Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, MoH&FW, said the national Covid-19 positivity rate is at 8.4%.But some states such as Maharashtra at 21.5%, Andhra Pradesh (12.3%), Karnataka (12.1%), Tamil Nadu (9.2%) have a higher positivity rate than the national average because of their aggressive testing mechanism, he said.“These states will have to further increase testing because of the higher positivity rate,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tested-60-million-samples-for-covid-19-in-8-months/story-mmpcZ90UNkrh6Xy4cQz2hK.html
17-09-2020||India||Doctor is only a click away in Varanasi’s digital village||A doctor is just a click away for residents of Varanasi’s Gaura, the district’s first digital village with around 2,500 residents, thanks to the tele-consultation facility at its digital centre, allowing people to seek relief from non-emergency ailments without having to leave the confines of their hamlet.Take the case of Mala Devi Maurya, a Gaura homemaker in her early 50s, who battled anxiety from January to June. Relief came in July when she took expert advice via tele-consultation at the digital centre in the village after being prompted to do so by Sanjay Maurya, the digital village centre head.Helping Mala overcome her initial hesitation, Sanjay Maurya logged on to the digital village website https://www.digital-village.in/digital-health-services and selected an online physician for consultation.Mala told the doctor, “I suffered from anxiety and nervousness in January. I visited a doctor at a town nearby. The doctor prescribed medicines and advised me to rest. I took medicines for five days and got relief. But the anxiety and nervousness returned a few days later.”On the doctor’s instructions, Maurya measured Mala’s blood pressure and pulse rate. Thereafter, the doctor prescribed some medicines and she has felt much better ever since she started taking them regularly.“I was relieved. For the last two months, I have been fine. I got advice near my doorstep,” said Mala, confirming the gain.Tele-consultation is a boon for the locals because they get advice from experts at their village itself. The prescription slip reaches the digital account of the centre and a printout is given to the patient. Tele-consultation is a form of primary care, where the patient seeks the doctor’s advice at a digital village centre about non-emergency medical problems, which don’t require the doctor’s immediate visit to the location. It doesn’t replace face-to-face consultation when it is needed, but complements it.“In the last two months, around 40 people took advice from doctors through tele-consultation under the digital health service, which is part of the digital village programme,” Sanjay Maurya said.He added that the tele-consultation facility also provisioned for advice from experts in Ayurveda and homeopathy apart from allopathy. The centre also provides free medicines to patients and if a prescribed medicine is not available, then the patient is asked to purchase from a medical store.Also Read: UP to organise ‘one district one product’ international exhibitionSunita Maurya, another homemaker, had back aches for the last two years. She consulted a doctor through a digital centre around a month ago. At present, she is under-treatment.Sanjay Maurya said he told all 593 families in the village about tele-consultation and other facilities available at the digital centre, also known as CSC (common service centre).“If any patient cannot come to the digital centre, I, along with a multi-test portable machine, reach his/her house and connect them to a physician online. I note down the prescription given by the doctor and hand over the slip to the patient,” he explained.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh may fund religious travel of 1.5 crore labourers from stateLocals and people from adjoining villages also visit the centre to get Aadhaar cards made. Now, they don’t have to go to Varanasi or other towns for these works. Sanjay Maurya said the digital centre was a one-stop service solution for residents of the digital village and adjoining villages. It provides them with telemedicine, internet connectivity and other services. The centre also acts as a platform for imparting skill development training to the local youths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-is-only-a-click-away-in-varanasi-s-digital-village/story-ybkaEcdqMlrckPrBh7a9dO.html
17-09-2020||India||Close to 1 lakh new Covid-19 infections take India’s tally past 5.1 million; active cases cross million mark||India on Thursday recorded 97,894 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, which pushed the country’s tally to 51,18,253.According to Union health ministry update on Thursday morning, the number of active cases crossed the million mark and currently stand at 10,09,976 whereas 40,25,079 patients have been discharged from hospitals.There were 1,132 new fatalities due to the disease in the same period, taking the death toll to 83,198.Despite the high number of daily cases, the government has been highlighting the recoveries being registered daily in the country. On Wednesday, a record 82,961 new Covid-19 recoveries were reported pushing the overall figures close to 39.5 lakh.The recovery rate has further improved to 78.53 per cent, the health ministry said.It further said that nearly 59 per cent of the new recoveries came from five states - 23.41 per cent from Maharashtra (19,423 recoveries); and a cumulative 35.5 per cent from Andhra Pradesh (9,628 recoveries), Karnataka (7,406), Uttar Pradesh (6,680) and Tamil Nadu (5,735).Twenty-seven states and union territories are reporting recovery rates of more than 70 per cent, the ministry highlighted.Meanwhile, Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday received the approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to resume clinical trials for the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by United Kingdom’s Oxford University and AstraZeneca.The trials in India were paused last week after a trial subject in the United Kingdom developed an unexplained severe adverse reaction.In a related development, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday that the central government has approved the use of Remdesivir and Fabiparivir as medicines to treat the coronavirus disease.The top court was hearing a plea seeking registration of an FIR by the CBI against ten Indian pharmaceutical firms for manufacturing and selling these two medicines for treating COVID-19 patients allegedly without valid licences.Remdesivir and Favipiravir are antiviral drugs and their efficacy in treating COVID-19 patients have been a matter of debate among medical experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/close-to-1-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-take-india-s-tally-past-5-1-million-active-cases-cross-million-mark/story-CjoaFjntWhmcVXu6848fIJ.html
17-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session Day 4: What to expect today||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will read out a statement on the India-China border clash in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. At 12pm, Singh will make a statement on “Developments on our borders in Ladakh”. Even as a full-fledged discussion over the statement has been ruled out, Opposition parties, particularly the Congress, will decide the future course of action after listening to Singh. In a meeting between representatives of the government and Opposition parties on Wednesday, the Centre had agreed to a debate in Parliament on four key Opposition-sponsored topics—GST, economy and jobs, national education policy and the draft environment impact assessment. Also Read: Former PM Manmohan Singh, other MPs seek Rajya Sabha leave on health groundsOn Tuesday, Singh told the Lok Sabha that India is committed to a peaceful resolution to the border stand-off with China, and India and China have not arrived at a mutually acceptable solution until now. He said Indian forces are determined to protect the country’s security and sovereignty and inflicted heavy casualties on Chinese forces when they clashed with them in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. The defence minister said the violent conduct by the Chinese along the LAC has violated all bilateral agreements, including those signed in 1993 and 1996. “China is not honouring the customary alignment of the boundary with India. The alignment has not only been defined by treaties but has been maintained historically.” Also Read: Covid-19: Govt faces House heat on lockdown, migrants, casesThe government and the Opposition, however, remain at loggerheads over the three farm ordinances and the banking regulation bill. The differences might lead to major protests in the Lok Sabha where two of the three ordinances are slated to be replaced by bills on Thursday. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 are listed for passage on Thursday. While many experts have hailed the new laws, Opposition parties and farmer organisations have dubbed them as beneficial only to corporate houses. The Lok Sabha will also take up the appropriation bills for the first supplementary budget and The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020 will be introduced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. In the Rajya Sabha, The Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 are slated for passage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-day-4-what-to-expect-today/story-E9zvdpF8A9bGxTDUgP3luI.html
17-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to answer Opposition’s questions on China in Parliament today||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is expected to address the Opposition’s questions in Parliament on situation at India-China border in Ladakh.Rajnath Singh will comment on the border row in the upper house Rajya Sabha at 12pm. The defence minister made a statement in Lok Sabha on Tuesday, where he said that tension at the border was bound to negatively affect bilateral relations between India and China.China had engaged in aggressive behaviour and sought to unilaterally change the status quo at the border, he told the lower house.“The amassing of the troops by China goes against our 1993 and 1996 agreements. Respecting and strictly observing the Line of Actual Control is the basis for peace and tranquillity in the border areas and explicitly recognised in both agreements. While our armed forces abide scrupulously by it, this has not been reciprocated by the Chinese side... In the recent incidents, this year, the violent conduct of Chinese forces has been in complete violation of all mutually agreed norms,” Singh said in Lok Sabha.“The House should have full confidence that our armed forces will always rise to the challenge and do us all proud,” he added.While he accused the Chinese of not honouring the existing border agreements and pacts between the two countries, China claimed on Wednesday that it was committed to maintaining peace. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said that the country has been honouring the agreements signed between China and India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-answer-opposition-s-questions-on-china-in-parliament-today/story-OONraBROHrN5ni8Y5M8u3H.html
17-09-2020||India||Kalyan Singh airlifted to private Ghaziabad hospital, stable||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, 88, who had tested positive for coronavirus, was shifted by an air ambulance from Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) in Lucknow to a private hospital in Ghaziabad on Wednesday, officials said. Doctors said he was ‘absolutely stable’ and was shifted on his family’s request.Singh’s family, including his son Rajvir, a Lok Sabha MP, and grandson Sandeep, a minister of state in the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, were both not reachable for their comments. “He was doing fine. His oxygen levels and blood pressure were all okay and he wasn’t running fever,” the doctors at SGPGI said. “He was absolutely stable and improving,” the doctors added. A staffer at Kalyan Singh’s house said the former UP chief minister, who also served as Rajasthan governor, was fine and he too, couldn’t say why Singh had to be shifted to Yashoda hospital in Kaushambi area of Ghaziabad.Yashoda hospital medical superintendent Anuj Agarwal told PTI that Kalyan Singh has been admitted to the hospital’s Covid-19 ward. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh may fund religious travel of 1.5 crore labourers from stateSingh landed at the Hindon airport on a state government aircraft at 4.35 pm, an official said. He was then taken by road to the private hospital.Singh was admitted to SGPGI on Monday with complaints of fever, dry cough and breathlessness and had tested positive for Covid-19.Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition case verdict on Advani, Joshi, Bharti on September 30An accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, Kalyan is among the leaders, who are to appear before the special CBI court in Lucknow on September 30 when the verdict in the sensitive case will be pronounced. He had recently said that his last desire was to see the Ram temple come up at Ayodhya. (WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalyan-singh-airlifted-to-private-ghaziabad-hospital-stable/story-Q2aM7XQTX6rDmSfD0OmInM.html
17-09-2020||India||Heavy rain likely in south, central and parts of east India||A low-pressure area is likely to form over north-west Bay of Bengal. Winds along the west coast are likely to be strengthened leading to widespread very heavy rainfall over Odisha, coastal and southern interior Karnataka, Kerala and the Andaman and Nicobar region on September 19 and 20, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The monsoon trough—the line of low pressure—is lying to the north of its normal position—from Ganganagar in Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal. Also Read: No rainfall in Delhi for a weekThe western end of the monsoon trough is likely to remain close to foothills of the Himalayas during the next five days and the eastern end is likely to shift southwards from September 19 onwards. An east-west shear zone, which refers to a zone of change in wind direction and velocity, runs along peninsular India. The weather condition is likely to persist during the next two days.Widespread and heavy rainfall is likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh (AP), Telangana, central Maharashtra, Marathwada, coastal and north interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe during the next three days due to these favourable conditions.Also Read: Monsoon veers off forecastIMD has also warned of moderate thunderstorm with lightning over Madhya Pradesh (MP), Vidarbha, Bihar, Jharkhand, central Maharashtra, Marathwada, Odisha, Telangana, Gujarat, south-east Uttar Pradesh (UP), southern Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, West Bengal, Sikkim and Chhattisgarh on Thursday.Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company, has said the low-pressure area could intensify into a depression. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected over central and parts of eastern India ending the monsoon season on an extremely wet note, the company said in an update on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-south-central-and-parts-of-east-india/story-AP5jaUKM7GmOxwNXHRAxRO.html
17-09-2020||India||ED attaches properties worth over Rs 11 crore in NH-74 case in Uttarakhand||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached movable and immovable properties to the tune of Rs 11.62 crore belonging to seven accused in the multi-crore national highway-74 corruption case on Wednesday, said an official release by the Central agency. The case pertains to wrongdoing in land acquisition for construction and widening of the 374-km long Haridwar-Bareilly stretch of national highway (NH)-74 in Uttarakhand. Some select beneficiaries are alleged to have incorrectly sold farmland as commercial land for the project to receive at least 10 times higher compensation from the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). Most of the cases were reported from Kashipur, Jaspur, Bajpur, and Sitarganj areas of Udham Singh Nagar district. The ED stated that acting under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, on the basis of the FIR registered and the charge sheet filed by Uttarakhand police in the case, it has attached both movable and immovable properties valuing Rs 11.62 crore belonging to Barinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, Harjinder Singh, Balwant Singh, Ramesh Kumar, Vikramjeet Singh, their family members and M/s Fibremarx Papers Pvt Ltd run by Jasdeep Singh Goraya.“The attached properties consist of 23 immovable properties including agricultural land, industrial land, commercial plots and buildings situated in US Nagar district of Uttarakhand and movable properties which include funds in five bank accounts,” the ED stated.Also Read: To achieve 100% literacy, Uttarakhand govt to make new action planThe Central agency also claims to have found during its probe that “farmers and landowners got higher compensation for their land sold at non-agricultural rates in connivance with revenue officers, which was utilised in buying the immovable property, making deposits in bank and giving commission to revenue officers.”Also Read: Man killed by bear in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh“Accused Barinder and Balwant Singh diverted the proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs 9 crore while Harinder Singh transferred proceeds to the tune of Rs 1 crore to the accounts of Jasdeep Singh Goraya and Mehak Kaur which was utilised by them in their company M/s Fibremarx Papers Pvt Ltd,” the statement said. The ED has been probing the NH-74 case since 2018, which includes revenue officials, NHAI officials, farmers, builders and middlemen as some of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-attaches-properties-worth-over-rs-11-crore-in-nh-74-probe-in-uttarakhand/story-yRDECHYuGiZW5wtdU3QekO.html
17-09-2020||India||PM Modi turns 70, wishes pour in from all corners||Greetings for Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday poured in from leaders across parties.Union home Minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and external affairs minister S Jaishankar among others tweeted their greetings on the occasion.Also read: ‘Wish you good health and happiness’: Nepal PM Oli on PM Modi’s 70th birthday“PM Modi has devoted each moment of his life towards making India strong, safe and self-reliant. I am lucky to serve the nation under his leadership. I along with all countrymen wish for PM’s healthy and long life,” Amit Shah tweeted in Hindi. एक मजबूत, सुरक्षित, आत्मनिर्भर भारत के लिए अपने जीवन का क्षण-क्षण खपा देने वाले ऐसे महान नेता @narendramodi जी के नेतृत्व में माँ भारती की सेवा करने का अवसर मिलना बहुत ही सौभाग्य की बात है।मैं देश के करोड़ों लोगों के साथ मोदी जी के उत्तम स्वास्थ्य और दीर्घायु की कामना करता हूँ।“Wishing PM Narendra Modi ji a happy birthday,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Chief minsiter of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal wished for PM’s healthy and long life in his tweet. “Wishing you a very happy birthday Sir. I pray for your long and healthy life,” he tweeted.Minister of defence Rajnath Singh said in his greetings that the PM has worked diligently towards empowering the poor and marginalised and the nation has benefited tremendously from his leadership. “Greetings and warm wishes to PM Narendra Modi on his birthday. India has benefited tremendously from his astute leadership, firm conviction and decisive action. He has been working assiduously towards empowering the poor & marginalised. Praying for his good health and long life,” he tweeted. Greetings and warm wishes to PM Shri @narendramodi on his birthday. India has benefited tremendously from his astute leadership, firm conviction &decisive action. He has been working assiduously towards empowering the poor & marginalised. Praying for his good health and long lifeAlso read: BJP to organise ‘Seva Saptah’ next month to mark PM Modi’s 70th birthday“Join the nation in felicitating Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday. His leadership has enhanced India’s standing on the world stage. Wish him good health and many more years in service of the nation,” EAM S Jaishankar said in his greetings.Minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted, “I join the nation in wishing India’s popular and visionary PM Narendra Modi ji on his 70th birthday. A steadfast leader with immense clarity, he has brought about a transformational change in the lives of Indians through his policies of inclusive & sustainable development.”MP Kiren Rijiju also conveyed his good wishes to the PM through twitter. “Happy birthday to our dearest Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji. Thank you for restoring people’s faith in democracy and it’s political leadership due to your unblemished ethics and high morality. New India is emerging under your leadership. I pray for your good health and long life,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-turns-70-wishes-pour-in-from-all-corners/story-6IlYtk9d0Nmj9HIYL0ITjM.html
17-09-2020||India||13 feared dead as boat ferrying over 40 capsizes in Rajasthan’s Kota||At least 13 people were feared dead in Rajasthan’s Kota district on Wednesday morning when the boat they were travelling in capsized, police said.Over 40 people from the Gothda Kala village in the district were crossing the Chambal river on the illegal boat to visit Kamleshwar Dham in Bundi district, Kota district collector Ujjawal Singh Rathore said. “About 20 of them swam to safety and 13 are feared dead; 11 bodies have been recovered so far,” he said. The deceased have been identified as Dinesh (35), Madhusudan Dhakar (22), Lotanti (25), Golma (15), Siyaram (55), Jyoti (13), Prembai (45), Urmila (30), Mansharam (30), Umabai (28) and Radhika (8). “Police have lodged an FIR under section 304A of the IPC against the boat owner,” Rathore said. Locals present on the riverbank began the rescue operation before government help reached the spot, said Kota superintendent of police Sharad Chaudhary. State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) commandant Amrita Duhan said that a team of 42 personnel with three boats and diving equipment began the rescue operations. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the accident. “I express condolences for the aggrieved families of deceased,” he said in a tweet. The state government has announced a compensation of Rs 1 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased from the CM Relief Fund. According to people present at the site of the incident, the boat also had some motorcycles on board. “There was panic and everyone moved to one side of the boat when a kid shouted that water was entering the boat. This led to imbalance,” said 62-year-old Ramprasad Dhakar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-feared-dead-as-boat-ferrying-over-40-capsizes-in-rajasthan-s-kota/story-4lmRpYjV4j8Xvicwx5OqVL.html
17-09-2020||India||3 arrested for murder of Suresh Raina’s kin||Three members of an inter-state gang of robbers have been arrested for murdering cricketer Suresh Raina’s two relatives in Pathankot on August 19, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said Wednesday even as 11 other accused remain on the run. With the arrests, the CM said, the case of the attack and murder had been solved. Singh ordered the formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the killings.Raina’s uncle, Ashok Kumar, a contractor, was killed while his son, Kaushal Kumar, succumbed to injuries on August 31 after the robbers attacked them. His aunt, Asha Rani, is battling for life at a hospital in critical condition while two others injured in the attack have recovered.Punjab police chief Dinkar Gupta said over 100 suspects were questioned before the three were arrested from a slum near the Pathankot Railway Station on Tuesday. He said rings, a gold chain, and ₹1,530 were recovered from the accused Sawan, Muhobbat, and Shahrukh Khan.The initial probe has revealed that the three are members of a gang involved in robberies in Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Punjab.Sawan, who is from Uttar Pradesh, has told the investigators they started on August 12 from Rajasthan’s Chirawa in an autorickshaw and bought items including a screwdriver from a hardware shop in Ludhiana before leaving for Pathankot. They also committed a robbery in Jagraon on August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-arrested-for-murder-of-suresh-raina-s-kin/story-CELdZOqzl6Y7snMNXls4TM.html
17-09-2020||India||Tata emerges as lowest bidder for tender to construct new Parliament complex||Tata Projects Limited emerged as the lower of the two bidders for the tender to construct the new Parliament complex by quoting a bid of ₹861.90 crore when the financial bids for the project opened on Wednesday. Larsen & Toubro (L&T) Limited, which was the other bidder, quoted ₹865 crore for the project, according to the bid documents. According to the Central Public Works Department’s (CPWD) tender, the estimated cost of construction for the new building is ₹889 crore. The two Mumbai-based construction companies submitted their financial bids after qualifying in the technical round for the tender. Tata Projects has emerged as the lowest bidder and is likely to bag the contract, a spokesperson for Tata Projects said. A spokesperson for L&T did not wish to comment. Three bidders qualified in the technical round but only two firms ended up submitting their financial bids. “Only three parties technically prequalified in the first round and only two have quoted their bids today. The firm that wins the contract will be issued a letter of award within a few days,” a senior government official said requesting anonymity.“We have to go through the due process of evaluation of the bids thoroughly and award a letter of contract only after that,” the second official said. The contract is likely to be awarded to the lowest bidder, the first official added. To be clear, in infrastructure projects, the firm is finalised only after it receives a letter of award which is a written confirmation that a tenderer has been successful and will be awarded a contract. It contains details of the amount of the award, the date of the award, and when the contract will be signed. The government had narrowed the list of choices for building a new Parliament complex to three Mumbai-based construction companies -- Larsen & Toubro Limited, Tata Projects Limited and Shapoorji Pallonji & Company Private Limited -- after disqualifying four other entities, Hindustan Times first reported on August 12. “The third firm, Shapoorji Pallonji & Company had submitted its Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) but it did not submit a financial bid today,” the second official quoted before, said. HT reached out to Shapoorji Pallonji group for a comment but could not get a response. In the technical round Mumbai-based construction and civil engineering company ITD Cementation India Limited, Hyderabad-headquartered NCC Limited, PSP Projects Limited of Ahmedabad, and Uttar Pradesh state government’s UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Limited were disqualified by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD).Based on an evaluation, CPWD disqualified the four companies for reasons including non-fulfilment of the criteria mentioned in the bid document.The tender laid out strict eligibility criteria based on a firm’s past work, such as having constructed an assembly hall with a minimum capacity of 1,000 people and a building with a basement, as well as ongoing projects, average monthly turnover, and net worth.The proposed work is of very prestigious nature and is required to be completed strictly within the prescribed time limit of 21 months with the highest standards of quality and workmanship, the bid document said. The bid document also specified that 50% of the workers will need to be skilled in stone masonry, carving, and fresco, and adequate health and safety measures would need to be taken in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.Work on the new Parliament, a ground plus two-storey triangular-shaped building, is expected to begin after the ongoing monsoon session, HT reported on September 15.India’s national emblem is likely to sit atop the new Parliament building, according to the latest design iteration prepared for the tendering process, replacing a spire that was there in an earlier version.The new Parliament building with a built-up area of approximately 60,000 metre square, is set to come up on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate, which currently houses a reception, boundary walls and other temporary structures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tata-emerges-as-lowest-bidder-for-tender-to-construct-new-parliament-complex/story-OY2hYv5xCUd5JcEOJN0X3K.html
17-09-2020||India||Former PM Manmohan Singh, other MPs seek Rajya Sabha leave on health grounds||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is among the Rajya Sabha MPs who have sought the Upper House’s permission to remain absent for a part of or the entire monsoon session of Parliament On Wednesday, Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu said the lawmakers had sought leave of absence for health reasons. The requests have come amid the Covid-19 pandemic.. Besides Manmohan Singh, two other senior Congress leaders -- Oscar Fernandes and P Chidambaram -- have also asked to be excused from the session. Other MPs who have sought leave include Parimal Nathwani of the YSR Congress Party; A. Navaneethakrishnan of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam; KG Kenye of the Naga People’s Front; Banda Prakash and Lakshmikantha Rao of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi; nominated MP Narendra Jadhav; Hishey Lachungpa of the Sikkim Democratic Front; Trinamool Congress’s Manas Ranjan Bhunia; Anbumani Ramadoss of the Paattali Makkal Katchi ; Sushil Kumar Gupta of the Aam Aadmi Party; and Mahendra Prasad of the Janata Dal (United). On Monday, the House was informed that Subhasish Chakraborty and Sukhendu Sekhar Ray of the Trinamool Congress had also sought permission to stay away for the duration of the session, which ends on October 1, on health grounds. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, both Houses of Parliament have made extensive arrangements to ensure that physical distancing and other health protocols in place for preventing the spread of the virus are adhered to. Rajya Sabha proceedings are being held between 9am and 1pm; some of the members have to sit in galleries as well as the Lok Sabha chambers to follow the physical distancing requirement. MPs also had to undergo a mandatory Covid-19 test before being allowed to attend the session, which got underway on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-manmohan-singh-other-mps-seek-rajya-sabha-leave-on-health-grounds/story-wb3JyFDlATxfEhOMBUWRoJ.html
17-09-2020||India||Nepal PM Oli, Russian President Putin greet PM Modi on his 70th birthday||Prime Minister of Nepal KP Sharma Oli conveyed his greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the latter’s 70th birthday. PM Modi was born on September 17 in 1950. The Nepal PM said that the two leaders will continue to work closely together towards strengthening relations between India and Nepal.“Warm greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji on the auspicious occasion of your birthday. I wish you good health and happiness. We will continue working closely together to further strengthen relations between our two countries,” Oli tweeted.Russian President Vladimir Putin also congratulated PM Modi on his birthday.“I look forward to continue constructive dialogue with you and work closely together on topical issues of the bilateral and international agenda,” President Putin said.Meanwhile, to mark PM Modi’s birthday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has launched ‘Seva Saptah’ in which various activities like planting of saplings, distribution of fruits in Covid-19 hospitals, donation of artificial limbs and other equipment to 70 differently-abled people in every district of the country will take place.The party had sent a circular to all its state unit chiefs, suggesting activities that could be taken up as part of the week-long campaign from September 14 to September 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wish-you-good-health-and-happiness-nepal-pm-oli-on-pm-modi-s-70th-birthday/story-Q39THTLnxzEq9lm69xmnBJ.html
17-09-2020||India||SIT formed to ‘probe’ interfaith marriages in Kanpur||The Uttar Pradesh police have formed a nine-member Special Investigation Team to probe cases of interfaith marriages in Kanpur, inspector general Mohit Agarwal said. Agarwal said the SIT has been given 10 days to complete the probe after a woman’s family claimed she was a victim of “love jihad”.Radical Hindu groups have popularised the term “love jihad”, which they use to describe what they believe is an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to trick Hindu women into marriage. In February, junior home minister G Kishan Reddy told Parliament the term “love jihad” is not defined under the laws and no such case has been reported by any central agency.The SIT probe has been ordered even as the woman recorded her statement in Delhi’s Tis Hazari court, saying she married on her own volition. The case fell flat but the Vishwa Hindu Parishad joined the family in staging a demonstration in Kidwai Nagar alleging a pattern in five interfaith marriages. As of now, the SIT has 15 such cases to look into.Agarwal said apart from tracing links between Muslims in such cases, the team would explore the conspiracy angle and look at whether the men were receiving overseas funding.Deen Dayal Gaur, a local VHP functionary, said, “They are a result of a well-hatched conspiracy to target the Hindu girls; most of them are minor as per our inputs.”The SIT is pursuing the case of a Muslim man, who allegedly adopted a Hindu identity, and allegedly abused a minor after renting a room in her house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-formed-to-probe-interfaith-marriages-in-kanpur/story-N8v7595aYJ7zdSi01zuagI.html
17-09-2020||India||May take decades to clean Ganga water, say experts||Namami Gange, the Central government’s ambitious project to clean the Ganga, seems to have delivered modest results, with the quality of river water from Rudraparayag in Uttarakhand to Uluberia in West Bengal having improved between 2014 and 2019, according to Jal Shakti ministry data, but experts say it will take decades before the water becomes fit for human consumption .The dissolved oxygen level, or the amount of oxygen available to living aquatic organisms, has improved at 27 locations and the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), the amount of oxygen consumed by bacteria while they decompose organic matter, and faecal coliform (FC) content, a measure of the suitability of water for consumption, has improved at 42 and 21 locations, respectively.The information was provided by the Jal Shakti ministry in response to a query by Kochi-based RTI applicant, K Govindan Nampoothiry. The ministry has provided the annual average of Ganga water quality on these three parameters, thereby discounting seasonal variations.After coming to power in May 2014, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government the following month launched the Namami Ganga project with the objectives of reducing river pollution, and promoting its conservation and rejuvenation. Higher dissolved oxygen (the national standard is 5 milligrams per litre or more) shows whether water can sustain aquatic life. A lower BOD (the national standard is 3 milligrams per litre or less) shows there is less bacteria and other microorganisms in water. The faecal coliform (national standard less is than 2,500 coliform in 100 ml of water) indicates the amount of sewage in water. Jal Shakti ministry data shows that in past six years, the water quality of the river on these three parameters has improved marginally at most locations and at this pace, the authorities would take decades to make the river’s water fit for human consumption, experts said. “The progress so far has been slow. In six years, if Ganga’s water quality has improved by just 10-15%, it would take decades to clean the Ganga,” said BD Joshi, founder of the Indian Academy of Environmental Sciences, who has worked on the river for more than four decades.The Central government had initially fixed 2019 as the deadline to clean the river, but extended it to 2022 as the Namami Ganga Project (NGP) took off slowly. As of August 1, only 29% of the 154 sewage projects taken up had been completed. For the projects, the ministry has allocated ₹23,120 crore, according to government documents.A ministry official privy to the information about Namami Ganga said sewerage infrastructure projects were coming up in eight states — Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Haryana, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh — through which the 2,525-km river flows. The 97 towns located on the main stem of the Ganga generate 2,953 million litres a day (MLD) of sewage. The available treatment capacity is only 1,794 MLD.The RTI reply showed the maximum improvement in Ganga water quality has taken place in the hills of Uttarakhand, primarily due to efforts made to contain the flow of human and animal sewage. Another reason for this could be that unlike in the plains, the flow of industrial waste in the hill is much less.“We have minimized flow of human sewage by building sewage treatment plants in towns and toilets for all those living close to river Ganga. Work is on for zero sewage into river Ganga in the state,” said Uttarakhand environment minister Harak Singh Rawat. The reply showed that as the river flows into the pilgrim centre of Haridwar in Uttarakhand, the water quality deteriorated and further fell in the downstream in the industrial town of Kanpur, where industrial waste still flows into the river. The water quality between Haridwar and Kanpur improved between 2014 and 2019 by 8-10%.The water quality was slightly better in Chapra and Patna because of the fresh flow of water from Ganga tributaries in Bihar such as Kosi and Gandak. But it again fell as the river entered West Bengal. The water quality in Bihar and West Bengal has improved by almost 30% between 2014 and 2019.Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator of the South Asia Network of Dams, Rivers and People (SANDRP), said a bigger issue than improvement in water quality is the flow of the river.“If the flow of the river improves in all seasons, the water quality will improve significantly. But the reality is that the flow is decreasing and it will have huge implications for people living in the Ganga river basin even if water quality improves,” he said.Thakkar acknowledged that work has happened in building sewage and industrial affluent treatment plans. “The state pollution control boards need to ensure that plants don’t give false reports and work at their maximum capacity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-take-decades-to-clean-ganga-water-say-experts/story-jlafKgSUMi8h3EF6E9qQ6J.html
17-09-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh may fund religious travel of 1.5 crore labourers from state||Nearly 1.5 crore labourers, employed in about 6.5 lakh commercial establishments and 20,500 factories and workshops in Uttar Pradesh, could soon get to undertake religious trips, funded by the state government. The scheme is likely to be announced by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on November 10, the birth anniversary of Dattopant Thengadi, RSS ideologue who founded the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), a trade union organization, which acts as a pressure group to enforce pro-labour policies. UP’s labour welfare board chairman Sunil Bharala confirmed the plan and said the scheme - to be named after Swami Vivekananda would be the first of its kind - is aimed at ensuring that labourers not only get time off from their daily grind but are also able to acquaint themselves with the country’s rich cultural and religious diversity. “To my mind, there is no such scheme anywhere that allows labourers free travel and stay,” Bharala said. This is among the three schemes that the board is currently working on; the other two being a scheme to encourage children of labourers to take to sporting activities and another one that would seek to fund the cost of textbooks for the meritorious poor. “All of our schemes would be named after great personalities. For instance, the religious tourism scheme could be named after Swami Vivekananda, the textbook one after great litterateur Mahadevi Verma and the sporting one could be after former India cricketer and UP minister Chetan Chauhan, or late VHP leader Ashok Singhal or former RSS chief Rajju Bhaiya,” Bharala said. The initiative comes in the backdrop of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s recent Lucknow visit, during which he called upon the cadres to focus on migrants and labourers in urban areas, farmers in rural areas and environment. The board is also preparing a database of all labourers employed in various commercial outlets and factories. “We have set up a committee for the purpose. Once it’s done, we will have complete details of which labourer from which areas were working in which outlet or factory, their academic qualifications or inclinations, their skill sets. The information would help in identifying talent from the pool and engaging them in tasks that were more suited to their individual requirements,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-may-fund-religious-travel-of-1-5-crore-labourers-from-state/story-I2hliR4fEuKWOStL18HuzN.html
17-09-2020||India||Actor Raza Murad summoned by police over alleged welfare society fraud||Film actor Raza Murad was called to Shyamla Hills police station in Bhopal on Wednesday to record his statement in connection with a fake welfare society in which his name figured as a member. Murad, in his statement, denied any association with the society, said police.The society named E-block Lakeview Enclave Welfare Society came to light during seizure of documents from the residence and offices of Pyare Mian, 68, a small newspaper owner and editor and resident of Shyamla hills, who was arrested on July 17 from a hotel in Srinagar for allegedly raping six minor girls in Bhopal and Indore and committing fraud. He is presently in jail. Pyare Mian had formed a fake society named E-Block Lakeview Enclave Welfare Society and committed fraud by collecting money from different people in the name of welfare, said Tarun Rathi, in-charge of the Shyamla Hills police station. “During the investigation, we found that the said society had eight members, including Raza Murad and three members of Mian’s family. We called Murad to register his statement on record. In his statement, Murad said he had no association with the society and his signature on the papers was forged. Murad also lodged a complaint with police on Wednesday against Mian for using his forged signature,” said Rathi. Talking to media persons outside the police station, Murad said, “I own a flat in Ansal plaza in Shyamla Hills area and am also a member of Lakeview Enclave Welfare Society but I didn’t know that there was a separate society of E-block. I don’t know Mian. Mian might have my photos with him because being an actor I meet with so many people without knowing them personally.” The police will register statements of other people whose names appear in the said society’s documents as members. If it is required, Mian will be booked for committing another fraud, said the police officer. Mian’s assistant Sweety Vishwakarma, 21, used to take girls from underprivileged families to Pyare Mian by luring them with housekeeping jobs in posh areas. Mian used to invite them in the parties, where he used to force the girl to consume alcohol and used to rape them, according to police. As many as six FIRs were lodged against Mian with Shahpura, Koh-e-fiza and Shyamla Hills police stations in Bhopal and Palasia police station in Indore under sections 366 (a) (procuration of minor girls), 376 (2) (n) (repeated rape), 120 b (criminal conspiracy), 420 (forgery) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 5/6 and 14 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and under relevant sections of SC/ST (Prevention of atrocities) Act, according to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-raza-murad-summoned-by-police-over-alleged-housing-society-fraud/story-m1Zp2OJUfp4mV8bv7xlzIJ.html
17-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||How seriously does one take Dr Li-Meng Yan? And how seriously does one take the paper Unusual Features of the Sars-CoV2 Genome Suggesting Sophisticated Laboratory Modification Rather Than Natural Evolution and Delineation of its Probable Synthetic Route, published by her and co-authors, under the aegis of the Rule of Law Society and the Rule of Law Foundation, New York, on September 14? As the title suggests, the paper claims the coronavirus was man-made, in a laboratory.The paper was uploaded on open-source research repository Zenodo, run by CERN, and was reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday (bit.ly/33uFyy4). It wasn’t as widely reported as Dr Yan’s comments in Loose Women, a segment of a TV show hosted by a UK TV channel, on which she pretty much said the same thing, albeit without any of the scientific arguments -- unsubstantiated ones -- presented in the paper.Here’s what that paper claimed:One, ZC45, a bat virus, or a closely related variant or mutant, bears a striking similarity with Sars-CoV2, as shown by genome sequencing, with a 94%-100% similarity of key viral proteins.The spike protein of Sars-CoV2 is essentially a trimer (essentially three parts) each of which has an S1 and S2 part with a furin cleavage site at the boundary between the two. Other research has already established that the human cellular enzyme furin cleaves, or breaks, the S1 and S2 unit at the cleavage site, and that the S1 unit then attaches to the ACE receptor, another protein found on the surface of most human cells. This binding then facilitates the entry of the viral protein into human cells. The virus’ ability to bind with the receptor, and the presence of the cleavage site that responds to a cannon human enzyme, are the reasons Covid-19 is as infective as it is.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicBoth the furin cleavage site, and the binding ability of the spike protein with the ACE2 receptor aren’t natural, the paper argued.In their preface to this scientific hypothesis, the authors also claim that the process of creating such a virus in a laboratory could take only six months. They ask for further research and investigation into the origin of the virus. Even if their hypothesis is subsequently proven erroneous, this is a recommendation that no can argue with — the origin of the virus needs to be investigated, not so much to assign blame (although there will be some that too), but to prepare for the next virus and the next pandemic.Dr Yan, currently in the US, where she fled to in late April, is a virologist who used to work at the University of Hong Kong School of Public Health, and who has for long claimed that China knew of the virus and the fact that human-to-human transmission of the infection was happening, long before it let on. Her claims on the virus being man-made are more recent.Interestingly, a March paper in Nature titled The Proximal Origin of Sars-Cov2, authored by Kristian G Andersen of California’s Scripps Research Institute, argued, again picking on the same two distinctive features of Sars-CoV2, that the virus was natural. The viral protein showed a high “affinity” to bind with the receptor, they said, but this interaction wasn’t “ideal” or “optimal”. In plain English this meant that if anyone had set out to engineer the virus, they would have picked the “ideal” binding relation, not just another optimal one. The paper also said that there were other coronaviruses that had similar “cleavage sites” and that this wasn’t unique to Sars-CoV2.However, the two papers differ in one significant aspect. The one published in Nature said “the genetic data irrefutably show that Sars-CoV2 is not derived from any previously used virus backbone”. Dr Yan’s said (again, without substantiation that) a “ genomic sequence analysis reveals that ZC45, or a closely related bat coronavirus, should be the backbone used for the creation of Sars-CoV2”.Also read| ‘Over 5,000 Indians died in West, East Asian countries amid Covid-19 pandemic’: Govt informs ParliamentDr Yan’s claims are also being seen through a political lens, with scientists in the US pointing out that the two non-profits that published the paper were linked to Steve Bannon, former Trump adviser and former executive chairman of the far-right Breitbart News, casting aspersions on the study’s findings.Clearly, only further research and investigation can shed light on the origin of the virus which has thus far infected 29,927,685 and killed 942,564 around the world. India ended Wednesday with 5,115,846 cases and 83,230 deaths.But as Vivek Wadhwa, a columnist for this paper, a top technology thinker, and distinguished fellow at Harvard Law School’s Labor and Worklife Program, said in a recent article in Foreign Policy: “If genetic engineering wasn’t behind this pandemic, it could very well unleash the next one.” That’s because, “genetic engineering — with all its potential for good and bad — has become democratised”, Wadhwa wrote.“Thanks to a technological revolution in genetic engineering, all the tools needed to create a virus have become so cheap, simple, and readily available that any rogue scientist or college-age biohacker can use them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-ljd0yaGRoU81cx5ZnOIMIK.html
17-09-2020||India||Families can perform last rites of Covid-19 victims: Calcutta high court||Bodies of Covid-19 patients shall be handed over to relatives of the deceased for completion of last rites following safety precautions, ruled the Calcutta high court on Wednesday. The petitioner, Vineet Ruia, had told the court that bodies of Covid-19 patients were being “disposed of by the administration unceremoniously and in an undignified manner without showing even a resemblance of respect to the mortal remains of the dead person”. Families were not being allowed to perform last rites or see the bodies to pay their last respects, the petitioner had said. After hearing the plea, chief justice TB Radhakrishnan and justice Arijit Banerjee laid down nine guidelines for the government to follow. The bodies shall be handed over to the families only if post mortem examination is not required, the judges said. They also said that the bodies have to be taken from hospitals to cremation or burial grounds without any stopover. In case there is nobody to claim a body, it should be cremated or buried with dignity at the state expense, the order said. In its order, the court said that after completion of hospital formalities, a body should be secured in a body bag, the face-end of which should be preferably transparent and the exterior of which should be sanitised to eliminate/minimise the risk of people carrying it getting infected. People handling the body should wear gloves and masks and PPE suits if possible, said the order, adding that the same rules would apply to the staff at the crematorium or burial ground. The hearse has to be sanitised too. The face-end of the body bag may be unzipped by the staff at the crematorium/burial ground “to allow the relatives to see the body for the last time,” said the order. “At that time, religious rituals, such as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water, offering grains and such other last rites that do not require touching of the body should be allowed,” the judges said. Since the bodies are being handled by state government personnel following guidelines issued by the Union health ministry on March 15 and a notification by the state government on June 6, the court heard both the Centre and the state before passing the order on Wednesday. There have been nine hearings since June 5. The Centre was represented by three lawyers while the West Bengal government was represented by advocate general Kishore Dutta and three lawyers. The petitioner had also said that the state government was not properly recording deaths and was not announcing the names of deceased patients. The court observed that it was satisfied with the measures taken by the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/families-can-perform-last-rites-of-covid-19-victims-calcutta-high-court/story-6bFMMI1F9SZev9w8T6g61H.html
17-09-2020||India||‘Over 5,000 Indians died in West, East Asian countries amid Covid-19 pandemic’: Govt informs Parliament||More than 5,200 Indian nationals died in countries in West Asia and East Asia amid the Covid-19 pandemic between February and August, with the highest number of deaths recorded in Saudi Arabia, the government informed Parliament on Wednesday.In a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said, “As per the information available with the ministry, during Covid-19 pandemic, from February 1 to August 15, 2020, 5,286 cases of deaths of Indian nationals were reported in the Gulf and East Asian countries.”It was not immediately clear from the reply how many of the deaths were due to Covid-19 infections. The questioner, Indian Union Muslim League’s MP K Navaskani, had sought the total number of deaths of Indian people in Gulf and East Asian countries during the pandemic.Also read: IMA publishes list of 382 doctors who died due to Covid-19The external affairs ministry facilitated the transportation of 1,807 bodies of Indian nationals from West Asian and East Asian countries, while the last rites were performed locally according to the wishes of families in some cases, Muraleedharan said.The highest number of deaths – 2,360 – were reported in Saudi Arabia, followed by the United Arab Emirates (1,441), Kuwait (694), Oman (336), Qatar (238), Bahrain (176), China (20) and Japan (14), according to figures provided by the minister.In response to another question, Muraleedharan said eight resident Indians were under quarantine in the UAE, while more than 6,000 Indians were stranded in Iran due to the pandemic.“In Iran, as per available information, there are over 6,000 Indian nationals, including about 1,100 pilgrims mainly from the Union territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir and the state of Maharashtra, nearly 300 students primarily from Jammu and Kashmir, about 1,000 fishermen, including from Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, and others who are on long-term stay in Iran for pursuing their livelihood and religious studies,” he said.The government made focussed efforts for the safe return of Indians stranded in Iran and as of March 16, a total of 389 Indians, including 205 pilgrims and 183 students, were repatriated in four batches on special flights of the Indian Air Force and Iranian airlines, he added. Also read: AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine trial in US remains on hold pending FDA review“Our consulate in Bandar Abbas has reached out to Indian fishermen who are residing mainly in the southern provinces of Iran. They are in good health and have sufficient provision of essential supplies. Efforts are being made to facilitate early return of the Indian nationals stranded in Iran after testing them,” Muraleedharan said.Replying to another question, the minister said as of September 11, more than 1.3 million Indians had returned to India from various countries under the Vande Bharat Mission. India also assisted in the repatriation of more than 110,000 nationals of more than 120 countries who were stranded during the Covid-19 lockdown, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-5-000-indians-died-in-west-east-asian-countries-amid-covid-19-pandemic-govt-informs-parliament/story-KDpqmC0mgNSNderKA1nFxH.html
17-09-2020||India||Kapila Vatsyayan: The keeper of Indian art, culture and education||A Yug Manush has gone. Kapila Vatsyayan, the many splendoured titan in the field of arts, its scholarship, education and administration passed away on Wednesday of old-age complications. No one held as commanding a position in the arts in India over the last half century as Kapila Vatsyayan, who combined the highest and most unparalleled arts scholarship and institution-building experience.Born on December 25, 1928, to the Delhi-based Malik family, her mother Satyawati was a freedom fighter. It was a family comfortable with the arts at a time when few were. Her elder brother Keshav Malik, was an art critic and poet. She married renowned Hindi poet, SH Vatsyayan ‘Agyeya’, but the couple parted ways early. She was trained in kathak by Pandit Acchan Maharaj (father of Pandit Birju Maharaj), and in Manipuri by Guru Amobi Singh, who also taught her not to give aghat (hurt) to the earth. She followed this lesson religiously and lived her life lightly, sustainably, wearing handlooms and khadi at all times. She also learnt Bharatnatyam from Meenakshi Sundaram Pillai and Odissi from Surendranath Jena. Few know that she performed in the ballets (Kalidas, Kumar Sambhav and Braj Leela) at the National Dance Festival of 1954, which was one of the earliest initiatives organised by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, whose Fellow she was to become in 1970 — a recognition for her lifetime contribution to the arts. She was made a Fellow of the Lalit Kala Akademi in 1995 and awarded the Padma Vibhushan in 2011.An undergraduate student of Hindu College, Kapila Vatsyayan did her first Masters in English from Delhi University, her second Masters in Education from the University of Michigan, US, and her doctorate from Banaras Hindu University. She studied western ways of analysing movement by mastering the Laban notation system and was prized as a scholar both in the east and the west. In 1998, she was awarded by the Congress on Research in Dance for her Outstanding Contribution to Dance. The inside-outside view of dance that she possessed, allowed her to understand the spine of dance and many remember her explaining dance genres by the way the spine was held. Often called the grand matriarch of cultural research, she wove multiple art disciplines, authored many robustly researched, incisive and path-breaking books such as The Square and the Circle in Indian Art, Plural Cultures and Monolithic Structures, and The Natyashastra. One of the doctoral students she guided, Navina Jafa recalls how Vatsyayan could connect the dots between disciplines with such felicity. Most recently, she was leading the Asia project of the India International Centre, of which she was a lifetime trustee.She advised three prime ministers, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, on matters educational and cultural, in the foundational period of nation building. She represented India on UNESCO’s board. Well known is her role as founder of Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts. Lesser known is her role in establishing the Central University of Tibetan Studies and the Sarnath Centre for Cultural Resources and Training. Even lesser known is the fact that she enjoyed cooking and even acted in a 1997 Hindi film called Swara Mandal. She leaves behind a void that appears impossible to fill.Arshiya Sethi has served as the creative head of programmes at the India Habitat Center. A well known authority on Indian performing arts, she was a recipient of the Fulbright - Nehru Post Doctoral fellowship||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kapila-vatsyayan-the-keeper-of-indian-art-culture-and-education/story-Zx74FVqwzCfO9EqzfmqijO.html
17-09-2020||India||Army digs in for a long winter at LAC||Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has decided to close the Srinagar-Zojila-Kargil-Leh axis for only 45 days this year because of snow, from an average of 95 days in the past and also strengthen all bridges on the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DSDBO) road to bear the load of tanks and truck-trailers by next month -- both aimed at keeping a key supply route open as the Indian Army prepares for a long winter in eastern Ladakh, potentially face-to-face with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China. Hindustan Times has learnt from top government authorities that BRO, which functions under the defence ministry, will keep the new Darcha-Padam-Nimu-Leh road clear of snow throughout December and January so that the military supply route is operational round-the-clock. The Narendra Modi government is now considering a shorter tunnel at Shinku La on Darcha-Padam axis so that the road can be snow-free round the year. Given that China is showing no signs of abiding by the July 5 agreement between the Special Representatives on boundary issues and the September 10 agreement between foreign ministers on total disengagement to restore status quo ante on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Indian Army is rushing in supplies to eastern Ladakh, the site of a months-long military standoff. The Indian Army began planning and preparing for retaining troops at forward locations in Ladakh sector of the LAC some time ago after it became clear that the Chinese side had no intention of moving forward with the disengagement process at key friction points, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. “We already have considerable experience from forward deployments on the Line of Control (LoC), even though the weather conditions may not be as harsh as the LAC, and on the Siachen glacier,” said one of the people cited above. Also read| Hindi speeches to Punjabi pop: PLA’s psy-ops at LAC“We also have built up experience over the decades on how to maintain a logistics chain for such forward locations during extreme weather conditions. We are prepared to hunker down for the winter but then we have been left with no other option,” the person added. The people further said the Chinese side has relatively less experience of operating at forward locations during winter months. Chinese troops usually move back from such locations during winter, when their patrolling too is less frequent than that of the Indian side, the people added. While the eastern Ladakh sector is usually guarded by some 20,000 to 30,000 troops, the latest reports suggest the deployment has more than doubled amid the standoff. BRO is ensuring that the 17,580-foot Chang La pass and 17,582-foot Khardung La, en route to the contested Pangong Lake, is kept snow-free throughout the year. With the aim of keeping India’s weapons deployment in eastern Ladakh at par with the PLA’s in occupied Aksai Chin, BRO is expected to strengthen all bridges and culverts leading to the “Class 70” bridge on DSDBO road by October 15. Class 70 means it can bear a load of 70 tonnes, which is more than the weight of a fully loaded tank trailer. In strategic terms, this means that in the worst-case scenario, the DSDBO road can be used to deploy T-90 tanks, infantry combat vehicles and surface-to-air missiles all along the LAC with Tibet in eastern Ladakh. While BRO is expected to validate the Darcha-Padam-Nimu-Leh axis for heavy vehicular traffic this month, intense discussions are underway within the defence ministry on the length and alignment of the tunnel under the 16,000-foot Shinku La. The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) has been tasked with studying the shortest possible alignment for the tunnel so that it can be readied in the next four years. A majority of stakeholders, including the ministry of surface transport, are in favour of a shorter 4.5-km tunnel alignment on the current axis, rather than a 13-km alignment suggested by the Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) of the defence ministry. The longer alignment will delay the project with a host of studies and detailed project reports needing to be completed. It has now been left to defence minister Rajnath Singh to take a final call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-digs-in-for-a-long-winter-at-lac/story-mDAnvzvOxlZDI6kOG1DnpI.html
17-09-2020||India||Delhi Police’s Umar Khalid investigation hinges on witnesses X and Y||They are identified in court documents only as X and Y -- two mystery witnesses Delhi Police claim have come forward to depose against activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Umar Khalid, who have been charged with involvement in the February communal riots in the Capital’s north-east district.X and Y, now in protective custody, made statements before metropolitan magistrate Fahad Uddin last month, claiming they were part of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, alongside Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage, a collective of women students) members and Jawaharlal Nehru University students Narwal and Kalita.A statement made before a judge is admissible evidence during trial, and the testimony of X and Y could form the mainstay of the state’s case against Narwal, Kalita and Khalid if the witnesses don’t turn hostile.Kalita and Narwal were arrested on May 24 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA, an anti-terror law, for alleged involvement in the late February Delhi riots, which started as a clash between anti-CAA and pro-CAA protestors before becoming a full-blown communal riot. They have both denied involvement in the riots, which left 53 people dead and around 400 injured.Also read: Delhi Police file charge sheet in riots conspiracy against 15 accusedPolice have charged at least 11 persons for orchestrating the riots, which include former AAP leader Tahir Hussain, and student activists Safoora Zargar and Meeran Haider. Khalid, a former JNU student leader, was arrested on Sunday night under UAPA. He, too, has denied involvement; and his lawyer has told the court. While Narwal and Kalita have been charged, Khalid is yet to be named in the charge sheet. Delhi Police has so far filed over 200 charge sheets in the riots case, identifying at least 21 people who allegedly conspired and orchestrated the violence. On Wednesday, it filed another charge sheet, naming 15 accused, including Pinjra Tod members Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and politician Tahir Hussain. A statement of one of the accused persons arrested in the riots, which was attached in the charge sheet had the names of political leaders and academicians such as Sitaram Yechury and Yogendra Yadav, Apoorvanand and Jayati Ghosh, and has become controversial although police say they have not been charged or named as accused.At the same time, several people -- including politicians, civil society members and former IPS officers -- have criticised the police for the lack of police action against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Mishra, who was seen giving an inflammatory speech in north-east Delhi a day before the violence broke out on February 24.Mishra, who denies all charges, on Monday released a video congratulating the police for arresting Khalid and “people like him”, and likened the riots with the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.According to court papers seen by HT, Delhi Police found X and Y during their investigation of the riots and the two agreed to testify as witnesses for the state; they claimed to have observed Narwal, Kalita and Khalid closely during the alleged planning of the riots at the anti-CAA protest sites since January. .On August 14, the police approached the metropolitan magistrate at Karkardooma court requesting that the two main witnesses be placed in protective custody because they feared for their lives after making the statements against the three activists. In their application before the court, the police said that the two persons were witnesses to the planning of the riots.The police also attached to the application the cell phone locations of the two witnesses and matched them with those of Narwal, Kalita and Khalid to claim that X and Y had been at the same places in north-east Delhi as the three activists at different times since January.“They used code words within their group members to convey secret messages regarding further line of their protest/riot in front of common people. They also gave hate speeches at Jafrabad Metro Station and continuously were present there till last,” read the police’s submission on the three accused, quoting one of the witnesses.According to the police, the second witness, Y, said that in the last week of January, Khalid held a private meeting at the anti-CAA protesters’ makeshift office near the old bus stand in Seelampur during which he allegedly said “speeches were not sufficient now because the government was against Muslims”.Police have quoted Khalid’s alleged words: “Khoon bahana padega aise nahi chalega chakka jaam hi aakhri rasta hai hame sarkar ko ghutno ke bal laana hi hoga sanghiyon ki sarkar aise nahi maanegi. (Blood must be spilled. Road blockade is the last resort. We have to bring the government on its knees or else this right-wing government will not understand.)”HT contacted the lawyers of Kalita, Narwal and Khalid for their responses. Kalita and Narwal’s counsel refused to make comments and said they would respond before the court. Khalid’s counsel did not respond until Wednesday night. Also read: Delhi Police targeting CAA-NRC critics, says Umar Khalid in video recorded before arrestThe statement of the two witnesses may be admissible evidence, but the context and the meaning of the words allegedly used by Khalid and the veracity of the two witnesses can be contested during trial.Khalid’s arrest has also been criticised by politicians, activists and academicians as an attempt to muzzle anti-government voices. Advocate and social activist Prashant Bhushan on Wednesday said, “It is a conspiracy to let off those against whom unimpeachable evidence is available to show their involvement in these riots.”Nine retired Indian Police Service officers on Monday wrote to Delhi’s police commissioner SN Srivastava, saying they were “pained” at the police implicating anti-CAA protesters while “letting off the hook all those who instigated violence and are associated by the ruling party”. Though the letter did not mention any names, BJP leaders Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma were criticised at the time for speeches and slogans ahead of the Delhi elections in February.Khalid’s counsel Trideep Pais told the court on Monday that his client was against the Citizenship Amendment Act; he was unashamed of this fact, was not in Delhi at the time of the riots, and was not involved in any violence, the lawyer added. Narwal and Kalita have also told the court before that although they were prominent voices of the anti-CAA protests, the police’s allegations that they orchestrated the violence were false. Their counsel also told the court in case hearings that police did not possess any video or audio recording in which they are heard inciting violence.Delhi police officers did not offer to comment about the two witnesses. Senior police officers, who are authorised to be quoted, said they have already made their submission in court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-s-umar-khalid-investigation-hinges-on-witnesses-x-and-y/story-uZpNOte4S75SrWxp9N5huK.html
17-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt faces House heat on lockdown, migrants, cases||In the first substantive discussion on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Parliament on Wednesday, the Opposition questioned the government on its handling of the pandemic, the manner in which the lockdown was announced and managed, the slide in the economy, the suffering of migrant workers, and the Centre’s approach towards states in the battle against the disease.The opposition parties were responding to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan’s statement to Parliament on the pandemic, in which he outlined the government’s achievements in managing the disease, defended the lockdown, spoke of the low fatality rate in India in comparison to the world, and highlighted the improvement in the health care infrastructure.In a debate marked by almost all leaders seeking more time to express their views, Congress deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma, who initiated the discussion, acknowledged that the pandemic was unprecedented and that scientific understanding of the disease was still evolving. The opposition leaders also hailed the role of the front line warriors against Covid-19.However, differences between the government and the Opposition on almost every element of the management of the pandemic was apparent.On the Centre’s preparation in the first few months of 2020 and the subsequent lockdown, Sharma said that the announcement was sudden – there was only a four-hour notice – leaving people stunned. He said there must be an examination of whether the government was prepared or not, and the costs and benefits of the exercise.Responding to the health minister’s remark that the lockdown prevented almost 1.4 to 2.9 million cases and 37,000-78,000 deaths, Sharma said: “This is a wide margin. What is the scientific basis for this conclusion? The day the lockdown was imposed, India had 600 cases. Today, as we speak, there are over 5 million cases and over 82,000 deaths. This is the true picture.”Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress alleged that through February and March, the government did not prepare adequately and got its guidelines on wearing masks wrong. Other opposition leaders, too, accused the government of squandering precious time in February — even though the first case in India was discovered on January 30 — and alleged that this was the case because the government was busy hosting US President Donald Trump. O’Brien called the lockdown announcement “Demonetisation 2.0”, while the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Manoj Jha said: “Was the lockdown an individual decision or a collective decision? If it was a collective decision of the Cabinet, what were the preparations?” In his intervention, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, however, defended the lockdown as well as the manner of the decision-making. He said that the Prime Minister, home minister, home secretary and cabinet secretary held 15 conversations with the states. “No chief minister said the lockdown should not have happened. During discussions on the Goods and Services Tax (GST), many parties used to agree internally based on consensus and then go out and do politics. This is the same hypocrisy at play. The Opposition shouldn’t do it. Many decisions were taken on the basis of inputs from the states.”On the subsequent impact of the lockdown, the Opposition centred its critique on the suffering of migrant workers. Sharma said that if the government had consulted states and told them to prepare down to the district and tehsil level, implement standard protocols, and track camps with migrant workers, the situation would have been different. He spoke of the images of Indian migrant workers walking home, published internationally, and called for a national database on migrant workers.Also read| ‘Over 5,000 Indians died in West, East Asian countries amid Covid-19 pandemic’: Govt informs ParliamentJha, who represents Bihar in the Upper House, a state which saw a high number of migrants returning home, said that while the upper middle class and middle class of the country thought they were fine, no one spared a thought for the poor and migrant workers. “Workers are not statistics. They are someone’s father, mother, daughter, son. I propose that we should all apologise to workers about whom we did not think, who we did not even talk about in the first two lockdowns and only woke up to their fate during the third lockdown.”RCP Singh of the Janata Dal (United) said that during the pandemic, workers from Bihar, who have been working and contributing to the development of other states, were “deserted”.The BJP’s Sahasrabuddhe strongly defended the government’s handling of the economic and humanitarian situation and said that its “integrated approach” was based on public participation; there was constant dialogue; there were a range of welfare programmes, including the extension of the distribution of free ration and cited examples from BJP-ruled states of efforts to assist migrant workers. An MP from Maharashtra, Sahasrabuddhe, however, spoke at length about the alleged mismanagement of the pandemic in that state.On the economy front, Tiruchi Siva of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) said: “The strictest lockdown was India’s. The lowest fiscal stimulus is India’s. The greatest GDP hit is India’s. The post-lockdown result is worse in India than anywhere else in the world.” On Centre-state relations, O’Brien pointed out that out of a public expenditure of ₹100 on health, ₹63 was spent by states and ₹37 by the Centre. “When things are going good, you want to take the credit. When things are tough, you talk about chief ministers... what was needed was picking up the best practices from all states... you need humility to know that we don’t know everything. You need humility to work with states.” O’ Brien, along with other opposition leaders, also criticised the government on the “opaqueness” of the PM-Cares fine. Also read| Can’t reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients: Private hospitalsOn data, Swapan Dasgupta — a nominated member who is aligned with the BJP — said that an element of confusion had crept in, and while it was agreed that India had a large number of infected people, there was a story that had gone out to the world about how Indian figures were underestimated. “Now, I do not know whether this is true or false but a lot of the mathematical model this is based on would suggest that the tally in India would go up to 700 to 800 million, which seems an absurd proposition.” He said that the reticence of the government on the basis of the statistics had created confusion. “I urge the government to give a clarification on the statistical robustness of the figures.”The debate will continue on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-faces-house-heat-on-lockdown-migrants-cases/story-30DlCC78fq1g2miKeQKlPI.html
17-09-2020||India||India joins Indian Ocean grouping against piracy as observer||India said on Wednesday it had joined the Djibouti Code of Conduct (DCOC), a grouping on maritime matters aimed at countering piracy, as an observer as part of efforts aimed at enhancing maritime security in the Indian Ocean region. The move to join the grouping followed a high-level virtual meeting held on August 26, the external affairs ministry said.The development comes at a time when India is shoring up its position in the Indian Ocean and nearby waters as part of its overall Indo-Pacific policy. India has signed reciprocal military logistics support agreements with Australia and Japan this year to increase interoperability with the navies of those countries.The DCOC, which aims to repress piracy and armed robbery against ships in the western Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Aden, was adopted on January 29, 2009, by the representatives of Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Maldives, Seychelles, Somalia, Tanzania and Yemen. Comoros, Egypt, Eritrea, Jordan, Mauritius, Mozambique, Oman, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sudan and the United Arab Emirates signed on later, taking the total countries in the grouping to 20.Also read: Indian, Chinese NSAs to join BRICS meet on Thursday; no bilateral talks on cardsThe 18 member states are located in areas adjoining the Red Sea, Gulf of Aden and the east coast of Africa and include island nations in the Indian Ocean. Besides India, the other observers in the grouping are Japan, Norway, the UK and the US.“As an observer at [DCOC], India looks forward to working together with... member states towards coordinating and contributing to enhanced maritime security in the Indian Ocean Region,” the external affairs ministry said.Under the code of conduct, the member states cooperate in countering piracy and armed robbery on the high seas and promoting the implementation of relevant UN Security Council resolutions. They also cooperate in the investigation, arrest and prosecution of persons suspected of having committed acts of piracy and armed robbery against ships, the interdiction and seizure of suspect ships, the rescue of ships and people subject to piracy and armed robbery, and the conduct of joint operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-joins-indian-ocean-grouping-against-piracy-as-observer/story-ki47pyuwxJeZhk4Wzbxr9O.html
17-09-2020||India||‘Been harping on it’: Odisha CM urges top cop to be strict on Covid rules||On a day Odisha recorded its highest single-day spike of 4,270 coronavirus cases with Covid hotspot of Khurda registering close to 900 cases, chief minister Naveen Patnaik expressed dissatisfaction over the Bhubaneswar Commissionerate Police’s failure in ensuring strict compliance of the Covid-19 rules.During a review meeting on the Covid management through video conference, Patnaik said it was discouraging to find that Covid law was not strictly complied within the Commissionerate area in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack.“While I get good feedback about enforcement activities throughout the state, the feedback regarding Bhubaneswar-Cuttack Commissionerate area is not encouraging. I have been repeatedly harping on this. DG Police must directly look into this and do the needful as being done throughout the state,” Patnaik said.Commissioner of police of Bhubaneswar-Cuttack Sudhansu Sarangi said since April, more than 1.77 lakh people have been penalised over not wearing masks and for violating social distancing norms. In the last five days, around 10,000 people in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack have been penalised, with the state pocketing Rs 32.4 lakh for violation of Covid-19 guidelines.“We are trying to enforce the guidelines despite 1,000 policemen in the two cities getting infected by the virus and four deaths. In Bhubaneswar, seven inspectors of police stations are currently down with Covid-19 while three ACPs and one additional DCP are infected. We cannot have policemen at every corner and much depends on voluntary compliance by people as economic activities have started. But we would increase our enforcement activities,” said Sarangi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/been-harping-on-it-odisha-cm-urges-top-cop-to-be-strict-on-covid-rules/story-A6FbjE2rqIwjnIL8SKcLFO.html
17-09-2020||India||Have reached agreement for Sputnik V trials, distribution in India, says Russia||Russia’s sovereign wealth fund said on Wednesday it has reached an agreement with pharmaceuticals major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for clinical trials and distribution of its experimental vaccine Sputnik V in India, a process that is yet to be cleared by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). The Sputnik V has yet to complete large scale clinical trials but was approved by the Russian government last month, becoming the first Covid-19 vaccine to be cleared for human use anywhere in the world. Scientists have, however, cautioned against use of any shot that has not passed full safety and efficacy checks. “Upon regulatory approval in India, RDIF shall supply to Dr Reddy’s 100 million doses of the vaccine,” the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said in a statement. Indian officials said approvals will be given only after a thorough review. “We are yet to receive a formal application in this regard. And merely applying for approvals is not enough, clearances will be given only after experts of the subject concerned review the data thoroughly and are satisfied the with the results presented before us,” said a senior official privy to the matter in the DCGI office, asking not to be named. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Sputnik V is among several vaccine candidates being considered by Indian authorities for the country. The director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr Balram Bhargava, earlier said that a high-level government committee was looking into the data coming from Russia on its Covid-19 vaccine.“Russia has a good history as far as manufacturing vaccines is concerned; they make good vaccines so we presume this vaccine is good. They have published first study of 76 patients in the medical journal The Lancet which is showing good effectiveness and good antibody immunity generation. Because they have not yet complicated a phase 3 trial; they have only started a phase 3 trial, and for us here to do a phase 3 trial of a product from outside of the country has to go through the regular processes of clearances from the regulatory agencies India,” said Dr Bhargava.According to phase 1/2 trial data published in The Lancet journal earlier this month, the vaccine did not lead to side effects and triggered adequate immune response in 76 volunteers. But the results have been disputed by some groups of scientists, who have sought a review of the data, citing what they said were striking similarities between patients.The RDIF on Wednesday reiterated the vaccine is safe. “The Sputnik V vaccine, which is based on well-studied human adenoviral vector platform with proven safety, is undergoing clinical trials for the Coronavirus pandemic. Deliveries could potentially begin in late 2020 subject to completion of successful trials and registration of the vaccine by regulatory authorities in India,” a statement said. “We are pleased to partner with RDIF to bring the vaccine to India. The Phase I and II clinical trials have shown promising results. We will be conducting Phase-III trials in India to ensure safety and efficacy for the Indian population and to meet the requirements of the Indian regulators. Sputnik V vaccine could provide a credible option in our fight against Covid- 19 in India,” said GV Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories.Also read: AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine trial in US remains on hold pending FDA reviewRussia’s envoy to India, Nikolay Kudashev, has held discussions with Indian officials in recent weeks on cooperation in the development of a vaccine, including joint development and production of Sputnik V. The Russian side also formally shared modalities for cooperation on the vaccine with Indian authorities, which are yet to take a call on the matter, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The vaccine is also believed to have figured in discussions held during external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s visit to Moscow last week for a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-reached-agreement-for-sputnik-v-trials-distribution-in-india-says-russia/story-ivvlAvpT7yfjgUoYc8rc1H.html
17-09-2020||India||SII gets DCGI approval to resume Covid-19 vaccine trials||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) can resume clinical trials for the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by United Kingdom’s Oxford University and AstraZeneca after it received new approvals from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) following a suspension after an adverse reaction in a volunteer in UK. “The permission has been given to restart the trials with certain conditions,” said a senior official aware of the developments in the DCGI office, asking not to be named. The conditions include ‘extra care during screening, additional information [for] informed consent and close monitoring for similar events during the study follow-up’.The trials in India were paused last week after a trial subject in the United Kingdom developed an unexplained severe adverse reaction. On September 11, DCGI, Dr VG Somani, directed SII to pause recruitment of trial participants in India till all safety concerns were addressed. He asked the company to submit for clearances afresh after obtaining clearances from the data safety monitoring boards of both the UK and India.Also read: Have reached agreement for Sputnik V trials, distribution in India, says RussiaOn Saturday, Oxford University announced that the trial was being resumed. After carefully examining SII’s response, DCGI granted the approval to recommence the trial on Tuesday. Director General of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr Balram Bhargava, earlier said that SII completed phase II-B3 trials in India, and was preparing to start phase 3 trials.“Serum Institute of India (SII) has completed Phase II-B3 trials, for which 100 participants have been given the vaccine dose. There’s a seven-day pause and after that they plan to begin Phase 3 trials with about 1,500 participants across 14 sites,” he had said during the Covid-19 media briefing on Tuesday.The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, called the AZD1222, is being tested in the largest number of Indian volunteers yet. It has also been given to more volunteers across the world than some of the other front runners, making it the most watched vaccine candidates. SII, the largest vaccine maker in the world, got DCGI’s permission on August 2 to conduct Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials in India. The pharma company also has a production deal for 1 billion doses for low and middle income countries, 300 million of which will be delivered by the end of 2020.The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimps and genetically modified. The first dose of the vaccine as part of the phase 2 human trials to check its efficacy began at Bharatiya Vidyapeeth Deemed University Medical College and Hospital in Pune last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-gets-dcgi-approval-to-resume-vaccine-trials/story-KXlVZtQPpWZzKDUsCAuqQK.html
17-09-2020||India||Special CBI court orders criminal cases in Rajasthan hotel sale||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Jodhpur ordered the registration of criminal cases against former Union disinvestment minister Arun Shourie, former disinvestment secretary Pradeep Baijal and three other people on Wednesday in connection with a case of alleged corruption in the sale of a government-run hotel in 2002.The special CBI judge, Pooran Kumar Sharma, also ordered that the hotel in question -- the Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur -- be handed over to the state government. The hotel -- earlier run by the Indian Tourism Development Corporation -- was sold to the Bharat Hotels Limited, which now runs the Lalit group of hotels, in 2002.The judge’s orders came while hearing a closure report by CBI in the case of alleged loss of Rs 244 crore to the government by the sale of the hotel. The CBI report said that there wasn’t evidence to launch prosecution against the accused in the disinvestment process.But the court disagreed and even criticised the federal agency for presenting a closure report in the case. “Prima facie, it appears that the then minister Arun Shourie and then secretary Pradeep Baijal misused their offices and caused a loss of Rs 244 crore to the central government in the deal,” the court said.“The CBI is a reputed agency of the country; closure report by it despite facts pointing towards criminality is a cause of concern,” judge Sharma said .The three other people accused in the case are Ashish Guha, then managing director of investment firm Lazard India Limited, Kantilal Karamsey Vikamsey, then head of valuation firm Kanti Karamsey & Co, and Jyotsna Suri, chairperson and managing director of Bharat Hotels Limited. The court ordered they be booked under section 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and section 13 (1) D of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The court said that they should be summoned through arrest warrants. The date of the summons would be known once the warrants are issued. None of the accused were available for comment despite attempts. They were not represented in the court by any lawyer. The court directed the district collector of Udaipur to take over the hotel immediately.“We have enforced the court’s order,” said Udaipur collector Chetan Dewda. General manager of the hotel, Devendra Singh Parihar, said he was not authorised to talk to media. The CBI registered first information report (FIR) on August 13, 2014 on the basis of a preliminary inquiry that alleged that Baijal abused his official position and entered into a criminal conspiracy in the disinvestment of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel. According to the FIR, the hotel and land on which it was built was initially valued at Rs 252 crore. But it was finally disinvested for Rs 7.52 crore.The CBI FIR said that Kantilal Karamsey Vikamsey re-evaluated the property and claimed it fell in red zone, where any construction is banned, and a lake and a high tension wire made the property unattractive.But after its investigation into the FIR, the CBI filed a closure report before the court and said it didn’t have enough evidence to prosecute the accused. “The CBI has not got any direct evidence to initiate prosecution against the accused,” the CBI said in the closure report.But the court did not accept this contention. “The unknown officers and private persons indulged in this conspiracy from 1999 to 2002 to cause loss of money to the government,” the court said. “The value of the land was evaluated at Rs 45 per square yard. Even a spoon in the hotel would be costlier than that,” the judge added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-orders-criminal-cases-in-raj-hotel-sale/story-AOlqlk81HmD8yLfaOlCyZP.html
17-09-2020||India||Bill to bring cooperative banks under RBI lens gets House nod||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to protect depositors’ interests.The legislation empowers the central bank to regulate only the banking business of cooperatives and it is not applicable to a primary agricultural credit society or a cooperative society providing finance for development of the farm sector, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the House. .The Bill is not to “undermine” the importance of cooperatives, she said. “But, if a cooperative is performing banking functions, there is a need to regulate it... so that it functions professionally,” she said, replying to queries raised by members of the House. The amendments do not affect existing powers of the state registrars of cooperative societies under state cooperative laws.Depositors in Mumbai-based Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC) and Bengaluru-based Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank have in recent months faced distress because of problems confronted by the banks. While 430 cooperative banks faced liquidation in the last two decades, not a single commercial bank, whose depositors are protected by the Banking Regulation Act, have had to be liquidated, Sitharaman said.Cooperative banks comprise urban cooperative banks (UCBs) and rural cooperative banks (RCBs). Total amount of deposits in all UCBs as of March 31, 2019 totalled Rs 484,315.85 crore and at RCBs Rs.5,05,859.16 crore.The legislation also enables a scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation of a banking entity for protect the interests of depositors without resorting to moratorium that freeze withdrawals by depositors. The Bill replaces an ordinance that was promulgated in pursuance of the government’s commitment “to ensure safety of depositors across banks” by the President on June 26.Sitharaman said the government was compelled to come out with an ordinance during the lockdown period because the condition of some cooperative banks was “grave” and there was “uncertainty” over the resumption of normal legislative business due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government had tabled the Bill in Parliament in March, but it could not be enacted because of the pandemic. “During the budget session in March, we introduced this bill in order to have the amendments brought in so that depositors’ interest will be taken care of. But unfortunately, during the budget session, we could not have this bill passed,” Sitharaman said. Moving the Bill for passage by the House on Wednesday, Sitharaman said the financial health of several cooperative banks was becoming “very delicate”. She said that 277 urban cooperative banks were reporting losses and 105 cooperative banks were unable to meet the minimum capital requirements.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said: “Cooperative banks have been under severe criticisms with rising scams, especially involving small retail depositors. State governments and their respective regulatory boards have not been able to keep up the monitoring mechanisms efficiently over these institutions. The government was waiting for an opportune moment to bring them under the purview of RBI and the timing couldn’t have been better.”“Capital adequacy ratios of most of these banks are concerning and the present regulatory structure does not make the restructuring of these institutions practically feasible. The Bill strikes the right chord and has given a mechanism to restructure these banks and also significantly improves their regulatory oversight by a competent and efficient regulator, the RBI. This move should certainly improve the confidence in the cooperative banks and the interests of all the stakeholders would be protected in the long run,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-bring-cooperative-banks-under-rbi-lens-gets-house-nod/story-kA3tEhfXrjFlOXrsz42GpK.html
17-09-2020||India||Centre for timely disposal of cases against legislators||The Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that it supported the timebound disposal of criminal cases against sitting and former legislators, and stressed that all such matters must reach their “logical conclusion”.The statement -- made by solicitor general Tushar Mehta to a three-judge bench headed by justice NV Ramana -- came after a report submitted by a court-appointed amicus curiae in a public interest litigation (PIL) matter showed that 2,556 legislators from Parliament and state assemblies were involved in about 4,442 pending criminal cases across the country.In addition to these cases,the report by senior advocate Vijay Hansaria suggested 175 other pending cases fell under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act and 14 under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against serving and former lawmakers across various courts.Of the total cases, the report said that 413 are punishable with life imprisonment and 174 sitting MPs/MLAs are accused in them. In 52 cases, high courts have stayed trials.Hansaria was appointed the amicus after a PIL filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwini Upadhyay demanded the fast-tracking of trials against politicians, and life bans from contesting elections on those who were convicted.“Principally, the central government is of the view that all cases against elected representatives must be concluded in a timebound manner. If there is a stay order by any high court, the same should be directed to be decided within one month. But if any central investigating agency is not proceeding with the case without any stay order in place, we will take it up at our end and file a report. All trials must reach their logical conclusion,” Mehta told the bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy.The bench asked Mehta for details of cases probed by central agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), and sought to know their status.“In some cases it is noted that CBI, ED register a first information report (FIR) and thereafter there is no enquiry or prosecution. The sword is kept hanging on the accused and even arrest warrants are not issued,” the bench observed.While a response from the court is still pending on the issue of a bar on contesting elections, the court reserved orders on the limited question of steps needed to expedite trials.Hansaria said in his report that there are only 12 special courts in the country to exclusively handle cases against legislators, gave a district-wise split of pending criminal cases in the country, and suggested a slew of measure for speedy trials.These included asking the chief justices of the high courts to create a blueprint for establishing more such courts; trials to be concluded within a year with priority to cases involving sitting legislators over those involving former legislators; no adjournment except in rare and exceptional circumstances; and fixed two-year tenures for judicial officers heading these special courts.Mehta told the court that the burden of establishing additional special courts should not rest on the Centre, which is releasing funds to states for judicial infrastructure. The bench remarked, “Are you (Centre) serious in completing trial in a timebound manner. Then all these concerns are minor issues. We are reserving orders and giving liberty to chief justices of high courts to submit a blueprint on how many courts are needed. We will direct states to furnish utilisation certificate on the Central funds sanctioned to them for the constructing additional courts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-for-timely-disposal-of-cases-against-legislators/story-EIVmQhCdKtTAQNqU3OqhkO.html
17-09-2020||India||Indian, Chinese NSAs to join Brics meet; bilateral talks unlikely||India’s National Security Adviser Ajit Doval is set to join his Chinese counterpart Yang Jiechi for a virtual meeting of the NSAs of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping on Thursday against the backdrop of the border standoff. The 10th meeting of the NSAs of the grouping is part of a series of events being hosted by Russia, the current chair of Brics. This will be the fourth time this month that top Indian and Chinese leaders have been part of multilateral meetings hosted by Russia, following a virtual meeting of Brics’ foreign ministers, and meetings of the defence and foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Moscow. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that as in the case of the Brics’ foreign ministers meeting on September 4, there will be no scope for bilateral discussions between the Indian and Chinese NSAs at Friday’s meeting. “There will be statements by the NSAs and discussions on the items on the agenda, which has already been decided. Besides, the Brics grouping has no scope for takig up bilateral matters,” one of the people cited above said. On 17 September, the Russian Chairmanship will hold the 10th Meeting of BRICS National Security Advisors. According to a statement issued by Russia, the Brics NSAs meeting is expected to discuss “threats and challenges to national security”. “The meeting agenda comprises of challenges and threats to global, regional and national security in today’s world,” the statement said. It added that the event will take place via video conference and Nikolai Patrushev, secretary of the security council of the Russian federation, will represent Moscow at the meeting. Though both India and China have made it clear that they don’t want any third party mediation on the months-long border standoff that has taken bilateral ties to an all-time low, Russia has pushed the two sides to resolve their differences through dialogue. The meetings of the defence and foreign ministers of the SCO in Moscow facilitated meetings on the sidelines between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. The two foreign ministers agreed on a five-point roadmap to address the tensions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) but there has been little progress on the disengagement and de-escalation efforts on the ground, mainly because of China not pulling back its troops from friction points. Tensions have been exacerbated by China’s provocative military manoeuvres on the south bank of Pangong Lake since August 29-30 and Indian troops are now preparing to remain deployed at forward positions through the harsh winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-nsas-to-join-brics-meet-bilateral-talks-unlikely/story-c8FMa4Q24Ev0G3sA55j7YP.html
17-09-2020||India||Nearly 5 custodial deaths daily in 2019-20, MHA tells Lok Sabha||Almost five persons died daily in custody in India in 2019-2020, according to data shared by the union ministry of home affairs (MHA) with Parliament on Tuesday. The total number of people killed either in police custody or jails between April 1, 2019 and March 31 was 1,697. Of this, 1,584 died in judicial custody and 113 in police custody. The most deaths in judicial custody, 400, were reported from Uttar Pradesh (UP) while the most in police custody, 14, were reported from Madhya Pradesh (MP). Tamil Nadu (TN) and Gujarat recorded 12 deaths each in police custody. Police are often accused of high-handedness in India while dealing with people taken into custody. Tamil Nadu Police is already under the scanner for the killing of P Jeyaraj (58) and his son Benicks (37) inside a police station in Tuticorin on June 22. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is investigating the case. MHA informed the Lok Sabha that while UP recorded maximum deaths (400) in judicial custody -- this usually includes deaths inside a jail or while taking an accused to a court -- the second-highest number of such deaths was reported from MP (143). This was followed by West Bengal (115), Bihar (105), Punjab (93) and Maharashtra (91). The ministry hasn’t provided reasons for the deaths in police or judicial custody but government officials, who didn’t wish to be named, said the causes usually include illness, gang wars, suicides, or torture by the police or jail staff. Experts say the data doesn’t reflect reality. Senior lawyer and founder of Human Rights Law Network (HRLN) Colin Gonsalves said: “These custodial deaths are not even a third of actual deaths. What they (police) do is that when a person dies, they take him to the hospital and then show on paper that he died inside the hospital. They make doctors write ‘died in hospital’ in the report”. Raja Bagga, programme officer at Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), said: “The government data t doesn’t give exact reasons for deaths in many instances. For example, in certain deaths, the National Crimes Record Bureau (NCRB) records the reason as ‘other’. We asked NCRB not to classify any deaths as such. There is a need to analyse in detail why these 1,700 odd deaths are taking place in police and judicial custody.” Apart from deaths in custody, there were a total of 112 police encounters as well reported from various states between April 2019 and March, according to the MHA’s reply in Parliament on Tuesday. Chhattisgarh recorded highest number (39), while Uttar Pradesh, saw 26 encounters. Government data reveals that there are a total of 1,350 prisons across the country, which have a cumulative capacity to lodge 4,03,739 prisoners. But almost all the jails are overcrowded, the data revealed. Currently, there are 4,78,600 inmates lodged in all the prisons. UP’s 72 jails have the highest number of inmates at 1,01,297, while the capacity is 60,340. In a written reply in the Lok Sabha, union minister of state (home affairs) G Kishan Reddy said that the Centre has issued an advisory on July 13 to all the states and UTs requesting them to sensitise and direct all functionaries of the state, district and below level to follow and adhere to law of the land and the guidelines issued by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on custodial deaths, and to act firmly against any abuse of law in respect of custodial deaths. He added that members, special rapporteurs and senior officers from NHRC carry out periodic visits to various jails to evaluate the living conditions and make recommendations for better protection of human rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-5-custodial-deaths-daily-in-2019-20-mha-tells-ls/story-uXc55KZcJ1atKZGi6sdZFL.html
17-09-2020||India||Hindi speeches to Punjabi pop: PLA’s psy-ops at LAC||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has started using some interesting weapons against Indian troops along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh -- Punjabi pop in the north bank of Pangong Tso, and Hindi speeches on how Indian troops were being deployed in harsh conditions at the whims of politicians. After the Indian Army outflanked PLA on Rezang La- Rechin La ridgeline south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30 and repositioned its troops to dominate the heights of Finger 4 spur on the north bank of the lake, the Chinese Army first tried to flex its military muscle by moving in tanks and infantry combat vehicles. Rather than be cowed by the PLA, the Indian Army made it clear that there would be retaliation if the red line was breached on either banks.While the Indian Army was not amused by Chinese military tactics, military commanders rolled in mirth after PLA troops on Finger 4 starting belting out Punjabi numbers to soften up the adversary into lowering its guard on the fiercely contested mountainous spur. If the north bank of Pangong Tso was jiving to Punjabi songs on PLA loudspeakers, a similar battery of loudspeakers were deployed by the Red Army at their Moldo Garrison in Chushul sector to remind the Indian troops of what the Chinese termed the folly of their political masters.On the southern banks of Pangong Tso, the Chinese loudspeakers told Indian troops in chaste Hindi about the futility of being deployed at these heights in winter season on the whims of Indian politicians back in Delhi. The idea seemed to be to bring down the morale of Indian troops and sow discord among soldiers that they do not always get hot meals and comfortable lodging. A snowy winter lies ahead of troops on LAC.Also read: Army digs in for a long winter at LACAccording to a former Indian Army chief, PLA used the same loudspeaker tactics in the 1962 skirmishes in the western and eastern sectors as well during the 1967 Nathu La skirmish. “But the Indian troops were foxed about the Punjabi songs on Finger 4. Maybe, the PLA thought that troops from Punjab were holding on to the higher heights of Finger 4 feature,” added this person, who is familiar with what is happening along LAC, and asked not to be named. While the Red Army is using psy-ops at Pangong Tso against the Indian Army, a Chinese Communist party mouthpiece has also been tweeting its heart out to remind the Indian political leadership about the loss of face in 1962, the need for India to revive its economy , and check the rampant spread of coronavirus in India without mentioning that the virus originated in Wuhan. The propaganda site also describes the Modi government’s tough stance on Ladakh as a tactic to divert attention from domestic strife.There is a school of thought that Chinese Communist party general secretary Xi Jinping initiated PLA’s aggression in Ladakh as a way to divert attention from several local issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindi-speeches-to-punjabi-pop-pla-s-psy-ops-at-lac/story-cs3pGsfqR4Ysk7DT8AokyM.html
17-09-2020||India||Troops prepare to dig in for winter amid standoff||The Indian military has ramped up efforts to move equipment and supplies such as winter clothing and mountaineering gear to forward locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector as troops prepare to dig in for the winter amid the standoff with China. The efforts to ferry thousands of tonnes of supplies for troops deployed along the LAC have acquired urgency as road connectivity is expected to be reduced significantly once weather conditions worsen by the end of September. As temperatures plummet and snowfall begins, most roads will be closed and forward army posts will be completely dependent on supplies brought in by helicopters and mules. Airlift: The Indian Air Force’s (IAF) massive C-17 Globemaster and Il-76 heavy lift aircraft have been making sorties to the airfield at Leh, located at a height of more than 10,500 feet, bringing in more troops, equipment and supplies. Though the C-17 can carry a maximum payload of up to 77 tonnes and the Il-76 about 40 tonnes, the aircraft have to operate with lower payloads at airfields such as the one at Leh because of the rarified atmosphere, people familiar with developments said. Also read: Army digs in for a long winter at LACHelicopters: The IAF and the army are using helicopters such as the Chinook, which has a payload of about 10 tonnes but again has to operate with a smaller cargo at such high altitudes, and the home-grown Dhruv to ferry supplies from Leh to forward positions along the LAC at altitudes of 15,000 to 16,000 feet. The final five of 15 Chinooks ordered by India from the US were delivered just before the Covid-19 lockdown in March and are now playing a key role in ferrying troops and gear to forward locations. Footage aired on television news channels on Wednesday showed soldiers forming human chains to move supplies from the heavy lift aircraft to the Chinooks so that they could be speedily moved to troops deployed on the LAC. Light helicopters such as the Dhruv can also be used for evacuating personnel in medical emergencies. Army convoys: Footage shared on social media on Wednesday showed long convoys of army trucks ferrying fuel and other supplies to posts along the LAC. Since snow blocks mountain passes into the Ladakh region for at least four months during winter, Indian military planners have moved more than 150,000 tonnes of materials into the region, Reuters reported. “All the supplies that we need have already been pushed to wherever they are required,” said Maj Gen Arvind Kapoor, chief of staff of the Indian Army’s 14 Corps. The supplies: Among the equipment being moved to Ladakh sector are winter clothing, snow boots, mountaineering equipment, special tents, sleeping bags, heaters, fuel and high-calorie rations. The people cited above said efforts are underway to ensure there are adequate stocks of such essential equipment and gear for several months at logistics depots at places such as Leh, from where they can be rapidly moved by helicopters and army convoys to forward locations according to the needs on the ground. With temperatures expected to plunge as low as minus 40 degrees to minus 50 degrees Celsius during winter and wind speeds of more than 40 kmph at high altitudes, the tents and double-layered sleeping bags will play a key role in forward locations. The equipment displayed for reporters at Leh included lightweight winter clothing made of synthetic materials with three layers of protection, insulated snow boots and mountaineering gear. At a fuel, oil and lubricant depot near Leh, a hillside was covered with clusters of green drums, according to Reuters. The fuel is needed for both vehicles and heating equipment. At storage facilities at another supply depot, boxes of rations, including pistachios, instant noodles and curries, stood in large piles. Though the high altitudes often play havoc with appetites, experts believe soldiers need to consume at least 4,000 calories each day to function efficiently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/troops-prepare-to-dig-in-for-winter-amid-standoff/story-Wtn44Z99ZWuRywNtN1xOGN.html
17-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha to debate NEP, GST, economy, environment on Parliament floor||The Union government on Wednesday agreed to debates demanded in Parliament on four key topics by the Opposition -- the Goods and Services Tax (GST), jobs and the economy, the national education policy (NEP) and the draft environment impact assessment norms -- at a special meeting with select political leaders.Chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh, the meeting was attended by representatives of the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Samajwadi Party, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, and Communist Party of India (Marxist). Congress leaders said a second meeting would be held on Friday or Saturday, in which the India-China military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the eastern Ladakh sector may be raised. A Congress leader who attended the meeting said on condition of anonymity: “We will first hear Rajnath Singh’s statement and then decide our next course of action.” Singh told the leaders he would make a statement on the India-China border issue at 12 noon in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, but the government has not been in favour of an open debate on the issue citing the sensitivities on the ground as Indian and Chinese soldiers face-off against each other at several friction points in the region.Wednesday’s meeting was a rare instance of the BJP brass reaching out to opposition parties to come to an agreement on contentious issues. While government managers dial individual opposition leaders regularly, such a meeting has taken place after a long hiatus. In November 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then ministers Arun Jaitley and M Venkaiah Naidu met Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former PM Manmohan Singh to find a way for the passage of the GST bill. Opposition parties also assured support for seven ordinances. but demanded that the three farm-related bills and banking regulation amendments be sent to select panels for a review. Government managers did not agree.  Congress leaders were keen on a debate on economy and job losses and the party’s Rajya Sabha chief whip Jairam Ramesh, a former environment minister, pressed for a debate on the environment.Also read| Covid-19: Govt faces House heat on lockdown, migrants, casesThe draft environmental impact assessment (EIA) norms contain contentious clauses, including one pertaining to the regularisation of infrastructure projects that violated the EIA Notification, 2006, by starting construction before environmental clearance or by expanding their capacity. The draft also proposes a shortening of the time for public hearings, which offer people affected by projects the opportunity to understand them and give their consent for them.Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien was keen for a discussion on GST in the backdrop of the a projected shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the states’ share of Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue this financial year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. DMK leader Tiruchi Siva insisted on a debate on the new national education policy, which has recommended primary education in local languages, facilitating the possible entry of foreign universities in India, creating a single higher-education regulator, and easier board examinations. The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-run Tamil Nadu government has declared it would prefer a two-language formula and oppose a three-language formula proposed in the education policy. The state has also told the Centre that it wants to continue the current 10+2+3 system of education and would not accept the proposed 5+3+3+4 system. Government managers initially proposed a combined debate on the GST and the economy in the meeting, to which Opposition leaders pointed out that GST was an issue related to the federal structure and should not be linked to the larger economy. O’Brien’s calling-attention motion, which entails a reply by the minister, on the subject is likely to be discussed on September 18. O’Brien also accused the government of “robbing” 18 hours of the opposition’s time by scrapping the daily Question Hour and not allocating enough time for discussions. “Rajnath Singh heard us patiently and said time management will be improved,” said O’Brien. SP’s Ramgopal Yadav advised the government not to bring the three farm-related ordinances: The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 and the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020.Many experts have hailed the new laws that the government says seek to improve the farmers’ lot, but opposition parties and farmers’ organizations have alleged that they would be beneficial only to corporate houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-oppn-to-debate-4-key-issues-in-house/story-yrxzzmg8nPzcTfUt2xlQuJ.html
17-09-2020||India||32-year-old sets up fake websites selling high-end phones, cheats 2,500||A 32-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly using fake websites to cheat people by offering inexpensive mobile phones on equated monthly instalments (EMIs), accepting advances paid into bank accounts and not delivering the devices, the police said.Two of his associates are on the run.Jitender Singh, who has a Bachelor of Computer Application (BCA) degree, told the police that he and his associates had duped more than 2,500 people across the country, said deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena. Two mobile phones have been seized from Singh, who was arrested when.“We are verifying his claims of cheating over 2,500 people. The bank accounts that the racketeers used are being examined to ascertain the money transactions related to the scam. As of now, we have arrested Singh in one case that was being investigated by our district’s cyber cell team since early this year,” the officer.An investigating officer said an initial analysis of one bank account reflected four or five deposits by people for cellphones. “We will approach the depositors to know whether they had filed any police complaints regarding the cheating. Singh has told us that his gang used to dupe two or three persons daily,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.DCP Meena said that the racketeers used to create fake websites on which they sold inexpensively priced cellphones at easy EMIs. After duping a certain number of people, they used to deactivate the website and shift its domain name to avoid demands for return of money or delivery of the phones.“They used to take only small amount -- between Rs 1,999 and Rs. 7,999 -- depending on the price of the phones, so that the victims do not approach the police even after being duped. Also, they only took money through virtual payment address (VPA) mechanisms to make the transaction’s detection difficult,” said Meena.On January 9, a man named Irfan Pathan filed a case at the Govindpuri police station in Delhi, saying he had come across a website in December that offered cellphones that were cheaper than market prices and on EMIs.“An executive of the website tricked him into depositing R 5,998 in three instalments through a virtual payment address.However, after taking the money the fraudsters neither delivered the phone nor returned the amount. They deactivated the website and all the contact numbers. Thereafter, Pathan filed a case,” said Meena.During the probe, the police collected details of the phone numbers that were linked to the website and used to contact Pathan as well. The call details of one phone number revealed that it was registered with an e-commerce payment system site and a bank account in the name of Rajat Shukla.Details of the VPA used by the gang were obtained from the National Payments Corporation of India. It was found that the VPA was registered with Shukla’s bank account, through which the money were transferred to another account in the name of Jitender Singh, said officer Meena.“We arrested Singh from his home in Ghaziabad and seized two cellphones used in the crime. Singh disclosed that Shukla and Praveen Kumar were his partners in crime,” said Meena, adding that the police were conducting raids to catch the other two suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-year-old-sets-up-fake-websites-selling-high-end-phones-cheats-2-500/story-SX1wkcdGK0Qdh9s5318dTP.html
17-09-2020||India||IMA publishes list of 382 doctors who died due to Covid-19, demands they be treated as martyrs||Taking exception to Health Minister Harsh Vardhan not mentioning the death of healthcare workers due to Covid-19 in his statement in Parliament, the IMA on Wednesday published a list of 382 doctors who died due to the viral disease and demanded that they be treated as “martyrs”.On MoS Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey’s statement that public health and hospitals come under states and so insurance compensation data is not available with the Centre, the doctors’ body said that it amounts to “abdication of duty and abandonment of the national heroes who have stood up for our people”.“The IMA (Indian Medical Association) finds it strange that after having formulated an unfriendly partial insurance scheme for the bereaved families to struggle with the ignominy of the government disowning them altogether stares at them,” it said.According to the IMA Covid-19 data on September 16, as many as 2,238 doctors were infected with the disease and of them 382 lost their lives, a senior official of the doctors’ body said.Referring to Vardhan statement, the IMA said the 19th paragraph acknowledges the contribution of healthcare workers during this pandemic, but “conceals” the morbidity and mortality of doctors, nurses and healthcare workers.Terming it “indifference”, the doctors’ body said, “No nation has lost as many doctors and healthcare workers like India. Doctors suffer four times mortality of ordinary citizens and private practitioners suffer eight times mortality on the same scale.”  “To feign that this information doesn’t merit the attention of the nation is abominable. If the government doesn’t maintain the statistics of the total number of doctors and healthcare workers infected by Covid- 19 and the statistics of how many of them sacrificed their life due to the pandemic, it loses the moral authority to administer the Epidemic Act 1897 and the Disaster Management Act.”  “This also exposes the hypocrisy of calling them corona warriors on one hand and denying them and their families the status and benefits of martyrdom,” the IMA stated.Publishing a list of 382 doctors who died in the Covid-19 pandemic, along with their addresses, it said, “We demand they be acknowledged and treated as martyrs.” Their families and children deserve solace and solatium from the government, the IMA stressed.“The IMA also commends to the government they seek such data from the representatives of nurses and other healthcare workers,” the statement said.The doctors’ body said it had shared with the health ministry hundreds of  suggestions and feedback during this national health emergency.“The Prime Minister deemed it fit to invite the national president of IMA to a meeting to share the concerns and seek suggestions and cooperation. The suo moto statement of the health minister preferred to ignore the national dimension of the war against Covid-19,” it said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-publishes-list-of-382-doctors-who-died-due-to-covid-19-demands-they-be-treated-as-martyrs/story-hX0ELsr0LXk8UnBFQ0kIvJ.html
17-09-2020||India||Indian, Chinese NSAs to join BRICS meet today; no bilateral talks on cards||India’s National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval is set to join his Chinese counterpart Yang Jiechi for a virtual meeting of the NSAs of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) grouping on Thursday against the backdrop of the border standoff.The 10th meeting of the NSAs of the grouping is part of a series of events being hosted by Russia, the current chair of BRICS. This will be the fourth time this month that top Indian and Chinese leaders have been part of multilateral meetings hosted by Russia, following a virtual meeting of BRICS’ foreign ministers, and meetings of the defence and foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Moscow.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that as in the case of the BRICS’ foreign ministers meeting on September 4, there will be no scope for bilateral discussions between the Indian and Chinese NSAs during the meeting.Also read: Rajnath Singh to make statement on LAC in Rajya Sabha tomorrow“There will be statements by the NSAs and discussions on the items on the agenda which has already been decided. Besides, the BRICS grouping has no scope for taking up bilateral matters,” one of the people cited above said.On 17 September, the Russian chairmanship will hold the 10th Meeting of BRICS National Security Advisors.According to a statement issued by Russia, the BRICS NSAs meeting is expected to discuss “threats and challenges to national security”.“The meeting’s agenda comprises of challenges and threats to global, regional and national security in today’s world,” the statement said. It added that the event will take place via video conference and Nikolai Patrushev, secretary of the security council of the Russian Federation, will represent Moscow at the meeting.Though both India and China have made it clear that they don’t want any third party mediation on the months-long border standoff that has taken bilateral ties to an all-time low, Russia has pushed the two sides to resolve their differences through dialogue. The meetings of the defence and foreign ministers of the SCO in Moscow facilitated meetings on the sidelines between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe, and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. The two foreign ministers agreed on a five-point roadmap to address the tensions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) but there has been little progress on the disengagement and de-escalation efforts on the ground, mainly because of China not pulling back its troops from friction points.Tensions have been exacerbated by China’s provocative military manoeuvres on the south bank of Pangong Tso since August 29-30 and Indian troops are now preparing to remain deployed at forward positions through the harsh winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-nsas-to-join-brics-meet-on-friday-no-bilateral-talks-on-cards/story-DeRxVwwypmTXVpoN4dkFzL.html
17-09-2020||India||Delhi Riots: What former police commissioner Neeraj Kumar says on Umar Khalid and Kapil Mishra||Former commissioner of Delhi Police Neeraj Kumar supported Delhi police’s investigation into the violence that took place in northeast Delhi in February this year. On Wednesday, the Delhi Police named fifteen people in the charge sheet, accusing them of orchestrating the riots that killed at least 53 people and injured hundreds.On Tuesday, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava wrote to veteran cop Julio Ribeiro, explaining to him that the investigation was being carried out without any discrimination based on caste or religion, and was backed by documentary and scientific evidence.Watch | Why Delhi police didn’t act against Kapil Mishra Former Delhi Police commissioner Neeraj Kumar believes Delhi Police is right and here is what he says.* A lot of the points have already been explained by the police commissioner in his letter to Julio Ribeiro, said Neeraj Kumar. “But nonetheless, I am better placed than many of my colleagues who are expressing their anguish.* “On the basis of limited inputs I have, I know that Delhi Police has come up with some technical evidence. It is not based on some heresy,” the former police chief said.* Neeraj Kumar said the planning happened in a large scale. People were meeting at various places in Northeast Delhi, Kumar said. “There is lot of evidence not only against Umar Khalid, but also against members who are already arrested,” Neeraj Kumar said.* “Some people have gone to the Delhi High Court urging direction to the Delhi Police to take action against Kapil Mishra. The issue is subjudice. I don’t want to defend Kapil Mishra. But I am giving a perspective. What he said didn’t incite riots,” Kumar said.* Umar Khalid has not been made an accused just for his Amravati speech where he asked people to come out in protest during US president Donald Trump’s visit to India. Evidence against him are far more. His speech forms only a small portion of the body of the evidence that Delhi Police have, Neeraj Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-what-former-police-commissioner-neeraj-kumar-says-on-umar-khalid-and-kapil-mishra/story-B3C1Cs020ZWKIHZmk3OQ5I.html
17-09-2020||India||China belts out Punjabi numbers for Indian soldiers at Ladakh. It is a ‘62 trick||Chinese military strategist Sun Tzu in his famous book “Art of War” wrote way back in 6th century BC that the supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting. It is to his credit that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Communist party mouthpieces use the same weapons of psychological warfare against the Indian troops deployed in Ladakh and India even today.After the Indian Army outflanked the PLA on Rezang La- Rechin La ridgeline south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30 and repositioned its troops to dominate the heights of Finger 4 spur on the north bank of the lake, the Chinese Army first tried to militarily muscle the adversary by moving in tanks and infantry combat vehicles. Rather than be cowed by the PLA strength, the Indian Army made it clear that there would be retaliation if the red line is breached on either banks.While the Indian Army was not amused by Chinese military tactics, the military commanders rolled up in mirth after PLA troops on Finger 4 starting belting out Punjabi numbers to soften up the adversary into lowering their guard on the fiercely contested mountainous spur. If the north bank of Pangong Tso was jiving to Punjabi songs on PLA loudspeakers, a battery of loudspeakers were deployed by the Red Army at their Moldo Garrison in Chushul sector to remind the Indian troops of, what they claim, is the folly of their political masters.Also Watch | Ladakh: Watch how Army, IAF are boosting troops, supplies amid China tensionAlso Read: Road to Daulat Beg Oldi for tanks to be ready by Oct 15 as army preps for Ladakh winterOn the southern banks of Pangong Tso, the Chinese loudspeakers told Indian troops in chaste Hindi about the futility of being deployed at these heights in winter season on the whims and fancies of Indian politicians back in Delhi. The whole idea of PLA is to pull down the morale of Indian troops and create dissatisfaction among the soldiers that they do not always get hot steaming meals and logistics. A snowy winter also lies ahead.According to a former Indian Army chief, the PLA used the same loudspeaker tactics in 1962 skirmishes in the western and eastern sectors as well during the 1967 Nathu La skirmish. “But the Indian troops were foxed about the Punjabi songs on Finger 4. Maybe, the PLA thought that troops from Punjab were holding on to the higher heights of Finger 4 feature,” said the former army chief.While the Red Army is using psy-ops at Pangong Tso against the Indian Army, a Chinese Communist party mouthpiece has also been tweeting its heart out to remind the Indian political leadership about the loss of face in 1962, the need for India to recover its economy that, it says, has sunk to abysmal depth and to check the rampant spread of coronavirus in India without mentioning that the virus originated in Wuhan. The propaganda paper and its online site also describes the Modi government’s tough stance on the Ladakh friction as a tactic to divert attention from domestic strife.Incidentally, the same holds true for Chinese Communist party general secretary Xi Jinping who initiated PLA aggression in Ladakh to divert attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-bombards-indian-soldiers-with-propaganda-via-loudspeakers-tells-them-to-blame-modi/story-9JIbg3SU5T6F2WNBpefIiO.html
