18-09-2020||India||‘Not a criminal act to distribute Quran copies’: CPI(M) defends minister||Facing political heat in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling racket, CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, in a write-up in the party mouthpiece ‘Desabhimani’, said the ongoing agitation seeking resignation of Kerala minister KT Jaleel was essentially against the holy books. He further said that opposition Congress and Muslim League fell easily in the trap set by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In the article, he defended higher education minister Jaleel, who was questioned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Enforcement Directorate, in connection with import of Quran and his alleged liaison with main accused, Swapna Suresh, in the gold smuggling case. “It is not a criminal act to distribute a few copies of the holy book as requested by the UAE consulate in the state capital. The minister is in charge of the Waqf Board also. The Muslim League is adding fuel to the fire ignited by the Sangh Parivar,” he said.The party, he said, will support Jaleel and there is no need for him to resign.“The NIA has summoned the minister only as a witness. But the League and BJP are in a hurry to dub him as a smuggler. This will not succeed and the party will back him to the hilt,” Balakrishnan said, adding a section of the media is also playing a “dirty game to discredit the government which is doing a good job in containing the pandemic and rolling out people-friendly welfare measures.”The Muslim League and BJP have criticised the ruling party for playing a “blatant communal card.” “The issue is gold smuggling, not Quran. The party is resorting to a dirty game to get out of it,” said League leader PK Kunhalikutty. “The party is dragging the holy book to justify its criminal acts but believers will see through its game plan,” said BJP state president K Surendran.Meanwhile the customs said it will question the minister soon in connection with distribution of religious texts imported from the United Arab Emirates. It said it will register a case under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act. Since the minister had held a press conference and admitted that he took copies of the holy book from the consulate has made the task easy for the customs, a senior official said, adding the offence attracts a minimum jail term of five years. During the 30-kg gold smuggling investigation, the customs also found that a heavy consignment, weighing more than 4,000 kg, had arrived in 31 bags on March 4 and was taken to Malappuram. The minister claimed that the packets contained only religious books that he took to his constituency for distribution. But the opposition alleged that some consignments also carried gold and Jaleel was using holy books to cover up his illegal acts. A multi-agency probe led by the NIA is probing the case. The ED had submitted a statement in a court in Kochi two days ago saying Bengaluru drug haul and gold smuggling cases were closely linked. Key accused in the drug case Anoop Mohammad had taken the name of Bineesh Kodiyeri during grilling and claimed he was his “business partner.” Kodiyeri was grilled by the ED and the Narcotics Control Bureau is set to question him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-criminal-act-to-distribute-quran-copies-cpi-m-defends-minister/story-iVvJNQcaDkS18i3nHtuyDK.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Babri case must be dropped’: VHP after Muslim litigant’s appeal to free all||The Vishva Hindu Parishad on Friday welcomed Iqbal Ansari’s statement in which he had issued an appeal to the CBI court to acquit all the 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case in the larger interest of the Hindu-Muslim unity. A key Muslim litigant in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit, Ansari’s father Hashim Ansari was the oldest litigant in the title suit.On September 30, the special CBI court will deliver its final verdict in the criminal cases linked to the mosque’s demolition in 1992.Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti are among the 32 accused.“We welcome Iqbal Ansari’s statement. The Supreme Court has ruled in favour of Ram Mandir. In such a scenario, the Babri Masjid demolition case must be dropped,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP.“Ansari’s statement is in the larger interest of the nation. After the Supreme Court’s verdict in favour of Ram Mandir, all issues related to dispute must end,” Sharma added. Raju Das, priest of Hanuman Garhi, has also welcomed Ansari’s statement.On November 9 last year, the apex court paved the way for construction of the Ram temple at the 2.77 acre site in Ayodhya. The court also ordered the government to allot land at an alternative site for a mosque.Ansari was among three Muslim invitees for the ground-breaking ceremony of the Ram temple on August 5 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Mohammad Sharif from Ayodhya and Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board chairman Zufar Ahmed Farooqui of Lucknow were also invited but only Ansari attended the ceremony.Ansari was also against the All India Muslim Personal Law Board’s decision to file a review petition against the top court’s Ayodhya verdict. The Supreme Court dismissed all review petitions in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-case-must-be-dropped-vhp-after-muslim-litigant-s-appeal-to-free-all/story-JEUpIPosTfO6x4d0RKtuoL.html
18-09-2020||India||India allows export of onions lying in transit to all countries including Bangladesh||Indian authorities on Friday allowed the movement of onion supplies already contracted for by Bangladeshi importers after Dhaka formally complained about the impact of New Delhi’s ban on exports of the commodity. Scores of trucks carrying onions destined for Bangladesh had been stopped at border crossings in West Bengal after the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) banned all exports of the item on Monday following a shortage and sudden increase in prices in the domestic market. As prices spiked in Bangladesh after the ban, the foreign ministry in Dhaka formally complained to the Indian high commission through a note verbale or unsigned diplomatic correspondence on Tuesday, people familiar with developments said. The matter was also raised by the Bangladeshi mission in New Delhi, the people said on condition of anonymity. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, who made a previously unannounced visit to Bangladesh on August 18 to put bilateral ties back on track after they were hit by a string of irritants, took personal interest in the issue and was involved in efforts to find a solution, the people said. This had also been the first visit abroad amid the Covid-9 pandemic by Shringla, who was India’s envoy to Dhaka during 2016-19. Following a meeting on Friday between officials of the commerce and external affairs ministries, the DGFT gave the go ahead for export of eligible consignments of onions “with the approval of competent authority”, the people said. “The shipment of all onion supplies that were contracted for by Bangladeshi importers before the ban came into effect will be allowed,” one of the people cited above said, adding the decision was due to the special relations with Bangladesh. However, a decision is yet to be made on whether to allow more onion exports in future. This is the second time in less than a year that an Indian ban on onion exports has had an impact on Bangladesh and triggered a formal reaction from Dhaka. Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina formally raised the earlier ban during a visit to New Delhi last October and had jokingly told a public gathering that she had asked her cook to prepare her food without onions. She had also said the Indian side should give advance notice of such bans. The note verbale from Bangladesh’s foreign ministry expressed “deep concern” at the Indian ban as it “directly impacts the supply of essential food items in the Bangladesh market”. It noted that at a meeting of the commerce secretaries of the two sides during January 15-16, the “Bangladesh side requested the Indian side to consider not imposing export restriction on essential food items required by Bangladesh, and in case of any event necessitating such a restriction, it was requested that Bangladesh side be informed ahead of time”. The latest ban, the note verbale said, “undermines the discussions that took place in 2019 and 2020 between the two friendly countries on the matter and understanding shared”. Bangladesh called on India to resume onion exports in view of the “excellent ties of friendship and understanding enjoyed by the two countries”. The Bangladeshi side is concerned as the sudden ban triggered panic buying by the public and hoarding by unscrupulous traders, who bought available onion stocks and then artificially drove up prices, the people said. They pointed out the matter had caused embarrassment for the Sheikh Hasina government, with its opponents raising questions about the benefits derived from better ties with India. Bangladesh is largely able to meet its annual requirement of about 2.5 million tonnes of onions from domestic production but imports from India make up almost 90% of the shortfall. As it did last year, Bangladesh may turn to Turkey and Egypt to make up for the deficit in supplies. Foreign policy commentator Maya Mirchandani, who closely tracks the neighbourhood, said there could be domestic compulsions such as a shortage for the ban on onion exports but such moves need to done in a more calibrated manner. “While restricting exports, we should at least meet existing export commitments and then take care of future exports on a need-based approach. If we pride ourselves on a neighbourhood first policy, we should ensure there are no ruffled feathers with crucial neighbours such as Bangladesh,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-allows-export-of-onions-lying-in-transit-to-all-countries-including-bangladesh/story-USLa7mttDoQoDpvH0vTbjM.html
18-09-2020||India||China Study Group reviews LAC situation ahead of military level talks||The government on Friday carried out a comprehensive review of the overall situation in eastern Ladakh including India’s operational preparedness in view of the continued belligerence by the Chinese army and its fresh attempts to “intimidate” Indian troops in the region, government sources said. At a nearly 90-minute meeting of the high-power China Study Group, defence minister Rajnath Singh, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs also looked at further enhancing the vigil along the nearly 3,500-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC), including in Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim sectors, they said. Army Chief Gen. M M Naravane briefed the meeting about the fresh face-offs between Indian and Chinese troops at both the north and south bank of the Pangong lake and elaborated on steps taken to effectively deal with such attempts, the sources said. “The meeting of the China Study Group reviewed all aspects of the situation,” said a source. The meeting also deliberated on arrangements being made to maintain the current level of troops and weapons in all forward areas in eastern Ladakh and other sensitive high-altitude sectors in the harsh winter months when the temperature drops up to minus 25 degree Celsius. The sources said the meeting also briefly touched upon the main talking points to be raised by the Indian side at the next Corps commander-level talks which is expected to focus on the implementation of an agreement reached between foreign ministers of India and China at a meeting in Moscow on September 10. “We will insist on early and complete disengagement of Chinese troops from all friction points. That is the first step for restoration of peace and tranquillity along the border,” said a source. The sources said the Chinese People’s Liberation Army(PLA) is yet to respond to the Indian Army’s communication to it on holding the next round of the Corps commander-level talks. “There is no date as of now as the Chinese military is yet to respond to it. The talks could take place sometime next week,” a source said. The two sides have so far held five rounds of talks at the level of Corps commanders. The sources said the situation remained tense at both the north and south bank of the Pangong lake area as well as at other friction points in eastern Ladakh. There have been at least three attempts by the PLA to “intimidate” Indian troops along the north and south bank of Pangong lake area in the last three weeks where even shots were fired in the air for the first time at the LAC in 45 years. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday said China should take forward the process for complete disengagement of troops from all friction points including at the Pangong lake area, and asked it not to make unilateral attempts to change the status quo. He said both sides should focus on easing tensions in the friction areas by refraining from any actions that may lead to an escalation in the situation. The assertion by Srivastava came in the backdrop of remarks by Chinese foreign ministry on Wednesday that it was for India to initiate the process to disengage and restore peace along the LAC. Both sides reached a five-point agreement to resolve the border standoff at a meeting between External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) meet in Moscow. The agreement included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has been occupying the areas between Finger 4 and Finger 8. The mountain spurs in the area is called Fingers. China has strongly objected to India’s move. However, India has maintained that the heights are on its side of the LAC. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following China’s transgression attempts. Following China’s fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake, India has further bolstered its military presence in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-carries-out-comprehensive-review-of-situation-in-eastern-ladakh/story-IiUpptpgCXyI8z5KlMdNUJ.html
18-09-2020||India||Bengaluru drug probe: CCB issues summons to three more for interrogation||The Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru police which is investigating the drug racket case which allegedly involves some well known Kannada actors has issued summons to three more people to appear before it for questioning. Anchor and television actor Akul Balaji, another small screen actor Aryaan Santosh as well as a corporator, Yuvaraj, who is the son of a former Congress MLA Devaraj have all been issued summons to appear before CCB on Saturday morning.All the three of them have issued statements that they have received the summons from CCB and will fully cooperate with the police in getting to the bottom of the case. Already two well known actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani who have been arrested are currently in judicial custody and lodged in the Parpanna Agrahara Jail. Police have registered a FIR under various sections of the NDPS act against 15 people, of which nine have been detained till now.On Thursday another star couple Diganth Manchale and Aindrata Ray had been summoned by CCB and they were interrogated for four hours. In an unrelated incident, in a joint operation between Electronics city and Tilaknagar police, they arrested an interstate gang of drug peddlers and seized 108.4 kilograms of Ganja worth Rs 40 lakh according to the Bangalore Police Commissioner Kamal Pant.Agriculture minister BC Patil who started his career in the police department before becoming a movie actor and eventually politician, on Friday said that it was not just in the film industry but even in politics the tentacles of the drug mafia had spread. Patil who was speaking to the media in Chintamani said the state government was determined to finish the drug mafia in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-drug-probe-ccb-issues-summons-to-three-more-for-interrogation/story-O5SvBQj2AtTU6hN0nYuKZN.html
18-09-2020||India||Army chief says Amshipora case will be probed with utmost fairness||The investigations into the Amshipora case, where three Rajouri locals were killed, in an encounter, will be conducted with utmost fairness and will be taken to their logical conclusion, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Friday.“Amshipora case investigations will be conducted with utmost fairness and will be taken to their logical conclusion. Indian Army is committed to the professional conduct of operations,” Army chief Naravane told ANI.“Indian Army has zero-tolerance for violation of established guidelines while operating in disturbed areas,” he added. Meanwhile, the Army said earlier in the day that the inquiry ordered by the Army authorites into Operation Amshipora has concluded adding that during the operation, powers vested under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) 1990 were exceeded.According to an official release, the inquiry has brought out certain prima facie evidence indicating that during the operation, powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 were exceeded and the Do’s and Don’ts of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Supreme Court have been contravened.Consequently, the competent disciplinary authority has directed to initiate disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable.The evidence collected by the inquiry has prima-facie indicated that the three unidentified terrorists killed in Op Amshipora were Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohd Ibrar, who hailed from Rajouri. Their DNA report is awaited. Their involvement with terrorism or related activities is under investigation by the police.Indian Army is committed to the ethical conduct of operations. Further updates in the case will be given periodically without affecting the due process of the law of the land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-says-amshipora-case-will-be-probed-with-utmost-fairness/story-2Wjpwsf0q8pZMD6Oz4o7NI.html
18-09-2020||India||‘No data govt’: Congress’ Adhir, DMK’s Maran ask Centre to address economic woes||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Friday trained guns at the government for not keeping data on migrant deaths during the Lok Sabha proceedings.The leader of opposition of the Congress party, according to ANI, said, “Govt told the Parliament that it didn’t maintain any data on deaths of migrant workers who were trying to reach their homes after lockdown. Reports say over 1,000 died. When we ask questions on jobs, the government says it doesn’t have data. This is a ‘no data govt’”The fifth day of the monsoon session saw huge ruckus as debate continued over the effects of lockdown, economic impact of Covid-19 on migrant workers, salaried professionals and job losses due to the pandemic’s economic impact. Earlier on Monday, the first day of this monsoon session, the labour ministry in response to a question on how the lockdown affected migrant workers said that it does not have any data regarding the number of deaths among the migrant workers as they tried to reach their native places at the onset of the lockdown. “In order to mitigate the financial crisis of the migrant workers and protect them against the economic disruptions due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown, the Central Government has taken numerous measures to provide them financial assistance, food packages ration and other benefits,” the labour ministry said.Chowdhury further continued his attack on the Centre when he raised the issue of job losses. He said, “More than 2 crores salaried employees have lost their job. 14 lakh workers have no work now. How can we expect growth in such a scenario.”DMK MP and former union minister Dayanidhi Maran also urged the government to take into consideration suggestions from opposition leaders and industry representatives regarding the economic recovery post Covid-19. Maran urged the finance minister to release information about the current economic crisis. He said, “I urge the government and especially the Finance Minister to release a white paper on existing economic crisis & to adopt a consultative approach with the opposition parties, state govts & industry representatives to boost confidence in the economy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-data-govt-congress-adhir-dmk-s-maran-ask-centre-to-address-economic-woes/story-iqKZKUZA9DWd45gdimtBTL.html
18-09-2020||India||Onion prices fall in Bengal as exporters divert Bangladesh-bound trucks to local markets||With the Centre imposing a ban on the export of onions in the wake of a steep price rise across states, especially that of the Nasik variety, many exporters have started diverting trucks headed for the Bangladesh border to the wholesale markets of West Bengal. As a result, retail prices on Friday came down from Rs 40 to 35 in Kolkata and from Rs 35 to 28 in Siliguri, north Bengal’s biggest town. Uzzal Saha, general secretary, West Bengal Exporters’ Coordination Committee, said, “Hundreds of trucks, loaded with onions meant for Bangladesh, are stranded for five days at the state’s six land ports in Malda, North Dinajpur, Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri and North 24 Parganas districts. On an average a truck carries 25 metric tonnes of onion. The sacks lying at the bottom of the piles have started to rot. We fear that 10 per cent of the total consignment might be lost.” On September 14, the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) under the Union ministry of commerce and industry issued a notification, stopping export of onion to foreign countries. “On September 15 we wrote a letter to the DGFT, saying exporters are having difficulty executing the order since many consignments are sent against letters of credit issued by banks of the importing countries. It is difficult to divert these consignments to local markets as that would be breach of commitment,” said Saha. “We have requested the government to at least allow those trucks that reached the border before September 14 to leave the country,” said Saha. Rabindranath Koley, member of the West Bengal government’s task force on essential commodities, which is monitoring the price rise, said, “Consignments not issued against a letter of credit are being diverted to local wholesale markets by the exporters. This has brought down the prices. I went to a Kolkata market today and bought onions for Rs 35 a kilo. The price was Rs 40 earlier this week.” “Wholesale price used to be Rs 1200 a sack. That has come down to Rs 1100,” added Koley. In Siliguri, the town’s regulated market is the biggest in the region. Ram Avtar Prasad, an onion wholesaler, said, “Retail prices ranged between Rs 33 and 35 a week ago. Now it is varying between Rs 28 and 30.” “This has happened because after the ban on export was announced, several exports in Nasik, Indore and other big markets diverted their truck that had already reached Bengal to the local markets,” added Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onion-prices-fall-in-bengal-as-exporters-divert-bangladesh-bound-trucks-to-local-markets/story-gSedr0zZcmh9LFRWQqd56I.html
18-09-2020||India||India talking to Russia for possible advancement of Sputnik V here, says health ministry||The Centre is in consultations with the Russian government for exploring the possibility of getting Russian vaccine Sputnik V early, Parliament was told on Friday. Minister of state for health Ashwini Choubey informed the Lok Sabha that the department of biotechnology is engaging in talks with the Russian government for Covid-19 vaccine in India. “While the government and Industry are trying their best to make available a safe and effective vaccine for COVID-19 at the earliest, it is difficult to comment on the exact timelines in view of various complex pathways involved in vaccine development,” the minister said, detailing the progress the ongoing vaccine trials in India have made.Also Read | 30 Covid-19 vaccine candidates under development, Govt informs Lok SabhaAbout 30 COVID-19 vaccine candidates are under various stages of development, the minister said. If the advanced clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccine succeed, then an effective vaccination is likely to be available by the end of first quarter of 2021, the minister added.Also Read | A look at the state of the vaccine raceElaborating on the steps taken by the government for timely availability of Covid-19 drugs and vaccination, Choubey informed that CDSCO has approved the manufacturing and marketing of three drugs — Remdesivir Injectable formulations, Favipiravir tablets, Itolizumab injection — for restricted emergency use in the country for treatment of coronavirus infection.Meanwhile, Russia’s R-Pharm on Friday announced the approval of coronavir for outpatient treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 coronavirus infection.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-talking-to-russia-for-possible-advancement-of-sputnik-v-here-says-health-ministry/story-6q2OGvFnrSHUw6U0Hwya6N.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Ensure supply of oxygen is not restricted’: Home ministry to states||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Friday asked all states and union territories to ensure free movement of vehicles carrying oxygen as it is an essential public health commodity and an important pre-requisite for managing moderate and severe Covid-19 cases. In a letter to the chief secretaries of all the states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said that it has come to the notice of the ministry that some states are trying to curb inter-state movement of oxygen supplies from manufacturing units situated in their respective areas by exercising provisions of The Epidemic Disease Act, The Disaster Management Act, The Essential Commodities Act or any state/Union Territory specific Essential Services Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He added that some states are also mandating the manufacturers/suppliers located in the state to restrict their oxygen supplies to the hospitals of the state, he said. “As you are aware, availability of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen is an important pre-requisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid- 19. With increasing number of active cases, the consumption of oxygen is also expected to increase,” Bhalla said in his letter, adding – “It is emphasised that medical oxygen is an essential public health commodity and any impediment in the supply of medical oxygen in the country may critically impact the management of patients suffering from Covid-19 in other parts of the country.” The home secretary said that states/UTs should make sure there are “no such restrictions imposed on the movement of medical oxygen between states and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free inter-state movement of oxygen carrying vehicles”. “No restrictions shall be imposed on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the oxygen supplies only to the hospitals of the state in which they are located and there shall be free movement of oxygen carrying vehicles into the cities, without any restriction of timings, while also enabling inter-city supply without restriction,” the letter added. The MHA also asked the state governments that they may constitute multi-disciplinary teams, comprising representatives of the health, industry, transport and other related departments, to continuously monitor the availability of medical oxygen in their respective jurisdictions. “Any shortfalls or related problems that are encountered in this regard, should be immediately brought to the notice of the Central Control Room that has been established in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW),” he said. The home secretary also referred to the Unlock-4 guidelines where it was clearly mentioned that the lockdown is limited to the Covid-19 containment zones and all activities are permitted outside the containment zone except a few prohibited activities. “Further, there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-supply-of-oxygen-is-not-restricted-home-ministry-to-states/story-GBIxkffdYwQZtSAtfHMHJL.html
18-09-2020||India||Why western UP farmers are silent on Centre’s new farm bills||Western Uttar Pradesh, from where several farm protests originated, is relatively silent on the three controversial farm bills that have angered farmers in Punjab and Haryana.The reason farm leaders gave was that unlike Punjab and Haryana, the network of fruit and vegetable markets is not so strong in western Uttar Pradesh and impact of the farm reform laws would be much less in a primarily sugarcane growing region of the country.“Most of the crops in western UP are bought by mills and therefore, the role of markets is limited. Therefore, farmers here, unlike Punjab and Haryana, are much affected by the changes being made in the farm laws,” said Naresh Takait, vice-president of Bharatiya Kisan Union.The Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Acts regulates the fruit and vegetable markets in the country.Most farmers here grow sugarcane, the region’s cash crop. Paddy and wheat is also grown in some areas. “Entire sugarcane crop is sold directly to the mills. The cane prices are controlled by the government. Paddy is also bought mostly by the private players,” he said.Another BKU leader, Rakesh Takait, said, “The farmers’ agitation against the three agriculture laws is largely confined to Punjab and Haryana so far. This is because commission agents and markets have a strong network in the two states and they feel abolition of the market system will affect them the most,” he said.Farmers in Haryana and Punjab are up in arms against the three ordinances promulgated by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government on June 5 to reform the agriculture sector. On Thursday, Shiromani Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur, minister of food processing industries, resigned from the Union cabinet in support of agitating farmers.The BKU, which is heading the protest in Punjab, is not against the laws but wants certain amendments to secure farmers’ interests.“First, there should be a provision binding private traders not to buy farmers’ produce below the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government. Second, a maximum storage limit of food grains by traders must be fixed and third the mandi tax should be abolished for farmers,” Rakesh said, adding that farmers were earlier also allowed to sell produce outside mandis.To express solidarity with farmers in Punjab and Haryana, farmers would soon hit roads.“But we are starting the agitation in UP as well with protests at all the district headquarters in the state on September 23,” Rakesh said. The opposition parties are also opposing the law.The Samajwadi Party (SP), the principal opposition party in the state, has not made up its mind on protests on the issue.“We have been opposed to the ordinances since day one because these laws, we feel, are anti-farmer and pro-corporate,” SP spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said. When asked if the party had any plan for protests, he said, “Our leader Akhilesh Yadav will take a call on the issue of agitation.”RLD general secretary Anil Dubey said the bills were anti-farmer and demanded the government withdraw them, though he said there was no plan as of now for statewide protests.“The party has organised some demonstrations in western UP,” he said.“Experts had been advocating agriculture market reforms for years together and the new agriculture laws in this regard are a welcome step. Their positive impact will be visible after two years or so,” said AK Singh, an economist and former director of Giri Institute of Developmental Studies.Ordinances challengedThe Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court, in the meantime, has issued a notice to the Centre and the UP government asking them to file an affidavit to a writ petition filed challenging the Constitutional validity of “The Farmers’ Produce and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020”.The two-member bench comprising Justice Pankaj Kumar Jaiswal and Justice Dinesh Kumar, in an order passed on August 26, gave six weeks’ time to file the affidavit.In their writ, filed through counsel Madhav Chaturvedi, petitioners Ashok Kumar and Satyanarayan Tripathi, both residents of Etawah, pleaded that the said ordinance was unconstitutional and hence urged the court to quash the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-western-up-farmers-are-silent-on-centre-s-new-farm-bills/story-c7eczjL9TIsRze0uldm3vO.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Members rarely met’: Smriti Irani on Centre scrapping Handloom Board||he All India Handloom Board rarely met and was thus disbanded, said Union minister for textiles Smriti Irani on Friday in Parliament, adding that it also did not contribute to policy formulation. The minister said the decision to disband the board was taken based after a thorough review of its functioning.“The assessment revealed that weavers from across the Nation did not benefit from the Board which barely met, and did not take weavers across all states into confidence. There was no contribution from the Board as regards policy formulation and its implementation,” Irani said in a written reply.“On the other hand, the Weavers’ Service Centres and the State Handloom departments have been working well in good coordination through interactions on policy, implementation of Government schemes, educating weavers about online marketing platforms including efforts to onboard weavers on Government e-marketplace (GeM), and addressing the problems of handloom weavers through Chaupals,” she added.The Textile Ministry decided to scrap the All India Handloom Board with effect from July 27 and the Handicrafts Board on August 3 to “ensure a leaner government machinery”, sparking controversy after the Central government ran a massive social media campaign celebrating National Handloom Day on August 7. Craft activist and one of the founders of Dastkar, a society for craftspeople, Laila Tyabji took to Facebook to talk about the board, which gave a chance to artisans to directly engage with government policy. “All these years on, it remained the one official forum, however watered down, where the voices and views of weavers and craftspeople could be expressed directly. One place where representatives of the sector were present in considerable numbers, and were actually empowered to advise the government in policy and sectoral spending,” Tyabji said. According to a gazette notification issued by the ministry and accessed by Hindustan Times, the Boards were scrapped ‘in consonance with the Government of India vision of ‘Minimum Government and Maximum Governance’. “A leaner Government Machinery and the need for systematic rationalization of Government bodies, the Government of India has abolished All India Handloom Board with effect from the date of issue of this resolution,” states the notification. Officials in the ministry said that this was just the first step in a massive churn-taking place to reduce the expenditure of the ministry and get rid of redundant boards and organizational units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/members-rarely-met-smriti-irani-on-centre-scrapping-handloom-board/story-i201XSsTAPbMQfikn65XMJ.html
18-09-2020||India||Jagan Reddy govt hikes petrol, diesel prices by Re 1 per litre||The YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government on Friday announced an increase in the prices of petrol and diesel by Re 1 per litre in the name of road cess, a move aimed at shoring up the state’s finances hit by the Covid pandemic.An ordinance seeking to amend the APVAT Act, 2005, was promulgated by state governor Biswabhushan Harichandan in the evening, providing for levy and collection of a road development cess of one rupee per litre on petrol and diesel.According to special chief secretary (revenue) Rajat Bhargava, the economic activity has come to a halt in the state ever since lockdown was imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic, affecting the revenues of the State during the months of April, May, June and July. In April, the revenue realised in the state was only Rs 1,323 crore as against Rs 4,480 crore in April 2019 which accounts for only 29.5% of the total expected revenue. Similar trends were observed for the months of May, June, July and August also, he said.Besides the fall in revenues, the Government of India has also not released the GST compensation for the year 2020-21 so far. While the stress on revenues from all sources continued, there is steep increase in the expenditure relating to the health services for combating Covid-19 pandemic. Furthermore, the government is also implementing several schemes for the welfare of people from downtrodden sections. “The twin impact of fall in revenues and enhanced expenditure on health services and welfare schemes has impacted the capital expenditure on infrastructure development,” Bhargava said.Taking all the factors into consideration and keeping in view the necessity of allocating dedicated funds to the road development in the state, the state government has decided to levy “Road Development Cess” of Re 1 per litre on petrol and diesel in addition to the existing levies on the two products in public interest, the official said.“The proceeds of the Road Development Cess which will be around Rs 500 crore per annum shall be transferred to the Andhra Pradesh Road Development Corporation for exclusive use in developing road infrastructure,” he added.Last week, the Jagan government increased the VAT on natural gas from 14.5 per cent to 24.5 per cent. Earlier in July, it increased the cess on petrol from Rs 2.76 to Rs 4 (an increase of Rs 1.24 per litre), apart from VAT of 31% and on diesel from Rs 3.07 to Rs 4 (an increase of 93 paisa per litre), apart from a VAT pf 22.25%, stating that the state’s own revenues had dried up due to Covid-19 pandemic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-govt-hikes-petrol-diesel-prices-by-re-1-per-litre/story-mGtUU7Ij7263ZaEDKjsrOM.html
18-09-2020||India||Top govt panel reviews Ladakh situation, preps for 6th round of military talks||A high-powered government panel on China on Friday reviewed the latest developments in the eastern Ladakh theatre, with focus on charting out the course of future negotiations to restore status quo ante of mid-April along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the developments said. The officials said the agenda for the next of round military talks between Indian and Chinese corps commander-ranked officers - expected to take place shortly - was discussed at the high-level meeting attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, national security adviser Ajit Doval, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane and other top officials. The meeting took place a day after Singh told Parliament that no force in the world can stop the Indian Army from patrolling borders, signalling a resolve to regain access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along the LAC. While the date is yet to be finalised, the corps commander-ranked officers could meet in the next few days to take the military talks forward, the officials said. The situation in Ladakh remains tense after a series of recent maneuvers by the two armies in the Pangong Tso area. Corps commander-ranked officers have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock. The upcoming meeting will be their first meeting after the Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied key heights to prevent the People’s Liberation Army from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. The Indian Army controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other. “The recent developments have increased India’s bargaining power as there will definitely be an element of quid pro quo in the talks,” the officials said. In tensions that began in mid-May, Indian and Chinese troops have come face-to-face at multiple points along the de-facto border, known as the LAC. In some of these areas, particularly the Finger Area and Depsang in Ladakh, Indian forces have been cut off from reaching areas they could previously patrol. “No force in the world can stop Indian jawans from patrolling. If our soldiers have made sacrifices, it is for this reason that they have laid down their lives,” Singh told Rajya Sabha on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-govt-panel-reviews-ladakh-situation-preps-for-6th-round-of-military-talks/story-sf4sAFsJHdZJ98k3maNROK.html
18-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: DRI official injured after being shot by gold smugglers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DRI official critically hurt after he was shot by gold smugglers, 5.5 kg of gold seizedA Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) official was critically injured after he was shot by gold smugglers in Jodhpur on Friday morning, officials said. Read moreED attaches three hotels worth Rs 100 crore in PMC Bank fraudThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached three hotels in Delhi worth Rs 100 crore in connection with its money laundering probe in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) bank fraud, officials familiar with the development said. Read moreEsha Gupta makes fans’ jaws drop in awe as she pulls off Upavistha Konasana neatly in latest fitness pictureEncouraging fans to prioritise health and fitness with her regular Yoga posts on social media throughout COVID-19 quarantine, actor Esha Gupta made jaws drop as she neatly pulled off Upavistha Konasana this Friday. Giving netizens the right workout boost ahead of the weekend, Esha flaunted pulling off the Yoga asana effortlessly in her latest fitness picture. Read moreDolly Kitty Aur Woh Chamakte Sitare movie review: Bhumi Pednekar, Konkana Sen Sharma are in search of their shining starsAfter battling the world for Lipstick Under My Burkha, Alankrita Shrivastava got a relatively easier release for Dolly Kitty Aur Chamkakte Sitare. After a big debut at the Busan International Film Festival last year, the film was to arrive in Indian movie theatres this year. But a pandemic later, Dolly and Kitty’s stars have descended upon our Netflix accounts. Good for us because of all things, Dolly Kitty Aur Chamkakte Sitare is not worth catching the coronavirus for. Read moreThis tweet may remind you of your grandma for the sweetest reasonGrandparents play a really huge and beautiful role in a kid’s life, especially their growing up years. From showering us with love to protecting us from mom and dad’s scolding to advocating for an extra hour of playtime for us to spoiling us with our favourite things to eat, grandparents pamper their grandkids in every way possible. Read moreIPL 2020: Mumbai Indians vs Chennai Super Kings rivalry – All you need to knowWhen it comes to IPL rivalries, nothing tops the one shared by Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings. The two most successful IPL franchises have made for some wonderful one-on-one contests from the very first edition of the IPL 12 years ago.  Read moreWatch: BJP’s Nehru-Gandhi jibe Vs Congress’ ‘Himachal ka chokra’ counterA huge ruckus broke out in Lok Sabha after MoS Finance Anurag Thakur attacked Nehru and Sonia Gandhi during a discussion on PM CARES fund. Defending the fund, Thakur slammed the opposition’s constant attempts to question PM CARES fund and said that the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund created by then Prime Minister Nehru had not even been registered till now. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-dri-official-injured-after-shot-by-gold-smugglers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Q6STH2Acr1P6M8aedwu0xJ.html
18-09-2020||India||India, Japan looking at working together in Bangladesh and Myanmar: Jaishankar||India and Japan are looking at the possibility of cooperating on projects in Bangladesh and Myanmar as part of their efforts to work together in third countries, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. The India-Japan Act East Forum, which focuses on specific projects to modernise India’s northeastern region, also has a larger significance for connectivity with Bangladesh and Myanmar, Jaishankar said during a virtual event to mark the release of a report on the theme “India-Japan: Time to seize the opportunities”. The recent signing of the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA), which covers the reciprocal provision of supplies and services by the defence forces of India and Japan, will enhance stability and security across Asia, he said. The minister’s remarks assume significance against the backdrop of efforts by several countries, including India, Australia and Japan, to forge new partnerships with countries across the Indo-Pacific in the face of China’s growing aggressive and assertive activities. India and Japan, Jaishankar noted, had moved from discussions to practically working together in third countries. “We’ve done a little bit of that in Sri Lanka and I think we’re today trying to see whether we can cooperate and coordinate more closely in Bangladesh and Myanmar,” he said. While noting that India and Japan were already working closely within the framework of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), East Asia Summit and the Quadrilateral dialogue, he suggested that they could also cooperate in Russia’s Far East and the Pacific Island countries. Jaishankar described ACSA, which was signed last week, as “a very practical manifestation of our ability and intent of working together”. He added, “I’m very confident that it would both be a big plus for the evolution of the Indo-Pacific vision of both countries [and add] to the stability and security of Asia.” Both countries are trying to shape the Indo-Pacific narrative to reflect the rebalancing of the world and Asia and bilateral defence and security cooperation has “progressed remarkably fast”, he remarked, adding that Japan is the only country with which India has both an annual summit and a 2+2 dialogue between the defence and foreign ministers. The Covid-19 pandemic has expanded national security to include health security along with economic and supply chain security, as well as the concept of strategic autonomy in terms of supply chains, and this could be a new area of cooperation with Japan, he suggested. While replying to a question at the event organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Jaishankar said, without naming China, that it is important for all players to work together to ensure Asia’s rise. “If we are to give to Asia a more prominent place in world politics, then it’s important for all the nations of Asia, especially the large and important nations,...to get along together because if they spend their energies not in a positive manner but kind of contesting each other, they’re not going to advance the interests of Asia,” he said. Toshihide Ando, the deputy chief of the Japanese mission, told the event that Japan is a steadfast partner for both the “Make in India” and “Make for the world” initiatives. He added, “India will become stronger by playing a pivotal role in global supply chains through enhanced trade and investment.” Japanese businesses are keen to play a bigger role in India’s new quest to be the hub of global supply chains, and the number of Japanese firms operating in India increased to 1,454 last year, he noted. However, Ando also listed challenges faced by Japanese businesses in India, including complicated legal and tax systems, late payments, difficult labour issues, inadequate infrastructure, and problems linked to enforcement of contracts. “In an increasingly uncertain world, Japan and India can bring about an assurance of peace, stability and prosperity by working with other like-minded countries,” Ando said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-looking-at-working-together-in-bangladesh-and-myanmar-jaishankar/story-oMBX03xb696RNvZDtsoXiP.html
18-09-2020||India||DRI official critically hurt after he was shot by gold smugglers, 5.5 kg of gold seized||A Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) official was critically injured after he was shot by gold smugglers in Jodhpur on Friday morning, officials said. The federal agency recovered 5.5 kg gold worth Rs 2.75 crore from the car that the smugglers were travelling in and later 200 kg of unaccounted silver from the premises of a Jodhpur-based financier. In a statement issued on Friday evening, DRI said that “acting on specific intelligence, the officers of DRI Jodhpur intercepted a vehicle at Kharia Meethapur on the Jaipur-Jodhpur highway (near Balari), suspected to be carrying smuggled gold of foreign origin, in the early hours of September 18”. On being apprehended by the DRI team, one of the three occupants of the intercepted Innova SUV, opened fire without any provocation in which one of the team members was critically injured and had to be rushed to the hospital, the agency said. “The rummaging of the intercepted vehicle led to the recovery of about 5.5 kgs of smuggled foreign-origin gold having market value of approximately Rs 2.75 crore. The smuggled gold was found concealed in a specially made cavity under the passengers’ seats and was being transported from Jaipur to Jodhpur,” the DRI said. The agency added that “In the follow up search at the residence of the Jodhpur-based key financer of the smuggled gold, around 200 kg of unaccounted for silver bars were also recovered”. The agency refused to share further details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dri-official-critically-hurt-after-he-was-shot-by-gold-smugglers-5-5-kg-of-gold-seized/story-g05O5ghNIT71yefCfJE73K.html
18-09-2020||India||30 Covid-19 vaccine candidates under development, Govt informs Lok Sabha||A day after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said in Parliament that a Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be available by the beginning of the next year, the health ministry on Friday detailed the trials going on at present. About 30 Covid-19 vaccines are being developed. Three among them are at a very advanced stage, the ministry said. Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine: These seven firms in India have license for vaccine manufactureHere are the detailsBharat Biotech: An inactivated whole virion candidate vaccine for SARS-CoV-2 has been developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd, using the virus isolate (NIV-2020-770) provided by ICMR-National Institute of Virology. Safety and tolerability studies in small animals like rats, mice and rabbits have been done. Results: Phase 1 clinical trials along with parallel studies in hamsters and rhesus macaques have been completed. The trial has revealed excellent safety of the candidate vaccine. Immunogenicity testing is in progress, the statement said.Phase 2 clinical trials are goingCadilla Healthcare:A DNA vaccine has been developed. Pre-clinical toxicity studies were conducted in mice, rats, rabbits and guinea pigs. “The vaccine has been found to be safe and immunogenic,” the statement said.Results: Phase 1 clinical trials have been completed. The trial has revealed excellent safety of the candidate vaccine. Immunogenicity testing is in progress, the ministry said.Phase 2 clinical trials are ongoingSerum Institute of IndiaSII and ICMR have partnered for the clinical development of two global vaccines. Oxford vaccine is undergoing phase 3 clinical trials in Brazil. Phase 2 and 3 bridging studies have been initiated by ICMR at 14 clinical trial sites, the ministry said.ICMR and SII have partnered for the clinical development of a “glycoprotein sub-unit nanoparticle adjuvanted vaccine”, developed by Novavax from the USA. “The trial will be initiated in the second half of October after the vaccine is manufactured by SII,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-under-development-govt-informs-lok-sabha/story-y41rjZvACGCJFsx24YQAQM.html
18-09-2020||India||Suspension on Air India Express flights to Dubai withdrawn||The suspension on Air India Express flights to Dubai was on Friday withdrawn hours after it was suspended till October 2 for flying infected passengers. Attention Passengers from/to Dubai!All Air India Express flights from/to Dubai will operate as per original schedule w.e.f tomorrow, September 19,2020.@HardeepSPuri @MoCA_GoI @cgidubaiEarlier, the flights were temporarily barred because a passenger on a recent Jaipur-Dubai flight operated by Air India Express, the low-cost airline of the national carrier Air India, was found to be Covid-19 positive by the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) authorities. This was the second time the airline flew an infected passenger.The DCAA had sent a notice to Air India Express. The notice stated that the flight IX1135 operated by the airline from Jaipur to Dubai International Airport (DIA), had a passenger on board, who had contracted SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19.“You are aware of our previous intimation made to you by our letter dated September 2 for boarding a passenger with a Covid-19 positive test result, who endangered the other passengers on board and also caused a serious health risk.Boarding a passenger with Covid-19 positive test result for the second time is contrary to and is in violation of the laid-down procedures and protocols relating to air travel to and from airports in the Emirate of Dubai during the pandemic,” stated the notice.The notice had led to the temporary suspension of all Air India Express flights to Dubai for the next 15 days.Airline officials said that the ground handling agencies concerned have taken appropriate punitive action against their employees who have been held accountable for the lapse at Delhi and Jaipur.An airline official said, “Prior to the receipt of the notice, the airline submitted a letter to the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority expressing our apologies and detailing the various actions taken by us in association with the ground handling agents concerned to guard against such a lapse in the future. In order to decrease the inconvenience that may be caused to passengers booked to fly to Dubai, the airline has introduced additional flights to Sharjah to accommodate the affected passengers. The affected passengers who have booked to fly to Dubai are also being given the option to re-book to a future date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-on-air-india-express-flights-to-dubai-withdrawn/story-WTrizu7qjErM3oVEEbLnKN.html
18-09-2020||India||ED attaches three hotels worth Rs 100 crore in PMC Bank fraud||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached three hotels in Delhi worth Rs 100 crore in connection with its money laundering probe in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) bank fraud, officials familiar with the development said. The agency has so far attached unmortgaged properties worth around Rs 360 crore in the scam belonging to the promoters of HDIL - Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan, officials said. The PMC Bank scam, which came to light last year, is a unique case when it comes to money laundering investigations as the ED has for the first time not touched properties which are free of any encumbrance or are mortgaged with the bank. This was done in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, which had taken control of PMC Bank in September last year over concerns expressed by thousands of depositors. ED had given a no-objection certificate (NOC) in November 2019 for the bank to recover the money from HDIL’s mortgaged properties, said an officer cited above. Among the assets attached on Friday include - Hotel Conclave Boutique at A-20, Kailash Colony; Hotel Conclave Comfort at D-150, East of Kailash and Hotel Conclave Executive at C-22, Kalkaji, which are allegedly owned by Libra Realtors Pvt Ltd, M/s Deewan Realtors Pvt Ltd, Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Romy Mehra, and M/s Libra Hotels Pvt Ltd and its Directors; companies linked to HDIL, according to the second ED officer. The second officer said that three hotels are now known as Fab Hotels.The anti-money laundering probe agency also said in a statement on Friday that “investigation revealed that proceeds of crime totaling Rs 247 crore were obtained fraudulently by M/s Libra Realtors Pvt Ltd, M/s Deewan Realtors Pvt from PMC Bank in the guise of loans. These loans are part of the Rs 6117 crore owed by HDIL group of Companies to PMC Bank”. The ED had initiated a probe under prevention of money laundering act (PMLA) in the case in October last year against Housing Development Infrastructures Ltd (HDIL), its promoters Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Sarang Wadhawan, bank’s chairman Waryam Singh and then Managing Director Joy Thomas and others on the basis of a FIR by Economic Offences Wing of Mumbai Police. The ED has found that Wadhawans have laundered more than Rs 2500 crore out of a total around Rs 6600 crore that the company - HDIL - had taken from PMC Bank between 2007 and 2013. Earlier, assets belonging to accused Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan and Wadhawan Family trust totalling to Rs 193 crore were also attached and jewellery worth 63 crore was seized. Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan and his son Sarang Wadhawan were arrested by ED on October 17, 2019 and they are presently in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-attaches-three-hotels-worth-rs-100-crore-in-pmc-bank-fraud/story-A6UuRwYXZqIPywDp8JrYcL.html
18-09-2020||India||Anil Dhasmana is new chief of NTRO, spy agency that keeps an eye from the sky||Former Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) chief Anil Dhasmana has been appointed as National Technical Research Organisation, India’s technical body that is responsible for geospatial intelligence and satellite imagery.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has cleared the appointment and the decision was formally conveyed to the retired Indian Police Service officer on Friday.Dhasmana succeeds former Intelligence Bureau officer Satish Jha who demitted office on Thursday.Dhasmana, a 1981 batch Indian Police Service officer, is a Pakistan expert and was the lead planner of the Balakot air strikes in February 2019 after Pakistan-backed terrorists killed 40 CRPF soldiers in the Pulwama car bombing.Dhasmana had stepped down a few months later when his extended term due to the general elections ended in June 2019.The top police officer returns to the center of action 14 months later at a time the NTRO is playing a crucial role, tracking movements of the China’s People’s Liberation Army near the many friction points along the Line of Actual Control that have seen heavy deployment of soldiers and support elements from both sides. The two countries have been speaking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the stand-off but there are some indications that the stand-off would continue for some time.Dhasmana had joined R&AW, India’s external spy agency in 1993 from his parent cadre Madhya Pradesh and had worked extensively with the agency’s Pakistan desk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-dhasmana-is-new-chief-of-ntro-spy-agency-that-keeps-an-eye-from-the-sky/story-rTvVl6VH7NG3pukNyXUExH.html
18-09-2020||India||SC asks Zakat if it will intervene in Sudarshan TV case as channel alleges terror-linked funding||The Supreme Court Friday asked Zakat Foundation, an NGO which provides training to largely Muslims students aspiring for civil services, whether it wanted to intervene in the Sudarshan TV case following allegations of foreign funding from some terror linked organizations to its Indian set up. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph told senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for the Zakat Foundation, that the affidavit of Sudarshan TV has allegations of foreign funding against his client. Hegde said his client is a charitable organization and has been supporting non-Muslims as well and this kind of social service is not known even in government circles. The bench told Hegde that some Foreign Contribution Regulations Act (FCRA) records with regard to foreign funding have been filed by the TV channel and it is upon his client to intervene in the matter or not. Hegde said Zakat foundation does not conduct any residential programmes and only pays the fees of the IAS coaching classes. The top court was hearing a plea which has raised a grievance over Sudarshan TVs ‘Bindas Bol’ programme with the channel promo claiming it would show the ‘big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service’. In its affidavit filed by Sudarshan TV through its Editor in-Chief, the channel has said: “The Answering Respondent (Suresh Chavhanke) has used the words “UPSC Jehad” because it has come to the knowledge... through various sources that Zakat Foundation has received funds from various terror-linked organizations.   “It is not that all contributors to the Zakat Foundation are terror-linked. However, some of the contributors are linked to organizations or are organizations that fund extremist groups. The funds received by the Zakat Foundation, in turn, are used to support aspirants for IAS, IPS or UPSC,” it had said. The affidavit had further said when it comes to light through various sources that funds contributed by tainted organizations are being used to facilitate people joining UPSC, there is a serious issue requiring public debate, discussion and scrutiny... “There is no statement or message in the four episodes broadcast that members of a particular community should not join UPSC. UPSC is an open competitive examination and members of every community may participate in the entrance examination and qualify..,” the journalist said in his 91-page affidavit. In the response to the plea filed by lawyer Firoz Iqbal Khan, seeking banning of the programmes, the channel said the thrust of its episodes was that there appeared to be a conspiracy which needed “to be investigated by NIA or CBI” as the “terror linked organizations” were apparently funding the Foundation in India, which in turn has been supporting Muslim UPSC aspirants. Earlier, in the day, the channel, which is facing legal proceedings in the top court, has moved an application seeking live telecast of hearing of the plea.   It had on September 15, restrained the channel from telecasting the episodes of ‘Bindas Bol’ till further orders saying that “the intent” of the episodes “prima facie” appeared to “vilify” the Muslim community. The application filed by Sudarshan News through its Director and editor Suresh Chavhanke said, “It is respectfully submitted that present case is one of the most important cases concerning the public at large as the question of freedom of press protected by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India is involved.”   It said that lakhs and crores of viewers of the channel wants to know about the legal proceedings conducted before this Court and they want to hear the points of arguments being raised by the parties. “Direct for Live of the Proceedings of this case through audio-visual broadcasting/telecasting universally by an official agency as the court may deem fit and proper,” the application said. The hearing in the matter is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-zakat-if-it-will-intervene-in-sudarshan-tv-case-as-channel-alleges-terror-linked-funding/story-GcwwSf1ntQun0oXvdhFbNP.html
18-09-2020||India||KSRTC to operate buses to Maharashtra from September 22||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation on Friday said it will restart its operations to Maharashtra from September 22.In a statement, the KSRTC said it had stopped operation of inter-state bus services due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and lockdown.“As lockdown has been relaxed, KSRTC will restart the operations to Maharashtra State from September 22,” the statement said.The services will be operated from Bengaluru, Davangere, Mangaluru and various other places of the state keeping in view the density of passengers, the statement added. The KSRTC said it is mandatory for the passengers to wear masks.It said passengers can book tickets in advance online at www.ksrtc.in or through KSRTC/Franchisee advance reservation counters for the above services. Even before the lockdown was effected, the KSRTC had stopped its AC bus services to various states and gradually suspended the inter-state bus movement due to coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ksrtc-to-operate-buses-to-maharashtra-from-september-22/story-2P3H4uzVFBun0313jvnFAM.html
18-09-2020||India||Kept pleading with govt not to go ahead with farm bills: Harsimrat Kaur Badal||Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader who stepped down as the Union food processing minister on Thursday night, said on Friday that she kept pleading with the government not to go ahead with farm bills until all apprehensions and fears of farmers are cleared.“I kept on protesting ever since these ordinances were circulated for comments in the Cabinet. I was acting like a bridge between farmers and the government to clear all doubts and fears of farmers. I kept on pleading that the government should not bring these bills until all apprehensions and fears of farmers are cleared,” Badal told PTI in an interview.She said she feels saddened that her voice in support of farmers was not heard and demanded that the government should pause on these legislations by referring them to a parliamentary panel for wider consultations. “I left my mother in ICU in the hospital to fulfill my duty to attend Parliament debate on these three legislations and register my protest. Thereafter, I resigned in protest against these proposed legislations,” Badal said.She said there is no point in bringing these bills while presenting them as being in the interest of farmers when the farmers themselves have apprehensions about these measures. “I feel very saddened about the fact that my voice was not heard in the Cabinet and the government did not send it to a parliamentary select committee for consultations with all stakeholders including farmers. If my voice had been heard, farmers would not have come out on roads to protest,” she added.Badal resigned soon after her husband and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal strongly opposed the bills in Lok Sabha on Thursday night, claiming these proposed legislations will destroy the agriculture sector in Punjab, and announced that Harsimrat Kaur Badal will quit the government in protest against these three bills.Badal, who first became Union Minister for Food Processing in 2014 and retained the portfolio in the second term of the BJP-led NDA government starting 2019, said she kept on pleading with the government not to move ahead with these bills without taking farmers on board. SAD voted against the three bills -- Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, which were passed by voice vote in Lok Sabha. Congress and several other opposition parties are also opposing these bills, while SAD is the only NDA member to come out against these proposed legislations that seek to replace the ordinances already promulgated by the government.Emphasising that the government should not rush with these bills, Badal said it should be referred to a select committee of Parliament and all stakeholders should be consulted on these proposed legislations.On her resignation, Harsimrat said, “Please don’t see this as a resignation, as this was my duty as a representative of Punjab and of farmers.” On Punjab chief minister and Congress leader Amarinder Singh calling her resignation a ‘drama’, hitting back at him she said, “He himself is the biggest drama and the biggest liar.” “Amarinder Singh and Congress are doing double-speak. When these ordinances were planned, all chief ministers were consulted and he had concurred. Also, these three bills were part of the Congress party’s manifesto for the 2017 assembly elections manifesto and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” she added. Badal said Singh failed to fulfil all other promises made in the Congress party’s manifesto, barring this one and farmers in Punjab are now on roads and are paying the price for his misdeeds.Asked whether SAD would pull out of the NDA also, Badal said it was for the party to decide and a collective decision would be taken on that issue by all senior leaders together.Badal had also recalled this decades-old association between the two parties in her resignation letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. Describing her tenure as minister as ‘a remarkable and most memorable period of my life’, Badal said she was satisfied that the NDA-led government delivered on many critical and long-standing issues of the Sikh community, including justice for 1984 riots victims.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kept-pleading-with-govt-not-to-go-ahead-with-farm-bills-harsimrat-kaur-badal/story-q3Ukn1UgCxj40dKbNJOCTM.html
18-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: Hearing on bail plea of Samuel Miranda, Dipesh Sawant and Bashit Parihar adjourned by Bombay HC till Sept 29||Hearing on the bail plea of Samuel Miranda, Dipesh Sawant and Bashit Parihar — all arrested in the drug case related to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death — was adjourned by Bombay HC on Friday. The next hearing will be on September 29. Dipesh Sawant was Sushant’s personal assistant, Samuel Miranda is Rhea Chakraborty’s associate and Abdul Basit Parihar is an alleged drug peddler.A special court in Mumbai had last week rejected the bail plea of actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Dipesh Sawant, Samuel Miranda, Abdul Basit and Zaid Vilatra. However, Rhea and her brother have not moved a bail plea in the high court yet.The NCB had launched an investigation after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with Sushant’s death.The Bollywood actor was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14. ED had registered an Enforcement Case Information Report in the late actor’s death case on July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-hearing-on-bail-plea-of-samuel-miranda-dipesh-sawant-and-bashit-parihar-adjourned-by-bombay-hc-till-sept-29/story-4TRB6rFhiDWSissBaThkDI.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Didn’t want to hurt anybody’: Anurag Thakur regrets Nehru comment in Lok Sabha||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Friday expressed regret for his Nehru comment in the Lok Sabha, which led to a furore in the Lower House. “I had no intent to hurt the sentiments of anybody. Agar kisi ko thes pahunchi hai, to mujhe bhi is baat ki peeda hai,” Anurag Thakur said. Defending the PM-CARES fund, Thakur said, “PM-CARES Fund is a public charitable trust which has been set up for the people of India. You (Opposition) created trusts for Gandhi family. Nehru & Sonia Gandhi have been members of PM’s National Relief Fund. There should be a debate on this.”Also Read | Row over Anurag Thakur’s remark on Nehru-Gandhis, Lok Sabha adjourned“Opposing PM Cares Fund, just for the sake of it, is like they opposed EVMs and then lost many elections. They subsequently termed Jan Dhan, demonetisation, Triple Talaq and GST as bad. They find defect in everything, truth is their intention is defected,” the minister added.Drawing a parallel to Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund, the minister said, “Nehru ji ordered the creation of Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund in 1948 like a royal order but its registration has not been done even till today. How did it get FCRA clearance?”Anurag Thakur’s comment evoked sharp reaction from the Congress. “How did Nehru come into this debate? Did we take (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi’s name? Who is this boy from Himachal?” Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said. The Opposition raised ‘Goli maro mantri resign’ solgans inside the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/didn-t-want-to-hurt-anybody-anurag-thakur-regrets-nehru-comment-in-lok-sabha/story-gr3BN1Oe27tgOwp7u2xaSO.html
18-09-2020||India||Heavy rains affected crops like paddy, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables: Govt||Heavy rains in some parts of the country have affected standing crops including paddy, pulses, oilseeds, spices, fruits and vegetables, Parliament was informed on Friday. “There have been extreme weather events in the form of heavy rains in some parts of the country which affected the standing crops,” Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. Tomar also shared the state-wise details of crops affected due to heavy rains, as reported by the state governments. As much as 52,551.99 hectares in Andhra Pradesh have been affected. The impacted crops include banana, vegetables, betelvine, onion, papaya, flowers, yam, chillis and tomato. Assam has reported 1,90,176.73 hectares being impacted. Rice, maize, jute, pulses and vegetables have been affected. In Bihar, 9,22,038.82 hectares with paddy, maize, fruits and vegetables crops have been hit. Karnataka has reported 3,31,334.97 hectare area being affected. The impacted crops include paddy, cotton, redgram, greengram, soybean, blackgram, jowar, groundnut, maize sugarcane, ragi, bajra, foxtail millet, cowpea, sesamum, sunflower and tobacco. In Maharashtra, the impacted area covers 1,70,899 hectares with crops like groundnut, tur, cotton, jowar, turmeric, maize, sugarcane, soybean and vegetables. The Odisha government has reported that 2,21,262 hectares (paddy and horticulture crops) have been affected. In Telangana, 1,43,388.38 hectares area has been hit. The crops affected include paddy, cotton, redgram, greengram, soybean, blackgram, jowar, groundnut, maize, sugarcane, banana, guava, apple, oil palm, turmeric, chilly, papaya, drumstick, vegetables, flowers, and red chilli. Chhattisgarh has reported damage in 12,615 hectares area having soyabean and other crops. In Kerela, 4,754.09 hectares have been affected, with crops including coconut, cardamom, ginger, tuber crops, turmeric, cashew, rubber, pepper, tapioca, beetelvine, vegetables, arecanut, banana, coffee, pineapple and paddy. Tamil Nadu has reported 787.26 hectares of affected area having crops like paddy, maize, gingelly, groundnut, sugarcane, jowar/sorghum, pulses/green gram and coconut. In Punjab, 24,403 hectares, with cotton, paddy and other crops, have been hit, while in Arunachal Pradesh 6,864.76 hectares have been hit, damaging paddy, maize, millets, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables, fruits and plantation crops. Madhya Pradesh has reported crop loss in soyabean, maize, arhar, urad, moong and paddy. The Gujarat government has reported that crops in 14 districts have been affected but did not provide details of the area. In Himachal Pradesh, 35,340.90 hectares have been hit having maize, paddy, kharif pulses and vegetable crops. “The State Government is primarily responsible for taking necessary relief measures in the wake of natural calamities,” Tomar said. For undertaking relief measures, funds are available with the state government in the form of State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Additional financial assistance, over and above SDRF, is considered from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) for natural calamities of severe nature and is approved on the basis of memorandum received from the state government. “In order to insulate farmers against the loss of crop due to natural calamities, Government of India had launched Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) from April 2016,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-affected-crops-like-paddy-pulses-oilseeds-vegetables-govt/story-M48KYkheje8mGvwPDvDnHK.html
18-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha adjourned 4 times after row over Anurag Thakur’s remark on Nehru-Gandhis||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned four times in a row following a fierce war or words that broke out in the lower house between treasury and opposition members over remarks made by minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur on the Nehru-Gandhi family, leading to the first adjournment of the lower house during the monsoon session of Parliament.The house resumed at 6.00 pm after Speaker Om Birla’s appeal for ending the disruption in Parliament. He appealed to the members to maintain the dignity of the house. “It is my responsibility to protect all the members, I would request Mr. Anurag Thakur to say a few words on the objections raised by the other members,” Birla said. Following the speaker’s appeal Thakur expressed regret over his remarks. WATCH l BJP’s Nehru-Gandhi jibe Vs Congress’ ‘Himachal ka chokra’ counter “I had no intent to hurt the sentiments of anybody. If anyone is hurt then I regret it,” Thakur said. The proceedings of the lower house were adjourned four times in a row since 4.00 pm over the uproar followed by Thakur’s remarks. During a discussion on the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill in the lower house, Thakur accused the Nehru-Gandhi family of cheating the public through creation of various funds under different names after Congress leaders, including Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari criticised the PM CARES fund.The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, seeks to provide the same tax treatment to PM CARES Fund as available to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. “Nehru ji ordered the creation of the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund in 1948, like a royal order but its registration has not been done even till today. How did it get FCRA clearance?” Thakur said. From the high court to the Supreme Court, every court has validated the PM-CARES fund. Little children have contributed to it from their piggy banks. Nehru set up a fund that has not been registered till date. You (Congress) only made a trust for the benefit of the Gandhi family. You made Sonia Gandhi its chairman. It should be investigated,” he added. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also took a dig at the MoS calling him a “boy from Himachal”.“Who is this boy from Himachal”… “How did Nehru come into this debate? Did we take (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi’s name?” he lashed out.Irked by the remark, opposition members demanded an apology from the MoS. Some MPs of Congress also staged a walk out in protest against the remark. The Lok Sabha speaker adjourned the house and called for a meeting of floor leaders to resolve the disruption.Later, defence minister Rajnath Singh praised the speaker for having resolved the differences. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary said the speaker is respected by all members of the house. “We all should keep in mind that we have come together to attend the proceedings in adverse circumstances, we are here to dispense our responsibilities. None of the members have any complaint against you; we have confidence that you as a guardian will protect all the members. We all will run the House smoothly and protect its dignity, it is the responsibility of all Members,” Chowdhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-anurag-thakur-s-remark-on-nehru-gandhis-lok-sabha-adjourned/story-okDk7EqULzLmLcWAXLraRI.html
18-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: These seven firms in India have license for vaccine manufacture||The health ministry informed the Lok Sabha on Friday that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization has not received any report regarding any deviation from the standard procedures in research and development of Covid-19 vaccine. Health minister of state Ashwini Kumar Choubey informed the Lower House that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has granted test license permission for manufacture of Covid-19 vaccine for pre-clinical test, examination and analysis to seven firms.List of firms1. Serum Institute of India, Pune2. Cadila Healthcare Ltd, Ahmedabad3. Bharat Biotech International Ltd, Hyderabad4. Biological E Ltd, Hyderabad5. Reliance Life Sciences, Mumbai6. Aurobindo Pharma Limited, Hyderabad7. Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Limited, Pune On Thursday, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in the Rajya Sabha said while a vaccine could become available by the beginning of next year, it would still take time to reach everyone.“We hope that by the beginning of the next year we will get a vaccine. We are also coordinating with World Health Organization (WHO) and other bodies. We are among the few countries that have managed to isolate the virus. There are around 40,000 samples that are being studied,” the minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-these-seven-firms-in-india-have-license-for-vaccine-manufacture/story-C0hOec2BjlhtVFiFzCwdWK.html
18-09-2020||India||India exploring options to meet Bangladesh’s onion needs after formal protest from Dhaka||Indian authorities are exploring the option of allowing the movement of onion supplies already contracted for by Bangladeshi importers after Dhaka formally complained about the impact of New Delhi’s ban on exports of the commodity. Scores of trucks carrying onions destined for Bangladesh have been stopped at border crossings in West Bengal after the Directorate General of Foreign Trade banned all exports of the item on Monday following a shortage and sudden increase in prices in the domestic market. As prices spiked in Bangladesh after the ban, the foreign ministry in Dhaka formally complained to the Indian high commission through a note verbale or unsigned diplomatic correspondence on Tuesday, people familiar with developments said. The matter was also raised by the Bangladeshi mission in New Delhi, the people said on condition of anonymity. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, who made a previously unannounced visit to Bangladesh on August 18 to put bilateral ties back on track after they were hit by a string of irritants, has taken personal interest in the issue and is involved in efforts to find a solution, the people said. This had also been the first visit abroad amid the Covid-19 pandemic by Shringla, who was India’s envoy to Dhaka during 2016-19. “One option in the pipeline is allowing the shipment of all onion supplies that were contracted for by Bangladeshi importers before the ban came into effect. A solution is expected soon,” one of the people cited above said. This is the second time in less than a year that an Indian ban on onion exports has had an impact on Bangladesh and triggered a formal reaction from Dhaka. Bangladesh Prime Minister Shiekh Hasina formally raised the earlier ban during a visit to New Delhi last October and had jokingly told a public gathering that she had asked her cook to prepare her food without onions. She had also said the Indian side should give advance notice of such bans. The note verbale from Bangladesh’s foreign ministry expressed “deep concern” at the Indian ban as it “directly impacts the supply of essential food items in the Bangladesh market”. It noted that at a meeting of the commerce secretaries of the two sides during January 15-16, the “Bangladesh side requested the Indian side to consider not imposing export restriction on essential food items required by Bangladesh, and in case of any event necessitating such a restriction, it was requested that Bangladesh side be informed ahead of time”. The latest ban, the note verbale said, “undermines the discussions that took place in 2019 and 2020 between the two friendly countries on the matter and understanding shared”. Bangladesh called on India to resume onion exports in view of the “excellent ties of friendship and understanding enjoyed by the two countries”. The Bangladeshi side is concerned as the sudden ban triggered panic buying by the public and hoarding by unscrupulous traders, who bought available onion stocks and then artificially drove up prices, the people said. They pointed out the matter had caused embarrassment for the Sheikh Hasina government, with its opponents raising questions about the benefits derived from better ties with India. Bangladesh is largely able to meet its annual requirement of about 2.5 million tonnes of onions from domestic production but imports from India make up almost 90% of the shortfall. As it did last year, Bangladesh may turn to Turkey and Egypt to make up for the deficit in supplies. Foreign policy commentator Maya Mirchandani, who closely tracks the neighbourhood, said there could be domestic compulsions such as a shortage for the ban on onion exports but such moves need to done in a more calibrated manner. “While restricting exports, we should at least meet existing export commitments and then take care of future exports on a need-based approach. If we pride ourselves on a neighbourhood first policy, we should ensure there are no ruffled feathers with crucial neighbours such as Bangladesh,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-exploring-options-to-meet-bangladesh-s-onion-needs-after-formal-protest-from-dhaka/story-4gP9rokpXdkHrGgjQ8BWOM.html
18-09-2020||India||Telangana minister tweets state is fluorosis-free, cites Centre’s report||The Telangana government on Friday claimed that the state has become free of fluorosis, a bone-crippling disease, that has ruined thousands of lives over the decades due to contamination of water with high fluoride content.Quoting a report of the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation, tabled by the central government in Parliament on Thursday, Telangana municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao tweeted that Telangana, along with Gujarat and Uttarakhand, had been declared a fluorosis-free state with zero affected areas.“No of Fluoride affected villages at the time of formation of #Telangana was 967. After the successful implementation of the Mission Bhagiratha, the number has come down to Zero. This is an excerpt from an official statement in parliament by Govt of India,” the minister tweeted.Mission Bhagiratha is a flagship programme introduced in the state in 2015, aimed at providing piped safe potable drinking water to every household. Special focus was laid on providing safe drinking water to villages where the fluoride content in the water was high.Nalgonda in Telangana was the worst-affected district due to the disease that affects bones and teeth.Over one lakh people are suffering due to fluorosis in villages such as Munugode, Nampally, Marriguda and Devarakonda that have high fluoride content in water.The Indian Natural Resource Economic and Management (INREM) Foundation, which conducted a survey in the fluoride-affected villages of Nalgonda, declared this February that there had been no new cases of fluorosis in the district in the last six years.INREM director Dr Rajnarayan Indu said the intensity of the disease had come down due to supply of safe drinking water under Mission Bhagiratha. He suggested that focus should be laid now on setting up Fluoride Rehabilitation Centre in all Primary Health Centres (PHCs) of all fluoride-affected blocks.However, Fluorosis Vimochana Samithi, an NGO working in Nalgonda’s affected areas, said the problem still persisted in several villages.“Successive governments have taken measures such as setting up of reverse osmosis and mineral water bottling plants in some villages and installation of defluoridation plants. But what about the groundwater? It still contains a high quantity of fluoride that enters the body through food,” Samithi convenor Kanchukatla Subhash said.He pointed out that one can still notice several people with crippled limbs, twisted joints, bent spine, stunted growth and yellowish or brownish enamel on their teeth. “We don’t want symptomatic treatment for a chronic disease. We want a permanent solution,” Subhash said.Congress MLA from Munugode assembly constituency Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy said the credit for Telangana fluorosis-free state would go to the Congress and not the TRS. “During the Congress regime itself, systems were established for supply of Krishna water to all the affected villages. What the TRS government had done was only to take the water to the houses through pipes. Even this project is not complete,” he said.The permanent solution, according to Subhash, is to complete the Srisailam Left Bank Canal project, which will lift water from Srisailam reservoir, which would provide irrigation to three lakh acres of agricultural lands and drinking water to 516 villages, including the fluoride-hit villages of Nalgonda district.“The project, which began in 2005, has come to a halt. There is no sign of the project being completed in the near future,” Subhash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-minister-tweets-state-is-fluorosis-free-cites-centre-s-report/story-ULEIYC14VGhXZukiSbefCK.html
18-09-2020||India||Intel agencies to probe new Turkish NGO outreach in Kashmir: Official||Indian intelligence agencies have started running security checks on Turkey-linked charities that have suddenly become active in Jammu and Kashmir over the last year after President Recep Tayyip Erdogan delivered a strident speech at the United Nations General Assembly last year that mirrored Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s pitch on Kashmir, people familiar with the matter said.A national security planner said the intelligence probe also covers the role of individuals connected to the nonprofits with close links with Turkey and prepare a comprehensive report on their activities, overt and otherwise.A more intensive probe could be ordered later against identified groups and individuals that are believed to have crossed the red lines, he said. The second-level probe could include a hard look at the foreign funds received and its use.The move follows multiple reports from India’s intelligence community over the last few months that red flagged efforts to radicalise Indian Muslims in Kashmir and elsewhere in the country. Analysts had then pointed that Ankara’s attempt to expand its influence against the backdrop of President Erdogan’s pitch to challenge Saudi Arabia’s dominance in the Islamic world at a global level and offering a reshaped, conservative Turkey with Ottoman traditions as a model for Islamic nations to follow.The intel reports had also spotted a spike in the activities of Turkey-linked NGOs in Kashmir and elsewhere in the country, some of them linked to Turkey’s ruling Justice and Development Party (AK Party). The growth of their activities coincided with a change in the tenor and extent of reportage and analytical pieces on Kashmir in the Turkish media that reflect Pakistan’s viewpoint. Also, people having deep links with Kashmiri separatists are being used by Turkish national media to target India.An intelligence report recently submitted to the government has noted efforts by Turkey-linked NGOs to reach out to Kashmiris with assistance during Ramzan. Some others have been organising webinars and other events where topics such as the amended citizenship law, riots and hate crimes are discussed. An official said the narratives projected at these online interactions and on social media are provocative.“These are not discussions where different viewpoints are presented but are meant to reinforce fears around Islamophobia in India,” the official said.Islamophobia has been a recurring theme in Pakistan and Prime Minister Imran Khan’s offensive against the Indian government for about a year and had tried to weave a narrative around it in Gulf countries and other Islamic-majority countries.Erdogan was seen to be working on this narrative earlier this year when he lashed out at India for the Delhi riots. “India right now has become a country where massacres are widespread. What massacres? Massacres of Muslims. By who? Hindus,” Erdogan said in a speech in Ankara in February.India had then denounced his “irresponsible” statement that the external affairs ministry said was driven by his “political agenda”.“The comments are factually inaccurate and are driven by his political agenda. We do not expect such irresponsible statements from a Head of State,” the ministry had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intel-agencies-to-probe-new-turkish-ngo-outreach-in-kashmir-official/story-fFXlcpCyIVz9jF6bqB7GrO.html
18-09-2020||India||Monsoon misses north India in September, hits south and east hard||The monsoon appears to have missed north and north-west India as hot and humid conditions are expected to continue for the rest of September that is expected to be dry, weather experts said. They blamed the monsoon trough travelling from the Bay of Bengal towards the westerly direction instead of the usual north-westerly for this. The sultry conditions are likely to continue for another 10 to 13 days till the monsoon fully withdraws from the region without any rainfall, ushering pleasant autumn.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the rainfall deficit in northern India in September was up to 99%, highest for any region in the country. Southern states of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana received up to 50% excess rain during the same period. Chitradurga district in Karnataka got 245% excess rainfall.Kinnaur in Himachal, known for its apples, received 88% less rainfall. Uttar Pradesh’s western parts were almost dry with districts like Bulandshahr and Mathura recording 100% rain deficiency. New Delhi recorded 76% less rainfall and was the driest district in the national capital. Southern Haryana districts such as Gurugram and Faridabad recorded close to 90% less rainfall.Also Read: Monsoon withdrawal delayed by one week according to IMD“Only one trough was formed in the Bay of Bengal during this period and that also travelled towards the westerly direction bringing in some rain in West Bengal, Odisha and north-east India. ...north and north-west Delhi remained dry,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate and meteorology, Skymet Weather, a private forecaster.North and north-west India normally receives good monsoon rainfall due to oscillation of troughs getting their moisture feed from the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. With very less formation of troughs, the region witnessed westerly dry winds. This added to the humid conditions in the region, said an IMD scientist, who did not want to be named as he is not authorised to speak to media.The usually warmer weather with temperatures ranging from 32 degree Celsius in hills of Himachal and Uttarakhand to 39 degrees in Delhi, five to eight degrees above normal, has impacted horticulture.Also Read: Spike in severe cyclones, extremely heavy rain over India: Earth sciences ministry to RS“Because of the excessive heat, the colour of apple in my orchards turned almost yellow from red. No rain has resulted in leaf fall, turning the fruit, which looked good a month ago, into bad quality fruit. Nobody buys a small and pale red apple,” said Chander Mohan Justa, an orchardist in Shimla.Devendra Sharma, an agriculture expert, said the poor rainfall in the food bowl states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh could have some impact on the summer-sown kharif crop output. “Though the sowing was good because of good early monsoon rains, the dry patch in August and September has dampened the farmers’ mood,” he said.The areas along the western coast from Maharashtra to Kerala received 90 to 100% excess rain whereas most of the north-eastern states received up to 50% of rain than normal, the IMD data showed. Sindudurg in Maharashtra and Chitradurg (Karnataka) received up to 300% of the normal rainfall between September 1 and 17, according to IMD.A recent Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur study found that by end of this century, southern India is likely to register the maximum increase in rainfall compared to the states in central and north India. “In the worst-case scenario, rainfall could increase by 2.7 mm per day in north India and by 18.5 mm per day in the Western Ghats in southern India,” said Rajib Maity, a professor at IIT Kharagpur, who led the study.In its weekly forecast, IMD has not projected any major rainfall activity in the remaining monsoon season. The monsoon is expected to fully withdraw from western India in the third week of September and from the rest of the country by mid-October. The temperatures are expected to be higher than normal for northern and central Indian plains.The anti-cyclone activity, a sign of monsoon withdrawal from western India, is now visible in central Pakistan. This means monsoon withdrawal from Rajasthan would start in a week.Despite less rainfall in September, Mritunjay Mohapatra, director-general of IMD on September 8 said the overall monsoon in India is expected to be 102% of the normal.“We are not expecting any improvement in rain deficiency over northwest India now because we are heading towards monsoon withdrawal,” said DS Pai, senior scientist, IMD Pune, agreeing that monsoon was literally over in northern India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-appears-to-retreat-over-north-india-south-and-east-receive-heavy-rainfall/story-YX9G6mZ1qfzCEUtCIlN9bN.html
18-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Various measures taken to ensure availability of essential drugs, says govt||The government has taken “timely and effective” measures to tackle any possible disruptions in supply of essential drugs during the Covid-19 pandemic and ensured their seamless availability across the country, Parliament was informed on Friday. “The Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP) has taken various measures to ensure the availability of essential drugs at reasonable prices during the Covid-19 pandemic,” Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda said in reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. Giving details of the measures taken by the government, Gowda said a ‘control room’ has been set up with a helpline number and “issues like non-availability of medicines, masks, gloves, hand sanitisers etc”, and price violation in the case of these essential items were resolved promptly. An inter-ministerial committee under the chairmanship of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) Joint Drug Controller S Eswara Reddy has been constituted to monitor trends of export and import of APIs (active pharmaceutical ingredients), formulations and medical devices to ensure their timely availability in the country and to prevent shortages, he added.  The committee submits its reports from time to time, Gowda said.   Availability of drugs has been ensured by coordinating with state health authorities like state drug controllers (SDCs) and central government authorities including CDSCO and the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), he said while detailing about the government’s “timely and effective measures” in this regard. The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) under the DoP collected the critical information from drug manufacturers that was used in decision making to ensure drug availability, Gowda said. About the other measures, he said that “steps have been taken to ensure the availability of Heparin used in Covid-19 treatment. Further, on intervention in the issue of price-parity of N-95 masks by the NPPA, major manufacturers, importers of N-95 Masks have reduced their prices significantly up to 67 per cent”. The DoP also coordinated on issues related to production of raw material, medicines, medical devices, packaging material etc, he said. It also ensured seamless movement of raw materials, packing materials, finished goods, manpower among other things to see availability of life saving essential drugs during the lockdown, Gowda said. “The NPPA has taken various steps to ensure the availability of life saving essential drugs such as hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol, vaccines, anti-tuberculosis drugs, anti-diabetic drugs, cardiac drugs, imported anti-epileptic drugs and various Covid-19 drugs,” the minister explained. Further, on the intervention of the DoP, manufacturers of Remdesivir have created a helpline to make the drug available, Gowda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-various-measures-taken-to-ensure-availability-of-essential-drugs-says-govt/story-RmVWUoi6VCFMo0Nch6yhfO.html
18-09-2020||India||AAP’s Goa convener steps down, calls it ‘strategic decision’||Calling it a “strategic decision”, the Aam Aadmi Party’s Goa convener, Elvis Gomes, has stepped down from the post in what appears to be a reshuffle in the party ahead of the Goa assembly elections, which are a year and some months away. Addressing the media, Gomes said the decision will help him to work at the grassroots and strengthen the party. “It is a strategic decision to step down. For four years, I was the convener and now the party’s work can be seen on the ground. Now there are many leaders in the party who can take on the administrative roles. The need is instead to work on the ground and to bring other good people into the party. So I have taken up that responsibility,” he said. “I am also aware of the ground level situation and until we do not strengthen on the ground, our work will not go forward,” he added. Gomes had quit as Goa Civil Service officer ahead of the 2017 Goa assembly elections and joined the AAP. In a short time, he was named the party’s convener. His decision to step down comes barely weeks after the party’s general secretary in the state Pradeep Padgaonkar also stepped down on health grounds after he contracted Covid-19 and needed hospitalisation. Gomes said that the two resignations despite coming within weeks of each other were not connected. “There is no connection between the two resignations,” he said. The charge as party’s convener has been given to Rahul Mhambrey, the party’s treasurer. The AAP failed to win a single seat at the 2017 assembly elections in Goa with all but one of the party’s 40 candidates losing their deposits, including Gomes and Padgaonkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-s-goa-convener-steps-down-calls-it-strategic-decision/story-oZWinVp7ORfWCPRE3agPyL.html
18-09-2020||India||Delhi schools to remain closed for all students till October 5, says Delhi govt||All schools in the national capital will continue to remain closed till October 5 in view of the rising number of the cases, the Delhi government announced on Friday.“All government and private schools will remain closed for all students till October 5. However, online teaching and learning activities will continue as usual,” an official order issued by the Directorate of Education (DoE) said. School principals are authorised to call “staff as per requirement for smooth conduct of online classes or any other work”, it said.Also Read: Schools reopening from September 21: List of states which are resuming classesPreviously, the government had said it would allow senior students to come to schools if they need any guidance from their teachers. But now the government has made it clear that there will be no partial reopening of the schools — not for any student.Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.From September 21, schools in a few states are resuming as Centre has given a go-ahead in its Unlock 4 guidelines.The national capital on Thursday recorded 4,432 new cases of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-schools-to-remain-closed-for-all-students-till-oct-5-says-delhi-govt/story-ABGV0vi5AEqVn0L5EcTj6I.html
18-09-2020||India||Schools reopening from September 21: List of states which are resuming classes||In its Unlock 4 guidelines, the ministry of home affairs allowed states to reopen schools from September 21 if the states decide to resume educational activities. Reopening schools from September 21 is not mandatory and several states have decided against it — given the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the country.States which have already taken a decision on resuming classesAssam: From Monday, classes will resume for students between class 9 and 12 for the next 15 days following which the situation will be reviewed.Haryana: Like in Delhi, senior students can visit their schools if they need guidance but schools will remain closed. Two government schools in Haryana’s Karnal and Sonepat have already opened on a trial basis. they divided students into groups as per colour codes to help them and their teachers maintain social distancing.Himachal Pradesh: The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to reopen schools from Classes 9 to 12 from Monday only outside containment zones.Also Watch l Why are Covid cases rising in Delhi? Health Minister Satyendar Jain answers Andhra Pradesh: Only public, private, aided educational institutions outside containment zones will reopen.Karnataka: Partial reopening of schools allowed from September 21, but regular classes will not resume. Only senior students can come to schools if they need guidance.In Delhi, schools will remain closed until October 5, the government said on Friday. Earlier, it had decided to allow senior students ( classes 9 to 12) to attend schools for teachers’ guidance only if their parents allow. But now it has clarified that there will be no partial reopening of the schools in Delhi before October 5. Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Uttarakhand, West Bengal will not resume classes. J&K schools will partially reopen from September 21, reports said. In its guideline issued for the reopening of the schools, the Centre made it mandatory for all schools to have thermal guns at the school gates to check temperature of both students and staff. Apart from thorough sanitisation, mandatory arrangement of masks and sanitizers, schools have been asked to function at 50 per capacity only. Online classes would continue even if physical classes resume, the Centre said, as not all students will be attending physical classes every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-reopening-from-september-21-list-of-states-which-are-resuming-classes/story-gZEyWYGLJM5sGrmlYfu1pI.html
18-09-2020||India||Uniformity in GST rates necessary for sustained growth of mining sector: FIMI||Miners’ body FIMI on Friday said the mining industry is passing through a period of high uncertainty and stressed that uniformity in GST rates is necessary for sustained growth of the mining sector. With most players grappling for liquidity, the sector is experiencing unprecedented stress as domestic demand for products is yet to pick up, FIMI Vice President R L Mohanty said. “In the current, difficult and challenging scenario after the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the mining industry is passing through a period of high uncertainty as the mineral-based manufacturing sector is yet to come back to normal pre-COVID level of production,” Mohanty said. He was speaking during an online event on ‘GST in Mining- Issues and Challenges, organised by Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI). “Considering the present economic scenario and high effective tax rate on mining in India, it is necessary to have uniformity in GST rates for sustained growth of the mining sector,” he said. Goods and Services Tax (GST) was introduced on July 1, 2017 to replace multi-layered, complex indirect tax structure with a simple, transparent and technology–driven tax regime to facilitate economic growth. “While the introduction of e-way bill has enabled hassle free movement of minerals and other goods, but still the mining sector faces several issues and challenges relating to payment of GST on royalty, District Mineral Foundation (DMF) and National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET) contribution, inverted duty structure, upfront payment etc,” he said. The mining industry faces acute financial difficulty in utilisation of the input tax credit availed by the owners on their purchases of input materials, capital goods and services etc. “While a higher rate of GST is charged on supplies and services whereas GST on minerals and processed minerals is payable @5% and as such it becomes a case of inverted duty structure,” he said. Another issue of rationalisation of GST on royalty is that currently, 18 per cent GST is charged on the royalty amount while on sale of minerals GST at the rate of five per cent is charged. “It is important to have GST on royalty on the same rate as applicable for sale of minerals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uniformity-in-gst-rates-necessary-for-sustained-growth-of-mining-sector-fimi/story-AX1JjGsXjB0XojNY3Fg0zM.html
18-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Lockdown leads to spike in tea prices; 79% hike in August wholesale prices||Prices of tea, especially the CTC (crush, tear, curl) variant, which is most widely consumed, are on the rise in both wholesale and retail markets after they were stable for around five years.Wholesale price index (WPI), which measures changes in prices of goods before they are retailed, for tea grew at an all-time high of 79% in August. The figure for May was -1.8%. While the corresponding figure for June and July was 8.9% and 45.8%, respectively. A sudden drop in production for nearly a month due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced 68-day nation-wide lockdown restrictions is being attributed as the main reason for the hike in tea prices this year. All the nearly 800 tea gardens and thousands of small tea growers across Assam had to stop plucking of leaves and production from end-March and until early May due to the lockdown, a first for the 180-year-old industry.The lockdown had impacted the first flush, which occurs between March and April annually and accounts for the best quality of tea leaves for the rest of the year. Also read: Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, schools in Assam to reopen from September 21“Tea is a commodity. Its price rises or falls depending on its demand and supply. The lockdown is the main cause for the drop in tea production,” said Raj Barooah, director of Rujani Tea. “Skiffing – the removal of overgrown leaves that were not plucked due to the lockdown -- and extended monsoon rainfall also contributed to low production this year. Most gardens are reporting up to 40% decrease in production, as compared to last year. This is the primary reason behind the increase in prices,” he added.Barooah, whose family-owned Aideobari Tea Estates, has been producing tea for over 120 years, cited that their two factories at Kakodonga and Aideobari have recorded a drop in production of 38% and 27%, respectively, this year, as compared to 2019. “The rise in prices is due to a drop in supply because of the lockdown. This had affected tea auction as well. The auction picked up since end-August,” said Priyanuz Dutta, secretary, Guwahati Tea Auction Centre (GTAC). GTAC has sold around 49 million (m) kilograms (kg) of tea between end-April and until mid-September, as compared to 63 m kg during the same year-ago period. “Last year, the price of CTC tea leaves was around Rs 130-Rs 140 per kg, which has increased to Rs 250-Rs 260. Prices are likely to stabilise or drop by around 15% in the next couple of weeks because production has gained momentum,” said Sikandar Bansal of Aggarwal Brothers, a Guwahati-based tea trading firm. Tea traders and garden owners are of the view that the quality of tea produced in Assam has improved this year, most likely due to untimely skiffing, which is not usually done across all the plantations around the same time. The situation is similar in the tea-growing Dooars region of north Bengal, which is also reporting a rise in prices due to an acute shortfall in supply because of the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions. “The hike in tea price is directly related to the shortfall in supply. There was a huge shortfall in production until July because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said SK Saria, managing director (MD) of Soongachi Tea Estate in the eastern Dooars. “Though the production capacity was met in August, the previous shortfall is yet to be overcome. There was an increase in tea consumption during the shortfall in supply, which helped the industry fetch good prices,” he added. Kamal Kishore Tewari, chairman, Siliguri Tea Auction Committee (STAC), said, “Production of tea in the country has reported a shortfall of 200 m kg, while the demand has increased exponentially. At STAC, which is the largest auction centre of CTC variant in north Bengal, the average prices have increased by around Rs 100 per kg as compared to that in April.” (With inputs from Pramod Giri in Siliguri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-leads-to-spike-in-tea-prices-79-hike-in-august-wholesale-prices/story-2oysgQT0unsuFJwsTjYEuM.html
18-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: Rajya Sabha passes Homoeopathy Council Bill||The Rajya Sabha approved two bills on Friday, replacing ordinances related to the Central Council of Homoeopathy and the Indian Medicine Central Council.The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeks to further extend the time to form the Central Council of Homeopathy by a year, after exhausting two years for the purpose.The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeks a year’s time to reconstitute the central council and provides for a board of directors to exercise its powers in the interim period.Replying to a debate on the two bills, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said the government is committed to providing affordable and easy healthcare facilities to every citizen. He also defended the Centre’s decision to bring the ordinances, saying there was nothing “abnormal” and that governments have been taking this route, depending on the necessity.Both the bills were introduced in the Upper House on September 14, the first day of the ongoing monsoon session, which is being held against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill seeks to amend the Homoeopathy Central Council Act, 1973 and replaces the Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated on April 24.The 1973 Act was amended in 2018 to provide for the supersession of the Central Council of Homoeopathy. The council was required to be reconstituted within a year from the date of its supersession.This provision was amended in 2019 to require the reconstitution of the council in two years. In the interim period, the Centre constituted a board of governors to exercise the powers of the council.The bill seeks to amend the Act to increase the period for the supersession of the council from two to three years.The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020, amends the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970. The Act provides for the constitution of a central council, which regulates the education and practice of the Indian medicine system (including ayurveda, yoga, naturopathy).The bill replaces an ordinance promulgated on April 24. The proposed legislation provides that the central council will stand superseded from April 24 (the date of promulgation of the ordinance).The council will be reconstituted within a year from the date of its supersession. In the interim period, the Centre will constitute a board of governors, which will exercise the powers of the council.Earlier, when the House met, the proceedings were adjourned for 30 minutes till 9.35 am as a mark of respect to sitting member Ashok Gasti and former nominated member Kapila Vatsyayan, who passed away recently.Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu read out obituary references for Gasti as well as Vatsyayan. Gasti, who represented Karnataka, was a first time Rajya Sabha member. He had taken oath on June 26 this year and could not even participate in the proceedings of the House.He passed away on September 17 at the age of 55, while Vatsyanan, who served the House twice, died on September 16 at the age of 91.Members stood in silence after the obituary references were read out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-rajya-sabha-passes-homoeopathy-council-bill/story-YFi1kPsz3q4JiQiAXsVGgJ.html
18-09-2020||India||Dubai suspends AI Express flights till October 2 for flying infected passengers||The Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) has suspended Air India Express flights between India and Dubai, the United Arab Emirates’ (UAE) biggest city, from Friday until October 2. The flights have been temporarily barred because a passenger on a recent Jaipur-Dubai flight operated by Air India Express, the low-cost airline of the national carrier Air India, was found to be coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive by the DCAA authorities. This was the second time the airline flew an infected passenger.The DCAA has sent a notice to Air India Express. The notice stated that the flight IX1135 operated by the airline from Jaipur to Dubai International Airport (DIA), had a passenger on board, who had contracted SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19. The notice is in HT’s possession. Also Read: Covid-19: Airlines offer schemes to boost passenger confidence“You are aware of our previous intimation made to you by our letter dated September 2 for boarding a passenger with a Covid-19 positive test result, who endangered the other passengers on board and also caused a serious health risk. Boarding a passenger with Covid-19 positive test result for the second time is contrary to and is in violation of the laid-down procedures and protocols relating to air travel to and from airports in the Emirate of Dubai during the pandemic,” stated the notice. The notice has led to the temporary suspension of all Air India Express flights to Dubai for the next 15 days. Also Read: Parliament monsoon session: Aircraft (Amendment) Bill passed by Rajya Sabha“This (suspension) has been effective from 00:00 hours on Friday, September 18, until 23:59 hours of October 2,” the notice added.“Air India Express has received the ‘Notice of Suspension’ from Dubai Civil Aviation Authority on September 17, 2020, as per which the airline’s operations to Dubai airport are temporarily suspended for a duration of 15 days w.e.f September 18, 2020.The Notice has been issued on account of the erroneous acceptance of one Covid-19 positive passenger by the airline’s ground handling agents at Delhi and Jaipur on Air India Express flights to Dubai on August 28 and September 4 respectively,” said an airline spokesperson. “Passengers who were seated in close proximity to the Covid-19 positive passenger on each flight have undergone a Covid-19 test / been quarantined as determined by the Dubai health authority. The airline has reiterated the instructions to handling agencies in India to strictly adhere to regulations/ SOP and has advised them to implement a three-tier checking mechanism to avoid any such lapse in the future,” he added.Airline officials said that the ground handling agencies concerned have taken appropriate punitive action against their employees who have been held accountable for the lapse at Delhi and Jaipur. An airline official said, “Prior to the receipt of the notice, the airline submitted a letter to the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority expressing our apologies and detailing the various actions taken by us in association with the ground handling agents concerned to guard against such a lapse in the future. In order to decrease the inconvenience that may be caused to passengers booked to fly to Dubai, the airline has introduced additional flights to Sharjah to accommodate the affected passengers. The affected passengers who have booked to fly to Dubai are also being given the option to re-book to a future date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dubai-suspends-ai-express-flights-till-october-2-for-flying-infected-passengers/story-CQzEGbWMQ6LN1TqnErD7EN.html
18-09-2020||India||Covid-19 +ve BJD MLA in home isolation raided by CBI over ponzi scam||Coronavirus positive senior BJD MLA Debi Prasad Mishra was raided by the Central Bureau of Investigation on Friday over his alleged involvement in Rs 578 crore Seashore chit fund scam.A five-member team of the CBI, along with two witnesses, took part in the raid that is being conducted at seven places. The probe agency, in August 2016, has already interrogated Mishra’s two associates -Prafulla Singha, a BJD leader, and Dilip Mishra.Seashore is one of the 44 companies that is being investigated by the CBI since May 2014, following a Supreme Court order. The company reportedly raised around Rs 578 crore from gullible people offering 36 per cent interest per annum to the investors against their deposits.Mishra, former school and mass education minister under home isolation after testing positive for Covid-19, said the CBI officials asked him about the boating project of Seashore on Mahanadi river which was allowed during his tenure as tourism minister. “I had allowed Seashore to set up a boating project in Mahanadi along with a restaurant on the outskirts of Cuttack city. Besides, I had also given permission to the company to manage a government-run guest house at Atri in Khurda district. All this was allowed as per the government’s decision. I have already appeared before the CBI and been interrogated in this matter,” he said, adding that CBI officials have taken all files from the department. In September 2017, the CBI had arrested the then BJD MLA Prabhat Biswal in connection with the Seashore ponzi scam. He was later released on bail in June 2018.The CBI has filed two charge-sheets before a Bhubaneswar-based CBI court - March 2015 and January 2018 - accusing Seashore chief Prashant Dash and his brother Prabhat of embezzling about Rs 578.2 crore, collected from investors between 2006 and 2011. The case is now being tried. The ED is also separately probing the Seashore group’s financial transactions.The Seashore scam has remained a major source of embarrassment for the Naveen Patnaik government after the CBI found that several senior IAS, IPS and BJD leaders were involved in it. Operating through one Subhankar Nayak, the company allegedly paid illegal gratification to some IAS, IPS officers of Odisha and BJD leaders for expanding its business. Nayak was earlier arrested and sent to jail in November 2014. The company also gained access to Saroj Sahoo, a one-time DTP operator who worked in Naveen Niwas and allegedly played an important role in the regional party. In September 2017, the CBI arrested erstwhile BJD MLA Prabhat Biswal in connection with the scam.Seashore was started in 2006 by Prashant Dash, an economics professor in a private college in Angul district, with the company raising capital from public without listing itself in stock exchange, mandatory if the number of shareholders cross 50. It also registered some of its firms under the Odisha Self Help Cooperative Societies Act that allowed it to remain out of the government’s checks and balances.To attract customers, the company offered 36 per cent interest per annum to the investors against their deposits, which was nearly four times the rates offered by nationalised banks. The Central Economic Intelligence Bureau in February and March 2011 had alerted the Odisha government on how the company was collecting a huge amount of money from investors assuring them of high returns. The commission being paid to agents ranged from 15 to 20 per cent. Using his proximity to former BJD strongman Pyari Mohan Mohapatra, Dash entered into a clutch of partnerships with state government in healthcare, tourism, dairy, pharma, food processing and cooperative sector, it said.Most of these partnerships did not help the government as Seashore never had the requisite expertise and know-how to run the new business. In 2012, it signed an MoU with Grid Corporation of Odisha, a bulk power supplier for purchase of solar power from the firm.However, the agreement fell through after Seashore had failed to pay the bank guarantee of Rs 24 crore within the stipulated time. Like Saradha which ran a TV channel in Bengal, Seashore too started a TV channel, STV, in Odisha. It reportedly recruited the wife of a senior IPS officer for an astrological show at a huge cost to the company. Bollywood actress Katrina Kaif graced the inauguration of the TV channel in May 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-bjd-mla-raided-by-cbi-in-ponzi-scam/story-wXZDo4Gc9oLPlpUOmCBjOK.html
18-09-2020||India||PM Modi defends farm bills, says critics misleading farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday took on critics of his government’s farm liberalisation plan, a day after the lower House passed two of the three farm bills, accusing detractors of spreading “misinformation and lies”, while reassuring farmers that the reforms were in their best interests. His comments, made in an address dedicating a railway bridge in Bihar and also on the microblogging site Twitter, came after Lok Sabha passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 by a majority voice vote. On Tuesday, the lower House had passed a third legislation, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Also Read: ‘What politics?’: Farmers protesting against farm bills everywhere, says Harsimrat Kaur Badal after quittingThe main Opposition party, Congress, and a clutch of smaller parties have opposed the reforms. A key opposition to the bills came from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, whose minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet after her party opposed the bills, exposing a crucial rift between the two parties over efforts to unshackle the farm sector. Watch l ‘Agri bills protect farmers, oppn spreading misinformation’: PM Modi Modi addressed farmers over concerns about prices and the country’s procurement system, under which the government buys farm produce at minimum support prices (MSP) from farmers. “People who ruled this country for decades and were in power…such people are trying to mislead farmers. They are telling lies to farmers,” Modi said. Also Read: Why farm sector reform bills are angering farmers: All you need to know“Fake news is also being spread that wheat and rice etc. will not be procured by government agencies from farmers. This is an absolute lie, completely wrong and an attempt to cheat farmers,” the Prime Minister said. A key bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, allows buyers of farm produce to trade outside the mandi system or wholesale market system run by states under the agricultural produce market committees or APMCs. APMC laws require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area where the farmers reside, rather than in open markets, which economists say scuttles price discovery, hurting farm profits. The bill enables farmers and buyers of their produce to trade outside these markets without any taxes and will therefore open up APMCs to competitions. “The reforms will give new freedom to farmers. These reforms will bring more options and opportunities for farmers to sell their produce.” Congratulating farmers of the country over passage of this bills in the lower House, Modi said the reforms would “protect farmers” from “middlemen”. “Middlemen stand between farmers and their customers; these middlemen take a big chunk of farmers’ income. These reforms have come as a protective shield for farmers.” “The agriculture sector will benefit from modern technology and our farmers will also be empowered,” the Prime Minister said in a series of tweets. किसानों को अपनी उपज देश में कहीं पर भी, किसी को भी बेचने की आजादी देना, बहुत ऐतिहासिक कदम है। 21वीं सदी में भारत का किसान, बंधनों में नहीं, खुलकर खेती करेगा, जहां मन आएगा अपनी उपज बेचेगा, किसी बिचौलिए का मोहताज नहीं रहेगा और अपनी उपज, अपनी आय भी बढ़ाएगा: PMCritics have called for greater regulation and oversight, alleging that the reforms would replace public monopolies with private one. “Ultimately these so-called reforms are going to lead to replication of old structures outside mandis. Creating two market spaces with two completely different sets of rules is a recipe for disaster,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable & Holistic Agriculture “Government will not come to know anything about transactions in these new markets. Not knowing will give the excuse not to act. Farmers fear this, rightly so,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-defends-farm-bills-says-critics-misleading-farmers/story-UT2pBUnVESGwWLNEGEeHhO.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Schools will be partially opened up from September 21 in Meghalaya’: Rymbui||Schools in Meghalaya which are shut for six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic will partially reopen from next week for students to meet teachers to clarify their doubts, Education minister Lahkmen Rymbui said on Friday.The schools will be open for students of class 9 to 12 to meet teachers to clear their doubts but there will be no regular classes and no classroom session, he said.“Schools will be partially opened up from September 21 for students to come and meet their teachers and clarify doubts on subjects they find it difficult. There will be no regular classes and no classroom sessions,” Rymbui told PTI.The guidelines for reopening of schools have been issued on Thursday, he said.The Education minister said the state government has rationalised the school curriculum for this academic year and the adjusted academic calendar for all levels in view of COVID-19 pandemic.As per the guidelines issued by the Education Department principal secretary DP Wahlang, “regular” classroom activities in schools, colleges and other educational institutions would remain closed till September 30 across the state.The direction from the Ministry of Home Affairs which emphasised on easing restrictions in areas outside containment areas across the country, has also been taken into consideration.“Regular class activities for schools, colleges, and educational institutions will continue to remain closed up to September, 30,” Wahlang said in the order.Students who intend to attend the teacher-student counselling would have to get the written consent of their parents or guardians to visit the schools and educational institutions.Schools should have flexibility in school timings, students visit and uniform code and ensure short duration visit of students, the notification said.Elementary school teachers are to attend schools as per their roster duty chart developed by the school for compulsory transaction of daily or weekly lessons plans or worksheet accordingly via online or through parental distribution at the school campus, Wahlang said.Schools have been asked to develop individual micro planning relating to flexibility in school timings, the scheduling of students visit and uniform code, he said.The notification said that all schools should prepare a Continuous Learning Plan (CLP) to ensure all students are learning, continue online or distance learning modes and develop a 50 per cent attendance of teaching and non-teaching staff.The department has laid strict emphasis on compliance of health protocols, such as maintaining physical distance, wearing masks, washing hands with soap and alcohol-based hand sanitisers and sanitising all teaching materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-will-be-partially-opened-up-from-september-21-in-meghalaya-rymbui/story-C4TUDDmrkGoyl6o7tjlMVI.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Will suffer big defeat’: Digvijaya Singh warns Dushyant Chautala against supporting BJP on ‘anti-farmer’ bills||Amid protests by farmers in Punjab and Haryana against the central government’s three new farm bills, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday ‘warned’ Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala not to support the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the ‘anti-farmer bills.’Singh also ‘congratulated’ Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal for resigning from the Union cabinet in protest against the legislations.“I want to congratulate Harsimrat Kaur Badal for resigning from the government in support of farmers and would want Dushyant Chautala not to support the BJP on these anti-farmer bills, otherwise he will suffer big defeat in future. He should support farmers,” the senior Congress leader said. Chautala’s Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) is in alliance with the BJP in Haryana and Punjab’s SAD, meanwhile, is the BJP’s oldest ally. Badal was the sole SAD representative in the central government, holding the food processing industries portfolio.Singh further praised his party for ‘making the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act pro-farmers.’ “Congress government had made APMC Act in favour of farmers. But now, any big trader can open a mandi and under these new anti-farmer bills, any dispute at mandi will be handled by officials. All these four anti-farmer ordinances should be seen in totality,” he further said.Farmers are against these bills as, according to them, these would lead to complete dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system. Opposition parties, including the Congress, have vociferously protested against these legislations in Parliament. However, PM Modi has assured farmers MSP would not be withdrawn. The three contentious bills are: The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.While the Lok Sabha passed the latter two on Thursday, the former was passed by it on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-suffer-big-defeat-digvijaya-singh-warns-dushyant-chautala-against-supporting-bjp-on-anti-farmer-bills/story-KiYFHt5deZTHqFh74OlgzI.html
18-09-2020||India||All pubs should be closed down in districts, says Karnataka BJP chief||Karnataka BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel wants all pubs in Dakshina Kannada district to be shut down, as the pub culture is ruining youngsters, the BJP state chief said. Mangalore, Bantwal, Puttur, Sullia, Belthangady, Kadaba and Moodabidri talukas fall under Dakshina Kannada district.Saying that he has already talked with the commissioner on this issues, the BJP chief said, “In our time, we stopped the operation of clubs. Pubs should also be shut down in the district. It is ruining youngsters. If the government doesn’t take any decision, I will inform the youth wing (party) to take appropriate action through court.”The controversy over Karnataka’s pub and club culture goes back to 2009 when BS Yediyurappa was the chief minister and his government strongly opposed to the growing pub culture in districts surrounding Bengaluru at that time — in the aftermath of Mangalore pub attack. On January 24, 2009, Sri Ram Sena attacked a group of young crowd in a pub in Mangalore. Those who had been arrested were acquitted in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-pubs-should-be-closed-down-in-districts-says-karnataka-bjp-chief/story-QDTrtSvYSbjaM7oe9iRG5H.html
18-09-2020||India||China’s new bacterial outbreak Brucellosis infects thousands: All you need to know||Another outbreak in China has sparked a wave of concern among authorities after thousands of people in the northern part of the country tested positive for a bacterial infection. The infection spread among people working in a state-owned biopharmaceutical plant in Lanzhou city, which produces animal vaccines after a leak occurred last year.Here’s all you need to know about Brucellosis outbreak:* According to Chinese authorities, the biopharmaceutical plant had used expired disinfectants for producing Brucella vaccines for animals between July and August last year. This indicated that the bacteria was not eradicated in the factory exhaust.* Subsequently, the contaminated gas from the factory formed aerosols containing the bacteria, which was then carried by wind to a nearby Lanzhou Veterinary Research Institute. This resulted in infecting close to 200 people there as well in December last year.* There are 3,245 people who have contracted Brucellosis, according to health officials in Lanzhou. Another 1,401 people also tested as an early positive for the disease, news agency AFP reported. The total positive cases also included 20 students and faculty members of Lanzhou University, some of whom had been to the institute.* Brucellosis, caused by brucella bacteria, is often caused by close contact with infected animals or animal products that can bring about fevers, joint pain and headaches.* Health authorities have said there has been no evidence of person-to-person transmission of Brucellosis so far. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention states that person-to-person transmission of brucellosis is “extremely rare” but some symptoms may reoccur or never go away.* This infection outbreak, like other such as the coronavirus disease, has also traced its origin to animals. Sheep, cattle and pigs were most commonly involved in the spread of the bacteria, Lanzhou’s health commission has said.* In this infection, some symptoms like recurrent fevers, chronic fatigue, swelling of the heart or arthritis are expected to never go away and reoccur in patients who have tested positive, according to the US’ CDC.* Brucellosis also goes by the name of Malta fever or Mediterranean fever and can cause symptoms including headaches, muscle pain, fever and fatigue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-new-bacterial-outbreak-brucellosis-infects-thousands-all-you-need-to-know/story-cksNA18wPv35tsgr6QOQyL.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Why insult Covid-19 warriors?’: Rahul Gandhi slams govt over lack of data on infection among health workers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday targeted the government over the lack of central data on Covid-19 infection among healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses, and support staff, who are at the frontline of the battle against the pandemic.“The beating of ‘thali’ and the lighting of a lamp is more important than security and respect” for the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, the former Congress president wrote on Twitter while sharing a media report.“Adverse data-free Modi government! The beating of ‘thali’ and the lighting of a lamp is more important than security and respect. Modi Government, why are corona warriors being insulted?” Gandhi asked in a tweet in Hindi.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHis comments came after Union minister of state for health Ashwini Choubey on Tuesday informed the Rajya Sabha that there is no central data available with the health ministry on Covid-19 infection among the healthcare staff, including doctors, nurses, and support staff.As health is a state subject, no “such data is maintained at central level by the ministry of health,” he told the upper house of Parliament. However, a database regarding the health workers seeking relief under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Insurance Package is being maintained at the national level, he added.After the United States, India is the second country to have the highest number of cases of the coronavirus disease. On Friday, the country reported 96,424 new cases of Covid-19, pushing the tally to over 5.21 million mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-insult-covid-19-warriors-rahul-gandhi-slams-govt-over-lack-of-data-on-infection-among-health-workers/story-KpHnCcUILpEQq4x32iI6sO.html
18-09-2020||India||‘They are spreading lies’: PM Modi messages farmers amid row over farm bills||Be cautious against those trying to mislead you by creating doubts, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi to farmers on Friday, a day after BJP’s oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal pulled out its only minister from the union cabinet over the farm bills. The PM, without naming anyone, said some are “bent upon spreading lies”.The farmers’ produce trade and commerce (promotion and facilitation) bill, 2020 and the farmers (empowerment and protection) agreement on price assurance and farm services bill 2020, were passed by the Lok Sabha on Thursday that led to opposition by the Congress and resignation of Union minister Harsimar Kaur Badal of the Akali Dal.“Those who did nothing for decades when they were in power are today opposing the bills for agriculture reforms aimed at deregulating the farm sector to give farmers better options and opportunities. The bills are aimed at unshackling the farmers and protecting them from middlemen. They can now sell their produce anywhere, anytime on their own terms,” the PM said.Modi was speaking at the launch of 12 railways projects, including the long-awaited Kosi Rail Mahasetu connecting Kosi and Mithila regions, in Bihar through video conferencing.Aware of the opposition to the farm bills, especially by the Congress and also from SAD, Modi congratulated the farmers for the bills that he said would usher in greater freedom and returns for their produce and work as a ‘protective cover’ for them.“Some people are bent upon spreading lies and siding with middlemen despite having done nothing for farmers for decades when they had the opportunity. They also talked about it, mentioned it in their manifestoes before elections and conveniently forgot about it later, but when the NDA government has done it, they have problems. They have developed a tendency of opposing for the sake of opposing,” he added.Modi said the farmers of the country need to be cautious against those trying to mislead them by creating doubts. “They are spreading rumours that the government will not procure foodgrains at the minimum support price (MSP). Let me tell you, it is wrong. The government is committed to ensuring MSP to farmers. The government procurement will also continue as it is today,” he added.Referring to CM Nitish Kumar, Modi said Bihar understood the problems of farmers due to agriculture produce market committee (APMC) Act quite early and now the Centre was following the Bihar model. Bihar had dissolved all agriculture marketing committees and marketing boards in the state in 2006 after repealing the state government’s then APMC Act.Modi said that the NDA government had done so much for the farmers in the last six years that was never done earlier. “We have looked into each problem the farmers have to face. To prevent farmers from falling into loan trap, the PM Kisan Kalyan Yojana was launched and so far over 10-crore farmers have benefited from it, wherein over Rs 1-lakh crore has been directly deposited into their bank accounts without any middleman,” he added.Modi said that aware of the irrigation problems, Rs 1-lakh crore is also being spent on the Kisan Sinchai Yojana. “The first Kisan rain also ran from Bihar to Maharashtra. A lot has been done and a lot more will be done for the welfare of the farmers. They need to guard against those who don’t want betterment of farmers. We want to unshackle farmers so that they could have multiple options and opportunities to increase their income,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-are-spreading-lies-pm-modi-messages-farmers-amid-row-over-farm-bills/story-u0g3G7QFlB132g2DFV7sCL.html
18-09-2020||India||Bills to reduce salaries of MPs, ministers gets Rajya Sabha nod||Several ministers demanded the restoration of the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) funds even as two legislations to reduce the salary and allowances of Union ministers and Members of Parliament (MP) were passed in Rajya Sabha on Friday.Parliament Affairs minister Prahlad Joshi moved the Bill to amend the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954, while Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy moved the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Bill, 2020.Also Read: ‘What politics?’: Farmers protesting against farm bills everywhere, says Harsimrat Kaur Badal after quittingBoth the bills aim to reduce the salaries and emoluments of ministers and MPs in view of the resource crunch because of Covid-19, and were passed with a voice vote.Earlier, several members of Parliament questioned the government’s decision to do away with MPLADS funds for two years, saying these were funds spent on the needs of the people, especially for local demands which would otherwise be ignored.Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad (Cong) said it was credit-worthy that members of Parliament were willing to take a salary cut even though a majority of them were solely dependent on their pay.Also Read: Parliament monsoon session: What to expect todayHe, however, added that MPLADS was a fund that belonged to the people. If MPLADS had to be curtailed, it could have been for a period lesser than two years, Azad said. “I would request that... it (MPLADS) should be done away with only for one year, and that too only half of it, and the rest should be provided to the MPs,” Azad said.Manoj Kumar Jha (RJD) said the central vista project appeared like a luxury at this time of severe resource crunch and added that the new parliament building in the offing should be put on hold as should the governments ad-spend.YSRCP member V Vijaisai Reddy had another suggestion—to cut the salaries of and penalise members who disrupt the House.Joshi said MPLADS funds or the central vista were not within the scope of the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bills-to-reduce-salaries-of-mps-ministers-gets-rajya-sabha-nod/story-szgRpEwj6EOx1fm4SHcbFM.html
18-09-2020||India||Centre responsible for economy collapse; must borrow from World Bank to help states: Saamana||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena has asked the Centre to take a loan from the World Bank to help states while blaming it for the country’s “collapsed” economy, mishandling the Covid-19 lockdown and causing “chaos and uncertainty”. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Shiv Sena said the Centre must give financial aid to states to help them tide over the economic crisis as states fill up the coffers of the central government.“The Centre is responsible for the collapse of the economy. Fatal experiments like demonetisation [withdrawal of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 banknotes in 2016] are responsible for the chaos in the economy. Without any preparation [a countrywide] lockdown was announced, and while doing so there was no coordination...,” the editorial said.It added Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on March 13 there is no medical emergency in the country. “On March 22, Prime Minister called for [voluntary] Janata curfew [for social distancing]. On March 24, after a notice of only four hours, a 21-day strict lockdown was announced. The chaos and uncertainty that started then is still going on. Never has there been so much chaos.”The editorial said states like Punjab, Delhi and West Bengal have sought financial assistance from the Centre. It added revenues of states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have reduced by 75%. The editorial asked the Centre to take a “hefty loan” from the World Bank and distribute money to the states while calling it the “only alternative”. It noted the Centre announced a relief package of Rs 20 lakh crore during the lockdown and added “it is a mystery where the money has gone”.The editorial said at least 22% of the Centre’s revenue comes from Mumbai, but it is not ready to help states. “Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Delhi have borne the maximum brunt of Covid-19 and suffered losses worth Rs 14.4 lakh crore,” the editorial said.The Centre late last month offered the states two borrowing options to plug a shortfall in their Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue, estimated at Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year, as the Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on the economy. The states can borrow Rs 97,000 crore at a reasonable interest rate and repay the amount from the cess charged on luxury and sin goods like liquor after the GST regime completes five years of implementation in June 2022. The second option is for the states to borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore in consultation with the central bank. Some states have insisted that the Centre borrow the money instead and compensate the states for the shortfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-responsible-for-economy-collapse-must-borrow-from-world-bank-to-help-states-saamana/story-Mf6tgsYHTmHctC9aDO7F7L.html
18-09-2020||India||Homeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 passed in Rajya Sabha||After a long discussion, the Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was passed in the Rajya Sabha on Friday.Speaking on the Bill, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan told the Upper House that the Centre is committed to ensuring that all kinds of medicines are available to the citizens. However, he objected to the use of the term “quackery” in reference to certain ancient Indian medical system.“The government is committed to ensure that all kinds of medicines are available to the citizens. We also have the National Digital Mission. New medical institutes are opening under which there are blocks dealing with Indian medicines,” he said.“A member of the House called the reform and regulation of the Indian systems of the medicine being undertaken through the bills, as promoting ‘quackery’. I am pained by the use of this word. Yoga and naturopathy need a separate national medical commission. Also, the National Medical Commission for modern medicine will be functional soon,” the Union Health Minister said.The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was introduced in Rajya Sabha on September 14, 2020. The Bill, which is now an Act, amends the Homoeopathy Central Council Act, 1973.The Act sets up the Central Council of Homoeopathy which regulates homoeopathic education and practice. The Bill replaced the Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 which was promulgated on April 24, 2020.Apart from that the Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 has also been passed in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/homeopathy-central-council-amendment-bill-2020-passed-in-rajya-sabha/story-El33p7N9anmlbs6HTt1odL.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Want to give clear message to farmers with humility’: PM Modi speaks to farmers via video conference||Inaugurating the Kosi Rail Mega Bridge in Bihar on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi used the platform to engage with farmers in the country and said his government is committed to providing fair prices to them through minimum support price (MSP).PM Modi congratulated the farmers on the passage of two bills related to the agriculture sector in the Lok Sabha out of which one seeks to promote barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade in agricultural produce amid strong protests by the opposition and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ally Shiromani Akali Dal.Also read | Opposition in favour of middlemen who loot farmers: PM Modi in fresh pitch for farm billsHere are the top 10 quotes from PM Modi’s address:* I congratulate the farmers of the country for these bills. These bills were very necessary to protect the middlemen between the farmer and the customer, who take a large part of the farmers’ earnings themselves.*At the time of elections, they talked big in order to woo the farmers, used them, put in their manifesto and forgot after the election. Today, when the BJP-NDA government is doing the same things, they are spreading all sorts of lies.* These people are forgetting how aware the country’s farmer is. They are seeing that some people do not like the new opportunities being provided to the farmers. The farmer of the country is watching those people who are standing with middlemen.* Now it is being propagated that the benefit of MSP will not be given to the farmers by the government. It is also being said that the government will not buy paddy-wheat etc. from farmers. This is a lie, its wrong, farmers are being deceived.* Our government is committed to providing fair prices to farmers through MSP. Government procurement will continue as before.* Anyone can sell his product anywhere in the world, wherever he wants. But only peasant brothers and sisters were denied this right. Now, with the new provisions in force, the farmer will be able to sell his crop in any market of the country at his desired price.* Today I want to give a clear message to the farmers of the country with humility. Do not get into any kind of confusion. Farmers of the country have to be vigilant against these people. Beware of those who ruled the country for decades and who are lying to the farmers today.* Considering the problems faced by the farmers, our government has made constant efforts to overcome every problem.* They are beating the knack of protecting the farmers, but actually they want to keep the farmers in bonds. Those people are supporting the middlemen, they are supporting the earnings of the farmers with the looters in between.* This is the need of the country and also the demand of the times. We have an obligation to empower farmers, women, youth, all in the creation of the nation. All the projects that have been started today are part of this responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-give-clear-message-to-farmers-with-humility-pm-modi-speaks-to-farmers-via-video-conference/story-Pz2hbqwOGF51Np1bMkOFmK.html
18-09-2020||India||Bills to reduce salary, allowances of MPs, Ministers by 30% passed in Rajya Sabha||The bills to reduce salaries, allowances of Members of Parliament, and Ministers by 30 percent was passed unanimously in the Rajya Sabha on Friday.Earlier, Union Ministers G Kishan Reddy and Pralhad Joshi had moved the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha.Speaking in the Rajya Sabha, the Minister of State (MoS) Home Affairs said that he was moving the Bill on behalf of Union Home Minister Amit Shah.While MPs from Congress, Biju Janata Dal (BJD), and other parties wholeheartedly supported the bill, they asked the Centre to restore the MPLADS Funds at the earliest.The MPs said that the MPLADS Funds are used by them to help the public in their constituencies and will be of great use during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier, AIADMK MP A Vijayakumar and BJD MP Prasanna Acharya had also demanded that the government release their arrears of the MPLADS funds for previous years.The Monsoon session of the Parliament which began on Monday is slated to conclude on October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bills-to-reduce-salary-allowances-of-mps-ministers-by-30-passed-in-rajya-sabha/story-2yXKBnOSPdL15SeldfGpIJ.html
18-09-2020||India||Odisha plans social registry to weed out ghost beneficiaries using Aadhaar||Odisha plans to launch its social protection delivery platform or social registry by the beginning of next fiscal enabling the government to monitor the well-being of beneficiaries of several state and central welfare schemes while weeding out ineligible claimants.Officials said work on the creation of a social registry had begun with the beneficiaries listed in the database of Krushak assistance for livelihood and income augmentation (Kalia) being taken as the base for the proposed database.The Kalia scheme, one of the several state schemes and started in Janauary 2019, helps more than 51 lakh small, marginal and landless farmers receive Rs 5000 each twice a year as farm assistance for purchase of inputs like seeds, fertilisers, pesticides, labour charges per agriculture season.State finance secretary AKK Meena, nodal officer for the social registry, said through processes like Aadhaar authentication and bank account verification, the beneficiary database of each of the departments can be cleaned up for weeding out ineligible people.“As different departments have created databases for different schemes without authentication and data sanitisation, the social registry would ensure that each of the eligible beneficiaries is properly identified. It would weed out ineligible beneficiaries from various schemes. The social registry would be a super database in which databases of all departments would be integrated. We expect the social registry to be ready by the end of March next year,” said Meena.Odisha runs around 60 social assistance programmes that account for a large share of its annual GDP. Programmes like Kalia, Madhubabu pension yojana, Mamata scheme, Biju pucca ghar yojana, Biju krushak kalyan yojana, Mukhyamantri swasthya seva mission, Barishtha nagarika tirtha yatra yojana and Kalinga shiksha sathi yojana, cover almost 70 per cent of the total 4.2 crore people of the State.Though the social welfare schemes have ensured BJD’s victory in successive elections since 2000, the schemes have also bled the state treasury as there have been allegations of ineligible and dead beneficiaries crowding the list. A month ago, Odisha had made Aadhaar verification of beneficiaries of National social assistance programme and Madhu babu pension yojana as mandatory to get the monthly pension. Though it temporarily backed down from its decision at the last moment following protests from activists, the SSEPD department wants to follow through the process. Similarly, at least 50,000 people from the 51 lakh beneficiaries of Kalia scheme too, were found to be ineligible and asked to return the assistance money.Also Read: Rs 10 lakh hike in ex-gratia for Odisha cops and staff killed by MaoistsOfficials said the existing databases of national food security act, Kalia, birth & death, MGNREGA, mission shakti, old age pension, disability pension, scholarship, skill development would be sanitised through local government directory mapping.Officials involved with the process said the agriculture and farmers’ empowerment department which is preparing a farmers’ database for social registry has devised an anomaly detection algorithm to detect any fraud or data anomaly such as during buying seeds for paddy, selling oilseeds.Also Read: Opposition parties snub Congress in joint protest over GSTA detailed SOP with a 3-tier verification has been created that would ensure collection of farmers’ number, their gender, marital status, mobile number, residential address and bank account details for Aadhaar authentication, LGD mapping, bank account verification and Aadhaar lookup with national payment corporation of India. While creating the social registry the government is taking due care of data privacy, officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-plans-social-registry-to-weed-out-ghost-beneficiaries-using-aadhaar/story-d8XNv9Jv8zVpp4tDbHyohP.html
18-09-2020||India||‘What politics?’: Farmers protesting against farm bills everywhere, says Harsimrat Kaur Badal after quitting||Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader who stepped down as the Union food processing minister on Thursday night, said on Friday farmers all across India are protesting against the three bills seeking to liberalise agricultural markets.Harsimrat Kaur Badal had on Thursday resigned from the Union Cabinet in protest against three “anti-farmer” ordinances and legislation, which were approved by the Lok Sabha amid opposition protests.“I said the government should bring the bills after consultation with stakeholders. What is politics in this? Farmers are agitating not only in Punjab but also in Haryana, Rajasthan, UP, Maharashtra. There is opposition in south India,” Harsimrat Kaur Badal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.President Ram Nath Kovind accepted her resignation from the Union Cabinet and directed that Narendra Singh Tomar be assigned the additional charge of the ministry, according to a press release.The SAD had been asking the Centre not to go ahead with the three agriculture-related bills for approval of Parliament “until all reservations expressed by farmers’ organisations, farmers and farm labourers” are addressed.Though the new measures, which are aimed at freeing up farm trade from restrictions, at guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices, and at laying down a new architecture for contract farming, have been hailed by economists, farmer groups fear that they will lead to exploitation by big food-trading monopolies.“I have resigned from Union Cabinet in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter and sister,” Harsimrat Kaur Badal wrote in a Twitter message.Also read | ‘Out of compulsion’: Punjab Congress chief Jakhar on Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignationBefore her comment, the chief of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Punjab unit said Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation was the “political decision” of the Shiromani Akali Dal. Ashwani Sharma said the three bills brought by the BJP-led Centre are in the interest of the farming community. He said these three bills would “surely play an important role in boosting farm income”.“Akali Dal is a part of the NDA but it is a separate political outfit. They have taken this decision because of some political reasons. We have an alliance (SAD-BJP) but both are different political outfits. They (SAD) have taken a political decision,” Sharma said, according to PTI.Also read | Agriculture bills passed in Lok Sabha, farmers protest: All you need to knowHe added that the SAD had said they are part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) when he was asked about the continuation of the alliance between the parties.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had said in Delhi on Thursday that his party’s future course of action and whether to stay in the BJP-led alliance or not will be decided in a party meeting later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-politics-farmers-protesting-against-farm-bills-everywhere-says-harsimrat-kaur-badal-after-quitting/story-ohGuwwzZYFmjzPAQVdlVxH.html
18-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM lists why Char Dham road widening is important: It’s strategic||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday said that 5.5 metre width of the Char Dham road project won’t work from a strategic and security point of view in the sensitive bordering areas of the state. Rawat, while addressing a query about the Char Dham road project during a press conference in Dehradun on the completion of three and a half years of his government, said “5.5 metre road width se kaam nahi chalega. (5.5 m road width won’t work). Stressing upon the need to have a wider road in the strategically important border areas, Rawat said he will urge the Central government to look into this matter.“When we take border security aspect into consideration, widening of the Char Dham road is required,” he said. The all-weather road project aims to connect the four shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri through an 826km long road. Darshan Singh Rawat, media coordinator for CM Rawat, said the chief minister will be soon writing to the Centre on the necessity for a wider Char Dham road from a strategic point of view and for improving connectivity in areas bordering China in the state. The official, however, added that the state government can’t file a special leave petition in the Supreme Court on the matter since the Central government and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) are directly dealing with the matter. On September 8, 2020, the Supreme Court had ordered that the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) circular of 2018 is to be followed for Char Dham road construction. The MoRTH circular says that the roads in the hilly and mountain terrains are to be of 5.5 m width (18 ft) with two-lane structures (23 ft). Also Read: On China, India is making a mistake | OpinionThe apex court had upheld the views of Ravi Chopra, chairman of the Supreme Court (SC) appointed high powered committee (HPC) on Char Dham road project which recommended 5.5 m intermediate road width against the view in support of 12 m total road width-- submitted by the majority group of the HPC-- in tune with the 2012 circular of the MoRTH. In August last year, the Supreme Court had ordered the formation of an 11-member high-powered committee to “consider the cumulative and independent impact of the Char Dham project on the entire Himalayan valleys…” Also Watch: India’s ‘Island Gambit’ against China? Analysis with Vikram ChandraThe foundation stone for the Char Dham project was laid on December 27, 2016. In March 2018, the deadline for the project was extended from March 2019 to March 2020, but work is still continuing in the state. A review meeting with the union road and transport minister was held on July 17 this year on the progress of the road project costing Rs 12,072 crore.It was then informed that over 350 km of the road network has been constructed so far as part of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-lists-why-char-dham-road-widening-is-important-it-s-strategic/story-rt4xEoI4mf3TeMC0ZOcxbM.html
18-09-2020||India||Kejriwal requests non-BJP parties to oppose 3 bills related to agriculture sector in Rajya Sabha||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday requested all non-BJP parties to oppose the three Bills related to the agriculture sector introduced by the Centre in the Rajya Sabha.“The three Bills of the Centre will leave the farmers for exploitation in the hands of big companies. I request all non-BJP parties to oppose the Bill unanimously in the Rajya Sabha. It must be ensured that all MPs are present and there should be no drama of walkout. The farmers of the country are watching you,” he said in a tweet (Roughly translated from Hindi). Kejriwal on Thursday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will vote against the three bills on agriculture in the Parliament.In a tweet in Hindi, Kejriwal had said, “Three laws which have been brought into Parliament related to agriculture and farmers are against the farmers. The farmers are opposing it throughout the country. The Central government should take back these three laws. The Aam Aadmi Party will vote against them in Parliament.”Farmers in Punjab, Haryana have been protesting against the agriculture ordinances passed by the Union Cabinet. The three Bills to replace the ordinances were introduced in the Lok Sabha in the monsoon session and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was passed on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-requests-non-bjp-parties-to-oppose-3-bills-related-to-agriculture-sector-in-rajya-sabha/story-gKa7IjrvAzWdEcAr9WGROL.html
18-09-2020||India||Three-layered forest coming up in Kashi village adopted by PM Narendra Modi||A three-layered natural forest is being developed by using Japan’s Miyawaki method of afforestation on the outskirts of Domari village—adopted by PM Narendra Modi in 2018 under the Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, the model village scheme for members of Parliament—along the Ganga in Varanasi.Miyawaki is a technique pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki that helps build dense, native forests. An initiative of divisional forest officer, Varanasi, Mahavir Kaujalgi, the forest department is developing the forest with financial assistance from ‘national clean air’ programme through UP pollution control board.“We started working on developing the natural forest two-and-a-half months ago. First of all, many rows of one metre deep trenches were dug up. These were filled with straw and organic fertilisers and soil was prepared to develop the special root zones so that the roots could grow vertically,” said Kaujalgi. “Thereafter, plantations of different species of vegetation began. So far, 20,000 saplings of 40 indigenous species have been planted. The remaining 10,000 would be planted in the next four days,” he added.Also Read: Here is what PM Modi wants as birthday giftThe Indian Forest Service officer said the aim was to provide clean air to the city. Kaujalgi underwent training to use the Miyawaki method for developing the forest a year ago. “Selection of plants is very important in developing the three-layer natural forest,” he said.“The first-layer trees are the tall ones; of sagaun, kadamb, mango, mahua, neem, peepal, indigo and several others. They need much sunlight and grow fast.” Also Read: PM Modi birthday: Ganga puja, cleanliness drive mark occasion in Kashi“The species comprising the second layer include sahjan (drumstick), kaner and various other species which need partial light. The third layer includes flower plants like bougainvillea and many shrubs which demand less light for growing. All plants grow together and a natural first, second and third layer is developed within two years,” the forest officer added.“After this forest grows well using the Miyawaki method, such forests can be developed elsewhere,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-layered-forest-coming-up-in-kashi-village-adopted-by-pm-narendra-modi/story-3LiwO9GEuAeozf2RqPnwKM.html
18-09-2020||India||Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut tests Covid-19 positive||Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut on Friday said he has tested positive for Covid-19, becoming the ninth member of the state cabinet to contract the infection.Raut (63), who is also the working president of the state Congress, tweeted about his diagnosis.“I have tested positive for Covid-19. I would request all those who had come in contact with me to get themselves tested as a precautionary measure,” he said.Raut is the ninth minister in the MVA government to test positive for Covid-19.Earlier, ministers Jitendra Awhad (housing), Ashok Chavan (PWD), Dhananjay Munde (social justice), Sunil Kedar (animal husbandry), Balasaheb Patil (cooperation), Aslam Shaikh (textile), Abdul Sattar (MoS-rural development) and Vishwajit Kadam (MoS-cooperation) had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-minister-nitin-raut-tests-covid-19-positive/story-yzYsN1JjDIJLBMw5JpO7RM.html
18-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi inaugurates Kosi Rail Mega Bridge in Bihar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi inaugurates Kosi Rail Mega Bridge in BiharPrime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated the historical Kosi Rail Mega Bridge to the nation and inaugurated new rail lines and electrification projects in Bihar via video-conferencing. Read moreIndia readies for QUAD and 2 plus 2 dialogues, China is elephant in the roomUnited States, India, Australia and Japan are in conversation to decide the venue and date of QUAD security dialogue next month, which will be followed by the 2 plus 2 dialogue between India and US here. Read moreAmazon Alexa app on Android and iOS gets Hindi supportAmazon rolled out Hindi language support for Alexa last year. On the completion of one year, Amazon has now made Alexa available in Hindi for Android and iOS devices. Read moreGulzar to recount encounters with stalwarts of Indian cinema in upcoming bookFrom Satayajit Ray to R D Burman, and Kishore Kumar to Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, celebrated lyricist-writer-film director Gulzar will recount his encounters with stalwarts of Indian cinema, art, and literature in his new book slated to release in 2021, announced publishing house Penguin Random House India on Thursday. Read moreIPL 2020: Not Kohli or de Villiers, Sunil Gavaskar picks player who could be a match-winner for RCBRoyal Challengers Bangalore have been perennial underperformers in the Indian Premier League. Despite boasting some of the biggest names in cricket, RCB have been unable to stamp their authority in the IPL. Read moreOddly satisfying video of ice cube in a cup of coffee will amuse youAnyone who spends time on the Internet knows that it is filled with videos which are oddly satisfying. Read moreKia Sonet launched in India at starting price of ₹6.71 lakhKia on Friday launched the much awaited Sonet subcompact SUV in the Indian market starting at an introductory price of ₹6.71 lakh for the base HTE variant, extending up to ₹11.99 lakh for the top of the line GTX+ variant. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-out-of-compulsion-says-punjab-congress-chief-jakhar-on-harsimrat-kaur-badal-s-resignation-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qRV27vZLbqzXemoRCvzdqO.html
18-09-2020||India||PM dedicates Kosi rail mega bridge to nation, inaugurates several rail projects in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated the historical Kosi Rail Mega Bridge to the nation and inaugurated new rail lines and electrification projects in Bihar via video-conferencing. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal was present at the event. “These projects will improve Bihar’s railway network and also strengthen connectivity in areas of West Bengal and West India,” PM Modi said.The PM took a dig at the Congress government for not expediting the Kosi Rail line programme for which foundation stone was laid by Atal Bihari Vajpayee when his government was in power before 2004. “If the government continued to work at the rate it was working on after 2004, the project could never have been completed on time,” he said.“In the last 6 years, efforts are being made to shape Indian Railways as per the aspirations of new India and expectations of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat.’ The made in India trains are becoming part of rail network,“ PM Modi said.Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said that the Kosi Rail Mega Bridge will not only connect two places but also help the state’s economy grow. “This will aid in the overall development of the state,” he said.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar thanked PM Modi and Railway Minister for their work aimed at Bihar’s development. He expressed his gratitude for the projects being inaugurated on Friday.Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said that these rail lines will connect Jain and Buddhist pilgrimage sites and encourage tourism in Bihar.“The bridge has strategic importance along the India-Nepal border. The historical project to build the bridge, which is 1.9 kilometres long and has been constructed at a cost of Rs 516 crore, was sanctioned by the Centre in 2003-04,” a government release said.“The project was completed during the Covid-19 pandemic where the migrant labour also participated in its completion,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-kosi-rail-mega-bridge-in-bihar/story-U5ptbIhunFheDYggBLOWbK.html
18-09-2020||India||Covid-19 may lead to decline in life expectancy globally: Study||The Covid-19 pandemic could cause a short-term decline in life expectancy in the severely affected areas of the world, unless the spread of the disease is contained, according to a study. The research, published in the journal PLOS ONE, examined the impact of Covid-19-related deaths on life expectancy for four broad world regions across multiple rates of infection and age groups. “Our study provides the first assessment of the potential impact of Covid-19 on period life expectancies according to a range of scenarios of prevalence rates over a one-year period,” said Guillaume Marois, from the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) in Austria, who led the study. Period life expectancy is a measure of the number of years that an average person may expect to live. Prevalence is the proportion of a particular population found to be affected by a disease at a specific time. The researchers noted that improved healthcare, socioeconomic conditions, and education are among the key factors influencing our health and how long we live. Life expectancy has been used as a measure of human development across regions and countries. The researchers built a model that simulates the probability of getting infected by Covid-19, the probability of dying from it, and the probability of dying from another cause for a period of one year, taking into account the different fatality rates from the disease for different age groups. They then calculated the impact of Covid-19 on life expectancy by reconstructing life tables and life expectancies from the simulation and comparing them with those used for the inputs. The study found that at very low prevalence rates, the Covid-19 pandemic would not affect life expectancy. However, at prevalence rates of only 2 per cent, the disease could cause a drop in life expectancy in countries where average life expectancy is high -- roughly around 80 years. “At 10 per cent prevalence, the loss in life expectancy is likely to be above one year in high life-expectancy countries such as those in Europe and North America,” Morois said. “At 50 per cent, it would translate into three to nine years of life lost in high life-expectancy regions. In less developed regions, the impact is smaller given that there is already lower survival at older ages,” he added. However, Morois noted that even in the most affected regions, the life expectancy will likely recover once the pandemic is over. This type of analysis is useful to decision makers as it shows in broad strokes the potential cost of human lives lost due to the disease., according to the researchers. “These ‘what-if’ scenarios can give policy-relevant information on what could potentially happen to life expectancy under different levels of prevalence, which vary with public health strategies to reduce and prevent the spread of Covid-19,” IIASA World Population Program Deputy Director Raya Muttarak, a study coauthor, added. “We show that if the virus spread widely in the population, for instance, in the absence of any lockdowns and social distance measures, this could result in a notable drop in period life expectancy,” Muttarak said. The new study provides an important first estimate of the impact of Covid-19 on life expectancy, but new developments in healthcare or broader impacts of the pandemic on healthcare access or economic systems could also affect mortality rates and life expectancies. The researchers point out that the potential overload of health care systems at higher rates of prevalence would inevitably lead to higher mortality. However, as healthcare providers gain more experience and knowledge in treating the disease, mortality rates may decrease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-may-lead-to-decline-in-life-expectancy-globally-study/story-U2D9J9zXyfTjMNsRb9PKeL.html
18-09-2020||India||Covid-19: 18 Indian states report rise in active cases in the last 24 hours. Here’s a list||India on Friday reported 96,424 new cases of the coronavirus disease – a global record high – taking the cumulative tally past 5.21 million mark. With a constant surge in Covid-19 cases at a record-breaking pace, India is the second worst-hit country globally and is expected to overtake the United States, where the total positive cases are more than 6.67 million, in the coming few weeks.With reduced restrictions and easing of lockdowns, several states in India have reported a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease. According to the Union health ministry, five states are driving the nation’s cumulative tally and account for 60 per cent of the cases.In the last 24 hours, 18 states have reported a rise in active cases, showing the widespread virus outbreak in several parts of the country. Collectively, the 18 states have reported 7,778 active cases in the last 24 hours on Friday.Here is the list of 18 states which have reported a surge in active Covid-19 cases:BiharBihar has reported 197 active cases in the last 24 hours, pushing the total active cases in the state to 13,156. The state also reported seven deaths on Friday due to Covid-19.DelhiThe national capital reported 4,432 fresh coronavirus cases and 38 fresh casualties on Thursday. The surge in cases pushed the caseload past 2.34 lakh on Thursday. Delhi has 31,721 active cases, a rise by 807 than the previous day’s tally.GoaGoa has 5,612 active cases, according to the data released by the health ministry. The rise in active cases has been by 237 in the Union territory in the last 24 hours which recorded 644 new cases of Covid-19, taking the cumulative tally to 26,783. Jammu and KashmirLogging active cases at 20,239 – a rise by 736 in the past one day – Jammu and Kashmir remains one of the Union territory in the country which is witnessing a surge in cases as it logged more than 1,000 cases for 15th day in a row. With 1,467 fresh virus cases and 19 fatalities in the last 24 hours, Jammu and Kashmir’s cumulative tally reached 59,711.KarnatakaKarnataka is one of the worst-affected states in the country, recording one of the highest active cases with more than 100,000 infections. In the last 24 hours, Karnataka has seen 2,005 new active cases. The southern state on Thursday reported 9,366 fresh Covid-19 infections and 93 related fatalities, taking the infection count to 4,94,356 and the death toll to 7,629.KeralaThe southern state has 34,380 active cases in the country and has seen a jump by 1,605 in the active cases in the last 24 hoursLadakhThe active cases in the Union territory increased to 972 – a rise by 19 in the last 24 hours. Ladakh has not recorded any deaths in the last one day.MaharashtraIndia’s worst affected state due to the coronavirus outbreak, Maharashtra’s active cases rose by 4,629 in the last 24 hours. The state saw 24,619 fresh cases, pushing the state tally past 1.14 million mark. The death toll reached 31,351 in Maharashtra after 398 fresh casualties were recorded on Thursday.ManipurManipur recorded 90 active cases in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative active cases to 1,841 on Friday. MeghalayaManipur saw 81 active cases in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative active cases to 1,983 on Friday. MizoramManipur reported 18 new active cases in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative active cases to 585 on Friday. OdishaOdisha witnessed a rise in active cases by 621 on Friday, according to the health ministry. The total active cases in the state are at 33,026.PunjabThe northern state recorded a rise by 546 active cases in the last 24 hours on Friday. Punjab has 21,568 active cases, the health ministry data showed.RajasthanRajasthan has 17,495 active cases, a surge by 446 in the last 24 hours. The state recorded 1,793 fresh cases on Thursday, taking the total positive cases to 1,09,473.TelanganaTelangana remains one of the most affected states in the country which saw a rise in active cases by 230 on Friday, taking the total active cases in the state to 30,673.UttarakhandUttarakhand has seen a rise in active cases by 646, logging the total active cases in the state at 11,714 mark.Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh has 68,235 active cases, according to the data released by the health ministry on Friday. The active cases rose by 1,233 in the last 24 hours.West BengalWest Bengal reported 60 more Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, pushing the death toll to 4,183, a bulletin issued by the state’s health department said. The active cases rose by 189, taking the cumulative active cases to 24,336.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-18-indian-states-report-rise-in-active-cases-in-the-last-24-hours-here-s-a-list/story-IGOJLbZ92oGlM6UwivovpM.html
18-09-2020||India||Covid 19 cases, fatalities rise in Rajkot, triggering self-imposed lockdown||At least half of the 7,033 Covid-19 cases and 115 deaths recorded in Gujarat’s Rajkot have been reported in the past month, official data shows.Gujarat health department data shows that the number of Covid 19 cases increased from 3,289 on August 16 to 7,033 on September 16. The number of deaths rose to 115 from 54 in the same period.According to the official data, Rajkot’s case fatality rate is the lowest in the state but some recent incidents have raised suspicion of there being some discrepancy in the data on the number of deaths. A local Gujarati daily in Rajkot reported on September 3 that 32 bodies were cremated/buried in Rajkot city the previous day as per Covid-19 protocols but only three deaths were recorded in Gujarat’s Covid health bulletin.Rajkot municipal commissioner Udit Mishra denied hiding real death figures and said that a death audit committee determines the cause of deaths of Covid patients.“Some people have confused routine deaths with Covid deaths. This may be because suspected Covid patients are cremated following the Covid protocol when they die. Covid death figures are decided by the audit committee,” said Mishra.Former president of the Rajkot medical association (RMA) Dr Chetan Lalseta said: “One should not attribute all deaths to Rajkot district. Many terminally ill patients coming from the neighbouring districts also contribute to the high death numbers in Rajkot.”Still, the situation turned so bad that the Gujarat government had to rush its health secretary Jayanti Ravi with a team of health experts and doctors to the home town of chief minister Vijay Rupani on August 31 to bring the situation under control.“All efforts are being made to reduce fatalities in Rajkot district. Around 15 doctors from other districts would be stationed here and additional ventilators would be provided,” news agency PTI quoted her as saying on August 31.Also Read: ‘Great leader and loyal friend’: US President Trump extends birthday wishes to PM ModiAs the cases have risen exponentially, residents have gone into isolation.“We had no option but to go for a self-imposed complete lockdown as cases were rising very fast and lockdown is the only way to control the chain of transmission,” said Suresh Kumar, communications in-charge of the Rajkot wholesale textile merchants association.He said the voluntary lockdown is almost complete with essential good shops opening for limited hours every day. “There is a huge fear among people as the virus is spreading very fast. People are not coming out of their homes voluntarily now,” he said.Also Read: Construction of Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train corridor to create 90,000 jobsLalseta said a huge spike in Covid-19 cases was witnessed after the Janmashtami festival (August 11) when people gathered in large numbers despite restrictions imposed by the state government.As the cases increased, 160 out of the 300 registered doctors in the city were infected, resulting in the hampering of disease containment measures. He added that things were looking better now with 90% of doctors having recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-fatalities-rise-in-rajkot-triggering-self-imposed-lockdown/story-bT3bTSQuYW1xTqVBW2r4XJ.html
18-09-2020||India||‘What can be expected from govt that says cow urine can cure disease’: TMC MP||While taking part in the discussion over the Homeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill in the Rajya Sabha, All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Shantanu Sen accused the Central Government of promoting private institutions and said “What can be expected from a government that says that drinking cow urine can cure disease or Covid-19? They are indirectly promoting private medical colleges and quackery.”Notably, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had moved a motion to take up Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha in the morning. He claimed that the Central Council of Homoeopathy did not cooperate with the Centre in carrying out its duties.BJP MP Prasanna Acharya from Odisha also took part in the discussion and was of the view that there is a dire need to make the homoeopathy system “robust” for the needy.“Homoeopathy is an old Indian system of medicine and it is accessible to the poor. So we need to make it robust.” However, he stressed on the proper need for demarcation of powers and functions which has not been addressed in the bill,” Acharya said in the Upper House during a discussion over the Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MP T Siva claimed that most Bills have taken state government powers stating, “This is one more attempt of this government to strike at roots of federalism. From the day they assumed office, most Bills passed have taken away the powers of state government.”“Standing Committee has very clearly stated that there is no representation of State Medical Councils in the Advisory Council. So, it is recommended that there should be a provision for representation of elected members of State Medical Councils,” the DMK MP added.Moreover, Congress leader Ripun Bora, after briefly describing the history of the Council stated that the government has a history of “taking away the autonomy “ of institutes and organisations.The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was introduced in Rajya Sabha on September 14, 2020. The Bill amends the Homoeopathy Central Council Act, 1973.The Act sets up the Central Council of Homoeopathy which regulates homoeopathic education and practice. The Bill replaces the Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 which was promulgated on April 24, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-can-be-expected-from-govt-that-says-cow-urine-can-cure-disease-tmc-mp/story-KkxHuHhpTk1h6YEis5U91K.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Out of compulsion’: Punjab Congress chief Jakhar on Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Friday called Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet over the Centre’s farm bills a ‘compulsion.’Jakhar further said the SAD has, in fact, ended up ‘making a laughing stock of themselves.’ “It was a compulsion. It wasn’t out of any love for farmers. For four months they tried to fool farmers but ended up making a laughing stock of themselves. I think people have seen through it,” he said.“In process, they also lost their respect in the NDA. Precisely because they have no backing from farmers, Modi ji thought it well to dump them because without support from farmers, the SAD is nothing but a burden for them,” the Congress leader added.  In the process, they also lost their respect in NDA. Precisely because they have no backing from farmers, Modi ji thought it well to dump them because without support from farmers, Shiromani Akali Dal is nothing but a burden for them: Sunil Jakhar, Punjab Congress chief https://t.co/7rzIkmZOAjCongress leaders have been among vocal critics of the bills, with four MPs from Punjab burning copies of the legislations inside the Parliament premises on Thursday. They have called the bills a ‘death knell for the future of farming.’Farmers across Punjab and Haryana have been protesting for the last few weeks against the central government’s three new farm bills, which, they say, will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP), thus leaving them at the ‘mercy’ of big corporates.The government, however, says the bills will help farmers across the country get a better market and price for their produce. Prime Minister Modi has himself given assurance the MSP will stay.The SAD, which will continue to support the government from outside, for now, is the oldest ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in power at the Centre.Badal was the sole representative of the Punjab-based party in the central government, as food processing industries minister. Her portfolio has been allocated as an additional charge to Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-of-compulsion-punjab-congress-chief-jakhar-on-harsimrat-kaur-badal-s-resignation/story-Ckzrcj85idFRt2HWl8fupO.html
18-09-2020||India||Dubai suspends AI Express flights till Oct 2 for flouting Covid-19 guidelines||The Dubai Civil Aviation Authority has suspended Air India Express flights till October 2 for allegedly bringing passengers with Covid-positive certificates twice during the last couple of weeks, senior government officials said on Friday. As per the UAE government rules, each passenger travelling from India need to bring original Covid-negative certificate from RT-PCR test done 96 hours prior to the journey. “A passenger, who had a Covid-positive certificate dated September 2, travelled on Air India Express’ Jaipur-Dubai flight on September 4. A similar incident had happened with a passenger on one of the airline’s other Dubai flights previously,” said one of the officials. Therefore, the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority has suspended Air India Express flights from September 18 to October 2, the officials stated. Both the incidents of passengers flying with Covid-positive certificates to Dubai from India on Air India Express flights happened during the last couple of weeks, the officials noted. When asked about this matter, Air India Express said it is focusing on reducing the hardship of the passengers and it plans to operate its four Dubai flights, scheduled to operate from India on Friday, to Sharjah instead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dubai-suspends-ai-express-flights-till-oct-2-for-flouting-covid-19-guidelines/story-gbR0kONg4BpyC3SzheNB8K.html
18-09-2020||India||Congress to move EC after BJP minister says govt can manipulate elections||The Congress has said it will lodge a complaint with the Election Commission (EC) over ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s alleged attempts to misuse government machinery to manipulate elections after a video went viral on social media showing Madhya Pradesh minister Imarti Devi purportedly saying they can win any seat in the crucial by-polls in November by just telling a collector to ensure that. The BJP enjoys a wafer-thin majority in the 230-member state assembly. It needs to win nine out of 28 seats for which by-polls are scheduled to stay in power. The BJP currently has 107 seats while Congress 88 in the House with an effective strength of 202. Devi was among the 21 Congress lawmakers whose resignations brought down chief minister Kamal Nath’s government in March and paved the way for BJP’s return to power.Also Read: Harsimrat Kaur ejects out of Cabinet over farm bills, her party stays in NDAIn the video, she is seen addressing a gathering in a village in her Dabra constituency, where she is due to contest the bypolls in November. “We [BJP] need only eight seats whereas Congress needs at least 27 seats. Please tell me if it is possible that the government will keep its eyes shut and they will win all the seats? The government enjoys so much majority that it can get any seat just by telling a collector that it wants this seat,” she is purportedly heard saying in the 30-second video. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video.Devi said her statement was distorted and that she had said it is the duty of officers to provide benefits of government schemes to the people and develop the area. “If officers work properly, the government will get the benefits of the schemes.”Congress spokesman JP Dhanopia said they will lodge a complaint with the EC. “What the minister Imarti Devi said speaks volumes about the ruling party’s design to misuse government machinery during the bypolls.”BJP leader Hitesh Bajpai said Devi has denied having made such a statement. “Distorting her statement must be a handiwork of some mischievous elements to defame the government and the ruling party. People know well who these elements are. In the manner the video has been edited gives strong evidence that there are some people behind it.”Devi was also a minister in the Kamal Nath government before she joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-move-ec-after-bjp-minister-says-govt-can-manipulate-elections/story-6AhEFBtag4CFm5LSKLBu0H.html
18-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Bombay HC to hear bail pleas of 3 accused in drugs case||Bombay High Court is on Friday scheduled to hear the bail pleas of three people, including actor Rhea Chakraborty’s associate Samuel Marshal Miranda, arrested in the drugs case related to the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput.A bench of Justice Sarang Kotwal is expected to hear the bail applications of Miranda, Rajput’s personal staff Dipesh Sawant and alleged drug peddler Abdul Basit Parihar at around 3pm.A special court in Mumbai had last week rejected the bail plea of actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Dipesh Sawant, Samuel Miranda, Abdul Basit and Zaid Vilatra. However, Rhea and her brother have not moved a bail plea in the high court yet.Also read: AIIMS to submit final report next weekThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which has arrested the accused in the drugs case related to the actor’s death, had opposed their bail pleas in the special court. According to NCB, Sawant was arrested for his role in procuring and handling of drugs based on evidence and statements.The NCB had launched an investigation after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with Sushant’s death.Also read: Rakul Preet Singh moves HC alleging a ‘media trial’, court issues noticeED had registered an Enforcement Case Information Report in the late actor’s death case on July 31 after a first information report (FIR) was filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh against Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-bombay-hc-to-hear-bail-pleas-of-3-accused-in-drugs-case/story-YWUkg52tXAZyz3JDYazkvM.html
18-09-2020||India||Allies for decades, SAD-BJP move away as govt passes farm bills||In April 2019, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was slated to file his nomination papers for the Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency, a gesture of the PM had created quite a flutter on social media.The PM had touched the feet of veteran Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) leader and former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal (92), which was recorded by TV cameras for posterity.Badal is over two decades senior to the PM both in age and politics. The PM’s respect for the SAD’s patron had underlined the importance of the ties between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the SAD, the oldest constituent in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The BJP top brass has always been proud of its special ties with the SAD for decades. Also Read: Farm bills: Farmers’ body announces three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation in Punjab from September 24In May 1996, when the BJP had emerged as the single-largest party after the parliamentary polls, the SAD was the first political entity to endorse the former’s bid to form the government at the Centre. Perhaps, SAD has been the only BJP ally, whose unflinching loyalty to the senior partner has never been in doubt through the years. Leaders of both parties valued each other’s role in agitations, especially during the Emergency, declared by the then PM Indira Gandhi, between June 25, 1975 and March 21, 1977. In Punjab, the SAD’s home turf, the BJP is largely seen as an urban political force, while the junior ally has deep rural connect in the agrarian state.The SAD-BJP alliance had ruled Punjab for a decade between 2007 and 2017. This was largely because the SAD had managed to wean away a section of urban voters, who had chosen the Congress in the past.Also Read: Why farm sector reform bills are angering farmers: 5 things you need to knowLeaders from both the parties on various occasions had described the alliance as unbreakable and everlasting.The BJP was content to play second fiddle to the SAD in the latter’s bastion, despite the former calling the shots at the Centre. The exit of the BJP’s most prominent Jat Sikh and Punjabi face, Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had advocated a tougher stance against the Badals, is also attributed to the party leadership’s decision not to upset the SAD.However, there were strains, despite a common ideological mooring to oppose the Congress. Many felt that the Akalis had moved away from their core Panthic agenda because of the close proximity with the BJP.The SAD, which is trying to regain its lost ground in Punjab to the ruling Congress and a new entrant the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), is primed to play the role of an aggressive opposition in state politics after the BJP’s oldest ally withdrew from the NDA government on Thursday. Union minister for food processing Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Modi government on Thursday in protest against the legislations aimed to liberalise trade in agricultural commodities. The timing could not have been more opportune as the SAD’s move is aimed at tapping its huge rural constituency, where farmers’ issues have traditionally struck electoral chords.Though the lone SAD representative in the Modi government has resigned, the party is still a part of the NDA. Now, the decades-old ties are on the line as the Centre’s legislative push is seen to hit the SAD where it hurts the most – anti-farmers’ issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allies-for-decades-sad-bjp-move-away-as-govt-passes-farm-bills/story-aC8bUnOLGkbo7Kp9iSEC1M.html
18-09-2020||India||India readies for QUAD and 2 plus 2 dialogues, China is elephant in the room||United States, India, Australia and Japan are in conversation to decide the venue and date of QUAD security dialogue next month, which will be followed by the 2 plus 2 dialogue between India and US here. As of now, Japan is an option for the QUAD dialogue or both QUAD and 2 plus 2 dialogues could be held back to back in New Delhi late next month.The QUAD dialogue is an informal tie-up between democratic countries that share military logistics support, inter-operability through exercises and information and are committed to keep the Indo-Pacific sea lanes of communication free from artificial constructs and constraints. The QUAD dialogue will be held in person between US secretary of state Mike Pompeo, Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar, Japanese foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi and Australian foreign minister Marise Payne. The ministers are guided by the leadership of the four countries who share personal rapport and global visions for peace. The delay in the date and venue is due to the change of government in Japan with prime minister Yoshihide Suga taking over from ailing Shinzo Abe.For the two plus two dialogue, defence minister Rajnath Singh will join with US secretary of defence Mark Esper in New Delhi.Although the QUAD is not targeted at any particular country, the informal group is closely watching the rise of wolf warriors in Communist China and its impact on security of Indo-Pacific and Indian Ocean with Beijing opening fronts against all four QUAD members---from land disputes to exports to data extraction. The rise of QUAD is a direct consequence of China claiming the entire South China Sea through artificial nine dash line which has been rejected by the global body tribunal.QUAD is expected to be further strengthened as India has 2 plus 2 dialogue with US and Japan at ministerial level and with Australia at the foreign secretary level. All the four nations time and again conduct military exercises and the chances of QUAD navies participating under the rubric of Malabar exercises is very high though the decision is still to be taken.The QUAD will be followed by the two plus two in Delhi, with US and India to initial the long pending foundational basic exchange and cooperation agreement for sharing geospatial data. While the US is ready to supply top of the line military hardware to India including armed drones, it has been left to the latter to work out what it requires to deal with a rising global power next door.Given the fact that the People’s Liberation Army is dragging its feet on total disengagement from Ladakh sector, it is quite obvious that the Chinese aggression in western sector in May 2020 will be a hot topic of discussion for both QUAD dialogue and 2 plus 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-readies-for-quad-and-2-plus-2-dialogues-china-is-elephant-in-the-room/story-E9fBjJLOaOvKVWvJO7QM5I.html
18-09-2020||India||With 96,424 new Covid-19 cases, India’s tally surges past 5.2 million||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally surged to 5,214,677 after 96,424 new cases and 1,174 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours from across the country, according to the Union health ministry on Friday.The health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed there were 1,017,754 active cases and the country’s death toll has gone up to 84,372.Close to half or 48.45% of the active cases of Covid-19 are concentrated in three states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the ministry said on Thursday. Along with Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, these states contribute nearly 60% of the total active cases in the country, it added.Also read | Moderna shares Covid-19 vaccine trial blueprints, Pfizer followsAccording to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am, 87,472 Covid-19 patients recovered between Thursday and Friday morning. With this, the number of recoveries in India has climbed to 4,112,551 and the recovery rate to 78.86%.India has recorded more than 82,000 recoveries for three days in a row now and the recovered cases exceed active ones by more than 3 million, according to the ministry’s data.“These high levels of recovery have resulted in a 100% increase in the number of recovered cases in the past 30 days. Maharashtra (17,559) contributed more than one-fifth of the new recoveries (21.22%) while the States of Andhra Pradesh (10,845), Karnataka (6,580), Uttar Pradesh (6,476) and Tamil Nadu (5,768) contributed 35.87% of the new recoveries,” the health ministry said on Thursday.Also read | Parliament tweaks testing after 2 more MPs test Covid-19 positiveIt added that these states together account for 57.1% of total new recoveries.Maharashtra accounted for more than 40% of the new deaths related to the coronavirus disease. The following four States of Uttar Pradesh (86), Punjab (78), Andhra Pradesh (64), West Bengal (61) contributed 25.5% of the fatalities in the last 24 hours, the ministry had said on Thursday.There are more than 30 million coronavirus disease cases worldwide and 944,887 people have succumbed to the viral disease, according to Johns Hopkins University’s Covid-19 data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-96-424-new-covid-19-cases-india-s-tally-surges-past-5-2-million/story-YUVFsXgpT60kQSdDIrZMoM.html
18-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: What to expect today||Finance-related bills will come up for passage and introduction in Parliament on Friday, amid rising Covid-19 cases within the Parliament complex, posing new challenges before the monsoon session. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will introduce The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020. The bill will replace an ordinance that was promulgated on March 31 to provide certain relaxations related to compliance, such as extension of time limit and waiver of penalty, in relation to the Income Tax Act, 1961 (IT Act), some Finance Acts, the Central Excise Act, 1944, the Customs Act, 1962, and the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988. The Parliament will quickly clear the supplementary demand for grants and the related appropriation bills in the Lok Sabha on Friday. The appropriation bills or additional budgetary support to some ministries are raised if some ministries need extra money to tackle excess expenses. Sitharaman will also move The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill, 202 and The Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 for passage. In the Rajya Sabha, the government will try to pass The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Ayush ministry will also move the bill to amend the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970 for passage. The Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Bill, 2020 — that was brought to reduce MPs’ salaries by 30% — will also be passed in the Upper House. The Indian Institutes of Information Technology Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020 will also be passed. The Parliament complex will also kickstart a tightened health safety protocol under which MPs would be encouraged to undergo a fresh round of RT-PCR tests even as sanitisation of the chambers and Parliament building has been intensified following the recent Covid cases. “No formal direction has been issued for MPs yet as we saw many of them are already taking a repeat RT-PCR test on their own. Speaker’s office has already clarified that any lawmaker is free to take as many tests as he wants,” said a senior official involved in the safety planning. An internal circular of the Lok Sabha, accessed by HT, said that any ministry officials who want to come to the Officials Gallery will have to show RT-PCR negative report. “The officials issued with ‘official gallery’ passes must carry/show their RT-PCR (negative) report for Covid-19 not more than 72 hours before their visit to Parliament House. The official gallery is right next to the first row of the ruling benches and various ministry officials sit there to assist their ministers as and when there is a debate related to their sector. Both Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla hurriedly consulted various experts and lawmakers before tightening the current Covid safety protocols. The three new cases involving MPs left both the presiding officers worried and resulted in a new, tight set of norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-what-to-expect-today/story-uCrzHFWgZb3PYR6qa7IBhN.html
18-09-2020||India||Parliament tweaks testing after 2 more MPs test Covid +ve||Repeat RT-PCR tests for lawmakers, mandatory tests for government officials visiting parliament, and daily antigen tests for reporters and Parliament officials — these are part of the tighter safety norms that have been hurriedly put in place after more Members of Parliament (MPs), who attended the ongoing monsoon session, tested positive for the coronavirus disease.The changes came after Union tourism and culture minister Prahlad Patel and BJP’s senior Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, a day after transport minister Nitin Gadkari did. All three had tested negative in the gold standard RT-PCR tests over the weekend, and experts said their positive tests points to the need for frequent repeat testing — and for the lawmakers attending Parliament’s ongoing session to wear masks and maintain social distancing even while out of the House.Also read: Nitin Gadkari tests Covid +ve 2 days after attending monsoon sessionParliament officials said lawmakers would be encouraged to undergo a fresh round of RT-PCR tests and that more intensive sanitisation of the chambers and Parliament building is happening. All three leaders attended Parliament before testing positive. They also didn’t rule out a shorter-than-planned monsoon session if more lawmakers attending it test positive.“No formal direction has been issued to MPs yet (on the tests) as we see that many of them are already taking a repeat RT-PCR test on their own. The speaker’s office has already clarified that a lawmaker is free to take as many tests as he want,” said a senior official involved in keeping Parliament safe.An internal Lok Sabha circular, reviewed by HT, said that ministry officials who want to come to the Official Gallery will have to show a negative RT-PCR test report taken ”not more than 72 hours before their visit to Parliament House”.The gallery is right next to the first row of the treasury benches and various ministry officials sit there to assist their ministers as and when there is a debate related to their department.Both Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla hurriedly consulted various experts and lawmakers before tightening the current Covid safety protocols. The three new cases involving MPs have left both presiding officers worried and resulted in a new, tighter set of rules.Also read: Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tests positive for Covid-19Parliament has also made it mandatory for its officials dealing with MPs and the public to undertake daily rapid antigen tests. The results of these are usually available in 15-20 minutes as against a minimum of 5-6 hours for the RT-PCR test. They are not as accurate, though.The circular added: “Officials issued with general entry session passes must carry/show their rapid antigen (negative) report for the same day of their visit to Parliament House.”Journalists entering Parliament will also have to undergo daily antigen tests.Patel said on Twitter on Thursday morning: “My Covid report came positive last night. Those who met me on Tuesday should maintain caution.”Similarly, Sahasrabuddhe, president of Indian Council for Cultural Relations, took to the Twitter to announce, “Last Friday, got examined and was tested Negative, hence attended Parliament! But last night I had headache+mild fever, got examined and have tested Positive for Covid-19! .”Top officials refused to rule out a curtailment of the monsoon session if cases continue to grow in the two Houses. A top functionary told HT on Thursday: “That is always an option. But we also have to think how to balance the fact that on one side we are keeping all services such as metro rails, shops, buses open, but we ourselves are shutting down the session.”The monsoon session, delayed by two months due to the pandemic, started on September 14 after all lawmakers, officials and journalists covering the session were tested for Covid-19. It also saw unprecedented arrangements including MPs of one House spread across both Houses of Parliament to maintain social distancing, plexiglass sheets separating seats, a sit-and-speak order, and the two Houses working in shifts.With the three MPs, thus far, 32 lawmakers have tested positive since late last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-tweaks-testing-after-2-more-mps-test-covid-ve/story-xUeBbitpGr5iG1oC1mPzmN.html
18-09-2020||India||Govt to add 4,000 more Janaushadhi stores in next 5 years||The government will add around 4,000 more Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendras (PMBJK), the public outlets offering medicines at subsidised prices, over the next five years.“…with a vision to provide quality medicines at affordable rates for the common man, especially the poor, the government has set a target to increase the number of PMBJK to 10,500 by March 2025,” said a statement from the Union ministry of chemicals and fertilisers.At present, there are 6,606 PMBJK outlets, which sell subsidised generic medicines across the country.Also Read: Wearing glasses may offer some protection from Covid-19, but more studies needed: ScientistsThe proposed new PMBJK outlets will cover all the 736 districts in the country, making affordable medicines accessible to everyone.“This will ensure easy reach of affordable medicine to the public in every nook and corner of the country,” the statement added.The government is putting an expansion plan in place through effective information technology (IT)-enabled logistics and supply chain management for ensuring real-time distribution of medicines at all the outlets in a bid to avoid a scarcity of stocks. Also Read: Will Covid-19 vaccine be ready by this year? Trump promises defy the lessons of pharmaceutical historySuch a crisis had occurred during the 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions that were enforced from March 25 in a bid to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. “Between March and June, PMBJK had faced many challenges regarding shortage of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and other raw materials of pharmaceuticals, disturbance in supply of medicines to the centres from central and regional warehouses due to non-availability of vehicles for transportation, etc. Keeping this in view, the expansion plan is being chalked out,” the ministry said.At present, PMBJK stocks are stored in four warehouses that are located in Gurugram, Chennai, Bengaluru and Guwahati. Plans are afoot to open two more warehouses in western and central India. The government is also considering the appointment of distributors in states and union territories (UTs) in a bid to strengthen the supply chain system.The scheme has been approved with a budget of Rs 490 crore between 2020-21 and 2024- 25. “Despite the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions and testing times because of the pandemic, PMBJK achieved appreciable sales turnover of Rs 146.59 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21, as compared to Rs 75.48 crore achieved in the same year-ago period. Between July and September 15, the stores added sales of Rs 109.43 crore. The total sale up to September 15 is Rs 256.02 crore. It has drastically brought down the prices of quality medicines and making medicines available within the reach of large section of population, especially the poor,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-add-4-000-more-janaushadhi-stores-in-next-5-years/story-W002sYqsgKp38Buhh4XQvO.html
18-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farmers in Punjab to stop trains in protest against Centre’s farm bills and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Farm bills: Farmers’ body announces three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation in Punjab from September 24Farmers in Punjab will protest against the central government’s three farm-related bills by staging a three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation across the state from September 24-26, a farmers’ body has announced. Read morePM Modi to inaugurate Kosi Rail Mega Bridge in Bihar todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate the Kosi Rail Mega Bridge in Bihar at 12pm on Friday. Apart from the bridge, the PM will inaugurate 12 other rail projects related to passenger facilities for the benefit of the state, a Railway Ministry release said. Read moreIndia welcomes Abraham Accords, calls for talks on ‘two-state solution’India on Thursday welcomed the signing of the Abraham Accords by the US, Israel, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and reiterated its call for direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians for a “two-state solution”. Read moreKangana Ranaut says she is never one to start fights: ‘I will quit Twitter if anyone can prove otherwise’From the Shiv Sena to Urmila Matondkar, Kangana Ranaut is engaged in multiple wars of words with multiple parties at the moment. However, she insists that she is never the one to start a fight. In a tweet shared on late Thursday night, Kangana said she would quit Twitter if proven wrong. Read moreApple’s first online store in India to launch on September 23Apple is finally debuting its online store in India, and it is scheduled to launch on September 23. Apple will offer its full range of products along with direct customer support through online team members. Read moreHarsh Goenka posts clip that shows Covid-19 safety measures in hat-ke styleThough the Covid-19 unlocking is taking place, many share videos and images on social media to remind people about the importance of following proper precautionary measures. The latest inclusion in that list is business tycoon Harsh Goenka who shared a video highlighting the same. Read moreIPL 2020: MS Dhoni on the verge of going past AB de Villiers in elite listChennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni will return to cricket after a 14-month gap when his side takes on defending champions Mumbai Indians in the IPL 2020 opener on Saturday in Abu Dhabi. Dhoni can make the occasion even more special if he brings out his helicopter and whack a few sixes. Read more‘Flattening of Covid-19 curve requires collaborative efforts’: Harsh VardhanUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan spoke at a joint meeting with G20 finance and health ministers. Harsh Vardhan said that flattening of the curve requires collaborative efforts. “Current pandemic highlights the need for global solidarity. Flattening the curve will require collaborative efforts. Need to focus on creating an effective healthcare system. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farmers-in-punjab-to-stop-trains-against-centre-s-farm-bills-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8bOIjNf09FO06ihJDYvFdJ.html
18-09-2020||India||Maoist with reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head arrested by MP police||A Maoist carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head was arrested by Madhya Pradesh police in Balaghat district on Thursday morning, said police. Badal Singh Markam, a resident of Chhattisgarh, was nabbed from a forest area of Kanha Tiger Reserve.Inspector general (IG) of police, Balaghat, KP Venkateshwar said Badal Singh Markam was currently with Bastar Vistardalam unit of the banned ultras. Police also recovered a pistol from his possession.” “Police got information on Thursday morning that two Maoists including Markam had come to Bandha Tola village of the district. During an operation to nab him, two people including Markam were spotted. Markam was nabbed from a forest area of Kanha Tiger reserve after a chase while his companion managed to escape,” said the IG. Also Read: Rs 10 lakh hike in ex-gratia for Odisha cops and staff killed by MaoistsHe said other Maoists started firing on the police team when it was returning after arresting Markam. “Police also fired in reply. Later, the insurgents fled from the forest area. No one sustained injury in the encounter,” he added. According to Balaghat police, this was the police’s second recent encounter with Maoists.On September 6, a tribal was allegedly killed during an alleged encounter with Maoists in Balaghat. A Chhattisgarh minister had demanded a high level probe in the matter calling it a fake encounter. The MP government ordered a CID inquiry into the death of the tribal, on Wednesday. Earlier, a magisterial inquiry had been ordered by Balaghat collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-with-reward-of-rs-10-lakh-on-his-head-arrested-by-mp-police/story-QR8oTQKj6uwiPlCG4w8PPL.html
18-09-2020||India||No power can stop Indian forces from patrolling Ladakh areas, asserts Rajnath Singh||No force in the world can stop the Indian Army from patrolling borders, defence minister Rajnath Singh told lawmakers in Parliament on Thursday, signalling a resolve to regain access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).In tensions that began in early May, Indian and Chinese troops have come face-to-face at multiple points along the de-factor border, known as the LAC. In some of these areas, particularly the Finger Area and Depsang in Ladakh, Indian forces have been cut off from reaching areas they could previously patrol.Singh’s remark came in response to comments by former defence minister AK Anthony, who was reacting to the statement by the incumbent made earlier in Rajya Sabha. “The former defence minister has said that China is stopping us from patrolling. I want to make it clear that is the reason for our fight with China. These were patrolling points that were traditional and are well-defined,” he said. Singh added: “...No force in the world can stop Indian jawans from patrolling. If our soldiers have made sacrifices, it is for this reason that they have laid down their lives.”Antony also said that the ongoing talks with China should result in India being able to restore how things were till mid-April in the eastern Ladakh theatre and the outcome should allow that forces are able to patrol right up to India’s perception of its border. In the statement earlier, Singh gave a detailed assessment of the Ladakh situation. “It is easy to start wars but there is no control over how they end,” the minister said, underscoring the important of restraint. While the rest of the statement was similar to that delivered in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, the defence minister took some questions from members in the Upper House. He is also due to separately hold a closed-door meeting with opposition leaders on the sensitive issue.“It is reassuring to hear the defence minister say that the army will patrol to its traditional areas in eastern Ladakh. However, this will only happen if there is an agreement on disengagement and a return to previous protocols,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). The Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) aggressive forward deployments in the eastern Ladakh theatre have hindered the Indian Army’s patrolling patterns in Depsang, Finger Area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, Gogra and Kongka La, officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday, speaking on the condition of anonymity. While Depsang was not among the friction points on the LAC that Singh mentioned in his statement, the officials said the PLA’s deployments in forward areas in Depsang have hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. Also read: China not honouring customary alignment of boundary with India: Rajnath SinghThe Depsang plains lie south of Daulat Beg Oldie in a strategic area that the military calls Sub-Sector North (SSN).Before the current standoff began, the Indian Army patrolled right up to India’s perception of the LAC marked either by geographical features or so-called PPs (in the absence of natural features) dotting the LAC. In his statement, Singh said China has mobilised a large number of troops and weapons systems along the LAC and the eastern Ladakh theatre, and “there are several friction areas, including Gogra, Kongka La and north and south banks of the Pangong Lake.” The Indian Army took control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline in the first week of September, shortly after it moved and occupied strategic heights on the southern bank to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory, in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4, the army would patrol right up to Finger 8 that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. Fingers 4 and 8 are eight kilometre apart. The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger 8, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger 4. In the Rajya Sabha, Antony flagged concerns about the PLA’s forward deployments restricting the scope of Indian patrolling activity in the Finger Area, a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake. “The other areas where patrolling activity has been affected include Kongka La and Gogra. These areas have traditionally not been disputed as both sides had a somewhat common perception of the LAC. But Depsang and Finger Area are the main worry,” the officials said. In 2013, the PLA set up positions 19km into the Indian side of the LAC in the Depsang sector and triggered a face-off that took three weeks to resolve. Prepared for the long haul in the Ladakh theatre, India has made arrangements to provide logistics support to its soldiers deployed in forward areas — more than 50,000 Indian troops are likely to remain stationed in the theatre through the winter months to deal with any provocation by the Chinese forces.Separately on Thursday, the ministry of external affairs said China should sincerely work towards resolving issues. “The Chinese side should sincerely work with the Indian side for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas, including Pangong Lake, as well as de-escalation in border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols on maintenance of peace and tranquility in border areas,” said spokesperson Anurag Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-power-can-stop-indian-forces-from-patrolling-ladakh-areas-asserts-rajnath-singh/story-zfr9TqXzW9nOzsK3SmmqAL.html
18-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Farmers’ body announces three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation in Punjab from September 24||Farmers in Punjab will protest against the central government’s three farm-related bills by staging a three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation across the state from September 24-26, a farmers’ body has announced.“We have decided to hold a rail roko agitation from September 24 to 26 in the state against the farm bills,” Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said.Already, different farmer organisations in Punjab have given a call for a ‘bandh’ on September 25 in protest against the three farm bills. The farmers argue that the legislations would lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the ‘mercy’ of big corporates.The government, however, says that the bills will help farmers across the country get a better market for their price and produce.Nevertheless, farmers in both Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against the legislations for weeks now. On September 10, protesting farmers were lathicharged in Haryana’s Kurukshetra.On Thursday, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP and union minister of food processing industries, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, resigned from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet as a mark of protest against the bills. The party, however, will continue to support the government from the outside.Badal was the only SAD representative in the Modi government. The party from Punjab is the oldest ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in power at the Centre.“Harsimrat Kaur Badal ji’s resignation has come very late. It’s to calm down anger of people. Even today, if Sukhbir Badal ji realises, then he should ‘gherao’ the Parliament with lakhs of his workers,” Pandher later said on the minister’s resignation.While one of the three bills- -the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020- -was passed on Tuesday, two others were passed by the Lok Sabha on Thursday, with the SAD voting against them.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-farmers-body-announces-three-day-rail-roko-agitation-in-punjab-from-september-24/story-qymu8FM7Cs4od2qOVbHGiI.html
18-09-2020||India||Forces trying to mislead farmers, farm bill will lead to increased profits: PM Modi||Hailing the passage of three farm sector bills in Lok Sabha, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday described these proposed legislations as historic and asserted that they will rid farmers and the farm sector of middlemen and other bottlenecks. With ruling BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal joining the opposition in protesting these bills, Modi asserted that many forces are trying to “mislead’ farmers and assured the farming community that minimum support price (MSP) and government procurement of their produce will continue along with a lot of other options for them.Also read: ‘System of MSP, govt procurement retained’: PM assures farmers after passage of agricultural reform bills These reforms will provide new opportunities to farmers to sell their produce and will lead to increased profits for them, he said. Modi also urged farmers and those associated with the agriculture sector to listen to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s reply to the discussion on these bills. “These agriculture reforms will provide new avenues to farmers to sell their produce which will increase their profits. Agriculture sector will benefit from modern technology and our farmers will also be empowered,” the prime minister said in a series of tweets. Many forces are trying to mislead farmers, he added, while assuring them of the benefits of these reforms. Lok Sabha on Thursday passed the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill.Also read: Congress MPs burn copies of farm bills It has already passed Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. The three bills will now be tabled in Rajya Sabha and become laws after the Upper House also passes them. They will replace ordinances promulgated by the Union government. The two bills were passed by voice vote in Lok Sabha earlier in the evening amid protests by opposition parties with SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also vehemently opposing them, calling these measures as anti-farmers. The SAD’s lone member in the Union Cabinet Harsimrat Kaur Badal quit the government, accusing it of not taking farmers on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-trying-to-mislead-farmers-farm-bill-will-lead-to-increased-profits-pm-modi/story-5C3JysriIrLP3OrkwHMw7L.html
18-09-2020||India||India welcomes Abraham Accords, calls for talks on ‘two-state solution’||India on Thursday welcomed the signing of the Abraham Accords by the US, Israel, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and reiterated its call for direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians for a “two-state solution”. US President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu joined the foreign ministers of Bahrain and the UAE for the signing of the historic agreements aimed at normalising relations between Israel and the Arab countries. They came almost 26 years after the signing of a declaration for a peace deal between Israel and Jordan. “We have followed the Abraham Accords signed in Washington DC by the UAE, Bahrain, Israel and the US. As I have said earlier, India has always supported peace and stability in West Asia, which is our extended neighbourhood,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “As such, we welcome these agreements for normalisation of relations between Israel and the UAE and Bahrain,” he added. Srivastava reflected the fine balance struck by India in its ties with Israel and the Arab states when he said that New Delhi will “also continue our traditional support for the Palestinian cause”. India, he said, hopes for the “early resumption of direct negotiations for an acceptable two-state solution”. Also Read: What the Israel-UAE-Bahrain accord means for India and the worldPrime Minister Narendra Modi became the first Indian premier to visit Israel, with which India has forged strong ties in the fields of defence, technology and trade. At the same time, the Modi government has worked assiduously to court Arab countries in West Asia, which is home to some eight million expatriates and a key source of energy. Under the Abraham Accords, the UAE and Bahrain will normalise their relations with Israel and expand engagements in politics, security, trade and connectivity. More Arab states are expected to ink similar agreements with Israel, while some countries such as Saudi Arabia have said they stand with the Palestinian people and sought a comprehensive solution to the Palestinian issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-welcomes-abraham-accords-calls-for-talks-on-two-state-solution/story-g5MOU9PIpwxQ0Zzc5CfZ3N.html
18-09-2020||India||President accepts Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation, Narendra Singh Tomar assigned her portfolio||President of India Ram Nath Kovind has accepted minister of food processing industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from the Union Cabinet and directed that Narendra Singh Tomar be assigned the additional charge of the ministry, according to a press release.“The President of India, as advised by the Prime Minister, has accepted the resignation of Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal from the Union Council of Ministers, with immediate effect, under clause (2) of Article 75 of the Constitution,” the communique issued on Friday said.Also read: Harsimrat Kaur Badal quits Cabinet over farm bills“Further, as advised by the Prime Minister, The President has directed that Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Cabinet Minister, be assigned the charge of the Ministry of Food Processing Industries, in addition to his existing portfolios,” it added.Harsimrat Kaur Badal had tendered her resignation from the Cabinet on Thursday in protest of legislation seeking to liberalise agricultural markets. “I have resigned from Union Cabinet in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter & sister,” she had tweeted.Also read: SAD should now quit central govt, says farm cell head MalukaThe minister’s party Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) opposed the farm-relation legislations but said it will continue to be a part of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA).“These bills have many provisions that go against farmers’ interests. We have repeatedly asked the government that please address the apprehensions of farmers, but the government had done nothing. Therefore, I oppose these bills,” SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-accepts-harsimrat-kaur-badal-s-resignation-narendra-singh-tomar-assigned-her-portfolio/story-BuNoXjg5Jk8yxLHYGE7VYP.html
18-09-2020||India||US legislation will end China’s most-favoured nation trade status: Senator||China will lose the most-favored-nation (MFN) status, which extends trade concessions for one nation to all countries, under legislation introduced by US Senator Tom Cotton on Thursday.“Twenty years ago this week, the Senate gave a gift to the Chinese Communist Party by granting it permanent most-favored-nation status. That disastrous decision made the party richer, but cost millions of American jobs. It is time to protect American workers and take back our leverage over Beijing by withdrawing China’s permanent trade status,” Cotton said in a press release announcing the bill.China could still maintain its MFN status with the US, but the privilege would have to be renewed by the US President annually, with Congress allowed to override the decision of the President, the release said.The bill also includes a list of human rights and trade abuses that would disqualify China for MFN status, absent a presidential waiver, it added.The list includes the use of slave labour, re-education prison camps, forced abortion or sterilisation and organ harvesting from prisoners, the release stated.Other listed abuses include religious persecution, harassment of expatriate Chinese who are critical of the government and the theft of intellectual property from Americans, according to the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-legislation-will-end-china-s-most-favoured-nation-trade-status-senator/story-wApJfcWIl96oA2Y2gsAk5I.html
18-09-2020||India||Centre to allow private firms to utilise ISRO infrastructures: Jitendra Singh||The government will allow private companies to utilise infrastructures of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), which are otherwise not available elsewhere in India under Indian National Space, Promotion and Authorisation Centre (INSPACe), said Union Minister of Atomic Energy and Space Jitendra Singh.In a written reply in Rajya Sabha regarding the involvement of private initiative in space exploration, Singh said on Thursday, “Government will allow them to utilise those infrastructures of ISRO which are otherwise not available elsewhere in India and there will be reasonable charges for utilisation of government infrastructure which will be varying depending on the requirement.”“There are more than 500 companies that partner with ISRO in carrying out space activities. The broad areas and sectors covered by private companies are providing materials, mechanical fabrication, electronic fabrication, system development, integration etc,” he added.Under the Department of Space, the government has created INSPACe to encourage, promote and handhold the private sector for their participation in the space sector. Private players will also be able to use ISRO infrastructure through INSPACe.The decision of the government was conveyed to the members of the scientific community elaborately and scientific community welcomed the government’s decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-allow-private-firms-to-utilise-isro-infrastructures-jitendra-singh/story-UgwToqnLfohiTX6lUOsW2J.html
18-09-2020||India||‘LAC flare-up may hit Covid efforts’: Singapore high commissioner||It is imperative for India and China to find an amicable solution to their border standoff as any flare-up of tensions could have far-reaching implications for post-Covid-19 recovery efforts across the region, Singapore’s new high commissioner Simon Wong Wie Kuen said on Thursday. Expressing concern at the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in his first interview to the Indian media after presenting his credentials last week, Wong acknowledged the two sides could be in for a “long winter” and that efforts to find a solution may not be easy, though there is no alternative to dialogue. The envoy also spoke on Singapore’s priorities in its economic relations with India, participation in New Delhi’s plans to forge resilient supply and value chains, and collaboration in the Indo-Pacific. Asked about the implications of the India-China standoff, Wong said there is a “stalemate and a stare-down situation”. He said, “It may be a long winter, it will not have an easy solution but I think the messages coming out from both sides are very calm and the operating principle is still trying to figure out something of a resolution through diplomatic means.” He added, “We are good friends of both India and China. The last thing we want is to have skirmishes grow bigger and bigger because now both sides are in a stare-down position and the troop levels of both sides are very high. We don’t want any untoward incidents happening because from the Covid-19 recovery point of view, if we have two big economic engines suffer as a result, the whole Asian economy will suffer for a prolonged period of time. “We don’t want to see that happen, we have been urging both sides to stay calm and find an amicable solution to it…But we are concerned about what’s happening in Ladakh in particular, in Pangong Tso. We hope calmer heads prevail.” Responding to a question on whether resolving the border issue will be a protracted process even if current tensions dissipate, the envoy said it is “always problematic [in] relations between…two humongous neighbours to resolve [things]”. He suggested “harsh negotiations” would be better than an exacerbation of tensions. “If you were to have harsh negotiations and you cross with words, I think it’s easier because it’s common practice, even in FTA negotiations – harsh, tough negotiation postures, but thereafter, when the deal is done, you shake hands and that’s it,” he said. “But the memory of 1962 is very, very strong because it was a military conflict…My humble advise is that both sides should think very carefully how they want to move forward and to be sure, both sides understand this very clearly...in the operating principle, both sides should sit down and talk and resolve this diplomatically,” he added. Amid the Covid19 crisis, the world being at an “inflection point” and a very “acrimonious US-China relationship”, Singapore’s priorities for the relationship with India include enhanced trade and investments and collaboration in areas such as healthcare for developing vaccines, Wong said. Even during the Covid-19 crisis, Singapore committed around $2 billion of new investments into India, and it is also keen to work with India on forging new supply and value chains, he said. “Because we came in early to India, that conversation of plugging India into our part of the world is continuing non-stop…Cumulatively, Singapore has $85 billion committed to India. On your side, you have close to $60 billion. It is an equal partnership and we have about 650 Singapore companies set up in India and about 8,500 Indian companies are set up in Singapore. That notion of supply chain security and supply chain rework is always in play,” Wong said. Wong said there will be “a competition of ideas” in the Indo-Pacific and Singapore endorses the Asean vision for the region – “which is to say we keep the waters around our region peaceful, the organisation should be inclusive and not exclusive, it should not be targeted at one or two particular countries, and the focus should be on economics, and less military”. The Indian preference, he noted, is to “have Quad, Quad-plus or trilaterals”. He added, “India is free to have conversations with like-minded parties which share same interests...I feel that down the road, India should also have a conversation with Asean on the configuration of your ideas and the Asean ideas.” Wong also spoke on Singapore’s efforts to help foreign workers, including some 100,000 Indians, affected by the pandemic. Besides free medical facilities and testing, Singapore has provided to grants to companies so that salaries are paid even when workers don’t go to work. However, as many businesses that hire foreign workers have closed down, they may be sent home and the “next step is for us to make sure that they are fairly compensated and if they intend to stay on, we will have to look for jobs for them”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-flare-up-may-hit-covid-efforts-singapore-high-commissioner/story-iQN5oFDCUuKIEgI7xdbbHN.html
18-09-2020||India||Here is what PM Modi wants as birthday gift||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who celebrated his 70th birthday on Thursday, thanked everyone for their wishes and asked people to keep wearing face masks and take precaution to defeat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as a gift.“Since many have asked, what is it that I want for my birthday, here is what I seek right now: Keep wearing a mask and wear it properly. Follow social distancing. Remember ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori.’ Avoid crowded spaces. Improve your immunity. Let us make our planet healthy,” he said in a tweet.Wishes poured in from all over the country and all over the world for the Prime Minister. PM Modi thanked everyone and said, “These greetings give me strength to serve and work towards improving the lives of my fellow citizens.”US president Donald Trump tweeted his wishes for the “great leader and loyal friend” and Russia’s Vladimir Putin and German Chancellor Angela Merkel wrote letters to Modi wishing him on his birthday.PM Modi celebrated his birthday in Varanasi where he offered prayers at Kashi Vishwanath temple and interacted with ragpicker children.India continued to record a high number of Covid-19 infections as the daily cases neared 1 lakh on Thursday. The total number of Covid-19 infections now stands at 51,18,253, according to the Union health ministry update on Thursday morning. The death toll is at 83,198 and the recovery rate has improved to 78.53 per cent, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/here-is-what-pm-modi-wants-as-birthday-gift/story-EGPJDV0L9DmYS5IVznk3oI.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Great leader and loyal friend’: US President Trump extends birthday wishes to PM Modi||US President Donald Trump on Thursday extended his greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday.He also shared a photo with the Prime Minister from the “Namaste Trump” event held in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad earlier this year. “Many happy returns to a GREAT LEADER and loyal friend!” he said in a tweet. I would like to extend best wishes and a very happy 70th birthday to the Prime Minister of India, @narendramodi. Many happy returns to a GREAT LEADER and loyal friend! pic.twitter.com/CWlVkHk16XWishes poured in from across the country and the world as PM Modi celebrated his 70th birthday on Thursday. “People from all over India, from all over the world have shared their kind wishes. I am grateful to each and every person who has greeted me. These greetings give me strength to serve and work towards improving the lives of my fellow citizens,” he wrote Twitter.In September last year, the PM Modi had visited the US, where he addressed the ‘Howdy Modi’ event in Texas along with Trump. In February this year, Trump came to India for ‘Namaste Trump’ event and addressed thousands of Indians. It was the American leader’s first visit to the country.Both Modi and Trump share good chemistry and the two leaders never are often seen interacting with each other over phone and social media on various occasions. During the Covid-19 pandemic, both leaders have interacted multiple times to discuss a joint strategy to fight the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-leader-and-loyal-friend-us-president-extends-birthday-wishes-to-pm-modi/story-Ucku2vKP3vlsb0SZcAl0hJ.html
18-09-2020||India||BRICS NSAs discuss anti-terror plan||The national security advisers of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping on Thursday discussed a draft anti-terrorism strategy that is expected to be approved at an upcoming summit. The five NSAs, who joined a virtual meeting hosted by Russia, also discussed challenges and threats to global, regional and national security. Contrary to speculation, there were no bilateral discussions by the Indian and Chinese NSAs on the margins of the meeting against the backdrop of the border standoff. “This was a virtual meeting and bilateral talks are not possible in this format,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. A statement issued by the Russian side after the meeting said the five countries had prepared a draft anti-terrorism strategy that will be submitted for approval during the upcoming Brics summit. The draft strategy reflects fundamental aspects of the Brics states, such as respect for sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs, adherence to international law and recognition of the UN’s central role in security matters, the statement said. Also read: Ball in Beijing’s court: MEA on parleysThe NSAs also discussed biological security cooperation and information and communications technology security, and there was a proposal to continue work on a system for countering security threats in the sphere of information. The participants expressed concern over the escalation of tensions around Iran, Venezuela and Syria, according to the Russian statement. It added that the Brics states are cooperating within the framework of building a multi-polar system based on justice and equality. There was no official word from the Indian side on the outcomes of the meeting, which was chaired by Nikolai Patrushev, secretary of Russia’s security council, and joined by Indian NSA Ajit Doval, Chinese NSA Yang Jiechi, Brazil’s M Innosencio, and South Africa’s minister of state security Ayanda Dlodlo. The Russian side also criticised the deployment of weapons in space by the US and the use of outer space for military operations. It also proposed the creation of new mechanisms in the field of countering epidemiological threats and to conduct expert consultations on bio-safety in the Brics format. The five countries agreed to work on deepening coordination at key international organisations and forums, especially the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-nsas-discuss-anti-terror-plan/story-THxC3GWYX2BeZVzV0vgrXM.html
18-09-2020||India||Govt may defer Air India sale, reduce debt to sweeten the deal||The government may defer the planned sale of Air India by up to three years until the turbulence caused in the aviation industry by the Covid-19 pandemic eases, two persons aware of the development said. Another option under consideration is sweetening the deal by reducing the Air India debt liability that a prospective buyer of the airline would assume.Experts engaged in the process of divesting Air India have pointed to the lukewarm response by investors to the existing offer on the table and suggested that the government consider extending the October 30 deadline for submission of bids,reduce the debt liability of Rs 23,286 crore or allow bidders to place a value on the government’s equity stake and say how much how much debt they would assume, the two persons said on condition of anonymity. The government has already trimmed the debt liability that a buyer would need to assume by more than half. It has extended the deadline for bid submissions four times. The other options before the government is to defer the national airline’s sale by two to three years to let the investment climate improve or wind up its operations, the two persons cited above said. “The option of allowing bidders to quote both debt and equity value appears practical in the current domestic and global business environment, but a final call will be taken by the competent authority,” one of the two persons said.A group of secretaries is expected to discuss the topic again this week before the matter is referred to a ministerial panel headed by home minister Amit Shah to take a final call, the persons said. Other members of the panel, called Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM), are the ministers for finance, commerce and civil aviation.The government has already trimmed the debt liability of a potential buyer. It decided to transfer a significant portion of the total Rs 60,074 crore debt of Air India to a special purpose vehicle, Air India Assets Holding Ltd, and limited the debt exposure that a buyer would face to Rs 23,286 crore.The finance ministry and the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) did not respond to email queries seeking comment.Participating in a debate on the Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, Hardeep S Puri, minister of state for civil aviation, said a sale is the last resort to keep Air India alive. “Talking about privatisation of Air India, if we could help it, we would keep it, but with Rs 60,000 crore debt, the choice is not between privatisation and non-privatisation. Some of my colleagues must realise that the choice is between privatisation and closing down.”Investors’ interest has dimmed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, experts said. Domestic and international air traffic to and from India may decline by at least 50% in the current financial year, causing significant job losses and forcing some airlines to ground aircraft, HT reported earlier this year.Nilaya Varma, co-founder and CEO of consulting firm Primus Partners, said: “Under normal circumstance, given the baggage, disinvestment and valuation of Air India would have been challenging, something made worse by the prolonging pandemic...“It is also important to consider additional sops and support to make sure AI remains a going concern. The other option is to cough up funds to maintain current operations, which is difficult given the fiscal pressure and the uncertain future.” According to Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, the government will be under duress to extend the deadline beyond October 30 given that there has been no submission of an expression of interest by a potential buyer. He said the operating cost of Air India is higher than that of other airlines by more than 20%.“The debt of Rs 23,000 crores is secured against the fleet. Hence the government may not be able to simply move the debts to the SPV without the underlying security. The government would most likely raise funds and pay off the debts to make the fleet debt-free,” Vijayasarathy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-defer-air-india-sale-reduce-debt-to-sweeten-the-deal/story-yCMGyKmA0S9rNygGLCp1dP.html
18-09-2020||India||Gaganyaan mission: Astronauts to undergo Isro module next year||Four astronauts selected for the country’s first human spaceflight will return from Russia in March and undergo training modules designed by the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) for the mission slated for December 2021. While in Russia, their training is helping them get accustomed to conditions in space — the US, Russia and China are the only three countries to have conducted human spaceflights — the four astronauts will undergo mission-specific training back home. “The four astronauts, who had been selected from a pool of Indian Air Force pilots, are currently undergoing basic training in GCTC (Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Centre) in Russia. They will be back by March next year. They will then receive specific training in India, for which the simulators have been defined. These are the areas where the industry will be contributing in a rich way to realise the simulators,” Dr Unnikrishnan Nair, director, Human Spaceflight Centre of Isro, said. There will be three main parts to the training in India: a module on the overall project, a module for crew members, and a module on the flight hardware and software. “Each one is more and more complex (than the previous one),” he said at the International Space Conference and Exhibition organised by Confederation of Indian Industry in association with Isro and its other arms. India’s first human spaceflight mission, Gaganyaan, has been designed to carry three Indian astronauts to the low earth orbit — an orbit of 2,000km or less — for a period of five to seven days. But Isro chairperson Dr K Sivan told HT earlier this year that two unmanned flights prior to the final mission will determine whether just one or two crew members will be taken to space and whether the crew will be there for the entire duration, or for just one day, or just over two hours.Isro has planned the first unmanned flight in December 2020, the second in July 2021, and the first human spaceflight mission in December 2021 — much ahead of the August 15, 2022, deadline set by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, the timeline could be affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to officials.Before the first unmanned flight, Isro needs to complete at least three major tests — an air drop test for the parachute system that will demonstrate the ability to successfully recover an orbiting space capsule; a flight of the test vehicle; and an abort test to demonstrate the escape of the crew in case of an emergency at the launch pad. Isro has also shortlisted six experiments that will be carried out in space aboard the first unmanned flight under the Gaganyaan mission. This includes four biological experiments – a study on changes in kidney stone formation in drosophila melanogaster (the common fruit fly), the study of SIRT1 gene in it, microbial contamination, and co-crystallisation under microgravity conditions.Nair said Gaganyaan will be the first of Isro’s human spaceflight mission, which will be expanded to the exploration of other planets and also the moon in the future. For this, Isro will partner with the industry and academia to develop technologies such as construction in space, tele-robotics and artificial intelligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-mission-astronauts-to-undergo-isro-module-next-year/story-t4FPl0e2b7sLMgqyJ6QoyH.html
18-09-2020||India||Opposition parties snub Congress in joint protest over GST||Eight regional parties on Thursday did not invite the Congress to take part in a joint protest against the government over the Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues that the Centre owes to states. Leaders belonging to the Trinamool Congress, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party (SP), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Shiv Sena gathered near the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the Parliament House complex to seek immediate release of compensation for a shortfall in their share of GST collections. Out of these eight parties, NCP, Shiv Sena, DMK and RJD are the Congress’s allies in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Bihar respectively. The Congress, along with the NCP and Shiv Sena, is part of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance in Maharashtra.The move is being seen as a setback to the Opposition’s bid to put up a united front against the Centre in Parliament during the ongoing monsoon session. The leaders who participated in the protest were Derek O’Brien and Kalyan Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress, K Keshava Rao from the TRS, RJD’s Manoj Jha, AAP’s Sanjay Singh; Akhilesh Yadav and Ram Gopal Yadav of the SP, NCP’s Supriya Sule; TR Baalu and TKS Elangovan from the DMK, and Sanjay Raut of the Shiv Sena. When asked why the Congress wasn’t invited, party spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “This is something that those parties should answer. As far as the Congress is concerned, we consistently raise from all platforms the issues that affect the everyday lives of every single Indian.”Asked why they did not call the Congress for the protest, a leader of a regional party said the TRS and the AAP were not comfortable sharing space with the party. Watch: Opposition parties protest in Parliament over GST dues Addressing reporters after the protest, O’Brien said: “It is increasingly becoming clear to us that in Parliament, the regional parties are finding it easier to coordinate with each other to strategise. The Congress can no longer decide the subject and then the dosage of opposition strategy. They cannot do something in states and seek support in Parliament.” Echoing his views, Banerjee said that the Congress teams up with the BJP in Bengal to attack the Mamata Banerjee government and then expects cooperation in Delhi. “All (the regional) parties are strong in their respective regions and are very comfortable working with each other.” The immediate trigger for the stand of the TMC appears to be the appointment of a known baiter of CM Mamata Banerjee, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, as the West Bengal Congress president. In his first press conference in Kolkata, Chowdhury attacked the “totalitarian regime” of the Trinamool Congress. The move also was in contrary to an understanding reached between key leaders at a virtual meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on August 26 to discuss the issues of GST compensation and holding entrance exams in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Apart from four Congress chief ministers, Captain Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and V Narayanasamy (Puducherry), the chief ministers of West Bengal (Mamata Banerjee), Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray) and Jharkhand (Hemant Soren) attended the meeting. The Congress did not invite chief ministers of Odisha (Naveen Patnaik), Delhi (Arvind Kejriwal), Andhra Pradesh (YS Jaganmohan Reddy), Telangana (K Chandrasekhar Rao) and Kerala (Pinarayi Vijayan). All the leaders agreed to work closely to take on the central government in and outside Parliament. AAP leader Sanjay Singh said the eight parties will have more joint meetings in the coming days. The protest came ahead of a scheduled discussion on GST in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-snub-congress-in-joint-protest-over-gst/story-UbASEiO59LmQ3Ap7QED57L.html
18-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Maharashtra is a clear outlier in terms of how it has been affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It ended Wednesday with 1.12 million cases – it is the province with the most cases in the world – and 30,883 deaths, according to the HT dashboard. Its cumulative positivity rate is still 20%. On Wednesday, its positivity rate was 24%. For six months to the day, the western state has topped India’s daily Covid numbers in terms of daily cases. For much of this period, it has also topped the daily death tally. On Wednesday alone, it accounted for 474 of the 1,139 deaths in the country (41.6%), and 23,365 of the 97,932 cases (23.8%).It isn’t clear why Maharashtra has been ravaged by the disease. Sure, Mumbai, India’s commercial capital, has among the highest population densities in the world, as also some of the largest slums, but many of Maharashtra’s social and health metrics are better than those of the so-called BIMARU states. New York state, similar to Maharashtra in some ways (just as NYC is similar to Mumbai) was similarly roiled by the virus, but not as persistently as the Indian state. Cases in the US state peaked in early April, and have been fewer than 1,000 a day for the past three months (and a bit). It is the kind of thing the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research should be investigating. It isn’t clear why they aren’t doing so -- understanding what’s happening in Maharashtra may help us learn how to fight the virus better. Both the urban and rural parts of Maharashtra have been affected – the former more than the latter, but that’s true of India as well – and every large city in the state has been hit hard. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMaharashtra has never tested enough. It has so far carried out 5.5 million tests. That translates into a little over 45,000 tests per million, but given the scale of the crisis in the state, it should be doing more. Its positivity rate is yet to traverse the trajectory seen in most countries – an increase with more testing, then a plateau, and finally a decline. Given the numbers, it is also likely that Maharashtra’s contact-tracing process isn’t very effective – although it’s not clear to what extent this could have made things better in a state where the virus has been in community transmission mode for months. But neither of these adequately explains the scale of the crisis in Maharashtra.Demographics could offer an explanation – but the state isn’t very demographically different from the rest of India. Sure, Maharashtra is home to 10.7% of the country’s population of people over the age of 60 (a group vulnerable to Covid-19); 9.9% of its population is over the age of 60, but this proportion is higher in Kerala, Goa, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, and Himachal Pradesh.So could genetics – except the genetic profile of the Maharashtra population isn’t markedly different from the Indian population as a whole, although previous studies have established that it (expectedly) bears more similarity with south Indian populations rather than central Indian ones.Also read: What these new Covid-19 figures reveal about MaharashtraThat leaves two other factors. The first is Maharashtrian society, culture and living conditions in the state. The second is the state’s response to the pandemic. On the second, there isn’t enough evidence to suggest that Maharashtra’s government was either more proactive or less proactive than administrations in other Indian states in managing the disease. And on the first, we simply do not know enough, although it is a fact that, at least in Mumbai, social distancing isn’t possible and that cases in the state have seen a renewed surge after the recent Ganesh Chaturthi festival.And so, Maharashtra’s numbers will have to remain a mystery for now – the rare instance of an early hot spot of the coronavirus disease continuing to be one six months into the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-WC1vsrRvkq2AJdYWe4ZBQP.html
18-09-2020||India||Do falling farmer suicides mean less rural distress?||The number of farmers committing suicide has been decreasing for four consecutive years and last year it was the lowest in 25 years. Farmer suicides are often seen as an indicator of economic distress among farmers. But these numbers do not show us the full picture. A look at four reasons why this may be.1. Total suicides going down At least 10,281 people engaged in farming committed suicide in 2019, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), which works under the ministry of home affairs. This is the lowest figure since 1995, the earliest year for which the number is available. The decline in the number of farmers’ suicides marks the continuation of a trend since 2016. Farmers’ suicides have often been seen as the most macabre reflection of what many believe is a growing crisis of viability in Indian agriculture. India’s farms employ more than 40% of its 400 million plus workforce, while its share in Gross Value Added (GVA) has fallen below 15%. GVA is the value of goods and services produced by the country minus the cost of inputs and raw materials , Do the falling farmers’ suicide numbers capture an improvement in the material well-being of India’s farmers? Activists and experts believe that the official numbers suffer from underreporting. The fact that the NCRB has discontinued the practice of giving the share of farmers’ suicides because of economic distress has only added to the confusion.2. Suicides among cultivators did not decrease in 2019 The headline farmer suicide numbers includes both farmers who cultivate crops on their owned or leased land as well as agricultural labourers who work on farms for a wage. The NCRB started giving this break-up in 2014. Except in 2014, the number of suicides by cultivators has always been greater than the number of agricultural workers. Also, most of the fall in headline farmers’ suicide numbers has happened because of a fall in the number of suicides by agricultural workers. Suicides by cultivators actually went up from 5,763 to 5,957 between 2018 and 2019. Even as the number of suicides by agricultural labourers has shown a decreasing trend over the last six years, suicides among daily wage earners – the main difference between the two is that the former work in agricultural fields – has been constantly increasing in this period, from about 15,700 in 2014 to nearly 32,600 in 2019. 3. States underreport data Many large states report no farmer suicides, according to the NCRB data. In 2019, for instance, 5,957 farmer (cultivator) suicides were reported from 17 states and union territories while 19 others did not report any. At least a third of the farmer suicides were reported by just three states – Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Nine states have not reported a single suicide by cultivators in last six years. These include states such as Bihar and West Bengal. On the other hand, 12 states have reported farmer suicides every year in the last six years. 4. Reason of suicides not known There has always been a debate on whether farmers’ suicides are the result of economic distress or something else. For example, a 2015 Rajya Sabha reply by the then agriculture minister, Radha Mohan Singh, listed love affairs and impotency along with economic distress as the reasons driving farmers’ suicides; expectedly, his reply triggered a huge controversy (https://bit.ly/3h9C1Kn). This debate was somewhat settled when NCRB published data on reasons for suicides among farmers in 2014 and 2015. The 2014 and 2015 numbers showed that farmers were more likely to commit suicide due to economic reasons than others. Of the cultivators who killed themselves in 2015, an overwhelming 59% did so for reasons such as poverty, farming-related issues and bankruptcy or indebtedness. Among agricultural labourers, only about 9% killed themselves for these reasons. Among all persons who committed suicide, 4.5% killed themselves for these reasons. NCRB has stopped giving data on the reason of suicides among farmers since 2016. Vijoo Krishnan, leader of the All India Kisan Sabha, the farmers’ wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), said the organisation has details of farmers who killed themselves in several states that have officially reported no farmer suicides in recent years. “Actually there is a gross underreporting. Comrades in Bengal and Bihar informed us that many farmers committed suicide there last year but the official data shows no suicide,” he said, adding: “Even in states which have reported a large number of suicides, the actual number of suicides is higher.” Krishnan said it was also possible that some of the farmers were being classified as daily wage earners in the NCRB reports. “When poor farmers are in extreme distress, they work as agricultural workers or as daily wage workers.” Agriculture specialist Devinder Sharma said many farmer unions have been contesting the data reported by the states. “States want to present a good image that they are actively taking steps to address agrarian distress,” he said, adding: “A lower number of farmer suicides officially reported by states gives an impression that things are improving in the states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-falling-farmer-suicides-mean-less-rural-distress/story-zTjZSXixRTleFZmPnylTRI.html
18-09-2020||India||Pleas against lawmakers: HC special bench to monitor cases||Criminal trials involving elected representatives will now be monitored by a special bench of each high court and in cases where a trial has been stayed, the special bench will hear and decide on continuing or cancelling the stay, preferably within two months.An order to this effect was passed on Wednesday by a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that seeks to fast-track pending criminal trials involving sitting and former legislators.“Ensuring the purity of democratically elected institutions is the hallmark of the present proceedings,” a three-judge bench headed by justice NV Ramana said. “Such special consideration (to expedite cases against legislators) was required not only because of the rising wave of criminalization that was occurring in the politics in the country, but also due to the power that elected representatives wield to influence or hamper effective prosecution.” The bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy, said: “The chief justices of the high courts shall also designate a special bench, comprising themselves and their designate, in order to monitor the progress of these trials.”A court- appointed amicus curiae (friend of the court), senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, in two reports submitted on September 8 and 15, highlighted that despite the best efforts by the court to constitute special courts for trying cases against legislators, close to 4,442 criminal cases involving 2,556 sitting members of Parliament (MP) and members of legislative assemblies (MLAs) were pending. Reasons for trial getting delayed included stays granted by various high courts, insufficient special courts to exclusively try cases against MPs/MLAs, a shortage of prosecutors and latches in prosecution, and lastly, delayed investigation.The top court bench headed by Ramana requested high court chief justices to list all pending cases involving MPs/MLAs (sitting and former) where a stay has been granted and asked the special benches to decide “whether the stay granted should continue”. This exercise is to be completed within a period of two months, the bench said. The bench held that the present Covid-19 situation should not be grounds to adjourn the cases because they can also be heard through video conferencing.The action plan to be prepared by the concerned chief justices in two weeks will provide a blueprint after assessing the existing number of cases vis-à-vis number of special courts, the need for special courts and adequacy of infrastructure in the state, number of judicial officers, the maximum cases to be assigned per judicial officer, distance of the designated court from the districts where cases are pending, and expected time for disposal of cases.In his reports, Hansaria suggested adding more special courts, one in each district, with a dedicated judicial officer who should decide the cases within one year. Any stay granted by a high courts must either go or be decided on speedily, he said. Based on these suggestions, the bench passed a slew of directions to the high courts asking them to prepare an action plan on expediting the existing pending cases in each district and constitute special bench to monitor the trials.The apex court also sought a status report from solicitor general Tushar Mehta on the stage of investigation pending against MPs/MLAs in cases probed by central agencies such as Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate. There are 175 cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act and 14 cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act pending against sitting/former MPs and MLAs.The court, in its order, directed Mehta to indicate the status with regard to grant of sanction for prosecution, reasons for delays and expected time for completing the trials/investigations in the report to be presented by the next date of hearing, expected to be October 1.Mehta had submitted on Wednesday that the Centre supports a time-bound completion of trials pending against legislators. The law officer submitted, “Appropriate action would be taken by the nodal departments against any officer responsible for unreasonable delay.”Advocate Sneha Kalita, assisting the amicus curiae, said: “Having more special courts functioning under strict vigilance of designated special bench of high courts will certainly go a long way to expedite trials in cases against elected representatives. This was suggested by the amicus curiae too. The court has also sought information from CBI, ED on status of grant of sanction to prosecute legislators. This will help investigations in cases against MPs/MLAs to be time-bound.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pleas-against-lawmakers-hc-special-bench-to-monitor-cases/story-7NGSQkPnRjU991Jb3vkiRL.html
18-09-2020||India||Digital media may require regulation, TV doesn’t: Govt||The Union government on Thursday urged the Supreme Court to refrain from laying down guidelines to regulate electronic media such as television channels, but if the court does embark on the process, suggested that it should first be undertaken for digital media including web portals and YouTube channels.In an affidavit filed on Thursday before a bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud, the Centre said that electronic media was already governed by laws made by Parliament and previous judgments delivered by the top court.This court may not undertake the exercise of laying down any further guidelines… it is desirable that if this court decides to undertake the exercise, it should first be undertaken with regard to digital media, as there already exists sufficient framework and judicial pronouncements with regard to electronic media and print media,” the government submitted.The affidavit was filed in the case against television (TV) channel Sudarshan News, which came into the limelight after it telecast a show called “Bindas Bol” relating to the entry of Muslims in the civil services.The top court on September 15 barred further telecast of the controversial programme and took strong exception to the contents of the show, observing that the first four episodes gave an impression that it was being aired with the insidious objective of vilifying the Muslim community and to bring it into disrepute.The bench, which also comprises justices KM Joseph and Indu Malhotra, also expressed an inclination to hold a detailed hearing to decide on regulation of TV news channels and suggested the appointment of a committee of five distinguished citizens to frame standards for regulation of the electronic media.In its affidavit, the Centre submitted that no such exercise needs to be undertaken merely based on few episode of one channel, Sudarshan News.“Even if this court considers it appropriate to undertake the said exercise, there is no justification to confine this exercise only to mainstream electronic media. Digital media has faster reach from wider range of viewership / readership and has the potential to become viral because of several electronic applications like Whatsapp, Twitter (and) Facebook,” the affidavit stated.The case will be taken up for hearing on Friday.Meanwhile, Sudarshan News filed its response in the matter on Wednesday defending the programme and the use of the term “UPSC Jihad” in the programme.The Noida-based channel maintained that it has no ill will against any particular community or individual, and does not oppose selection of any meritorious candidate. The programme, it claimed, was intended to highlight the allegedly dubious sources of foreign funding received by an organisation with links that supports and provides coaching for civil service aspirants.“The issue the court had sought reply from the Central government was as to whether the specific programme in Sudarshan TV using specific expressions like ‘UPSC Jihad’ was permissible under the present legal framework and if not, what guidelines are required to be framed to avoid this occurrence in future. In this regard, the counter-affidavit appears to be evasive if not supportive of the broadcast of the programme in question. The question as to whether digital media has to be regulated or not was a non-issue before the court and ought not to have been gone into,” Supreme Court advocate Sriram Parakkat told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-media-may-require-regulation-tv-doesn-t-govt/story-NIZDasJ44lW5elOyrVHuZP.html
18-09-2020||India||AG denies nod for contempt case over Rajdeep Sardesai tweet||Attorney General (AG) KK Venugopal on Thursday declined to grant permission for initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings against journalist Rajdeep Sardesai for his tweets criticising the Supreme Court’s handling of the contempt of court case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan.Sardesai’s tweets were not of a serious nature so as to undermine the majesty of the court or lower its stature in the mind of the public, Venugopal said in his letter to advocate Om Prakash Parihar, who was representing the petitioner, Astha Khurana.“The reputation of the Supreme Court as one of the great pillars of our democracy has been built assiduously over the last 70 years. Trifling remarks and mere passing criticism though perhaps distasteful are unlikely to tarnish the image of the institution,” AG said in his letter.As per Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act and Rule 3 of Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, the consent of AG or the solicitor general is required before the apex court can hear a criminal contempt petition filed by a private individual.“Satyamev Jayate [Truth always wins]!thank you to guardians of the law and constitution,” Sardesai tweeted. This is the second instance in recent weeks when Venugopal has declined consent for initiation of contempt of court proceedings.On August 23, he rejected permission to a petitioner from Karnataka seeking initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings against Bollywood actor Swara Bhasker for her statements criticising the top court and its judgment in the Ayodhya dispute.In the Prashant Bhushan case -- where the top court, on its own, initiated criminal contempt of court proceedings against the activist-lawyer for two tweets -- the Centre’s top law officer urged the court not to impose any punishment on Bhushan.Venugopal appeared in that case in his personal capacity at the court’s request. “Your Lordships should reprimand him and tell him not to repeat it in future. But do not punish him. It will be greatly appreciated at the Bar. That will be a fitting end to this case,” he said on August 20. Khurana, who hails from Panipat in Haryana, highlighted multiple tweets by Sardesai to buttress her case for initiation of contempt proceedings against him.On August 14, the day Bhushan was convicted for contempt of court, Sardesai had tweeted, “Prashant Bhushan held guilty of contempt by Supreme Court, sentence to be pronounced on August 20. This even as habeas corpus petitions of those detained in Kashmir for more than a year remain pending.”Later when the top court imposed a sentence of Re 1 on Bhushan on August 31, Sardesai posted the following tweet: “Rs 1 token fine imposed by SC on Prashant Bhushan in contempt case. If he doesn’t pay it, then 3 months jail sentence. Clearly, court looking to wriggle out of an embarrassment of its own making.”Khurana also referred to older tweets in which Sardesai allegedly cast aspersions on justice Arun Mishra, who had heard Prashant Bhushan’s contempt case, and former Chief Justice of India, Ranjan Gogoi.“I do not find any warrant for initiation of proceedings for criminal contempt. I accordingly decline consent,” AG stated in his letter..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-denies-nod-for-contempt-case-over-rajdeep-sardesai-tweet/story-RG7HzeadrMDochtH2qZlVM.html
18-09-2020||India||Pakistan plans a change in Gilgit-Baltistan status||The Pakistan government plans to make Gilgit-Baltistan the country’s fifth province, two years after powers of the Islamabad-controlled council for the region were transferred to a local assembly. The government’s plans were outlined by the federal minister for Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan affairs, Ali Amin Gandapur, during an interaction with a group of journalists in Islamabad on Wednesday. He said the region will be accorded the status of a full-fledged province with constitutional rights such as representation in both houses of Parliament. Prime Minister Imran Khan is expected to visit the region soon and make a formal announcement about the change, Gandapur was quoted as saying in reports in the Pakistani media. “After consultation with all stakeholders, the federal government has decided in principle to give constitutional rights to Gilgit-Baltistan,” he said. “Our government has decided to deliver on the promise it made to the people there.” There was no immediate reaction to the minister’s remarks from Indian officials, though New Delhi has consistently opposed changes made in the disputed region by the Pakistan government. India claims Gilgit-Baltistan as part of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. Gandapur also said that subsidies and tax exemptions for the region wouldn’t be withdrawn after the grant of constitutional rights. “Until the people there stand on their feet, they will continue to enjoy this facility,” he said. Also read: After Senate defeats, Pak govt passes all FATF-linked bills via joint sessionPeople familiar with developments said the Pakistani military establishment had been in touch with political parties regarding the changes. Khan’s ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party is backing the changes with an eye on upcoming elections in Gilgit-Baltistan so that it can make political gains and form the next government in the region. Gandapur said the elections were likely to be held in mid-November. Preparations had been completed and the distribution of tickets by the PTI will begin soon, he added. He contended that the “deprivation” faced by the people of Gilgit-Baltistan for 73 years would end with the change. Besides constitutional rights and a provincial setup, important steps are being taken for developing the region, he said. This includes work on Moqpondass special economic zone under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), and steps to improve health care, tourism, transport and education, he said. In 1999, Pakistan’s Supreme Court ruled that the people of Gilgit-Baltistan are Pakistani citizens and directed the federal government to start appropriate administrative and legislative measures. In 2009, the Gilgit-Baltistan Empowerment and Self-Governance Order was introduced, whereby the Northern Areas were renamed as Gilgit-Baltistan and the region was given province-like status but without representation in Parliament. In 2015, a committee constituted by the federal government proposed giving Gilgit-Baltistan the status of a province, and three years later, a new order transferred all powers of the local council to the local assembly. The people cited above said any move to give the region the status of a full-fledged province would be welcomed by local residents. Some stakeholders had suggested the region should be provisionally given the status of a province and it should be made a full province only after the Kashmir issue is resolved, the people said. Though the proposal made by the committee in 2015 didn’t go through because it didn’t have the blessings of the security establishment, it appears that the Pakistan Army has had a change of heart in view of the changes in Jammu and Kashmir since August last year, the people further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-plans-a-change-in-gilgit-baltistan-status/story-jxshC3dBmBsUgP9FPWjvUK.html
18-09-2020||India||Road accidents in India down by 35% this year||The number of road accidents in the first six months of the year (January to June) were around 1,60,000, 35% less than the average number of accidents reported in the corresponding period in the previous six years, an obvious result of a nationwide lockdown imposed in March to slow the spread of the Covid-19 infection. The number of people who died also dropped by 30% this year.The information on the accidents was provided by the government in Parliament on Thursday.On an average, nearly 2,48,000 road accidents were reported between January and June each year between 2014 and 2019. The month-wise breakup of accidents for the previous years is from annual reports on road accidents published by the ministry of road transport and highways, and annual reports on accidental deaths and suicides published by the ministry of home affairs. (See chart 1) There was a drop in the number of road accidents between 2019 and 2020 in all states and union territories except three small northeastern states – Meghalaya, Sikkim and Nagaland. Among big states, the largest percentage drop in the number of road accidents was seen in Karnataka (48%). Delhi reported a 46% drop in accidents this year. (See chart 2) The 68-day long nationwide lockdown imposed in the last week of March, reduced traffic and mobility in the months of April and May. Even in June, many parts of the country were under localised lockdowns, and many business, merchant and recreational establishments continued to be closed. The number of accidents from April to June this year (50,336) was 55% less than the corresponding number last year (1,12,215).In terms of fatalities in road accidents, 56,288 people died in the first six months of this year compared to 79,678 in the same period last year, a drop of about 30%.In the April to June period, the number of fatalities in road accidents dropped by nearly 51% compared to the same period in 2019, which is about 20,000 less fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/road-accidents-down-35-this-year/story-31f6RBO5unpQGQ8G1asurL.html
18-09-2020||India||Soon, like flight fares, train fares to include ‘user charge’ at redeveloped, high footfall stations||The Indian Railways will soon start levying ‘user fees’ as part of train fares for the stations that have been redeveloped and those with high footfall in order to generate revenue to provide better facilities for passengers, Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said Thursday.Once it comes into effect, it will be for the first time that such charges are levied on rail passengers. Yadav said the charges will be nominal and will be applicable in about 10-15 per cent of the 7,000 railway stations across the country.“We are going to keep a very small amount for the user charge. We will issue a notification for the user charge for all stations including both those that are getting redeveloped and those that are not,” the chairman said. “When the redevelopment of the stations gets completed, the money will go to the concessionaires. Till then that money will go to the railways for improving facilities across stations. It will be an affordable amount, but it is important to levy if we want to provide world class facilities similar to the airport development. We want to upgrade all our major railway stations,” Yadav said. He further said the Railways will not levy the charge across all the 7,000 stations but all major stations where the footfall of passengers will increase over the next five years. “It will be done in about 10-15% of all our stations where we expect the footfall to increase,” he added. The statement comes in the backdrop of concerns raised over potential rise in the prices of ticket fares with private entities being allowed to run trains in the country. “I believe that competency will ensure that eventually the prices of both passenger and freight fares will decrease in due course,” said Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant.The Railways has plans to redevelop 50 railway stations and monetize its land. The redeveloped hubs will be called ‘Railopolis’, according to the Railways. It will lease the land out for 60 years for commercial purposes. “We want Railways to drive India’s growth story. In countries like Japan and South Korea the growth story was also driven by railway infrastructure. We are confident that going forward, the railways will contribute 1-2% towards India’s growth,” Kant said. The policy think-tank Niti Aayog had earlier in October pulled up the Railways for delayed implementation of the Centre’s plans for redevelopment of stations. Niti Aayog had recommended an empowered group of top bureaucrats to develop 50 stations on priority basis.The scheme to redevelop stations was first announced in 2016 wherein 400 such stations were planned to be completely overhauled, the cost for which was to be met by leveraging commercial development of land and air space in and around the stations.On the Railways’ plans to allow private operators to run a certain number of trains in the country, Kant said, “The focus is Make in India. Even the global companies that participate in this will have to follow the Make in India norms by DPIIT. This will bring in manufacturing capacity in India. When Alstom and Bombardier can manufacture metro trains in India then why can’t trains be manufactured. Everything will be set up in India”.The Indian Railway Station Redevelopment Corporation Ltd (IRSDC) the implementing agency of the station redevelopment project earlier handed over two railway stations -- Habibganj in Madhya Pradesh and Gandhinagar in Gujarat -- to private parties for development under public-private partnership plans to complete both by December 2020.While 94.05 per cent civil work has already been completed at the Gandhinagar railway station, the project at Habibganj is now 90 per cent complete.Additionally, engineering, procurement and construction contracts have been awarded and commercial tenders floated for development of three stations – Anand Vihar, Bijwasan and Chandigarh.Requests for qualification were invited in December 2019 for developing Amritsar, Nagpur, Gwalior and Sabarmati stations, and 32 applications were received till June 26, 2020, out of which 29 were shortlisted.The IRSDC has also taken up five stations for developing integrated facility management and 90 more are in the pipeline. The agency is now working on Mumbai’s CST station and the New Delhi Railway Station in the Capital.The modernisation of stations includes developing/re-developing the new/existing railway stations and upgrading passenger amenities by new constructions/renovations.It allows re-development of the station buildings, platform surfaces, circulating area to better standards so as to serve the need of the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-like-flight-fares-train-fares-to-include-user-charge-at-redeveloped-high-footfall-stations/story-mWTPenXkUFeRSTR0J5ohaM.html
18-09-2020||India||Legislation for reforms in agriculture sector passed by Lok Sabha||The Lok Sabha on Thursday passed two farm bills that bring far-reaching, liberalising reforms to the agriculture sector, one to free up agricultural trade from all restrictions and the other to provide a new framework for contract farming. The bills seek to open up the farm sector to more competition, modernise supply chains by enabling bigger agribusinesses to engage with farmers more directly and create seamless access to markets, which are currently fragmented. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, which replace similar ordinances, were passed by a majority in the lower house through a voice vote. The ordinances that will be replaced by the bills bring the full force of liberalisation to the farm economy. They were first announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 15 in the second of her series of briefings on proposed reforms, following up on the May 12 announcement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of a package worth Rs 20 lakh crore to spur growth. Major parties that opposed the bills were the main opposition Congress, Bahujan Samaj Party, Siromani Akali Dal, Samajwadi Party, the Trinamool Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party, the Left parties, Nationalist Congress Party, the Indian Union Muslim League and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. Also read: Harsimrat Kaur ejects out of Cabinet over farm bills, her party stays in NDAThe Biju Janata Dal demanded the bills be sent to select committees. Shiv Sena supported the bills, but recommended changes. Parties that supported the bills included the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Telugu Desam Party, the Janata Dal (United) and YSR Congress Party. The main provisions of the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 allow barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade of primary agricultural commodities. Farm produce, under a decades-old system, are sold mainly in notified wholesale markets run by so-called agricultural produce marketing committees, or APMCs, under state laws. The APMCs require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in these notified markets, usually in the same area where the farmers reside, rather than in open markets, which economists say scuttles price discovery, hurting farm profits. The bill enables farmers and buyers of their produce to trade outside these tax-free markets and will therefore open up APMCs to competition. The bill will enable food traders to buy farmers’ produce from any market, rather than bind them to the specific markets where they are licensed to operate. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 lays down a new architecture for contract farming. It provides for a national framework on farming agreements, enabling a farmer to engage with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for sale of future farming produce at a mutually pre-agreed price. “I am happy that everybody expressed their views on the bills. Some have opposed it, some supported. I want to say this with great responsibility; till Narendra Modi is Prime Minister, our farmers’ interests will be kept supreme,” farm minister Narendra Tomar said, replying to the debate. “Please take off your politician’s lens and view the bills through the lens of a farmer.”Also read| ‘System of MSP, govt procurement retained’: PM assures farmers after passage of agricultural reform billsHe slammed the Congress, asking why it’s government never acted on the Swaminathan commission’s recommendations to give farmers 1.5 times over costs in the form of support prices. In his right to reply, the Congress’s Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said: “Show me one farmer who is happy over this bills. Haryana and Punjab are on fire.” “I appreciate the sentiments of Harsimrat Kaur (the minister who resigned from Modi Cabinet) who had the gumption to oppose the bills. These bills are no silver bullet.” Parties opposing the bill accused the government of intruding into states’ jurisdiction and taking advantage of the Covid pandemic to introduce “anti-farmer legislations”. “Had there been no corona, farmers’ anger would have been visible in the streets , who does the BJP stand with, foreign investors, Adani-Ambani, dhanna seth (moneyed traders) or farmers?” asked Ritesh Pandey of the Bahujan Samaj Party, registering the opposition of party chief Kumari Mayawati. Despite the political bickering, reforms in “agricultural marketing” or the buying and selling of farm produce have been a long time in the making. Various government panels and economists have often argued for changing existing structures of agricultural trade that are highly fragmented. “Ultimately these so-called reforms are going to lead to replication of old structures outside mandis. Creating two market spaces with two completely different sets of rules is a recipe for disaster,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable & Holistic Agriculture “Government will not come to know anything about transactions in these new markets. Not knowing will give the excuse not to act. Farmers fear this, rightly so,” she said. Economists said some concerns of farmers were valid and the solution was to bring appropriate regulation and oversight. “Ultimately, when we open up the market, we need to open it up in a substantive way. What we need is a market-clearing mechanism. The solution is to have effective regulation,” said NR Bhanumurthy of the Bengaluru Dr. BR Ambedkar School of Economics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legislation-for-reforms-in-agri-sector-passed-by-ls/story-9CkWrFweJ6tMU0hiCdSyTI.html
18-09-2020||India||Harsimrat Kaur Badal quits Cabinet over farm bills||Minister of food processing industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet on Thursday after the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) opposed legislation seeking to liberalise agricultural markets, exposing a rift between the party and its long-time ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on reforms in the farm sector. The party continues to be a part of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). While announcing SAD’s decision to withdraw its only representative from the Narendra Modi Cabinet, her husband and party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said the party will continue to support the government and the BJP, but will oppose “anti-farmer policies”. “These bills have many provisions that go against farmers’ interests. We have repeatedly asked the government that please address the apprehensions of farmers, but the government had done nothing. Therefore, I oppose these bills,” Sukhbir Singh Badal, the MP from Ferozpur, said in Lok Sabha during the debate on the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, which replace similar ordinances. SAD had been asking the Centre not to go ahead with the three agriculture-related bills for approval of Parliament “until all reservations expressed by farmers’ organisations, farmers and farm labourers” are addressed. Though the new measures -- aimed at freeing up farm trade from restrictions, at guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices, and at laying down a new architecture for contract farming -- have been hailed by economists, farmer groups fear that they will lead to exploitation by big food-trading monopolies.“I have resigned from Union Cabinet in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter and sister,” Harsimrat Kaur Badal wrote in a Twitter message.In a statement, she said the move would be a “normal course of action for any Akali,” stressing that “SAD can’t be a party to anything anti-farmer” and that the trust of farmers in the party was “sacred to us.”On September 12, SAD formally asked the Centre not to enact the three farm ordinances during the monsoon session of Parliament, which began two days later. On Tuesday, Sukhbir Badal voted against the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill in Lok Sabha, saying the proposed legislation was “against the interests of farmers”. “The legislations will affect the entire procurement system. It is not just about mandis. It doesn’t take into {account the} realities of our farm sector,” Badal said, opposing the bills on Thursday.The new changes say that the government can invoke the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) ,1955, only if retail prices rise 50% in case of non-perishables and 100% in the case of perishable items from the average retail prices in the preceding 12 months or last five years. SAD was a party of farmers, Badal said. The Centre would have done better to organise a meeting with farmers before moving ahead with the bills and adequately address their concerns, he said. The Congress government in Punjab had passed a resolution in the Vidhan Sabha against the ordinances, prompting SAD to fiercely oppose the bills after initially supporting them. SAD’s core committee issued a press release saying it had met farmers’ organisations to listen to their views. “Farmers are against these bills because it would make them vulnerable,” Badal said. Farmers are already protesting these ordinances in food bowl states such as Haryana and Punjab, and influential farmers’ unions are also preparing to square off with the government on the demand of making profitable sales in the form of minimum support prices, or MSPs, a legal right. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an umbrella group of nearly 200 farmers’ groups, has opposed the bills. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh is also unhappy with the ordinances. It demanded safeguards for the farming community, and so has the Bharatiya Kisan Union. Farmer groups said they feared the new changes would lead to big monopolies. This would be just as bad as current cartelisation in mandis known as agricultural produce market committees (APMCs), they said. “We want the ordinances to be signed into law with appropriate safeguards, such as a national portal of farm trade corporations,” said Mohini Mohan Mishra, all-India secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badal-quits-cabinet-over-farm-bills/story-doN5dPg1TwiUchcswdZJ8I.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Nearly 80% of Covid-19 deaths in Kanpur due to co-morbidities in patients’: Report||As many as 78 percent of those who died in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, while undergoing Covid-19 treatment succumbed to other diseases (co-morbidities), which the virus aggravated, medical experts found during an audit of Covid-19 related fatalities in the city. The district administration commissioned the audit on the directives of the state government.Dr SK Gautam, head of the death audit team, said co-morbidities had emerged as a key factor behind the deaths. It was clear that the patients had other ailments before getting infected, he added.“Their immunity level kept going down. They were fighting their ailments and this virus at the same time and died as a result,” he said.Kanpur has reported 554 deaths since April and the team has audited 428 of these cases. It found that 336 of these deaths were the result of co-morbidities in patients.In 60 percent of cases, the team concluded that diabetes, pneumonia, hypertension or acute respiratory distress syndrome were responsible for the deaths. Cancer, kidney, heart and gastro related ailments contributed to the other deaths, according to the audit team.Also read: ‘Yoga in burqa’ - Uttarakhand boxer girl fights all odds to teach yoga to womenCovid-19 claimed the lives of 78 youths. People between 12-50 years largely passed away due to delayed treatment. They received treatment at home for their symptoms, got their Covid-19 test done late and reached the hospitals at a late stage, the team concluded. By that time they reached the hospital, the virus had already infected their lungs considerably, impairing their functioning, the team observed. As a result, the oxygen saturation level recorded in most of the cases was below 40 at the time of their admission to the hospital, they said.Nine of the patients were anaemic and their haemoglobin level was found to be below 7. Five patients were injured in road accidents and tested positive for Covid-19 on being admitted to the hospital.Dr Richa Giri, superintendent in chief of Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, which is a level-3 Covid-19 facility, said delay in seeking specialized medical help and admission in hospital was also a key reason.“On finding symptoms, people should not wait. They should get themselves tested instantly,” she said.The audit was necessitated following the high Covid-19 mortality rate in Kanpur. Initially, the deaths were reported from the L3 (level 3) hospitals and later a large number of fatalities was recorded from the L2 Covid-19 facilities. The audit team, however, did not mention the non-shifting of patients to L3 hospitals from L2 hospitals as the reason for deaths.The L3 hospitals did not have any space left for the new patients. Besides, another facility of 160 ICU beds—30 of them with ventilators—was delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-80-of-covid-19-deaths-in-kanpur-due-to-co-morbidities-in-patients-report/story-UR3WjexyDH4Q11exFkR7yI.html
18-09-2020||India||Railways to levy user fee as part of train fares soon||Indian Railways will soon start levying a user fee as part of train fares, seeking to raise funds for redeveloping railway stations and modernizing infrastructure to attract investments, Railway Board CEO VK Yadav said on Thursday. The user fee to be levied by the national transporter for the first time is in line with the user development fee (UDF) paid by air passengers. UDF is charged at various airports and the rate varies from city to city. Railways plans to levy the user fee across nearly 700-1000 railway stations. “We are going to keep a very small amount for the user charge,” railway board CEO VK Yadav said at a press conference, adding that it would be levied at stations that are being redeveloped as well as those that are not. “When the redevelopment of the stations gets completed, the money will go to the concessionaires; till then that money will go to the railways for improving facilities across stations. It will be an affordable amount, but it is important to levy if we want to provide world-class facilities similar to the airport developments. We want to upgrade all our major railway stations,” Yadav. About 10-15% of India’s 7,000 railway stations where the state-run transporter exporter expects higher traffic over the next five years will be covered by the new levy, he added. The proposal comes in the backdrop of a government plan to attract private investment to the national carrier. Railways plans to redevelop 50 railway stations and monetize its land. The redeveloped hubs will be called Railopolis. Indian Railways will lease the land out for 60 years for commercial purposes. Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, who was also present in the press conference, said private investment in Indian Railways will introduce competition and lead to fare reductions in the future. “We want railways to drive India’s growth story. In countries like Japan and South Korea the growth story was also driven by railway infrastructure. We are confident going forward that railways will contribute 1-2% towards India’s growth,” Kant said. “It is like when private banks were set up in India. So many private players came into the banking sector. But that didn’t lead SBI {State Bank of India} to shut. Private investment will bring in newer technologies. It will create competition in the railway sector. Competition will increase efficiency and reduce fares in the long run, “ he said. Apex policy think-tank Niti Aayog had, in October, pulled up the ministry of railways for delayed implementation of the government plan. Niti Aayog recommended that an empowered group of top bureaucrats be constituted to redevelop 50 stations on a priority basis. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had in 2016 announced a plan to redevelop 400 railway stations during its first term. The cost of station redevelopment was to be met by leveraging commercial development of land and space in and around the stations. The railway ministry has also begun the process of allowing private companies to run trains on 109 routes, opening up one of one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy. “The focus is Make in India, even the global companies that participate in this will have to follow the Make in India norms by DPIIT. This will bring in manufacturing capacity...When Alstom and Bombardier can manufacture metro trains in India, then why can’t trains be manufactured?. Everything will be set up in India,” Kant said. DPIIT is short for Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-to-levy-user-fee-as-part-of-train-fares-soon/story-9sFOIlbBx4L0y0cAafexnN.html
18-09-2020||India||PM replies to wishes, with personal touch||NEW DELHI: In response to their wishes on his birthday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday sent personalised messages to thank political leaders, film stars, cricketers and a host of other people who greeted him on turning 70.The PM’s timeline on micro blogging platform Twitter was full of congratulatory messages and photographs and a bulk of these received a response. Most messages to leaders came with a line or two about the bilateral ties between the countries; for instance in response to the Australian PM, Scott Morrison’s message typed in Hindi, the PM wrote, “Thank you @ScottMorrisonMP for your warm wishes. It is great to hear from a close friend! As two vibrant democracies, India and Australia will continue to further strengthen their comprehensive strategic partnership.”Boris Johnson, the UK PM’s greeting too was met with a line about the historic ties between the nations and their “common commitment to further strengthen them.”Film personalities Kangana Ranaut and Karan Johar who have been in the headlines for their sparring were both thanked for their wishes, as were journalists and members of the opposition.Some of the messages were an indication of the PM’s familiarity with the person. A case in point being the message to actor Madhuri Dixit; “Thanks! Best wishes to you and your family in growing your kitchen garden,” the PM tweeted to the actor.Chief Ministers of non-BJP ruled states; Mamata Banerjee, Pinarayi Vijayan and E Palaniswami all received a response to their greetings.There were a few witty ones as well. In response to actor Milind Soman’s tweet wishing him a proactive opposition the PM said, “Thank you for your birthday wishes and wishful thinking. :)”Soman had tweeted, “Dear Prime Minister @narendramodi on your 70th birthday I wish you good health and a good and proactive opposition, to push you to do better for our great country :)”.Earlier in the day, BJP leaders carried out a host of programmes to mark the PM’s birthday, which is being observed as a week-long Seva Saptah. BJP president JP Nadda said the best way to celebrate the PM s birthday is to serve those who are poor, deprived and exploited.“Politics and fighting elections are the work of political parties. However, Modi ji not only changed the culture of India but also of the party. Today, we are not only doing politics but also undertaking ‘sewa’ works,” he said and also released a book titled “Lord of the Records” at BJP headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-replies-to-wishes-with-personal-touch/story-V01PiOJst8duU0sHooLSmJ.html
18-09-2020||India||From LAC to LoC, Indian Army on alert||The Indian army is on alert, not just on the line of actual control (LAC) bordering China, but along the entire line of control (LoC) with Pakistan, which is seeing an increase in ceasefire violations, particularly since August last year when the government altered the special status in Jammu and Kashmir. The LoC is witnessing 300 to 400 violations every single month. The government made statements on both the LAC and the LoC this week, without giving the monthly breakup. According to a report tabled in the Parliament on the first day of the current session, 3,186 ceasefire violations by the Pakistan Army have been reported this year along the Indo-Pak border between January and September this year. The violations have nearly doubled from the 1629 reported in 2018. In 2019, the figure stood at 3168 for the entire year. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat has often spoken of being prepared for a two-front aggression which is currently under play on the LAC as well as the LoC. The LoC has been particularly hot since August 5, 2019 when the government hollowed out Section 370 which gave the erstwhile northern state of Jammu and Kashmir its special status. Also read: Ball in Beijing’s court: MEA on parleysPakistan has openly contested the status change at the highest political and military levels and the comparative figures for the month of August alone are in indication of prolonged and heightened tensions. There were as many as 307 ceasefire violations in August 2019 as against 44 in August 2018, according to official ministry of defence (MoD) figures seen by HT. The ceasefire was violated over 300 times in each of the subsequent months with March 2020 seeing 411 such violations. On average, March saw as many as 12 violations per day. While the face-off with China started in early April this year, Pakistan too has upped the ante, with close to 400 violations ever single month between March and August, according to official MoD data. Defence minister Rajnath Singh underlined in Parliament Thursday that India would not step back from taking harsh decisions, even, as he said that China has amassed battle machines and troops along the LAC. The LAC has been on fire since April with both sides adding troops, particularly in Eastern Ladakh. India lost 20 soldiers including a commanding officer at Galwan Valley on June 15, while the Chinese army too suffered an unspecified number of casualties. The LAC has witnessed soldier deaths for the first time since 1975. Bullets too, flew for the first time in 45 years in early September. The stand-off on the line of actual control continues despite high-level engagement at the level of foreign and defence ministers of both sides. A follow-up meeting at the military level is expected, though no date has currently been fixed. As one army official, who asked not to be identified because he is not authorized to speak to the media said, “We cannot afford to drop our guard either with China or Pakistan. They appear to be in a tango.” India is meanwhile preparing for a long haul as it heads into the winter months, mindful of the fact that the terrain along both fronts is inhospitable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-to-loc-indian-army-on-alert/story-iq4Ay8toAuRLQb39rMKMRI.html
18-09-2020||India||Ball in Beijing’s court: MEA on parleys||India on Thursday pushed back against China’s efforts to deflect responsibility for delays in the disengagement process in Ladakh sector, saying Beijing should sincerely work for de-escalation and not make further attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Indian side also insisted on implementing the consensus reached by the Indian foreign and defence ministers and their Chinese counterparts at meetings in Moscow earlier this month for “quick and complete disengagement of troops from all friction areas along the LAC”. The move came soon after China’s foreign ministry called on India for the second consecutive day to “immediately correct its wrong practices, disengage on the ground as soon as possible and take concrete actions to ease tensions” on the border. “The Chinese side should sincerely work with the Indian side for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas, including Pangong Lake, as well as de-escalation in border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols on maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “We hope the Chinese side will strictly respect and observe the LAC and not make further attempts to unilaterally change the status quo,” he added. Also read| ‘It may be a long winter’: Singapore envoy amid India-China tension at LACSrivastava’s remarks suggested the two sides hadn’t been able to move forward with the five-point roadmap hammered out by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in their talks on the margins of a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Moscow on September 10. The roadmap envisages that both sides “should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions”. “Both sides should, therefore, focus on easing tensions in the friction areas by refraining from any actions that may lead to an escalation in the situation. This requires strict adherence to the bilateral agreements and protocols and not making unilateral attempts to change the status quo,” Srivastava said. Tensions have spiked on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake, where troops from the two sides are within close range of each other and where there have been several instances of firing since late August – the first time guns have been used along the LAC since 1975. Experts say India is keen to tamp down tensions in this area, and at other friction points such as Gogra and Kongka La. Srivastava also noted that defence minister Rajnath Singh stated categorically in Lok Sabha on Tuesday and in Rajya Sabha on Thursday that India is committed to a peaceful dialogue through diplomatic and military channels. In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin again put the onus for disengagement and de-escalation on the Indian side, saying New Delhi should “immediately correct its wrong practices, disengage on the ground as soon as possible and take concrete actions to ease the tensions”. He also sought to blame India for the tensions in eastern Ladakh. Troops of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have always strictly abided by agreements between the two sides on maintaining peace and tranquillity along the disputed boundary, and are committed to safeguarding China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, he said. On Wednesday, Wang had said China was not to blame for the crisis at the border, which has taken bilateral ties to its worst level in decades. “It is the Indian side that has breached the agreements, trespassed the territory first and fired shots to threaten the safety of Chinese border troops first,” he had said on Wednesday. The Indian government has already dismissed such allegations from the Chinese side, saying PLA troops had engaged in provocative military manoeuvres and were not ready to disengage. Also read: China’s envoy cheers Jaishankar-Wang roadmap, then blames India for tensionOn Thursday, the nationalistic Global Times tabloid also accused India of not being sincere about honouring the consensus to disengage. An article in the tabloid a meeting of national security advisers of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping was a good opportunity to ease border tensions but everything depended on India’s sincerity. NSA Ajit Doval and his Chinese counterpart Yang Jiechi, a member of the political bureau of the central committee of the Communist Party of China joined the virtual meeting hosted by Russia. Hu Zhiyong of the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences told Global Times that China should be prepared to face the fact that consensus with India is possible but it should remain vigilant over whether India can keep its promises. Zhao Gancheng, from the Shanghai Institute for International Studies, said since Yang and Doval know each other for a long time, the Brics meeting brings hopes of peace. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said both sides were clearly in a stalemate and would hold on to territory while continuing their efforts to gain an advantage wherever possible. “At the same time, they will be careful not to escalate too much and allow the diplomatic processes to proceed and see what they yield. In any case, we are entering winter and I don’t see the possibility of a major escalation of hostility since it will be difficult to mount an offensive campaign in the harsh weather conditions of winter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ball-in-beijing-s-court-mea-on-parleys/story-1iUn6ODHRxzdbbpEJPhYkL.html
18-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh may brief Opposition on LAC situation||Defence minister Rajnath Singh is likely to meet leaders from other parties as early as this week to brief them on “additional points” on the “actual situation” of the India-China border conflict after Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday suggested that this would be a suitable way to discuss the sensitive issue.A senior Congress strategist said that the briefing may happen soon, and that former defence minister AK Antony will represent the Congress at the meeting along with some other senior leaders. HT reported on September 16 that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has indicated to some opposition leaders that a closed-door meeting on the India-China border situation may be considered, while ruling out a full-fledged public discussion on the subject during the monsoon session.Rajnath Singh gave a situation report to members in both Houses, and though other speeches were permitted on the issue in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, a select number of speakers were permitted to raise questions after Singh read out his statement in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Even before questions were posed to the minister, however, Naidu said: “I have a suggestion to the defence minister. If you agree, you may like invite some leaders in your office to share additional information on the issue. Some officials can also come.” Also read: Ball in Beijing’s court: MEA on parleysHe added: “They (political leaders) are all our own people. Everybody is interested in country’s safety and security and they should also know the actual position.”Towards the end of the session, Naidu again reminded Singh of his suggestion for a briefing meeting. Officials said that Singh later met Naidu in his chamber and told that it was a “good suggestion”, and that he was working on it. According to the proposal floated to select non-NDA leaders, the defence ministry brass may brief floor leaders of different parties on efforts to normalise the situation in the LAC, and reply to queries they may have on the subject. Some army generals may also be invited for the briefing meeting. “A senior minister called me to say that the government may think of a briefing meeting for floor leaders of different parties on the Indo-China situation. The proposal is at a nascent stage, and needs further discussion,” said a senior non-NDA leader, requesting anonymity. Intervening during the India-China debate, Naidu said that some propaganda claimed India is divided on the conflict.  “As the Chairman, I want to explain India’s culture is always of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is a family). We have never attacked any country. This is a very sensitive issue. Our soldiers are at the frontier. Raksha Mantri has explained at length about their situation. But there is a propaganda running in international magazines that India is divided, its has major differences and all those useless comments. The message should go from this House that we stand united with our soldiers,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-may-brief-oppn-on-lac-situation/story-hEil3iChgzN3gYv7JilPaN.html
18-09-2020||India||India’s first general aviation terminal for private jets inaugurated||India’s first general aviation terminal for private jets -- which promises faster turnaround of business jets and chartered planes, shielding them from the clutter of general passenger terminals where they now compete for taxiing slots with commercial flights -- was inaugurated by union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport on Thursday. The new terminal, which had been ready for use since July this year and was awaiting a final security nod from the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), will start operations from Sunday afternoon, officials familiar with the matter said. Delhi airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) said the terminal can handle more than 50 passengers every hour and can cater to 150 private jet movements every day. “The terminal can handle Code C type aircraft, which are 50-seater charter aircraft and the biggest in their category,” the airport operator said.With 57 dedicated chartered aircraft parking bays, the newly developed apron is spread over an area of eight lakh square feet, DIAL said.  The terminal offers a dedicated car parking with direct access to the city side, the airport operator said, adding the building and aircraft boarding area are at a walking distance from each other for easy and quick boarding or alighting of passengers.Apart from its aircraft handling capacity, the terminal building houses spacious passenger lounges, food and beverage sections, 24x7 personal concierge services and common processing area, the airport operator said. “For quick access, the terminal has its own immigration and customs area. Facilities for crew members and staff such as restrooms and briefing area are available in this new terminal, DIAL said.The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which guards the Delhi airport, will also manage security of the new terminal. A senior CISF officer, who did not wish not to be named, said at least 40-45 CISF armed personnel will be deployed at the new terminal throughout to frisk passengers and to secure the perimeter.The terminal has an access control system, Wi-Fi enabled services, and an integrated perimeter security control system, DIAL said.The terminal was built at a cost of Rs150 crore over one-and-a-half years by Bird ExecuJet Airport Services Private Limited, a joint venture between Bird Group and ExecuJet Aviation Group, an international business aviation company based in Switzerland’s Zurich Airport.A spokesperson from the Bird ExecuJet Airport Services Private Limited said nothing was imported for the construction of the terminal and it is purely India made. “It’s a proud moment and we hope given the current scenario, the GA terminal will prove to be a gateway for foreign investors, connecting them directly to the national capital,” the spokesperson said.Puri, who inaugurated the terminal, said India’s civil aviation sector is all set to emerge stronger in a post-Coid world and general aviation will have a significant contribution to it. The new terminal at Delhi airport is the need of the hour, which would significantly support this growth, the minister said.Delhi-based private jet operators said they were looking forward to operating from the new base.Kanika Tekriwal, CEO and founder of JetSetGo Aviation, a private jet operator based in Delhi, said, “With the new terminal for private jets, we will address two major things -- time and exclusivity. Earlier, our guests used to board their flights from either Terminal 1 or Terminal 3, along with commercial flight passages, and took similar processes to board a private flight, making it challenging for someone who is paying a premium price.”“Now, with the new terminal, our guests will be able to fly with us in almost no time and with utmost privacy,” Tekriwal said, explaining that this, however, will not really change the number of flight slots they get.Despite the new terminal, private aircraft will still have to compete for take-off and landing slots with commercial flights. An official from Delhi airport said that the new terminal will help cut time. “Runway 29/11 -- the largest in Delhi -- is closer to the new terminal, and this will make taxiing time of these private aircraft significantly shorter,” he said, adding the shorter distance between the terminal building and flight boarding point will also make the process of boarding quicker and less cumbersome.Tekriwal said the charges for hiring a private jet depend on the size of aircraft and the length of the trip. “They start at Rs 80,000 per hour for an eight-seater turbo-prop and go all the way to Rs 5-6 lakh per hour for a 16-seater jet. Plus there are airport and other landing charges.”Captain Archit Gupta, CEO, Atom Aviation, another Delhi-based private jet service provider, said the new terminal looks classy and elegant. “It has been rightly designed but the capacity of 50 passengers per hour is slightly low as bigger aircraft have more passengers. When more than 2-3 departures happen at the same time, there could be chaos.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-first-general-aviation-terminal-for-private-jets-inaugurated/story-OhckoR1ZXD4uIfKCp81q3M.html
18-09-2020||India||Will ensure fair polls in Bengal, says governor Dhankhar. TMC responds||Will ensure free and fair polls in the state, promised West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to people on Thursday, adding that the police have played a partisan role in the recent political violence and killings. “The base of democracy is a free and fair electoral system. If a citizen cannot cast his vote without fear it becomes a danger for democracy. I promise to the people of West Bengal that I will ensure free and fair elections, come what may,” Dhankhar said in Hindi at the Raj Bhawan while speaking to television channels. Assembly polls in Bengal will be held next year. “Our democracy was achieved against a lot of sacrifice. I say with a heavy heart that dilution in democratic standards has gone down to a dangerous level. It is necessary to put shackles on this dilution,” said the governor. “Which party comes to power or forms the government is not my concern. I am only concerned about how the government is formed,” said Dhankhar.The governor alleged that the state government was dependent on the police for running the administration. “No government should operate by using the police as a crutch. By doing this a government endangers democracy. I have said time and again that this government is using the police. I have proof. There has been political violence and killings in recent days. Police have played a partisan role, going outside the limits of law,” said Dhankhar. Reacting to the governor’s statements, state power minister Savandeb Chattopadhyay said, “Every political party wants a free and fair election. But ensuring that is the job of the Election Commission of India. The governor does not conduct elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-ensure-fair-polls-in-bengal-says-governor-dhankhar-tmc-responds/story-r3fySrUXE7cW8VH7DHYwBI.html
18-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha MP Ashok Gasti passes away due to Covid-19||Rajya Sabha MP and BJP Karntaka leader Ashok Gasti who was being treated at the Manipal hospital in Bengaluru for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease died at 10.31 pm on Thursday.The 55 year old was hospitalised on September 2 and was reported to have been suffering from breathing problems for the last few days. “Shri Ashok Gasti, Hon’ble MP from Rajya Sabha who was admitted to Manipal Hospital and diagnosed with severe Covid 19 pneumonia passed away at 10.31 pm. He was 55 years old. He was critically ill with multi organ failure and was on life support system in the ICU under constant observation by our expert panel of doctors. We deeply regret the lower and express our condolences to his family and friends, ” the hospital said in a statement. The BJP leader had taken oath as a Rajya Sabha MP on July 22. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled Gasti’s demise and said that he worked hard to strengthen the party in Karnataka and was passionate about empowering the poor and marginalised sections of society.  Rajya Sabha MP Shri Ashok Gasti was a dedicated Karyakarta who worked hard to strengthen the Party in Karnataka. He was passionate about empowering the poor and marginalised sections of society. Anguished by his passing away. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti.Coming from the backward community of Savita Samaj, Gasti had been an RSS worker and was an active member of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP).(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-mp-ashok-gasti-passes-away-due-to-covid-19/story-QBwA6jZdA9fcfHnrDzqLFO.html
18-09-2020||India||Rajkot emerges as Covid-19 hotspot, people impose self-lockdown||At least half the 7,033 Covid-19 cases and 115 deaths in Gujarat’s Rajkot have been reported in the past month, official data shows. State health department data shows that the number of cumulative cases increased from 3,289 on August 16 to 7,033 on September 16. The number of deaths rose to 115 from 54 during the same period.Rajkot’s case fatality rate is the lowest in the state, however, there may likely be some discrepancy in the data. On September 3, a local Gujarati daily reported that 32 bodies were cremated/buried in Rajkot city the previous day as per Covid-19 protocols but only three deaths were recorded in Gujarat’s Covid-19 health bulletin.Rajkot municipal commissioner Udit Mishra denied the possibility of death figures being hidden and said the death audit committee decides the cause of deaths. “Some people have confused routine deaths with Covid-19 deaths. This may be because suspected Covid-19 patients, who die, are cremated with Covid-19 protocol. We provide Covid-19 death figures as decided by the audit committee.”Former president of the Rajkot Medical Association (RMA) Dr Chetan Lalseta said, “One should not attribute all deaths to Rajkot district. Many terminally ill patients coming from neighbouring districts also contribute to high death numbers in Rajkot.”Still, the situation turned so bad that the Gujarat government had to rush its health secretary Jayanti Ravi with a team of health experts and doctors to the city on August 31 to bring the situation under control.“All efforts are being made to reduce fatalities in Rajkot district. Around 15 doctors from other districts would be stationed here and additional ventilators would be provided,” news agency PTI quoted her as saying on August 31.As the cases of infection rise exponentially, residents have gone into isolation.“We had no option but to go for a self-imposed lockdown as cases were rising rapidly and lockdown is the only way to control the chain of transmission,” said Suresh Kumar, communications in-charge of the Rajkot Wholesale Textile Merchants Association.He said the lockdown, though voluntary, is almost complete with essential good shops opening for limited hours every day. “There is a huge fear among people as the virus is spreading rapidly. People are not coming out of their homes voluntarily now,” he said.Lalseta said a huge spike in Covid-19 cases was witnessed after the Janmasthami festival (August 11) when people gathered in large numbers despite restrictions imposed by the state government.As the cases increased, he said, 160 of 300 registered doctors in the city were infected, hampering the disease management in the 170 sq km city. He, however, added that things look better now with 90 percent of them having recovered. On Thursday, Rajkot reported 46 new Covid-19 cases and one fatality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajkot-emerges-as-covid-19-hotspot-people-impose-self-lockdown/story-MrWWjuwJIqGAp6mYmDR1eJ.html
18-09-2020||India||‘Yoga in burqa’: Uttarakhand boxer girl fights all odds to teach yoga to women||A 17-year-old boxer, Rehnuma Mikrani, is kicking all odds one punch at a time to teach yoga to about 40 women of her community in Haldwani town of Nainital district. Hailing from a humble family background, Rehnuma is the daughter of an autorickshaw driving father and a mother who works at a local Anganwadi centre. A state-level boxer, Rehnuma decided to teach yoga and other exercises to the women in her community about one and a half month ago during the lockdown. She began by teaching yoga to four women and now has a batch of around forty women of her community who come together every morning in the local playground. However, the initiative was not an easy one to start as she and the other women had to face all sorts of odds including criticism from some members of the community and lewd comments from local boys. Also read: Section 144 in Mumbai: Does anything change? All you need to knowRehnuma, who has been training at Sports Authority of India’s day-boarding extension centre for boxing in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district, said, “It all started in July when my mother and few other women asked me to teach them yoga and other exercises as being a sportsperson, I was trained in such things.”“I was at home during the lockdown but I tried to continue my regular workout at a nearby sports ground. There, I saw a few Muslim women doing some basic exercises near their houses but not in a proper way. I discussed it with my mother who then said asked me to teach it to teach them since I am trained in it. I agreed and then five of us, my mother, three other women and I, started practising in the playground where I used to go,” said Rehnuma. The small group then started gathering early at 5.30 am to practise yoga and other exercises till 7-7.30 am. Rehnuma said that it was not at all an easy for them initially as “men would stop on their way just to stare at them”. “Not only they would stop to see what we are doing but some also used to pass lewd comments and body shame us, saying, “Look at these ladies… what they are doing? They rather sit at home”. Initially, we didn’t pay heed to them but when it crossed a limit, my mother and I confronted them after which they stopped passing comments,” she said. Also read: ‘No need to panic’ - Aaditya Thackeray on Section 144 imposed in MumbaiRehnuma’s mother Shabnam who has been supporting her from day one, said, “Not only random people at the ground but some local Muslim scholars also objected”“After seeing us, more women started joining us later and the number reached forty. However, this also drew an objection from some local Muslim scholars. They didn’t confront us directly but would raise their objection before the men of our community that we should not do this in public, rather sit at home as it is against the customs and all...,” said Shabnam. “However, we didn’t stop going there to practise yoga as we knew we would face such hurdles. And we were doing all this for our health and fitness,” she added.“Among 40 women, some are as young as 14 while some are over 45. We gather every morning as a family and practise yoga with full dedication. In fact, we have also bought a small speaker after pooling money to play music during yoga. We all really enjoy it and don’t bother about criticism now,” said Shabnam.Many women come in Burqa to practise yoga. Samreen Khan, 23, who has been with Rehnuma since the start and is also a trained yoga practitioner, said, “Belonging to a society where women are not allowed to move freely and are expected to be in veil or burqa, we decided to teach these women yoga in burqa only.”“Most of the women are practising yoga with us in burqa and they have absolutely no problem with that. They say, by doing so they are able to uphold the customs and practise yoga also for their health and fitness,” said Samreen. She said initially many women were hesitant in joining them but once they joined they were able to understand the benefits of yoga. “Many of them suffered from health issues like blood pressure or joint pain and didn’t know what to do. Now, after joining our group, they have learnt many yoga asanas and exercises which are helping them improve their health,” said Samreen. The initiative has been appreciated by many prominent members of the community. SMA Kazmi, social activist and a political expert based in Dehradun, said, “What these women are doing is highly appreciable. What Rehnuma is doing is for the health and fitness of women in our community which makes it all the more important and praiseworthy. There are several restrictions on women in our community but she has braved them all to teach them yoga. This is what should be appreciated by all,” said Kazmi. Another social activist from Haldwani, Tanuja Joshi, too hailed Rehnuma for her efforts and said, “What she is doing is beneficial for the health of these women. Yoga is above any religion and keeps people fit”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-in-burqa-uttarakhand-boxer-girl-fights-all-odds-to-teach-yoga-to-women/story-QRa7BaSSuz5pRhRaaYBwpO.html
18-09-2020||India||6.2 crore mobile phone users, 3.93 crore internet users in Bihar: IT minister Prasad||Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday said the number of mobile phone users in Bihar has increased to 6.21 crore in August 2020, while the number of internet users has increased to 3.93 crore.Prasad mentioned this via videoconferencing on the occasion of inauguration of seven infrastructure projects in the state by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“There were 4.2 crore mobile phone users in Bihar in 2014-15, which has increased to 6.21 crore in August this year. The number of internet users, meanwhile, was 80 lakh in 2014-15 but it has now increased to 3.93 crore,” the minister said, while praising PM Modi for ‘promoting and building the physical and digital infrastructure of the country.’With a population of over 100 million (ten crore), Bihar is the third most populous state in the country after Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. This would mean that over 62% of the state’s population uses mobile phones, while internet is used by nearly 40% people.“Under PM Modi’s leadership, a complete development of Bihar is taking place. The state is getting his blessings. At the same time, the Bihar government is also constantly active in the development works,” he further saidPrasad also noted that all 8,743 panchayats in Bihar, except a few, have been connected with the high-speed broadband network under BharatNet.“Only 10-12 panchayats could not be connected due to their location in forest areas,” the IT minister explained.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-2-crore-mobile-phone-users-3-93-crore-internet-users-in-bihar-it-minister-prasad/story-idCJPhIJDxkvhEErbKXLwI.html
18-09-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate, launch 7 infra projects worth Rs 541 crore in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of 7 urban infrastructure projects worth Rs 541 crore in the poll-bound Bihar via video conference. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will also be present at the ceremony.The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said on Monday that out of these projects, four are related to water supply, two to sewage treatment and one to riverfront development.The implementation of these projects has been undertaken by the Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (BUIDCO) under the urban development and housing department of the state.Giving details of the projects, the PMO said the sewage treatment plants have been built under the Namami Gange mission, at Beur and Karmalichak, in Patna Municipal Corporation.Water supply projects built under the AMRUT Mission in Siwan Municipal Council and Chhapra Municipal Corporation will help local residents get pure drinking water 24 hours a day, it said.PM Modi will lay the foundation stone of Munger water supply scheme under AMRUT Mission and it will help residents of Munger Municipal Corporation get pure water through pipelines.The foundation stone of Jamalpur water supply scheme under AMRUT Mission will also be laid, the PMO said.The foundation stone of Muzaffarpur Riverfront Development Scheme, being built under Namami Gange, will also be laid by PM Modi.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-launch-7-infra-projects-worth-rs-541-crore-in-bihar/story-fyiGSTYIcPC24V4rFGnYsO.html
18-09-2020||India||Activist Akhil Gogoi refused bail, court says accusations not wholly improbable||Assam-based activist Akhil Gogoi’s bail plea has been rejected in a case of violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in Assam last year. A special NIA court relied on the evidence collected against Gogoi and observed that it cannot be said that the accusations are wholly improbable, according to an NIA statement.Gogoi is set to move the state high court against the rejection order delivered in Guwahati on Friday.Gogoi was arrested on December 12 as a preventive measure while protests against the CAA in the state raged and resulted in violence at several places. Gogoi’s case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which filed a charge sheet against him on June 29, 2020 for alleged conspiracy in league with the proscribed Maoist outfit, the CPI (Maoist) group, for commissioning of alleged terrorist acts.“It pertains to larger conspiracy hatched by CPI (Maoist), a proscribed organisation, wherein Akhil Gogoi and other accused persons intentionally conspired, and incited acts preparatory to commission of terrorist acts,” an official statement by NIA said.Also Read: Kerala gold smuggling suspect had good rapport with CM’s office: NIANIA has argued that the alleged conspiracy hatched by Gogoi in connivance with others included disrupting supplies and services essential to the life of the community and causing damage and destruction of public and private property aimed at striking terror in a section of people of India.“Accused Akhil Gogoi and others have used passage of Citizenship Amendment Bill in Parliament as an opportunity to further the Maoist agenda and to promote enmity between different groups and to do acts, prejudicial to maintenance of harmony, thus endangering security and sovereignty of the State,” the statement added further.Also Read:NHRC asks Chhattisgarh to compensate activistsAkhil Gogoi is associated with Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), a peasant organisation based in Assam.The agency had earlier conducted raids at Gogoi’s residence in Guwahati.The hearing on Gogoi’s bail plea continued for 10 days in NIA court, which ultimately resulted in its rejection on Friday. The case against Gogoi and others is in pre-trial stage for framing of charges against the accused persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-akhil-gogoi-refused-bail-court-says-accusations-not-wholly-improbable/story-s4eQP2vCoH17KEtWaIzcOI.html
