19-09-2020||India||Harassed by money lenders, Jaipur-based jeweller, kin end life||A Jaipur-based jeweller killed himself along with his wife and two sons on Friday. According to a note recovered from them, the family was under debt and was harassed by lenders. Additional deputy commissioner of police (East) Manoj Choudhary said that the man was 45 years old while his wife was 41. The elder son, 23, was preparing for the recruitment exam of police constable and the younger, 20, had taken the medical entrance examination on September 13.Choudhary said that the police came to know about the incident around 9 am. A team of forensic science, police from Kanota police station, and other senior officials rushed to spot.“The family belonged to Alwar and was living in Jamdoli area of Jaipur for last five years,” the police officer said. He said that debt and pressure from lenders were the reason behind their extreme step.“Probe hints that the jeweller was under pressure as those who had purchased gold from him are not paying him the money and those from whom he had taken money were creating pressure on him and were allegedly threatening him. The exact amount of money taken is yet to be verified. A case has been registered under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of Indian Penal Code against four persons who were called at the police station and are being quizzed,” Choudhary said. Also read: Rajasthan govt to legalise mines supplying stone for Ram temple construction in AyodhyaA suicide note has also been recovered from the spot in which the jeweller had shared his ordeal. “I am taking my life in all my senses and so is my family. Due to loss in my business, I had taken money from some people but they were creating pressure on me and even after demanding they were not giving me extra time to repay the money because of which my entire family is under severe mental stress. Nobody is listening to us. I am responsible for all the loss and not any other family member,” the note read.It further added, “Those whom I had lent money are not returning while my lenders come home and abuse us.”One of the family members said that his nephew had suffered a severe loss in business and was planning to sell his shop to repay the loan. “One can only repay the loan once the shop is sold and somebody pays the money. Few lenders, including a woman, had come yesterday and abused the family members,” the family member added.The police said they are recording the statements of neighbours and other family members to find out who all were visiting the victim family. The call details of the suspects would be obtained to check the frequency of calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harassed-by-money-lenders-jaipur-based-jeweller-kin-end-life/story-u1ymY9sMAxoo0Ry08utNtN.html
19-09-2020||India||In pictures: INS Viraat’s three decades of service||Navy veterans experienced an emotional moment when Indian Navy’s decommissioned aircraft carrier Viraat set sail for the last time on Saturday. Viraat will now reach Alang in Gujarat where it will be broken down and sold as scrap. INS Viraat was formerly known as HMS Hermes as the aircraft carrier had served in the United Kingdom’s Royal Navy for 27 years. Watch: INS Viraat’s final journey, served Indian Navy for 29 yearsINS Viraat was inducted into the Indian Navy in the year 1987. It was commissioned on May 12, 1987 at Plymouth in the United Kingdom.Nicknamed the Grand Old Lady, Viraat was instrumental in several military operations like the Operation Jupiter, Operation Parakram and Operation Vijay. It also served the British Royal Navy in the Falklands War. INS Viraat could carry 1,500 crew and officers. It served the Indian Navy for three decades. It was operational for 2,258 days, covering 590000 nautical miles, and 22622 hours of flying operations, according to PTI. Along with the ability to carry 25 aircrafts it could also carry Sea Harrier fighters and Sea King 42 B/C, Chetak, Kamov 31 and ALH helicopters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pictures-ins-viraat-s-three-decades-of-service/story-cDAlOW1ifHnlaQXYunYvvK.html
19-09-2020||India||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, NC says ‘declare medical emergency in Jammu’||National Conference provincial president Devender Singh Rana on Saturday sought declaration of medical emergency in Jammu in view of the ever-rising cases of Covid-19 and inadequate infrastructural facilities to tackle the crisis-like situation.“The overall scenario is quite grim and there is no room for complacency. It can prove catastrophic unless an emergent and proactive response is taken to save precious lives,” Rana said in a statement.Rana referred to reports where patients either not find beds for treatment or were in need of oxygen and ventilators. He said the government should have anticipated such a situation and taken necessary measures to ramp-up bed strength by earmarking the maximum number of available beds in each hospital. Private hospitals and nursing homes should have been roped in, besides setting up a hospital with at least a thousand beds, Rana said giving the example of such a facility created by the Punjab government.Also read: L-G announces Rs 1,350 cr economic package for Jammu and KashmirWhile lauding the frontline warriors for risking their lives by putting in best efforts to treat Covid-19 cases, he slammed the “poor infrastructural backup” in Jammu. Rana again drew the attention of the administration towards the paucity of beds, questioning how will just 608 beds of the total capacity of 2,637 beds in Government Medical College and associated hospitals in the Jammu city meet the requirements of Covid-19 patients.The situation is even worse in semi-urban, urban and rural areas, he pointed out, adding that availability of oxygen is very poor and dysfunctional ventilators are adding more top the worry, he added.Rana called for the immediate installation of liquid oxygen plant, oxygen generation plant and other plants in various hospitals besides similar facilities at various district-level hospitals to cater to the needs of peripheral health institutions.Rana reiterated the need to deploy senior officers for monitoring the situation which seems to be going out of control. “This is to be taken note of to instil confidence among the people who are becoming restive on seeing the pitiable situation of health facilities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-nc-says-declare-medical-emergency-in-jammu/story-yLiTjipH36H2fPRhmK9n5J.html
19-09-2020||India||Centre allows commercial launch of first CRISPR Covid-19 test | All you need to know||The Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) on Saturday approved country’s first Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic (CRISPR) Covid-19 test for commercial launch. This is developed by Tata and powered by CSIR-IGIB (Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology) FELUDA (an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor-Limited Uniform Detection Assay). “The approval for the Tata CRISPR test for COVID-19 will give a boost to the country’s efforts in fighting the global pandemic. The commercialization of the Tata CRISPR test reflects the tremendous R&D talent in the country, which can collaborate to transform India’s contributions to the global healthcare and scientific research world,” Girish Krishnamurthy, CEO, TATA Medical and Diagnostics Ltd, said.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine: Serum Institute to start final phase of trial next weekWhat is Tata CRISPR test?*CRISPR is a genome editing technology to diagnosing diseases.*Tata CRISPR Covid-19 test uses an indigenously developed, cutting-edge CRISPR technology for detection of the genomic sequence of SARS-CoV-2 virus.*This is the world’s first diagnostic test to deploy a specially adapted Cas9 protein to successfully detect the virus causing Covid-19. *The Tata CRISPR test achieves accuracy levels of traditional RT-PCR tests.* However, it will take lesser time to process the results. The equipment are also less expensive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allows-commercial-launch-of-first-crispr-covid-19-test-all-you-need-to-know/story-14LhUYeeP48P9LBAhVrS8K.html
19-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes Bill to protect doctors, healthcare workers battling Covid-19||The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed a legislation that provides for up to seven years in jail for those attacking doctors and healthcare workers battling an epidemic, including the current pandemic Covid-19.The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which was introduced by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in the Upper House) got support from across party lines.The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, will replace an ordinance issued in April by the government. The government had brought the ordinance on April 22 to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, to make incidents of violence on health workers treating Covid-19 patients a non-bailable offence with provisions of a penalty and a jail term of up to seven years.Under the proposed Act, the commission or abetment of such violence will be punishable with imprisonment for a term of three months to five years, and with a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 2,00,000. In case of causing grievous hurt, the imprisonment shall be for a term of six months to seven years and with a fine of Rs 1,00,000 to Rs 5,00,000.Vardhan explained that the ordinance had to be brought as incidents of harassment and violence against health workers were rising amid a lack of awareness about coronavirus. “We have all noticed that there has been a dramatic decline in the incidents of violence against health workers all over the country,” he said.He said the step had to be taken in very unusual circumstances and when the government reviewed, it found there were minimal laws and powers in some states.“There was a need to have a central law to put in place a prohibitory mechanism to stop such activities,” Vardhan said.Several members raised issues related to hospitals turning Covid-19 into an opportunity to issues related to federalism.Binoy Viswam of the Communist Party of India (CPI), who moved a statutory resolution on the Bill, said it did not address the issue of violence on health professionals within the hospitals.Many hospitals are not paying the salaries to doctors and nurses, PPE kits are not being given and safety concerns are being ignored -- these issues have not been addressed by the Bill, he added.Participating in the debate, Congress’ Anand Sharma said there is a need to expand the protection to include the police and personnel of various other services, engaged in providing relief.“There are personnel from various other services, who are engaged in providing relief, managing the quarantine shelters. They should also be for the future included into the expanded list of people, who need support and protection,” he said.He also suggested to immediately set up a national task force for stakeholders consultation, with the states and institutions, including the scientific community and medical fraternity, for a comprehensive review and amendment to make the proposed Act contemporary and add lessons learnt during the crisis.Derek O’Brien of the TMC charged the Centre with interfering in the functioning of states through the Bill. “There are sinister provisions in the Bill. The states must be authorised to take decisions.” Ram Gopal Yadav (SP) stressed the need for special provisions to penalise people and private hospitals thriving on the Covid-19 crisis and taking it as a business.Vandana Chavan of the NCP suggested adding ASHA workers also.Replying to the discussion, Vardhan said various issues related to biological emergencies are covered under the National Disaster Management Act. On overcharging by private hospitals, Vardhan said the Central government has issued guidelines to states regarding charging by private hospitals, laboratories etc. “We have tried to rationalise these prices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-protect-doctors-healthcare-workers-battling-covid-19/story-gVWm1JMreCmbapufZJe4dO.html
19-09-2020||India||What is the need of PM-CARES? Opposition debates in Lok Sabha||Opposition leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury criticised the government on Saturday in the Lower House regarding the setting up of the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund questioning the government over the need of it when there was an existing Prime Minister National Relief Fund (PMNRF).The Congress lawmaker, while debating the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020 in Parliament, said, “I want to ask our finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman what is the need for creating a parallel fund when we already have PMNRF?”Chowdhury further questioned the government asking if they had taken loans from Chinese banks amid the standoff at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. The Congress MP from Bengal said, “I also want to ask our FM if it’s true that you took a loan from Chinese banks even after our Indian Army personnel were fighting in the Galwan valley. How much loan has been taken from China since April?”A day after his comment and the uproar over it led to several adjournments in the Lok Sabha, Union minister Anurag Thakur lashed out at the opposition and said unlike the PMNRF, the PM CARES is a registered trust. He targeted the Congress and said that one ‘family’ manages the trusts.Thakur said, “The first Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru constituted PMNRF in 1948. PMNRF is still not registered. The members of the trust were Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and the President of Indian National Congress and a nominee of Tata Trust.”Drawing comparisons between the PMNRF and PM CARES, he said, “The PM-CARES fund was registered on March 27, 2020, under the 1908 Act. An independent auditor was appointed. Nobody is forced to donate to this fund. The members of the trust are all ex officio members such as Prime Minister, minister of defence, minister of home affairs and minister of finance”Congress has targeted the government on the issue of PM CARES even before the Monsoon Session began. On September 13, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh cited the lack of transparency in the PM CARES fund in a virtual press conference.N K Premachandran, a lawmaker from Kerala’s Revolutionary Socialist Party, said he does not understand the necessity of the PM CARES fund. “I can’t understand the logic to have a separate fund. What is the difference between the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund and the PM CARES Fund,” he said.Congress’ Manickam Tagore said that the PM CARES lacks transparency. The Tamil Nadu lawmaker questioned why the trust was outside the ambit of the Comptroller Auditor General of India and Parliament.Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra also highlighted that since 38 public sector companies donated Rs 2,100 crore to the fund, which makes 70% of the corpus, the government should be answerable to the people of the nation. She also questioned the government why they had not returned the money donated by Chinese firms like TikTok to the PM CARES. (with inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-need-of-pm-cares-opposition-debates-in-lok-sabha/story-OI61VK9tJn9tCeso8R9YVJ.html
19-09-2020||India||Thunderstorm with lightning to hit parts of India in next 12 hours: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday predicted moderate thunderstorm with lightning over isolated locations across India over next 12 hours.According to IMD predictions, thunderstorms with lightning are expected to occur over West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka andTelangana among other places. “Moderate thunderstorm with lightning very likely at isolated places over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, East Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Marathawada, north interior Karnataka, Telangana, Rayalaseema, and coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam during next 12 hours,” IMD said.The MeT department on Saturday also issued a red alert for extremely heavy rainfall for three districts in Kerala. Meanwhile, Delhi will witness dry weather conditions for the eleventh consecutive day, the weather department said.Whereas Andaman and Nicobar Islands will likely receive isolated heavy to very heavy downpour and fairly widespread to widespread downpour on September 19 and 20.“Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain likely over Andaman and Nicobar Islands on September 19 and 20; over Odisha, Coastal Andhra and Telangana from September 19 to 21, and over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Northeastern state during September 21 to 23,” IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thunderstorm-with-lightning-to-hit-parts-of-india-in-next-12-hours-imd/story-FOWfEbMEJhmk5DKXCRDt5L.html
19-09-2020||India||Mumbai locals: More trains from September 21, private bank employees allowed too||The Railways has decided to allow select 10 per cent employees of co-operative and private banks to travel on Mumbai’s suburban trains. Employees of nationalised banks are already allowed to travel by trains. Essential staff, which includes nationalised bank employees, and lawyers could travel on the local trains so far — since the suburban railways resumed operations from mid-June. On the Maharashtra government’s request, 10 per cent of the total staff strength of co-operative and private banks will be permitted to travel by local trains, a joint release issued by the Central and Western Railways stated.The selected 10 per cent staff will need to obtain QR ID codes from the state government. Until then, those with valid identity cards can buy tickets and travel.The railway authorities allowed aircraft maintenance and repair staff to travel on local trains.The railways also said that additional booking counters will be opened at important stations, and appealed passengers to follow social distancing. From September 21, 500 local trains instead of 350 will be running in Mumbai. “The number of daily special suburban services will be increased from 350 to 500 on Western Railway from September 21 to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding. The essential staff as notified by the state government to travel in local trains is requested to follow social distancing and wear a mask during travel,” the Western Railway said in a statement.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-locals-more-trains-from-september-21-private-bank-employees-allowed/story-9AlzHepbkj4fDRHTQpKYGN.html
19-09-2020||India||CBI’s new salvo to oppose Lalu Prasad Yadav’s bail may spell trouble for others||For the first time in over two-decades-old fodder scam cases, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) took recourse of a new legal provision to oppose RJD chief Lalu Prasad bail plea even as it may bring troubles to several other convicts.According to the CBI, the court had never ordered that the sentences awarded to Prasad in four separate fodder scam cases would run concurrently. Hence, Section 427 (1) of the code of criminal procedure (CrPC) would apply and Prasad’s custody in subsequent cases would start only after the completion of the sentence in previous cases, the agency said.Section 427 (1) of the CrPC says, “When a person already undergoing a sentence of imprisonment is sentenced on a subsequent conviction to imprisonment... such imprisonment... shall commence at the expiration of the imprisonment to which he has been previously sentenced unless the Court directs that the subsequent sentence shall run concurrently with such previous sentence...”Also read: Covid-19 vaccine - Serum Institute to start final phase of trial next weekFormer Bihar chief minister, Prasad, had suffered a major jolt in the fodder scam case on September 30, 2013, when a trial court in Ranchi held him guilty in the first of six cases against him. The conviction got him five years in prison, disqualification from Parliament and a ban on contesting elections. He was granted bail by the Supreme Court in December that year.His trouble renewed again after December 23, 2017, when he had been convicted and sentenced to 3.5 years, 5 years and 14 years of jail terms in three other fodder scam cases in quick succession. Since then, he has been in jail.Of these three cases, he had secured bail in one of them last year from Jharkhand high court on the ground that he had served half of the 3.5 years imprisonment awarded to him.“The CBI has already challenged the above HC’s order in Supreme Court and it is pending there,” said assistant solicitor general and CBI’s counsel Rajiv Sinha.In July this year, Prasad filed a bail application in the high court in the second case on similar ground that he had completed half of the 5 years jail term. But, the CBI, for the first time, took recourse of aforesaid Section 427 (1) of the CrPC to oppose his bail plea contending that Prasad’s custody, in this case, was yet to commence as he had not completed the full custody of previous cases.Prasad’s advocate Prabhat Kumar said, “The court, in last hearing on September 11, had not appreciated CBI’s argument saying that it was a premature stage to raise such contention. The court said the issue would be decided in the final hearing of pending appeal petitions.” He added that Prasad’s bail application would be heard next on October 9.Also read: J-K gets Rs 1,350 crore economic package, 50% rebate on power, water billsKumar explained that fodder scam cases involve nearly 200 accused and majority of them had been convicted in more than one cases. “Some of the accused suppliers were convicted in more than 25 cases and got different terms of imprisonment. If an individual’s total sentence is taken into account, it may be over 100 years,” he said.Advocate Indrajeet Sinha, practising in Jharkhand high court, said, “The appellant court has the power to order that sentences of different cases would run concurrently. I think this is a weak argument taken by the CBI in bail matters.”He added, “The appeal of fodder scam convicts are still pending in high court. If court goes by the mandate of Section 427 of the CrPC in bail matters, then accused, convicted in four or five cases, would have to serve half of the total sentences (27.5 years in case of Lalu Prasad) for his/her release on bail. But, it would be an injustice to him/her for keeping so long in jail in case the court, later on, acquits him/her after deciding the pending appeal petition.”Prasad’s current bail plea is related to the case of fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 33.13 crore during 1992-93 from Chaibasa treasury over fictitious spends on fodder and other expenses for cattle. He, along with 49 others, was convicted in this case. Prasad was sentenced to five years of jail term and was fined Rs one million. After spending the initial two months from - December 2017, to February 2018 - in Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, Prasad had developed health complications in March 2018 and was shifted to a hospital. Since then, he never returned to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-s-new-salvo-to-oppose-lalu-prasad-yadav-s-bail-may-spell-trouble-for-others/story-KbKirJ7dGQwTeDX4AOQsZM.html
19-09-2020||India||I was ready to get arrested but...: AAP leader Sanjay Singh’s reply to UP Police’s summoning notice||In his reply to the Uttar Pradesh police’s summoning notice, the Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh on Saturday said that he was ready to get arrested but chief minister Yogi Adityanath was not even keen on taking a statement.“Yogi ji, I was ready to get arrested, but you are not even ready to take a statement. But that’s okay, two days after the Monsoon Session ends, I will come to Lucknow’s Hazratganj police station,” Sanjay Singh tweeted in Hindi. योगी जी मैं तो गिरफ़्तारी देने को तैयार था आप बयान लेने को भी तैयार नही कोई बात नही सदन का सत्र ख़त्म होने के दो दिन बाद मैं लखनऊ के हज़रतगंज थाने आ जाऊँगा। pic.twitter.com/tbecmS8FMkThe AAP lawmaker has been summoned to appear before the UP Police in connection with a sedition case filed against him. The Uttar Pradesh police lodged a First Information Report (FIR) against Singh on September 1 under various sections of the IPC at Hazratganj police station for conducting a survey.The notice sent to Singh on his New Delhi address also mentions charges under IPC 124 A, 153 A (promoting enmity between classes), and 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-was-ready-to-get-arrested-but-aap-leader-sanjay-singh-s-reply-to-up-police-summoning-notice/story-5ECgTs1Xttph5cUp0mNp1H.html
19-09-2020||India||After setback in high court, YSRC enters into virtual conflict with judiciary in Andhra||The ruling YSR Congress party in Andhra Pradesh has entered into a virtual confrontation with the state judiciary following a series of judgments against the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the recent past. For the last three days, the YSR Congress party parliamentarians have been openly raising objections inside and outside Parliament over the recent orders of the state high court stalling the investigation into the alleged land scam in Amaravati, the capital region of Andhra Pradesh during the Telugu Desam Party regime. The YSRC leaders have been severely critical of the alleged gag order issued by the high court on Tuesday night restraining the media from publishing the contents of the First Information Report (FIR) filed by the Anti-Corruption Bureau into the alleged Amravati land scam involving a former advocate general of the state and daughters of a serving Supreme Court judge. YSRC general secretary and parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy questioned the legitimacy of the high court order stalling the probe into the alleged land scam in Amaravati and gagging the media from reporting the contents of the FIR registered by the ACB. “The judiciary in Andhra Pradesh is not impartial and is biased against the state government. The high court has taken some quite unusual and legally questionable decisions. There appears to be no material to justify such censorship other than the allegation by the petitioner that it has foisted the case. This is political vendetta being practiced by someone who has served during the previous regime,” Sai Reddy said. YSRC floor leader in Lok Sabha P Mithun Reddy said one cannot expect impartial judgments from some judges who had earlier served as legal advisors to the Telugu Desam Party. He demanded that the whole process of appointing judges through collegiums should be re-examined. The MPs also expressed concern that the courts were obstructing the development work of the people. He said it was strange that the courts were obstructing investigations into the scandals instead of uncovering the scams. The MPs urged the Centre to intervene over the orders of the state high court. While declaring that the Jagan government would move the Supreme Court challenging the state high court orders, the YSRC leaders also demanded that the Centre order a comprehensive probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the alleged purchase of over 4,000 acres of lands by several TDP leaders in and around Amaravati between June and December 2013 in anticipation of the declaration of the capital region. At the same time, the YSRC party has also brought out a government order issued during the Chandrababu Naidu government a few months before the 2019 general elections, allotting housing plots to as many as 14 judges in the prime area of Amaravati. “Naidu had given prime lands to judges free of cost. Some judicial officers and their family members had bought lands in the capital region. How is it justified? The same TDP is opposing the allotment of house sites for the landless poor in Amaravati,” state deputy chief minister K Narayana Swamy criticised. TDP strongly rebutted the criticism of the YSRC on allotment of lands to judges in Amaravati. “There is nothing new in this. During the Y S Rajasekhar Reddy regime, too, house sites were allotted to judges as a matter of policy. The TDP government had allotted lands not just to judges, but also to All India Service officers and journalists,” TDP official spokesman Bonda Uma Maheshwar Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-setback-in-high-court-ysrc-enters-into-virtual-conflict-with-judiciary-in-andhra/story-4R4puic3p0TwUyS8cFdscK.html
19-09-2020||India||No decision on selling only ‘Made in India’ products in military canteens:Govt||The defence ministry has not taken any decision on selling only “Made in India” products in military canteens run by it across the country, the government said on Saturday. “No decision has been taken in this regard,” Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said in Rajya Sabha. He was replying to a question on whether the defence ministry will consider using and selling only “Made in India” products in its stores in light of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s focus on self-reliance and “vocal for local”. In an address to the nation in May, Modi spoke extensively on the need to focus on a “self-reliant India” and called for promoting products made in India with a larger aim of making Indian economy stronger. In his reply, Naik also said that the total turnover of defence canteens in 2017-18 was Rs 17,190 crore and it went up to Rs 18,917 crore in 2018-19. The total turnover was reported at Rs 17,588 in 2019-20. In the current fiscal, the figure has been recorded at Rs 3,692 crore till August, he said. In reply to a separate question on whether government signed a contract with a private company to modernise 37 airfields, he replied in the affirmative. “Modernisation of airfield infrastructure has enhanced the capability in terms of facilitating operation in poor weather conditions including night operations, enhanced enroute navigation infrastructure and enhanced traffic handling capabilities,” he said. To a separate question, Naik said 86 military airbases are functioning in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-decision-on-selling-only-made-in-india-products-in-military-canteens-govt/story-PTahKMusXBxF4Sr5EqY77M.html
19-09-2020||India||Arms smuggling gang busted in Patna; 3 held, 8 pistols seized||A team of Bihar Special Task Force (STF) on Saturday arrested three members of an arms smuggling gang and recovered eight pistols and 16 magazines from state capital Patna. This is the third arms haul within 10 days ahead of assembly election in the state.Police said pistols of 7.65 bore were being smuggled to Bhojpur district from Munger. On supply of a consignment, the gang used to earn a profit of Rs 10,000 each as a carrier while a peddler earns between Rs 25,000 to Rs 35, 000 on each pistol.The arrested accused were identified as Raju Yadav (Munger), Mahendra Singh and Ajit Kumar (both from Bhojpur district). An STF official said acting on a tip-off, a police team intercepted them in Jakkanpur police station area and during checking, the pistols and magazines were seized.Also read: NCR states prepare to avert severe air pollution ahead of winterThe trio told the police that they used to work as daily wage labourers and were recently called by a gang of arms smugglers to Munger. They were handed over the consignment to deliver in Bhojpur.Earlier, the STF had arrested a smuggler with 1,100 live cartridges from Khagaria. On September 8, STF units had busted illegal gun factories in Patna and Khagaria districts and arrested 10 people during separate operations. The STF seized over 50 unfinished pistols, huge quantity of tools and manufacturing materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arms-smuggling-gang-busted-in-patna-3-held-8-pistols-seized/story-CvS6KYelbj27wLPQCNuO8J.html
19-09-2020||India||NCR states prepare to avert severe air pollution ahead of winter||Principal secretary to the Prime Minister, PK Mishra has asked the Delhi government to ensure that local sources of air pollution such as open burning of waste, road construction and demolition dust; industrial emissions is managed carefully before air pollution levels spike as we approach winter, according to a statement issued by the environment ministry on Saturday.Mishra also called for plans for air pollution hotspots at a high-level task force meeting on Friday which was attended by chief secretaries of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh, secretaries of different departments including ministries of environment, agriculture, road, petroleum and the Central Pollution Control Board. It was decided that similar site-specific plans will be implemented in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.He emphasized that the measures should be implemented well before the onset of severe air conditions and should focus on compliance of emission norms by industries in satellite industrial areas.Mishra noted that the incidence of stubble burning has reduced by more than 50% in last two years and the number of “good” air quality index days has gone up. It was observed that after the recent inclusion of residue-based power and fuel plants under priority sector lending by Reserve Bank of India, both state and central governments should jointly work out action plans for rapid deployment of such units. Measures related to diversification of crop and strengthening of supply chains were also discussed.Mishra stressed that teams should be deployed in Punjab, Haryana and UP to ensure that no stubble burning takes place. These states will need to provide appropriate incentives especially in the relevant districts.“We have to enforce the rules but enforcement becomes a challenge if systems are not in place. We have to do capacity system audits to understand what kind of waste generation and management is happening. Small scale industrial units, unauthorized industrial units will have to be monitored for the kind of fuel they are burning. Learnings from the lockdown will also have to be systematically implemented. For example, work from home can give us clues to develop a systemic approach of reducing the need for travel,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment. Delhi recorded moderate AQI at 118 on Saturday.Delhi has recorded “moderate” air quality days consecutively since September 9. The city had recorded 4 “good” and 27 “satisfactory” air days in August with air quality not falling to moderate levels even once.But meteorological and air quality scientists said the season is changing gradually leading to meteorological conditions that are unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncr-states-prepare-to-avert-severe-air-pollution-ahead-of-winter/story-y6qpLk9KP7Agyb7SiFT1tO.html
19-09-2020||India||‘Busy carrying out political errands, taking on opposition’: Guv slams Mamata over NIA arrests||West Bengal has become home to illegal bomb-making, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted on Saturday while launching a scathing attack against the Mamata Banerjee-led administration after six alleged Al Qaeda operatives were arrested from the state. He also accused the state’s director general of police of taking an ‘Ostrich Stance’ which he said is ‘very disturbing’. “State has become home to illegal bomb making that has potential to unsettle democracy. Police @MamataOfficial busy in carrying out political errands and taking on opposition,” Dhankjar tweeted after the National Investigative Agency (NIA) arrested six alleged Al-Qaeda operatives from Murshidabad district who were planning a series of terror attacks.“How far distanced is DGP @WBPolice from reality is cause of worry. His ‘Ostrich Stance’ is very disturbing,” Dhankar tweeted. Meanwhile, the political blame game over the arrest took began with the Bhartiya Janata Party and the Congress attacking the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state. “This hints at intelligence failure of the West Bengal police. Such is the political interference of the ruling party that the police’s force has started showing signs of decay,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury Congress MP and party floor leader in Lok Sabha. Flaying the TMC government in West Bengal, the BJP said that the state should take the help of central agencies because the law and order has reached the rock-bottom.  State has become home to illegal bomb making that has potential to unsettle democracy. Police @MamataOfficial busy in carrying out political errands and taking on opposition.Those at helm @WBPolice cannot escape their accountability for this alarming decline in law and order.“The TMC is indirectly supporting these men, hence such activities are taking place. The state should take the help of central agencies. Unemployment, declining law and order in the state and lack of fear are some of the reasons. The state government is trying to reactivate the Maoists before the 2021 assembly elections,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s president in West Bengal. TMC leaders, however, said that central agencies should have been more careful. TMC leaders even attacked BJP-ruled states and said that law and order has declined in those states. “They (the Congress and the BJP) are playing politics over national security. Such people cross the international border to enter the country. The BSF, which mans the border, should have been more careful. There should be a better coordination with the state police,” said TMC MP Saugata Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/murshidabad-nia-arrests-governor-slams-mamata-says-she-s-busy-carrying-out-political-errands-taking-on-opposition/story-4WwCCnyfXhCYb0JQpxAWfP.html
19-09-2020||India||Govt should give hefty compensation: Farooq Abdullah on Amshipora case||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Saturday addressed Army’s Shopian encounter where three men were killed in July this year during his speech at the ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament.Requesting government to compensate the victims, the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir said, “I am happy that the Army has admitted that three Shopian men were killed mistakenly. I hope the government gives a hefty compensation,” as quoted by PTI.This was Farooq Abdullah’s first address in the Parliament since the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was abrogated on August 5, 2019. The local leaders were put into detention after the special status in Jammu and Kashmir was lifted.“We are not against any operation carried out by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir, but we are against the killing of innocent lives during the operations,” Farooq Abdullahhad told news agency ANI on Amshipora case before his Parliament address. We are not against any operation carried out by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir, but we are against the killing of innocent lives during the operations: Farooq Abdullah, National Conference MP and former J&K CM, on Amshipora case. pic.twitter.com/NHK77pd0L8During an investigations into the Amshipora case, the army found evidence that its men (Jammu and Kashmir) violated powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act during an encounter in Shopian district of Kashmir in which three Rajouri locals were killed.The families of the three men have demanded severe punishment for the guilty.Army chief general Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said that the investigation into the Amshipora case will be held with utmost fairness.“Amshipora case investigations will be conducted with utmost fairness and will be taken to their logical conclusion. Indian Army is committed to the professional conduct of operations,” Army chief Naravane told ANI.“Indian Army has zero-tolerance for violation of established guidelines while operating in disturbed areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-should-give-hefty-compensation-farooq-abdullah-on-amshipora-case/story-9Oa4c51LOZmZAL0aGbA4FI.html
19-09-2020||India||60-year-old woman mauled to death by tiger in Maharashtra’s Yavatmal||A 60-year-old woman was killed in a tiger attack on Saturday afternoon at a field near Andharwadi village in Pandharkawada, Yavatmal district in Maharashtra.Forest officials said a tiger had been moving across villages Andharwadi, Koparmandvi, Vasari, and Kobai in the Pandharkawada Forest Reserve for the last 10 days and was also spotted at the site of the attack after Saturday’s incident.This is the second tiger attack and first death reported from the area and a committee empowered to decide on the tiger’s capture (as per National Tiger Conservation Authority guidelines) will be sending its recommendations to senior forest officials by Sunday.According to the forest department, around 1.30 pm Saturday, Laxmibai Bhimrao Dadanje, resident of Andharwadi was attacked and killed by a tiger at a field located between Patanbori and Andharwadi villages. Also read: Stop selling fake Khadi products - Centre to Flipkart, Amazon, Snapdeal“The tiger sat at the area, just adjoining the Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, after the kill for a long time before locals could retrieve the body and send it for a post mortem to a district hospital in Pandharkawada. During the first week of September, a similar attack was reported nearby where a farmer luckily escaped with injuries,” said a forest official.“Saturday’s incident has sparked fear in both villages. Residents have been asked to be vigilant,” he added.Subhash Dumare, assistant conservator of forest (Pandharkawada) said, “We have collected scat and hair samples of the tiger and sent it for DNA analysis to identify the gender and age of the animal.” Following the first attack, forest minister Sanjay Rathore had directed necessary measures that were needed to curb further incidents. “We have deployed camera traps, eight Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) persons from Melghat Tiger Reserve, rapid rescue units, and staff from three ranges at the site,” said SV Ramarao, chief conservator of forest (Yavatmal).Ramarao said that the committee, empowered to assess whether the tiger should be captured, discussed the matter on Saturday. “Based on the evidence and exact reason they submit for its capture, I will study and forward the proposal to the chief wildlife warden by Sunday for final recommendation,” he said.Pandharkavada forest reserve is the same region where tigress T1 or Avni was killed in 2018 after she was said to have killed 13 people.There have been 45 human deaths due to wild animal attacks in Maharashtra this year with 27 deaths involving tiger attacks, the forest department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-year-old-woman-mauled-to-death-by-tiger-in-maharashtra-s-yavatmal/story-uxM6twpCv2oqyz2X2w4DfL.html
19-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Serum Institute to start final phase of trial next week||The final phase of human clinical trial of Oxford-Astrazeneca’s Covishield will begin at the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune next week, after Drugs Controller General of India gave Serum Institute of India (SII) a go-ahead to continue its trial.“The phase-III trial of ‘Covishield’ vaccine will begin at Sassoon hospital from next week. It is likely to start on Monday. Some volunteers have already come forward for the trial. Around 150 to 200 volunteers will be administered the vaccine candidate dose,” Dr Muralidhar Tambe, dean of Sassoon General Hospital, told PTI.Also Read | AstraZeneca’s trial illnesses may not be due to Covid-19 shot, says Oxford UniversityHere is a timeline of the Covishield trial in India* On August 3, the Drug Controller General of India permitted SII to conduct the second and third phases of human clinical trials of Covishield.* On August 25, SII began the second phase of trial* On September 8, Oxford and Astrazeneca confirmed that one person who was administered the shot reported illness, after which the trials in the UK have been stalled on September 6.* SII also stopped preparations for any further trial.* On September 12, Astrazeneca announced that it is resuming the trial as the UK authorities have declared the vaccine shot safe.* SII said it would wait for DGCI nod to resume the trials in India.* DGCI has given a go-ahead to SII on September 15 From Saturday, the Pune hospital where the phase 3 trial will begin started enrolling volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-serum-institute-to-start-final-phase-of-trial-next-week/story-l8ZLXMeHEq6R19R8ixzXLJ.html
19-09-2020||India||S Jaishankar’s mother passes away, minister shares message on Twitter||Union minister for external affairs Subrahmanyam Jaishankar on Saturday via a tweet informed the demise of his mother.Deeply grieved to inform of the passing away today of my mother Sulochana Subrahmanyam. We ask her friends and well-wishers to keep her in their thoughts. Our family is especially grateful to all those who supported her during her illness. pic.twitter.com/6hEzbFJB1qHe tweeted the announcement while sharing a picture of his mother Sulochana Subrahmanyam and said, “Deeply grieved to inform of the passing away today of my mother Sulochana Subrahmanyam. We ask her friends and well-wishers to keep her in their thoughts. Our family is especially grateful to all those who supported her during her illness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-s-mother-passes-away-minister-shares-message-on-twitter/story-i87ZkgizIVvmlkpYvrkuIK.html
19-09-2020||India||Rajasthan man held in social media influencers fraud case||The Mumbai police’s crime branch nabbed a 21-year-old IT professional from Rajasthan for his alleged involvement in the social media marketing influencers fraud case, an official said on Saturday.The SIT arrested Vijay Banthia, a resident of Jodhpur, on Thursday and brought to the city on transit remand, the official said.Banthia was operating several portals that provided fake followers, views, subscribers, likes to profiles on social media platforms such as Instagram, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter etc, he said.The accused had allegedly completed approximately 9,000 orders and supplied lakhs of followers, views and likes, the official said, adding that his payments were unearthed by the police while investigating another arrested accused Kashif Tanwar.The SIT has so far identified 79 portals engaged in supply of fake followers, views and likes, he said. Banthia was produced before a court that has sent him to crime branch custody September 21, the official said.Earlier, the SIT had questioned Bollywood rapper Badshah in connection with the case and recorded the statement of digital media marketing company Qyuki’s COO and two employees in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-held-in-social-media-influencers-fraud-case/story-L9EDYj7qs0KURftEMOs7WO.html
19-09-2020||India||‘Wear masks, follow safety norms and maintain distance’: Venkaiah Naidu to RS members||With several ministers and MPs testing positive for Covid-19, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday urged members to wear masks, maintain a safe distance and follow good hygiene norms of washing hands and eat healthy.As the House met for the day, Naidu said the Covid-19 testing facility, both rapid antigen and RT-PCR, will be available in Parliament House everyday throughout the current session.“Members are advised to avail this facility and get their test done,” he said, adding that a significant number of oximeters to check the oxygen saturation level were also available.Naidu said officials have told him that the best safeguard against the virus is the mask.“Wearing a mask is important whenever you meet a person outside your house, including outsiders working in your house. This is very important,” he said, adding that the second most important thing is maintaining a safe distance.The third important thing is maintaining hygiene by washing hands.“The fourth thing is about the need to keep immunity levels of your body. That is possible by healthy food habits, a healthy lifestyle and also some amount of exercise,” he said.Naidu also said members should keep distance while interacting with each other. “Do not cross that six-feet limit and do not bend on other member’s side and try to wish him. If it is very important, send a slip. Otherwise, you can go out,” he said asking members not to physically reach out to officers or the Chair.The members can convey their problems or grievances by writing, he said. “That is the best way. I hope everyone of our members will remember these four things that have been stated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), health ministry and the home ministry and cooperate so that we can operate and complete our business at the earliest, and go back to serve our people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wear-masks-follow-safety-norms-and-maintain-distance-venkaiah-naidu-to-rs-members/story-EvK2JfOEQn0wRqwSCpl3iN.html
19-09-2020||India||RIMS medical superintendent tests positive for Covid-19, suffers cardiac arrest||Dr Vivek Kashyap, medical superintendent of the Jharkhand’s biggest hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ranchi, suffered a cardiac arrest on Saturday, two days after he tested positive for Covid-19.Dr Kashyap was rushed to the hospital’s cardiology department where an angioplasty was performed on him.“A blockage was found in his left artery. Angioplasty and stent placement was done on Saturday morning. He is stable now, “ said RIMS public relation officer Dr Nishit Ekka.He added, “The medical superintendent was found infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus, that causes Covid-19, two days ago. The team of doctors, who performed the angioplasty, took all precautions as per Covid-19 protocol.”Since the Covid-19 outbreak, nearly 200 doctors, nurses and paramedics of this lone tertiary hospital of the state have tested positive for the virus.Also read: Stop selling fake Khadi products - Centre to Flipkart, Amazon, SnapdealDuring the pandemic, the state health department has designated RIMS as the nodal agency for the centre of excellence to support the district for hospital management and treatment protocols.It is a challenge for the hospital to maintain smooth treatment of Covid-19 patients thronging from across the state, especially when its frontline workers are getting infected.“It’s true that a large number of doctors and other frontline workers have been infected by Covid-19. But, we never allowed this to impact the hospital’s smooth functioning. In fact, we have done emergency surgeries of many Covid-19 patients including in neuro and gynaecology departments,” said Dr Ekka.RIMS is currently facing a dearth of doctors and paramedics as nearly half of the sanctioned posts are lying vacant. Out of 322, 846 and 183 sanctioned posts of doctors, nurses and paramedics respectively at RIMS, 85, 469 and 75 posts are lying vacant respectively.The Jharkhand high court had earlier praised the doctors and other staff for working tirelessly to serve patients during the ongoing pandemic. It, however, blamed administrative inaction for the hospital’s ‘mismanagement’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rims-medical-superintendent-tests-positive-for-covid-19-suffers-cardiac-arrest/story-aHy1BY6oMSGcnrTYxfHxuK.html
19-09-2020||India||Kin of alleged al Qaeda operatives arrested from Bengal still puzzled about offence||When Asura Khatun woke up and saw policemen entering her house to arrest her husband in the early hours of Saturday, it was a bolt from the blue for her. “I asked them what my husband Al Mamun Kamal had done. They didn’t reply and instead told me to ask my husband what he had done. I asked my husband. Even he didn’t reply. He just told me not to worry and that if he was innocent, he would return soon. Else he would be punished,” Bibi said. Kamal was picked up from his house at Jalangi in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district by the National Investigative Agency (NIA). He was one of the six men accused of being radicalised by a Pakistan-based al Qaeda module to carry out terror attacks in India. “I still don’t know why he was picked up. He was earlier in Kerala for work. He returned home around two years back and since then has been working as a wage labourer here. I have a seven-month-old daughter,” Bibi said. The NIA also arrested three more accused from Kerala’s Ernakulam. Murshidabad is one the three Muslim-dominated districts in West Bengal and is located along the Indo-Bangla international border, one of the most porous international borders in India. Even the family members of 22-year-old Najmus Shakib are still in the dark as to why he was nabbed by sleuths of the central agency. “First they questioned my elder son. My younger son (Najmus Shakib) was standing next to him. He had a beard. They asked him why he has kept beard. Then they took him upstairs and searched the room. They seized a few documents, arrested him and took him away. We still don’t know why he was arrested. He was not earning anything. He only used to study and went to the mosque regularly,” Toumana Bibi, the accused’s mother and a resident of Domkal said. This is, however, not the first time that people with links to terrorist organizations have been picked up from the district. Earlier this year, a top Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) operative, allegedly involved in the January 2018 Bodh Gaya blast case, was arrested from a hideout in Murshidabad. Earlier in February 2018, another JMB operative was arrested from the district. “I don’t know what he did. Police didn’t tell us anything. They (cops) just came around 2 am and arrested him. He was a graduate and worked as an electrician. He was not into any criminal activities,” said Sariful Islam, father of Leu Yean Ahmed, 34, a resident of Domkal area in Murshidabad. According to data from the 2011 census, Bengal ranks fourth among the states from where people migrate. Between 2001 and 2011, 5.8 lakh people had migrated from Bengal. The number is now over 11 lakh, according to the state government. Murshidabad accounts for the most migration among all districts. All six arrested men – Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Atitur Rehman along with Shakib, Kamal and Ahmed - were produced in a special NIA court in Kolkata on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-of-alleged-al-qaeda-operatives-arrested-from-bengal-still-puzzled-about-offence/story-qcdtbnlCbpXB6jTeEu08fO.html
19-09-2020||India||Mahabodhi temple’s legendary peepal tree gets ‘natural advantage’ amid Covid-19 lockdown||The legendary peepal tree at Mahabodhi temple, Bodh Gaya, under which Siddhartha, the prince, is believed to have attained enlightenment to become Buddha, has got a ‘natural’ relief during the lockdown period.Without any spraying of nutrients in past nine months, the condition of tree is quite healthy and it is abundant with leaves.Normally, under the supervision of the Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, with which Bodhgaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) has an agreement for taking care of the tree, nutrients are sprinkled once or twice a year on the tree, said a temple official.“The tree is quite healthy and its branches have plenty of leaves. In past nine months no nutrient has been sprinkled on the tree,” said Chalinda Bhante, chief monk at Mahabodhi temple.Scientists at the FRI said the tree has got an advantage due to less or no footfall during the lockdown period. Besides, less or no light was used in the temple premises during the period because of which the tree gained natural advantage, they said.Also read: Stop selling fake Khadi products - Centre to Flipkart, Amazon, SnapdealAfter the end of complete lockdown, the temple was opened for devotees from June 8 to July 15, however, following Centre’s and Bihar government’s directive, it was shut again, said a temple management official at Bodh Gaya. He said the temple would reopen for visitors again from September 21.Dr Amit Pandey, FRI scientist, said no or less footfall of the tourists at the temple premises benefitted the peepal tree as the soil aeration in its roots increased. “The air between soil and roots increases due to less pressure on the earth surrounding the tree because of which the tree has benefitted and become quite healthy,” he said.“However, the scientific evidence of the benefits of less human interference because of the lockdown will be collected after our team visits the temple when things normalise,” he said.Pandey said the BTMC officials had contacted them during the complete lockdown period when the tree started shedding leaves. “We asked for video clippings and photographs of the tree’s condition to access its condition,” he said.“When trees get less moisture, they adopt a tactics of shedding leaves. We suggested certain measures which were adopted by the BTMC and leaf shedding stopped,” he said.A BTMC official said the FRI scientists suggested a solution of compost and water on the western side of the root besides sapling plantation which was carried out and the tree regained its health and new leaves started to branch out.Also read: Bodh Gaya’s Mahabodhi temple to reopen from September 21 with restrictionsHe added, “The FRI had sent a pack of nutrients during the lockdown period but the need of its sprinkling has not been felt and even the scientists did not suggest it seeing the healthy condition of the tree.”Retired head of department of botany and biotechnology department at Gaya College, Arvind Kumar Sinha, said less human interference generally give advantage to trees. “This is the reason the trees in forests grow naturally. The lockdown could have aided the natural growth of peepal tree at Mahabodhi temple complex and its roots could have got more air particles. Its leaves received a clean environment to absorb oxygen,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahabodhi-temple-s-legendary-peepal-tree-gets-natural-advantage-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-MWbYNBdlIdVngfw2upoT0N.html
19-09-2020||India||‘Over 500 ICU beds added for Covid-19 patients in a week’: Delhi health minister||Over 500 intensive care unit (ICU) beds have been added in private sector hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in a week, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday during an interaction with the press.“In the next two or three days, the numbers will go up further. ICU beds are being increased in the government hospitals as well. We are watching the capacity of all the hospitals regularly. Over 8,000 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients are still vacant. If need be, we will increase it further,” said Jain.“Even on the beds with ventilators, not many need it. As the number of ICU beds will go up, the ventilator beds will slowly get free,” he said.At present, there are 15,323 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients across government and private hospitals in the national capital. Of these, 7,025 or 45.8 percent beds were occupied as on Saturday evening, according to data from the government’s Delhi Corona app. There are a total of 2,909 ICU beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the city, of which 66.6 percent are currently occupied, data shows.Also read: Schools reopen from September 21 - Are states ready?With the government scaling up testing for Covid-19, Delhi has been recording over 4,000 new cases of Covid-19 every day for nearly ten days now. However, the cumulative positivity rate – total number of positive cases among the total number of people tested in the city so far – dipped below 10 percent on Friday, the health minister added.“The cumulative positivity rate of the cases reported so far has came down below 10 percent for the first time yesterday. So far, the positivity rate is 9.83 percent, earlier this was between 11 and 12 percent. The case fatality ratio (fraction of people who die among those tested positive) stands at 0.69 percent in the last ten days, and 2.05 percent cumulative for all deaths so far,” Jain said.He also said that the proportion of RT-PCR looks skewed because Delhi government has scaled up testing. “Show me one case in Delhi where a person wanted to get tested but could not. Even if they want RT-PCR test they can get it. But for surveillance in people without symptoms, rapid antigen tests can be done in bulk. The testing guidelines have also been revised to remove the need for doctors’ prescriptions,” the minister said.“In the last 10 to 12 days, we increased the number of tests, and in the last two days we have seen a downward trend in the positivity rate. The impact will be visible in the coming week,” he added.When asked whether there was community transmission in Delhi, he said, “Community transmission is a technical term, but with so many cases being reported from Delhi and other parts of the country community transmission should have been accepted. But, it is only the Centre and scientists from ICMR who can say so, however the infection is spreading in the community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-500-icu-beds-added-for-covid-19-patients-in-a-week-delhi-health-minister/story-y1Ln88PLdmlVmFfkgSzYOL.html
19-09-2020||India||In setback for TDP, another Andhra lawmaker shifts loyalties to YSR Congress party||The beleaguered Telugu Desam Party in Andhra Pradesh received yet another setback on Saturday when another lawmaker Vasupalli Ganesh from Visakhapatnam shifted loyalties to the ruling YSR Congress party. The TDP legislator representing Visakhapatnam (South) assembly constituency met YSRC president and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at the latter’s camp office in Tadepalli in Amaravati in the afternoon and extended his support to the ruling party. Ganesh, however, did not officially join the YSRC, apparently to avoid being disqualified from his assembly membership under the Anti-Defection Law. However, he got his two sons admitted into the YSRC. A businessman by profession, Ganesh entered politics in 2009 and unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections on a TDP ticket. However, he won the elections in 2014 and 2019 and had been loyal to the TDP for a long time. However, for the last few months, Ganesh has been differing with the stand taken by party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu opposing the shifting of administrative capital of the state from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam. Speaking to reporters later, Ganesh described Jagan as a dynamic leader and said he was confident that the state would achieve progress under the latter’s leadership. “The welfare schemes launched by the Jagan government have been attracting people and I don’t think the TDP can make any headway in the future,” he said. The MLA hoped that he would be able to take up several developmental work in his constituency during the Jagan regime. “We shall strive to win in the Mayoral elections and present it as a gift to Jagan,” he said. Ganesh is the fourth MLA to leave the TDP in the last 15 months. Earlier, Gannavaram MLA Vallabhaneni Vamsi Mohan and Guntur (West) MLA Maddali Giridhar also distanced themselves from the TDP and announced their support to the YSRC. With this, the strength of the TDP in the 175-member assembly has come down to 19. Technically, however, the strength of the TDP remains 23, as the three MLAs did not officially quit the TDP to avoid getting disqualified. All the three defected MLAs have been allocated separate seats in the assembly by Speaker Tammineni Sitaram, following their request. Ganesh is also likely to follow the same procedure. In the last few months, several senior leaders like MLCs Dokka Manikya Varaprasada Rao, Pothula Sunitha and D Sivanath Reddy, former deputy chairman of legislative Council S V Satish Reddy, former minister P Ramasubba Reddy, former MLAs Panchakarla Ramesh Babu, Kadiri Babu Rao, Thota Trimurthulu Beeda Mastan Rao and S A Rahman and former MLC Jupudi Prabhakar Rao, had quit the party and joined the YSRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-setback-for-tdp-another-andhra-lawmaker-shifts-loyalties-to-ysr-congress-party/story-oL3AMZt9zgAnrSNeqIxKEI.html
19-09-2020||India||Monsoon Session likely to be curtailed amid Covid-19 threat, most parties in favour||The ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament is likely to be curtailed as several parties on Saturday reached a consensus on wrapping up the session by next Wednesday. However, the government is intent on passing the rest of the legislations scheduled for this session. “There is a consensus on curtailing the Parliament session. We left it to the discretion of the Speaker while adjusting business of the house,” a participant of Parliament’s Business Advisory Committee meeting said. The Speaker will announce the last working day of the House.The session started on September 14 and was supposed to end on October 1.So far, around 30 MPs, including Union ministers Nitin Gadkari and Prahlad Patel, have tested positive for Covid-19 after the Monsoon Session began amid strict protocols. After Prahlad Patel, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Nitin Gadkari tested positive, the Covid-19 testing protocol in Parliament was tweaked. Repeat RT-PCR tests for MPs, mandatory tests for government officials visiting parliament, and daily antigen tests for reporters and Parliament officials were introduced as it was found that none of the three MPs tested positive when they took the test earlier — during the weekend.On Saturday — the sixth day of the session — the Rajya Sabha passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill 2020 and the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020 The pending Bills of this session include The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020, The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill, 2020 and The Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The National Forensic Sciences University Bill, 2020 and The Rashtriya Raksha University Bill, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-likely-to-be-curtailed-amid-covid-19-threat-most-parties-in-favour/story-fF1CbVMfdsNHOTomEsDQyH.html
19-09-2020||India||NIA arrests three al-Qaeda operatives after raids in Kerala’s Kochi||In a swift operation, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) raided a migrant workers’ settlement in Kochi in the early hours of Saturday and arrested three alleged al-Qaeda operatives who were planning a series of terror attacks. The NIA said the terror module was operational for some time and they were planning a series of attacks in major cities including Delhi, Mumbai and Kochi. It said raids were carried out at the same time in Kerala and West Bengal-- six people were arrested from Murshidabad  also. Kerala police chief Loknath Behra said the state police was informed and they helped the premier agency in the raid. All three arrested in Kochi-- Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas and Mosaraf Hossen-- hailed from West Bengal and they were discreetly staying as migrant workers. They were staying separately to avoid detection but they were in constant touch, NIA officials said. Some of the workers staying with them told the NIA that they never had any idea about their dubious activities but they were very religious and always hooked to their phones. But the NIA suspects that they might have got local support. Hasan is reported to be the leader of Kerala module and they were planning lone wolf attacks and suicide bombings. They also planned to target vital installations like southern naval command and Cochin Shipyard, officials said. Though in Kerala many Islamic State sympathisers were arrested earlier, this is the first time an al-Qaeda module has been busted. According to officers investigating the case, those arrested were radicalised by al-Qaeda leaders in Pakistan and they were in touch with some of them through encrypted Telegram app. Some of the workers told investigators that they were not regular at construction sites and they spent enough time on their phones. A laptop, terror leaflets and bomb-making materials were seized from their hideouts. One of them, Murshid Hasan, was staying in the state for more than five years and another Biswas had worked in a tea shop in Idukki for eight months before shifting his base to Kochi. “They led a normal life and produced all papers before their stay. One of them was staying with his family. We are really shocked to hear their terror-related activities,” one of the locals said adding Kochi will have to be on high alert as around five lakh migrant workers are working in the city and outskirts. Kerala police also suspect that some local people might have extended help to them. “We are keeping a close vigil on all migrant camps and employers have been instructed to keep personal details of all employees,” said a senior police officer. In 2016, at least 21 people from the state had slipped out of the country to join the Islamic State and most of them have reportedly died in Afghanistan and Iraq. Some of their widows and children are reportedly lodged in prisons in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-three-al-qaeda-operatives-after-raids-in-kerala-s-kochi/story-WEmHOGY1Sa9ASLkUaeHxxL.html
19-09-2020||India||‘Centre’s grant for minority welfare in UP cut by 50% in 5 years’: BSP MP||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP Kunwar Danish Ali has alleged that the budgetary allocation to the state for minority welfare was reduced by 50 percent over the past five years and wondered if this was the proof of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) ‘sab ka saath and sab ka vikas’ motto.“Besides reduction in the Centre’s grant, UP’s utilisation of the grant last year was a meagre 9.9 percent,” said Ali, who represents Uttar Pradesh’s Amroha constituency in the Lok Sabha.‘Sab ka saath, sab ka vikas’ (cooperation with all, development of all) was the BJP’s election slogan. The party later added ‘sab ka vishwas’ (confidence of all) to it to showcase its intent of winning the trust of minorities, especially Muslims.“The funds allocated to Uttar Pradesh for the year 2015-16, the first year of the Modi government, was Rs 32,462 lakh and the state utilised Rs 20,248.16 lakh (62 percent). Next year (2016-17), the allocation by the Centre was reduced to Rs 14,364 lakh i.e., 44.2 percent and when BJP came to power in Uttar Pradesh during 2017-18, the utilisation declined to 39 percent,” the BSP MP said. He added that the details came in response to a written reply to his query in the Lok Sabha.Also read: Uttar Pradesh police adds sedition to case against AAP MPThe query was regarding the allocation of funds to UP for the welfare of minorities during the last five years for various programmes, details of funds utilised by the state during the period and how the funds were used under the multi-sectoral development programme for the welfare of minorities during the period, he said.“During the election year (2018-19), the allocation was increased to Rs. 37,653.07 lakh, but on ground, the utilisation further declined to Rs 11,811.60 lakh (31 percent). I was shocked and surprised to know that during the year (2019-20), it has gone down to only 9.9 percnt,” Ali added.“The total allocation of funds from 2015-16 was reduced to less than 50 percent and the UP govt utilized less than 10 percent out of the allocated funds,” he said.In order to win the trust and confidence of the minorities, the Centre must be honest and true to its election slogan and promises, he added.“The Centre must allocate sufficient funds required for the welfare of the minorities and the UP government must fully utilise them without any sort of negligence and discrimination,” he said.BJP denies Ali’s allegationsWhile UP minority affairs minister Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’ and Mohsin Raza, minister of state for minority welfare, weren’t reachable despite repeated attempts, the ruling BJP denied Ali’s charge.“Often, attempts are made to discredit us by citing statistics indiscriminately. Everyone knows how Muslims had been reduced to a mere vote bank in the past. Now, with progressive measures, which include ending triple talaq practices and allocating funds for development and modernisation of madrasas, our government is trying to ensure an all-round development,” said UP BJP secretary Chandramohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-grant-for-minority-welfare-in-up-cut-by-50-in-5-years-bsp-mp/story-gopp3b5KDxXLWT4O3GOpTO.html
19-09-2020||India||India needs to hold talks with other neighbour country: Farooq Abdullah in Lok Sabha||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Saturday stepped inside the Parliament to attend the monsoon session after more than a year since the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was abrogated on August 5, 2019.After the special status was lifted in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019, the local leaders were put into pre-emptive detention.During his address in Lok Sabha on Saturday, Farooq Abdullah urged India to hold talks with other neighbour country, just like it has been holding talks with China to resolve issues.“Like we are talking to China to resolve issues, we need to hold talks with the other neighbour country as well. People are dying every day, border skirmishes are on a rise. We need to find some solution,” ANI quoted Farooq Abdullah, National Conference MP, as saying in Lok Sabha.On Internet network restrictions in Jammu and Kashmir, Farooq Abdullah questioned how was J&K supposed to grow if people did not have access to 4G facility while rest of the country did.“No progress is taking place in Jammu & Kashmir. People there do not have access to 4G facility, how are they going to grow in the present time when the rest of the country has access to every facility on the internet,” he said, as quoted by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-to-hold-talks-with-our-other-neighbour-country-says-farooq-abdullah-in-lok-sabha/story-90tOzDV93OSL8KRzxAapEN.html
19-09-2020||India||Schools reopen from Monday: Are states ready? Latest guidelines||Schools in some states will be resuming classes from September 21 after a gap of almost six months. According to centre’s guidelines, this will be the first step towards resuming educational institutions. Only senior students are allowed to come to the school voluntarily if they need guidance from their teachers. Schools in containment zones are not allowed to resume classes.Guidelines for reopening schools* Students would need written permission for parents to attend schools.* There will be no assembly, no events. Cafeterias will also not open.* Classes are advised to be held in open area.* Schools will function at 50 per cent capacity. Online classes will continue.* Mandatory thermal screening and hand sanitization at the entry* Deep cleaning of all classes.* School swimming pools will remain closed.* Only asymptomatic staff and students will be allowed.Also Read: Schools reopening from September 21: List of states which are resuming classesAre states ready?Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Andhra Pradesh have decided to resume classes. The state governments have issued separate guidelines for the resumption of the classes. Preparations are underway to sanitize classrooms,install social distancing marks etc.However, rest of the states have decided against the resumption of physical classes and continue with online classes instead.The AAP government initially was in favour of allowing senior classes to attend schools but, on Friday, it notified that schools will remain closed until October 5.On Saturday, Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel demanded that a task force be constituted to frame guidelines for holding online classes for school children. The MP also urged the government to help students from weaker sections of society who do not have access to computers or smartphones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-reopen-from-monday-are-states-ready-latest-guidelines/story-Rwotq9NhpTpwglug8LrYLO.html
19-09-2020||India||Veteran BJP leader, Maharashtra legislator Sardar Tara Singh passes away||Veteran BJP leader and former Mulund legislator Sardar Tara Singh died on Saturday morning due to prolonged illness. The 81-year old leader was being treated at Bandra Lilawati hospital from the last one month and finally succumbed to his illness on Saturday.BJP legislator Mihir Kotecha, who succeeded Tara Singh in the Mulund constituency, said he was suffering from multiple illnesses. “He was very sick and on a ventilator for a long time,” said Kotecha. Also read: Uttar Pradesh police adds sedition to case against AAP MP Sanjay Singh, summons himWith the demise of Sardar TaraSingh ji, we lost a senior and our valued colleague in @BJP4Maharashtra .His active participation during assembly proceedings, commitment for his constituency and common man will be remembered forever.Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis tweeted that his active participation during assembly proceedings, commitment for his constituency and towards the common man will be remembered forever.Four-time legislator from Mulund was one of the most popular and accessible legislators in Mumbai. He started as the corporator in the Mumbai civic body before graduating as a legislator. However, he was denied the BJP ticket in 2019 due to his advanced age and also as his son Rajneet Singh’s name cropped up in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-bjp-leader-maharashtra-legislator-sardar-tara-singh-passes-away/story-A0luWJQnqDX7k7jf1Jxi4I.html
19-09-2020||India||Iconic INS Viraat makes final journey to Alang ship breaking yard||On March 6, 2017, at 6.45 pm, the Indian Flag was lowered. Five minutes later, the commissioning pendant of the longest-serving aircraft carrier in the world was lowered onboard INS Viraat marking the end of a glorious tenure for the naval vessel that served for 56 years both the Royal Navy and the Indian Navy since it was commissioned in 1959. During its tenure, its commanding officers including admirals Madhvendra Singh, Arun Prakash, NK Verma and DK Joshi went on to head the navy.On Saturday, after numerous pleas and offers to convert the iconic vessel into a naval museum went unheard, the ship was towed to the breaking yard at Alang in Bhavnagar in Gujarat. The ship was brought by Shree Ram Group for Rs 38.54 crore in an auction conducted by the Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Limited last month.Watch: INS Viraat’s final journey, served Indian Navy for 29 years Also read: Old jet lands in Bandra; on display soonAndy Trish, who joined the Royal Navy as a Naval airman in 1981 and served on INS Viraat, which was then HMS Hermes, termed the vessel’s journey memorable, and quipped in a lighter vein: “I would like to take her with me.”Mark Shepherd, another British national who was posted on the ship as a 16-years-old during the Falkland War, wanted the ship to be turned into a museum for future generations.David Campbell Bannerman, a former Member of the European Parliament, wrote to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson asking his intervention to postpone the auction till March. “Our plan would be to turn the ship back into INS Viraat form for key weeks in the UK so that the large Indian diaspora in the UK can attend events on board. This includes Republic Day in January and Diwali in autumn, and possibly Independence Day on 15th August,” Bannerman then told HT.Bannerman, who was prepared to pay 5 million pounds, had said that he had been writing to Indian authorities since June 2019 but there been no response.“INS Viraat could not be handed over to any state government because of non-receipt of a self-sustaining financially complete proposal. Thus, in view of considerations of safety, security etc, a decision to scrap INS Viraat has been taken in due consultation with the Indian Navy,” minister of state for defence Shripad Naik said in a written reply in Rajya Sabha in July 2019.Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh had shown interest in turning the ship into a museum.Many in the Indian Navy still want the ship to be turned into a museum.“I want to try one last attempt to save #INSViraat Flag of India. Wud Reliance, TATA, Adani, Wipro, HCL, Mahindra, Uday Kotak, Poonawalla, Tech companies like Infosys consider contributing to a trust to preserve our history? I rqst my media friends to amplify this appeal,” Bharatiya Janata Party MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar tweeted.Commissioned into the Royal Navy in November 1959, the vessel served the British for 27 years before being decommissioned in 1984. India then bought the vessel and named it INS Viraat. It was commissioned into the Indian Navy on May 12, 1987, and became its flagship.Four Naval Air Squadrons operated out of the aircraft carrier to undertake anti-submarine, search and rescue operations, etc.The vessel became a part of Operation Jupiter in July 1989 as part of the Indian Peace Keeping Force in Sri Lanka. It was last deployed for operational duty for the International Fleet Review in Vishakapatnam in February 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iconic-ins-viraat-makes-final-journey-to-alang-ship-breaking-yard/story-APpVTW4yZatItm9Vj8ZVbI.html
19-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Dhankhar lashes out at Bengal govt after Murshidabad NIA arrests and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Home to illegal bomb-making’: Dhankhar lashes out at Bengal govt after Murshidabad NIA arrestsWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday said that the state has become a ‘home of illegal bomb-making’ and lashed out at the law enforcement agencies for the decline in law and order in the state. Read moreChina wants 50 PLA soldiers to stay back at Pangong Tso bank. India says no: 10 PointsThe proposed change of status of Gilgit-Baltistan by Pakistan and the aggression by the People’s Liberation Army in Ladakh are part of Beijing’s grand plan to secure and expand the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Read moreJournalist spying case: Delhi Police makes 2 more arrests, including Chinese womanPolice have registered a case under the Official Secrets Act against Rajeev Sharma and the Chinese and Nepalese nationals have been arrested under the same charges. Read moreIPL 2020: Are there any doubts?: Sachin Tendulkar names his ‘favourite’ to win the Indian Premier LeagueIPL 2020: It may be a difficult choice for may but Sachin Tendulkar had no hesitation in naming his ‘favourites’ for 13th edition of Indian Premier League. Read moreApple iPhone 12 may cost you more than what was rumoured before, here’s whyThe increased price of the 5G supporting iPhone is said to happen due to an increased Bill of Material (BOM) cost. Read moreKissing Booth 2 star Taylor Zakhar Perez’ latest fitness post is all about forest bathing, flaunting chiseled bodyKissing Booth 2 star Taylor Zakhar Perez’s forest bathing sends the Internet into a meltdown. His cold plunges in the stream and invigorating nature therapy are all the motivation you need to get ‘back on track’. Read moreRanveer Singh was Anurag Kashyap’s choice for Bombay Velvet: ‘Studio wouldn’t give me money if I made the film with him’Anurag Kashyap has revealed that he rejected Ranveer Singh twice in the early days of his career. Ranveer had auditioned for Shaitaan and was even considered for Bombay Velvet. However, he claims that the studios said they’d pull out of the latter project if Ranveer was the lead. Read moreWatch | Does Delhi have Covid community spread? State health minister comments||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-dhankhar-lashes-out-at-bengal-govt-after-murshidabad-nia-arrests-and-all-the-latest-news/story-vjsKgv8r6sblC4Dw5C7f2M.html
19-09-2020||India||Bengal to map its forgotten religious institutions in remote areas for conservation||In a bid to conserve all the lesser known and forgotten religious institutions – temples, mosques, gurudwaras and churches – that are lying in a dilapidated state in remote corners and need immediate attention, the West Bengal government has decided to map them. This is the first step before the government can initiate efforts to conserve them. While some could be conserved by the government, others may need a public private partnership, a senior official said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that a decision to map all these religious institutions has been taken by the information and cultural affairs department under two programs - ‘Maha Tirtha Bhumi’ (Great Pilgrimage Land) and ‘Maha Punnya Bhumi’ (Great Sacred Land). This is over and above the religious institutions that are already conserved by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the state government’s directorate of archaeology and museums. “There are many ancient temples and mosques spread across the state and some are tucked away in remote areas on private lands. Many are in a dilapidated state as no efforts have been made to conserve them. The government has decided to map all these institutions,” Banerjee said. Citing at least two examples she mentioned the name of the Devi Chaudhurani temple in north Bengal and the temple of Bon Bibi in the Sunderban mangroves, the world’s largest delta inhabited by tigers. Legend goes that bandit queen Devi Choudhurani had established the Kali temple deep inside the forest where she used to take shelter. Bon Bibi is a forest deity revered both by Hindus and Muslims in the Sunderbans. “It is not an easy task and it would take time to come up with such a map. But this would help us to conserve our heritage. In future a decision could be taken whether the government would take these up for conservation, or go for a public private partnership or may be involving the community for their conservation. The government will plan for this in the next stage,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-map-its-forgotten-religious-institutions-in-remote-areas-for-conservation/story-KiG03THPKIAkTdK5tGRcSN.html
19-09-2020||India||‘Home to illegal bomb-making’: Dhankhar lashes out at Bengal govt after Murshidabad NIA arrests||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday said that the state has become a ‘home of illegal bomb-making’ and lashed out at the law enforcement agencies for the decline in law and order in the state.Dhankhar tweeted, “State has become home to illegal bomb making that has potential to unsettle democracy. Police @MamataOfficial busy in carrying out political errands and taking on opposition. Those at helm @WBPolice cannot escape their accountability for this alarming decline in law and order.”State has become home to illegal bomb making that has potential to unsettle democracy. Police @MamataOfficial busy in carrying out political errands and taking on opposition.Those at helm @WBPolice cannot escape their accountability for this alarming decline in law and order.He appealed to the law enforcement agencies to not escape accountability. Dhankhar’s comments came after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested 9 individuals from West Bengal’s Murshidabad and Kerala’s Ernakulam for their association with a Pakistan-sponsored module of the al-Qaeda on Saturday.How far distanced is DGP @WBPolice from reality is cause of worry. His ‘Ostrich Stance’ is very disturbing. Appreciate role of policemen in general-they r working in difficult situations. Problem is with those at helm who r unmindful of conduct and r politically guided.The governor also wrote on Twitter that the West Bengal’s director general of police is holding an ‘ostrich stance’ and is unaware of the ground reality. Dhankhar said he understands the constraints of the policemen who are working under the shadow of the pandemic but highlighted that people at the ‘helm are unmindful of conduct and are politically guided’.Two people died in west Midnapore district in south Bengal on Thursday as crude bombs were hurled when two groups of miscreants clashed with each other. In August, a Trinamool Congress worker died while making crude bombs in Shamsergunj area of Bengal’s Murshidabad district. Murshidabad’s Suti also reported two deaths and five injuries in July associated with crude bomb making.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-to-illegal-bomb-making-dhankhar-lashes-out-at-bengal-govt-after-murshidabad-nia-arrests/story-wJyvoff2YHsDeX9KPmhQKK.html
19-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: Char Dham road project not referred for appraisal, says ministry in Rajya Sabha||The Union environment ministry on Saturday told Parliament that the Char Dham road project to connect four Hindu pilgrimage sites in Uttarakhand has not been referred to it for appraisal as it did not need to be appraised even as it has involved the loss of trees and ecological damage to the fragile Himalayas.It cited an August 2013 notification exempting all projects related to the expansion of national highways up to 100 km from the preview of the Environmental Impact Assessment Notification, 2006. The exemption was granted on the recommendation of a high-level committee constituted to review the provisions in the notification related to environmental clearance for roads, buildings, and special economic zone projects. Also read: 97 people died on-board Shramik trains, govt tells Rajya Sabha“In view of the... thresholds applicable to roads in Char Dham projects, no project has been referred to the MoEFCC [Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change] for appraisal,” the ministry told Rajya Sabha.The ministry was responding to a question on whether mandatory Environment Impact Assessment was avoided to fast-track the project and the reason for fast-tracking it in hilly and mountainous terrain.The 900-km Char Dham project will connect pilgrimage sites in Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri.A Supreme Court-appointed high-powered committee has flagged environmental violations in the execution of the project, including felling of thousands of trees without approval and unsafe construction practices. The violations may have activated landslides in certain areas, it said.The Supreme Court on September 9 ruled the width of the Char Dham highway shall not exceed the 5.5 metres the Union road transport ministry has specified in 2018 for the construction of roads in the mountainous terrain.The ministry separately told Rajya Sabha that forest land larger than Delhi and slightly smaller than Goa has been approved for non-forestry purposes like mining, irrigation, and hydropower from 2008 and 2020.It said 247843.49 ha of forest land has been approved for diversion under the Forest Conservation Act. The ministry added certificates of compliance with the Act for diversion of forest land are obtained from district collectors. It added the proposals for such diversions have been placed before concerned village councils and forest-dwellers. The ministry said they have certified all processes under the Act and given their consent for the diversion and compensation, etc.“We have to start moving away from hyper-legal and technocratic approach to protecting the environment. Environment regulation requires a much more reflexive approach and defensive one. The approval of the Char Dham project is yet another case in point when poorly thought out and hasty decisions have resulted in severe and irreversible damage. Acknowledging it will not just help taking project specific remedial action, but also allow us to bring back progressive legal measures that may have been undone through numerous exemptions introduced by successive governments,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-char-dham-road-project-not-referred-for-appraisal-says-ministry-in-rajya-sabha/story-gLHdPXyZw3Ie5PvAsxNk9N.html
19-09-2020||India||India clears Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020 to protect healthcare workers. All you need to know||India on Saturday passed a legislation aimed at protecting healthcare workers fighting the Covid-19 disease outbreak in the country by criminalising attacks on medical workers, resulting into imprisonment for up to five years. Here is all you need to know about the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020:- The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was introduced by Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in the Upper House on Saturday to replace an ordinance issued by the government in April.- The previous ordinance amended the act dating to 1897 which protected healthcare service personnel and property, including their living and working premises against violence during epidemics.- With reports of attacks on doctors and medical staff during the Covid-19 disease outbreak, the government introduced the bill to send across the message of zero-tolerance to any form of violence against frontline workers engaged in health sector and damage to their property.- Any healthcare worker who has suffered damage to their property such as clinical establishment, any facility for quarantine and isolations of patients, mobile medical units or any other property related to healthcare service personnel who have direct interest due to the epidemic can invoke the provisions of this act.- The act is applicable to healthcare service personnel from public and clinical healthcare service providers such as doctors, nurses, paramedical workers and community health workers; any other persons empowered under the act to take measures to prevent the outbreak of the disease or spread.- Once a crime is legally registered, the offence will be investigated by an officer of the rank of inspector within a period of 30 days and the trial has to be completed within a year, unless extended by the court. -Anyone found guilty of such acts of violence against healthcare personnel will be punishable with an imprisonment for a term of three months to five years, and with a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 2,00,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-clears-epidemic-diseases-amendment-bill-2020-to-protect-healthcare-workers-all-you-need-to-know/story-knOYMQVQ1ZzRnbxVLwoBSJ.html
19-09-2020||India||Rajasthan govt to legalise mines supplying stone for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya||The Rajasthan government has started the process of legalising mining in Banshi Pahadpur area of Bandh Banetha wildlife sanctuary in Bharatpur district from where stones are being sent to Ayodhya for building Ram temple. This comes days after seers in Ayodhya warned the Congress of facing people’s wrath if the supply of stones from Rajasthan slows down.Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in the Bhoomi Pujan ceremony for Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, 2020, seven months after the Supreme Court resolved the Ram Janambhoomi dispute in Ayodhya and allowed the constructed of the temple. The temple is to be constructed in three years.The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, which has been sourcing stones from Banshi Pahadpur for some time now, had complained of supply getting stalled because of a crackdown on September 6 and 7 by Bharatpur district administration. The district administration had claimed the stones were being illegally mined from Banshi Pahadpur, a forest block in the north-east corner of the wildlife sanctuary. “The state government will send a proposal to the ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) by the end of this month for denotification of the forest land to legalise mining there (Banshi Pahadpur). This will provide employment to people and the state will earn revenue,” said additional chief secretary of mines department, Subodh Agarwal. Also read: Covid-19 - Red tape delays Bihar CM’s Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia to kin of deceased“The Bharatpur collector is working on the proposal. We should be able to prepare the report in a few days; and then after the state approvals, the proposal will be sent to Centre,” he said.According to the state mines department, until December 1996, around 42 legal mines of pink, red and yellow sandstone operated in the Banshi Pahadpur forest area. The Supreme Court, by its order on December 12, 1996, prohibited non-forest activities in forest areas without diversion under section 2 of the Forest Act, 1980.Later when the concept of eco-sensitive zone was introduced, again by the apex court, mining was banned within one km of boundary of wildlife sanctuaries and national parks.The MoEF mandated environment clearance for mines from June 1, 2016. These developments led to the closure of legal mines in the area but the famous pink stone continued to be mined illegally, said forest officials.“The pink and yellow sandstone is in high demand. Illegal mining activity in the area feeds processing units in the district. The district administration takes action against illegal mining randomly,” said Bharatpur collector Nathmal Didel.On September 6-7, joint teams of forest, mines, and police departments seized 27 trucks full of stones. Each of these trucks had 5-8 blocks of stone. “We have sent notices to owners of these trucks as part of process for confiscation under the Rajasthan Forest Act, 1953,” said Mohit Gupta, deputy conservator of forest in Bharatpur. He said the forest produce –the stones in this case – will also be confiscated. According to mines department officials, each of the blocks seized during the crackdown weighed more than 1,000 kilograms and cost around Rs 50,000 in the local market. Gupta said earlier the department caught tractors during action against illegal mining but the use of trucks to transport stone is a recent phenomenon in this forest area.Narpat Singh Shekhawat, central joint secretary and Rajasthan president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, said there is enough stock of the Banshi Pahadpur stone in Ayodhya for building one storey of the temple.Also read: ‘Malicious actors trying to exploit digital payment platforms’ - NSA Doval“We will talk to the state government to find a way out if mining activity continues to be hit in Bharatpur,” he said, adding the Ram temple is being built with the sandstone from Banshi Pahadpur because of its unique colour and texture. The VHP and seers of Ayodhya on Saturday welcomed the Rajasthan government’s decision and said the decision would fasten Ram temple construction.Earlier this week, saints of Ayodhya and the VHP had warned the Rajasthan government to resolve mining issue in Bansi Paharpur else be prepared for a nationwide stir. “Any obstruction in supply of stones by the Rajasthan government will be construed as another ploy by the Congress party to stop the construction work of Ram mandir,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya.“The Rajasthan government’s decision to make mining legal in Bansi Paharpur is commendable,” said Sharma and added that the Rajasthan government’s decision will ensure a steady supply of stones for Ram mandir. Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust,” also welcomed the Rajasthan government’s decision. “The Rajasthan government has taken a wise decision. Lord Ram belongs to everyone. So, everyone must help in the construction of Ram mandir,” said Das. The temple trust, on September 11, had started the piling work for testing foundation - pillars for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Around 1,200 pillars will be laid about 100 feet below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation. In technical terms, this process is called piling. From around October 15, after all the testing work is done, remaining pillars will be laid. Bandh Banetha, spread across 198 square kilometres, was notified as a wildlife sanctuary in 1985. Local traders said mining has been going on in the forest area since the 1960s. “Bharatpur and Dholpur are famous for red sandstone; the stone in Banshi Pahadpur has a pink shade, which makes it more beautiful and it is also stronger,” said a trader requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-govt-to-legalise-mines-supplying-stone-for-building-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-DBiqZHQXUFqVaOAYJWrMmN.html
19-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes Epidemic Diseases Amendment Bill, 2020 to protect healthcare workers||The Upper House on Saturday passed the Epidemic Diseases Amendment Bill, 2020 to bring a law that punishes those who attack health workers or doctors who are fighting the coronavirus outbreak or during any situation similar to the current Covid-19 pandemic. The legislation provides for up to five years in jail for those who attack doctors and health care personnel. The Centre implemented the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 in order to provide protection to health care service personnel, their living premises as well as their workplaces against any violence during the course of a pandemic.Health Minister Harsh Vardhan while introducing the Bill in the Upper House said that the ordinance introduced in April led to a fall in cases of violence against healthcare workers. He said, “We have all noticed that there has been a dramatic decline in the incidents of violence against health workers all over the country.”Addressing the issue of the stigma attached to Covid-19, Harsh Vardhan said, “Many healthcare workers, including doctors, paramedics, were insulted in some form or the other, due to the stigma attached to Covid-19. The Central government acted on this situation and found that there was a need for a law, a prohibitory mechanism against such incidents.”The legislation intends to make sure that there is an attitude of zero tolerance towards violence against people working in the healthcare sector. The service personnel who will be protected under the new legislation include “public and clinical healthcare service providers such as doctors, nurses, paramedical workers and community health workers; any other persons empowered under the act to take measures to prevent the outbreak of the disease or spread thereof; and any persons declared as such by the state government, by notification in the official gazette.”Trinamool Congress leader and MP Derek O’Brien said the Bill allows Centre to ‘cross constitutional bars’ and interferes with how the chief ministers run their states. He said, “Remember states of West Bengal, Punjab, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan rejected you. Chief Ministers there have been elected to run the states. You cannot cross constitutional bars. There are sinister provisions in the Bill. The states must be authorised to take decisions.”The MP from West Bengal called it an ‘imposition of Centre’s will on states’. “The Centre cannot impose its will on states. It is unconstitutional,” he added.If any damage is done to clinical establishments, quarantine and isolation facilities of patients, mobile medical units or any other property associated with healthcare personnel during a pandemic, penal provisions can be provoked.Penalty ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 2,00,000 can be slapped on any individual who is involved in commission or abetment of such acts of violence. It can also be punishable in the form of an imprisonment for a term of three months to five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-epidemic-diseases-amendment-bill-2020-to-protect-healthcare-workers/story-mwYPMzODJiG69YljdIwGyO.html
19-09-2020||India||Only ICMR or Centre can comment on ‘community spread’ in India: Delhi Health Minister||A large number of coronavirus cases in the country point to “community spread”, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday, adding that only the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) or Centre can comment on this.“When people in such large numbers are getting infected in Delhi and other parts of the country, it should have been admitted that there is community spread,” said Delhi Health Minister.“I believe that there is a spread inside the community. This is absolutely a technical term, scientists will be able to tell better,” he added.A total of 2,147 Covid-19 cases were recorded in the national capital on Friday while 61,037 tests were conducted for the virus. “The positive rate was 6.76 per cent yesterday. For the past few days, we have seen the positivity rate below 7 per cent. The cumulative positivity rate, for the first time, has come down below 10 per cent. On Friday, 30 people had died. The overall death rate is 2.05 per cent. Moreover, 500 ICU beds have been added in Delhi, “ he said.He added that the doubling rate in Delhi has reached 40 days.According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 32,250 active Covid-19 cases in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-icmr-or-centre-can-comment-on-community-spread-in-india-delhi-health-minister/story-4XTnf2wS7Bgzbe2EA1B7uM.html
19-09-2020||India||Pak trying to promote terrorism in J&K in every possible way, says DGP Dilbag Singh||Jammu and Kashmir DGP (director general of police) Dilbag Singh on Saturday accused Pakistan of trying to infiltrate terrorists in J&K. The DGP also said that Pakistan is trying to promote terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir by providing support to terror outfits.“Pakistan is trying to promote terrorism in every possible way in Jammu & Kashmir by providing all support to terror groups. We will deal with drug smugglers strictly,” Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbag Singh said, as quoted by ANI.While addressing the media on Saturday, DGP Dilbag Singh also claimed Pakistan’s involvement in terror funding. “Pakistan is using narco-terrorism for terror funding,” he further said.Singh slammed Pakistan for trying to disturb peace in Jammu and Kashmir and dropping weapons through drones. “Pakistan is trying to disturb peace in J&K by using drones to drop weapons. They are also trying to infiltrate terrorists,” he said.The DGP of Jammu and Kashmir assured that forces have been able to take swift actions against Pakistan’s attempts to sneak in arms.“Dropping of weapons by drone is challenging but we have been able to restrict such acts & have got some success,” ANI quoted Singh as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-trying-to-promote-terrorism-in-j-k-in-every-possible-way-says-dgp-dilbag-singh/story-xChtmoaeidwcPECrwHtDsN.html
19-09-2020||India||NEP will help restore India’s glory as learning hub: President Kovind||The new National Education Policy (NEP) aims to reorient the education system towards meeting the needs of the 21st century by achieving the twin objectives of inclusion and excellence and will also restore India’s glory as a learning centre, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Saturday.Speaking at the inaugural address of Visitors’ Conference on ‘Implementation of NEP in Higher Education’, Kovind said the policy sets the vision of developing an equitable and vibrant knowledge society by providing quality education to all.Also read: Delhi HC tells schools to provide gadgets, Internet to poor students for online classesThe president emphasised that fundamental principles of the policy include creativity and critical thinking in order to encourage logical decision-making and innovation. He drew inspiration from Bhagvad Gita and the Krishna-Arjun dialogue while reiterating the concept of free communication and discussion between the teacher and the student. The NEP also seeks to encourage critical thinking and spirit of enquiry.“Effective implementation of the NEP 2020 is likely to restore India’s glory as a great centre of learning as during the times of Takshashila and Nalanda,” Kovind said.He said a key feature of the NEP is the system of Academic Bank of Credits (ABC). It would digitally store the academic credits earned from various higher education institutions so that degrees can be awarded, taking into account the credits earned by students.This would allow students the freedom to take courses as per their vocational, professional or intellectual requirements in addition to giving flexibility of suitable exit and re-entry points, he said. The need for strict monitoring of BEd., vocational and distance-learning courses is also being taken care of in this policy, he added.Kovind also highlighted that the target of the NEP 2020 is to increase the Gross Enrolment Ratio or GER in higher education to 50% by 2035. He observed that the online system of education can also be utilised to reach this target, especially while catering to the female students or those who do not have physical access to educational institutions as well as international students. Citing statistics, he added that according to All India Survey of Higher Education for 2018-19, GER for females is slightly higher than that for males. However, the share of female students is extremely low in Institutions of National Importance and particularly low in technical education. Emphasising that NEP has focus on equity and inclusion, he said that such gender disparity in higher education should be corrected.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said the aim to strategise the implementation of this policy was initiated by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This policy has given access to foreign universities to open campuses in India and vice versa which will be instrumental in the process of making India a soft power, the minister added.The conference saw the participation of vice chancellors of all Central universities and directors of IITs, NITs, SPAs etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nep-will-help-restore-india-s-glory-as-learning-hub-president-kovind/story-UDebyo45dl82B5jlJOQZFP.html
19-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Top 10 coronavirus hotspots in India with most active cases||India on Saturday added 93,337 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the cumulative tally past 5.3 million mark as the nation continued its standing as the second worst-hit by the pandemic globally. The country’s death toll reached 85,619 after 1,247 fresh casualties were recorded on Saturday.The country has recorded an upward trend in cases as it continues to report the highest single-day rise every day for more than five weeks and is expected to take the worst-hit United States in the coming few weeks.As of Saturday, India has 1,013,964 active cases. According to the health ministry, five Indian states – Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu – account for 60 per cent of the cases in the country but these states also continue to record significant recoveries.Maharashtra has alone contributed more than 22,000 -- accounting for 23 per cent of the total recoveries and Andhra Pradesh has contributed more than 11,000 -- accounting for 12.3 per cent -- to the single-day recoveries.Here are the 10 Indian states with the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases:MaharashtraIndia’s worst affected state has been reporting the highest number of active cases. As of Saturday, Maharashtra has 3,01,273 active cases. The total positive cases of Covid-19 reported in the state stands at 1,167,496. KarnatakaThe southern state has been reporting a significant surge in cases and continues to grow as India’s second hotspot of coronavirus infections. The cumulative tally of the state stands past five lakh mark and there are 101,148 active cases in the state as of Saturday. Karnataka also accounts for 9.4 per cent of the recoveries from the infection in the country.Andhra PradeshWith 84,423 active cases, Andhra Pradesh is statistically India’s third-biggest hotspot of coronavirus cases. The state has seen more than 8,000 fresh infections and 67 casualties due to the spread of viral disease. The state has also registered an increase in recoveries with 11,803 patients being cured.Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh, as of Saturday, reported 67,825 active cases of Covid-19. It reported 6,584 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, pushing the infection tally to 3,42,788.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu, one of the five states accounting for 60 per cent of the total cases reported in the country, has 46,506 active cases, the health ministry stated. The Covid-19 positivity rate in Tamil Nadu declined below 10 per cent from 30 per cent for the first time, officials said. However, the active cases in Tamil Nadu have reportedly been on a decline.ChhattisgarhIndia’s sixth-biggest Covid-19 hotspot, Chhattisgarh, has 36,580 active cases. The state has 81,617 total confirmed cases, out of which 64,700 Covid-19 cases were recorded in the last one month.KeralaKerala, India’s first state to report Covid-19 cases in January this year, has 35,795 active cases. For the second successive day, Kerala reported over 4,000 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total infection count to 1,26,381. The state has seen a rise in Covid-19 cases as it recorded its highest single-day spike of 4,351 cases within a span of 24 hours on Thursday.OdishaAs of Saturday, Odisha has 33,092 active cases of Covid-19, according to the health ministry data. The state has reported a total of 1,71,341 positive cases of Covid-19. DelhiWith an increased focus on testing, the national capital is witnessing a surge in cases of Covid-19. Delhi, as of Saturday, has 32,250 active cases of Covid-19.TelanganaAt present, Telangana has 30,636 active cases. In the last 24 hours, Telangana added 2,123 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the total infection count to 1,69,169, while the death toll rose to 1,025 with nine more fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-top-10-covid-19-hotspots-in-india-with-most-active-cases/story-0al5V9cPb9HuuonhMmmpXI.html
19-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: Rajya Sabha passes bill to protect corona warriors||The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed a legislation that provides for up to five years in jail for those attacking doctors and healthcare workers fighting the Covid-19 outbreak or during any situation akin to the current pandemic.The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was introduced by health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in the Upper House on Saturday to replace an ordinance issued by the government in April.The Union Cabinet had promulgated The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, to protect healthcare service personnel and property, including their living/working premises against violence during epidemics. The bill intends to ensure that during any situation akin to the current pandemic, there is zero-tolerance to any form of violence against healthcare service personnel and damage to property.Moving an amendment bill in this regard for passage in the Upper House, the health minister said after the ordinance, such incidents against healthcare workers have declined.“We have all noticed that there has been a dramatic decline in the incidents of violence against health workers all over the country,” he said.Vardhan explained that the ordinance had to be brought as there was a rising number of incidents of harassment and violence against health workers while they were returning from their duty due to a lack of awareness about coronavirus.They were treated with stigma and not allowed to enter their houses or residential societies. They were beaten up and chased away when they went out for surveillance, he said, adding that this had significantly reduced the morale of the health workers.“Everyone was feeling sad and bad. That was the time the government thought of taking a proactive step. The government found that there were minimal laws and powers in some states. There was a need to have a central law to put in place a prohibitory mechanism to stop such activities,” Vardhan said.Binoy Viswam of the Communist Party of India (CPI), who moved a statutory resolution on the bill, said there are serious lapses in it as it does not address the issue of violence on health professionals within the hospitals.Healthcare service personnel include public and clinical healthcare service providers such as doctors, nurses, paramedical workers and community health workers; any other persons empowered under the Act to take measures to prevent the outbreak of the disease or spread thereof; and any persons declared as such by the state government, by notification in the official gazette. The penal provisions can be invoked in instances of damage to property including a clinical establishment, any facility identified for quarantine and isolation of patients, mobile medical units and any other property in which the healthcare service personnel have a direct interest in relation to the epidemic.Offences will be investigated by an officer of the rank of inspector within a period of 30 days, and trial has to be completed in one year, unless extended by the court for reasons to be recorded in writing, the bill proposes. As per its provisions, the commission or abetment of such acts of violence will be punishable with an imprisonment for a term of three months to five years, and with a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 2,00,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-protect-corona-warriors/story-S8Lzs9bC4VymQNVfzn8JWK.html
19-09-2020||India||NSA Doval asks citizens to be cautious as financial frauds surge due to dependence on digital payment platforms||Asking citizens to be cautious while being online, National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval said on Friday financial frauds have seen exponential increase due to greater dependence on digital payment platforms following the Covid-19 pandemic.He also said the Centre was coming up with the National cyber security Strategy - 2020 which envisions the safe, secured, trusted, resilient and vibrant cyberspace for India’s prosperity.WATCH | After Chinese app ban, NSA Ajit Doval speaks on new Cyber Security Strategy He was delivering a lecture on Cyber security virtually at the COCONXIII-2020, a data privacy and hacking conference hosted by the Kerala Police and the Society for the Policing of Cyberspace and Information Security Research Association.According to him, there is a change in the work environment that has been brought upon by the pandemic.“There is a greater dependence on digital payment platform due to reduced cash handling and greater data sharing is happening online and presence on social media have also increased. While we are able to manage our affairs online to a certain extent, malicious actors also found in it, a new opportunity,” Doval said.Doval said there was an increase of 500 per cent in cyber crimes due to limited awareness and cyber hygiene.“Financial frauds have seen exponential increase due to greater dependence on digital payment platforms. The adversaries are tempted to exploit the crisis situation through various misinformation, fake news etc. The huge cyber data floating in the cyber space is a gold mine for extracting information that can undermine the privacy of our citizens..,” Doval said. He cautioned citizens while being online and said a responsible approach should be there while using internet.The NSA complimented the state government and the Kerala police for the initiative.Inaugurating the conference, Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said with the increased reliance on the internet becoming a permanent feature of people’s lives due to COVID- 19, citizens need to be extra cautious while being online.This edition of the conference was on the virtual platform this year due to the pandemic scenario .“Various types of cyber crimes are happening in our country and it’s high time that we take proper precautions against such crimes...,” Khan said.Senior police officials, including state police chief Loknath Behera, participated on the first day of the two-day conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-doval-asks-citizens-to-be-cautious-as-financial-frauds-surge-due-to-dependence-on-digital-payment-platforms/story-cTW8i4JrP3pXmnTKje42RN.html
19-09-2020||India||Two terrorist associates arrested in Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipora||Two terrorist associates were arrested from Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipora and Khrew area on Saturday, the police said. The police recovered incriminating material of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and Al-Badr outfits from the two terrorists arrested.Just days before Saturday’s arrest in Jammu and Kashmir, the police on Thursday claimed to have averted major attack by busting a terrorist hideout. The police also recovered huge stock of arms and ammunition including explosives from Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipora village during Thursday’s bust.A joint search operation by 42 RR (Rashtriya Rifles) and 130 BN CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) was conducted of the nursery arear near forests of Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipora village after the officials received a tip-off about possible presence of JeM (Jaish-e-Mohammad) terrorist in the area.“During search of the forest area two explosive dumps were found which were concealed underground in two different 250 liters plastic tanks. In one plastic tank 416 high explosive gelatin sticks were kept concealed and have been recovered,” the police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorist-associates-arrested-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-awantipora/story-h0qbCsqUmXxLs7BjRajuaK.html
19-09-2020||India||Decommissioned aircraft carrier ‘Viraat’ sets sail for Gujarat||Decommissioned aircraft carrier Viraat on Saturday set sail for the last time, on way to Alang in Gujarat, where it will be broken down and sold as scrap.For Navy veterans who watched the huge vessel being towed by tug boats, there was a lump in the throat as they bade it an emotional farewell from the Gateway of India.Viraat began its final journey from the Naval dockyard where it was berthed after being decommissioned in March 2017.A Navy helicopter circling overhead provided a majestic backdrop to Viraat’s last voyage from its home base for over three decades.A Defence spokesperson said Virrat was to leave for Alang on Friday, but its departure was delayed by a day.The vessel had served the Indian Navy for 30 years before being decommissioned. It had served in the UK’s Royal Navy as HMS Hermes and named INS Viraat after being inducted in the Indian Navy.There were attempts to convert ‘Viraat’ into a museum or a restaurant, but none of the plans fructified.Alang-based Shree Ram group has won the bid for dismantling the ship. The company’s high capacity tugs are towing the vessel to Alang and it would take two days to complete the journey, an official said.Alang, a beach town, houses the world’s biggest ship breaking yard.“#Viraat Callsign “Romeo Two Two” - End of an era, a glorious chapter in the history of @indiannavy. She departs #Mumbai today for her final journey. Old ships never die, their spirit lives on,” tweeted PRO Defence Mumbai.Many social media users lamented the failure of successive governments to preserve Viraat and another aircraft carrier Vikrant as maritime muesums to depict India’s rich naval heritage, instead of allowing them to be broken down and sold as scrap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decommissioned-aircraft-carrier-viraat-sets-sail-for-gujarat/story-YFe5Lhk3t92JC2MxT5VVyO.html
19-09-2020||India||Bodh Gaya’s Mahabodhi temple to reopen from September 21 with restrictions||Visitors will soon have access to the Mahabodhi temple in Bodh Gaya as the temple management committee has decided to reopen the shrine from September 21 following the guidelines issued a few weeks ago by the Union home ministry regarding reopening of monuments along with many other institutions.Mahabodhi, the first world heritage site of the state at Bodh Gaya, was closed in March this year due to Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown and though it opened for some time between June and July (from June 8 to July 15, 2020), entry of general visitors was stopped again to prevent the spread of Covid-19.From Monday, when the temple will reopen, use of masks and sanitizers will be mandatory for visitors and while only 10 people will be allowed inside the Garbha Griha or the sanctum sanctorum of the temple at a time, the temple premises too, will not have more than 100 visitors/pilgrims at a time.Besides, visiting hours to the temple too will be limited, from 6 am to 9 am in the morning and from 3 pm to 6 pm in the evening. Mahabodhi temple is the site where Lord Buddha is said to have attained enlightenment under a Peepal tree. “This arrangement will continue till September 30 and from October 1st, the visiting hours will be restored to the original routine, that is from 6 am to 9 pm,” N Dorje, BTMC (Bodh Gaya temple management committee) secretary, said.Also Read: On eve of polls, Bihar parties underline importance of ecological issuesBut all the protocols of the Covid-19 pandemic will be strictly followed, he added.“Things seem to be getting back on track after a long time. Due to Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, the Budh Purnima festival was turned into a low-key affair. Only the rituals were performed at the temple while the devotees in different countries could attend it virtually on Mahabodhi’s Facebook page. Hope things will remain stable this time,” he said.Rakesh Kumar, president of the tourist guide association, said the reopening of Mahabodhi temple has raised hopes of better days in the coming months. “Tourism season is to start from October and though foreign tourists may not come here as international flights from Gaya airport have remained suspended, domestic tourists may turn up,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodh-gaya-s-mahabodhi-temple-to-reopen-from-september-21-with-restrictions/story-xqbuJKIEvm07FNkahWHjPO.html
19-09-2020||India||Insolvency and bankruptcy code bill gets Rajya Sabha nod: All you need to know||The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, (this is the full name) by the voice vote. Speaking in Parliament after moving the motion, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, the intention of the insolvency and bankruptcy code is to keep companies a “going concern” and not liquidate them.The bill will replace an ordinance promulgated in this regard in June. It was supported by most opposition members as they expressed hope saying it would help achieve an early revival of the economy.Here is what you need to know about the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill:* The bill was moved with an aim to give immunity to stressed companies during the Covid-19 period as the businesses and livelihoods have been severely hit by the pandemic.* The bill prohibits any insolvency proceedings for defaults arising during the six months from March 25, 2020. The central government may extend this period for one year.* To prevent business being pushed into insolvency, the government suspended certain sections including the corporate insolvency resolution process, (CIRP) of the insolvency and bankruptcy code.* Speaking in favour of the bill, Praful Patel of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), said there is nothing in the bill to object to. However, he also called for relief in the form of interest subvention for tourism, transport and airline sectors as they are also reeling under financial stress.* The Janata Dal (United) leader Ram Chandra Prasad Singh called the bill progressive and said that it will help revive the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insolvency-and-bankruptcy-code-bill-gets-rajya-sabha-nod-all-you-need-to-know/story-0ZTQYE2nGVTIdPmasi04uL.html
19-09-2020||India||Covid-19: UP govt gave Kanpur hospitals 42 ventilators, 28 returned for being defective||Of the 42 ventilators provided by the Uttar Pradesh government for Covid care in Kanpur only last month, at least 28 ventilators were found riddled with glitches. These are now being returned amid fears that using them could harm patients’ lungs.This comes at a time when Level 3 -- where critical patients are treated-- and Level 2 -- where patients will mild symptoms are treated-- hospitals are anyway struggling with beds and ventilators as the number of patients continues to surge. The ventilators were manufactured by a private company and their engineers tried to fix the machines but failed, said health authorities.Dr Richa Giri, superintendent in chief at the government-run Lala Lajpati Rai Hospital, said, “The company engineers worked for several days to fix them. They (the ventilators) are being returned now and a proposal would be sent for the new ones. We have made the engineers’ report available to the government.” LLR Hospital is the only hospital in the city where critically ill Covid patients are treated.Out of the 42 ventilators, 34 were for LLR Hospital and the remaining for Kanshiram Memorial Trauma Centre, a Level 2 Covid1-9 facility.Initially, all the ventilators at LLR could not be operated because of technical difficulties and the absence of supporting equipment. The ventilators were kept in the anaesthesia department, said health officials. The LLR administration wrote to the company several times and a team of two engineers was sent.The team managed to repair 14 ventilators, but could not rectify the others and declared them ‘condemned’. A health official said these ventilators could harm Covid patients.Similarly, eight ventilators at Kanshiram Hospital were marked as ‘useless’ by the engineers. Chief medical superintendent Dr Dinesh Sachan confirmed that the ventilators were not working.Sources said there were serious issues with the software and the valves of the ventilators, which could double the oxygen supply rate and damage the cells in the lungs. In addition, most of the ventilators did not have humidifier kits without which they could not be run, they said.The kit is essential as it provides moisture to the patients breathing through it. The process helps in doing away with the dryness and clearing throat and lung congestion.LLR Hospital has 30 ventilators at the neuro Covid wards, which has a capacity of 90 ICU beds. Health authorities are not forthcoming as to when new ventilators would arrive to ease the immense pressure on the existing lot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-govt-gave-kanpur-hospitals-42-ventilators-28-returned-for-being-defective/story-68P4D3IX4OYGNiPdMGOLKK.html
19-09-2020||India||Bombay HC upholds acquittal of 6 accused in 2009 Goa blast case||The Bombay high court at Goa has upheld the acquittal of the six persons charged with procuring, assembling and transporting a bomb to Margao in South Goa, where it prematurely exploded killing two persons who were allegedly ferrying it on the eve of Diwali in 2009. The two deceased -- Malgonda Patil and Yogesh Naik -- were allegedly carrying the bomb in their scooter with the intent to place it at a site where a Diwali eve competition was being held on October 16, 2009. Besides Patil and Naik, who died while ferrying the bomb, no one else was injured in the blast that took place behind Grace Church in Margao. Besides Patil and Naik, six others were charged by the NIA including Vinay Talekar, Dhananjay Ashtekar, Prashant Ashtekar, Vinayak Patil, Prashant Juvekar and Dilip Mazgaonkar, all hailing from Maharashtra and with connections to the Sanatan Sanstha. They were charged by the Goa Police crime branch. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency. “Today the HC has passed a judgement [in the] appeal filed by the NIA challenging the judgement passed by a special judge acquitting the accused in the blast case. The High Court has considered [the case] in larger detail [and has] now held that the benefit of doubt is given,” Advocate for the NIA Pravin Faldessai, said. “The special judge had said that there were malafides (bad faith) by the investigating agency... those remarks are now expunged,” he added. Also Read: Goa: German woman found dead by daughter in her flatA total eleven persons were named as accused in the case including the two who died when the bomb exploded prematurely. Besides Naik, who died, all the others hailed from Maharashtra and were associated with the Sanatan Sanstha, a far-right organisation accused of organising the bomb blast with the motive to disrupt the Narakasur celebrations that are held on the eve of Diwali. Three accused are absconding. Only six accused faced trial. On the day prior to Diwali, giant effigies of the demon king Narakasur, are erected with pomp and loud music before they are consigned to flames in the wee hours to signify the victory of good over evil.Also Read: AAP’s Goa convener steps down, calls it ‘strategic decision’“We had to prove that this particular Sanstha had the motive to conduct this blast so that there is an (environment of) terror formed in the state of Goa and in the Union of India, but the court said that there (was) no proof and there is no strong proof that we could submit before the court,” Faldessai added. “What we had produced before the special judge was that their intention was to stop this competition not because they didn’t want competition at all, but that their intention was that Lord Krishna should be given more importance and not Narakasur,” Faldessai said. “Their thing was that Hindu Sanskriti has to be protected and Diwali has to be celebrated in a better manner and not in Narakasur competitions etc,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-upholds-acquittal-of-6-accused-in-2009-goa-blast-case/story-bNKm7El2zWABx22VpmLu7K.html
19-09-2020||India||Downward trend in Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate in last few days: Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said there has been a downward trend in Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital and it will lead to good results by next week. “The positivity rate was 6.76 per cent on Friday. It has remained below 7 percent in the last two-three days. Last week, it was around 8 per cent,” he said. The cumulative positivity rate has also dropped below 10 per cent for the first time, Jain said. The minister said due to the increased testing over the last 10 to 12 days, Delhi has been witnessing a “downward trend” in the Covid-19 positivity rate over the past two to three days. “It should lead to good results by next week,” he said. On Friday, the city reported 4,127 new cases and 30 deaths. As many as 61,037 tests were conducted and the positivity rate stood at 6.76 per cent. The cumulative positivity rate was 9.83 on Friday, down from 10.05 per cent on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/downward-trend-in-delhi-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-in-last-few-days-jain/story-AHrgzqNxhn5awCksqzExPN.html
19-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut, Anup Jalota laud Yogi for planning ‘biggest’ film city in UP||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and singer Anup Jalota have lauded Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for announcing plans to set up the country’s ‘biggest and most beautiful film city’ in Gautam Buddh Nagar district of UP. In a set of two tweets from @KanganaTeam on Saturday, Ranaut said, “People’s perception that the top film industry in India is the Hindi film industry is wrong. Telugu film industry has ascended itself to the top position and now catering films to pan India in multiple languages, many Hindi films being shot in Ramoji (film city) Hyderabad. I applaud this announcement by @myogiadityanath ji. We need many reforms in the film industry first of all we need one big film industry called Indian film industry. We are divided based on many factors. Hollywood films get advantage of this. One industry but many film cities.”Ranaut’s comments are significant due to her ongoing war of words with Shiv Sena over her comments on an alleged drugs culture in Bollywood and a legal battle with the Mumbai civic body over the demolition of her office in the city. Ranaut, recently said she was leaving Mumbai with a heavy heart after visiting the city for a few days under protection of Y category security provided by the centre in the wake of alleged threats by Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut warning her against coming to Mumbai.In a video message, Jalota said, “I thank and congratulate UP CM Yogi Adityanath on the announcement of film city in UP. Mumbai film industry shines because of talents from UP. Now, when UP will have a film city, UP will shine.”Also Read: Yogi Adityanath orders land hunt for India’s biggest film city near NoidaDuring a meeting to review development works in Meerut division, comprising Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Baghpat and Gautam Buddh Nagar districts, through videoconferencing on Friday night, Yogi had asked officials to find a suitable land in or around Noida for setting up the film city. Also Read: Ranvir Shorey: ‘A group of people always defend the unfair practices in Bollywood’“The CM, while addressing a review meeting, announced to set up the biggest and most beautiful film city of the country in Gautam Buddh Nagar. He instructed officials to search for a suitable land in or around Noida, Greater Noida or Yamuna Expressway and prepare an action plan,” an official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-anup-jalota-laud-yogi-for-planning-biggest-film-city-in-up/story-JuZZEzmlBUAu04FWYmpoWI.html
19-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 97 people died on-board Shramik trains, Govt tells Rajya Sabha and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Parliament monsoon session: 97 people died on-board Shramik trains, Govt tells Rajya SabhaA total of 97 people were reported dead till September 9 while travelling on-board Shramik Special Trains deployed by the Centre to ferry migrant workers during the lockdown period, government said in response to a question in Rajya Sabha. Read moreAgustaWestland scam: CBI files supplementary charge sheet against middlemen Christian Michel James, Rajiv Saxena and 13 othersThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a supplementary charge sheet in the AgustaWestland scam against key middlemen Christian Michel James and Rajiv Saxena and 13 others, officials familiar with the development said on Saturday. Read moreNIA arrests 9 al Qaeda operatives after raids in West Bengal, KeralaThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) said on Saturday nine al Qaeda terrorists planning attacks in several places in the country, including the National Capital Region (NCR), were arrested after simultaneous raids in locations in Kerala and West Bengal, officials said on Saturday. Read moreAnurag Kashyap claims Ravi Kishan used to smoke weed, opens up on his own struggle with hard drugs a decade agoFilmmaker Anurag Kashyap says he has a problem with actor and Member of Parliament Ravi Kishan’s recent statement about the ‘drug abuse problem’ in the film industry. Read moreGarmin’s Forerunner 745 smartwatch launched, comes with blood oxygen sensor, 7-day batteryGarmin has launched the Garmin Forerunner 745 in the US adding to its large repertoire of premium smartwatches. The Garmin Forerunner 475 comes with a 1.2-inch colour display, a long seven-day battery life promise. Read moreOn this day in 2007, Yuvraj Singh stunned the world and etched his name in historyYuvraj Singh will always be remembered fondly by cricket fans all around the world due to his achievements in the game.  Read moreDelhi Police’s new meme is all about social distancing. Seen it yet?Amidst the spread of Covid-19, police departments around the nation have geared up their use of social media to spread important health and safety messages to citizens. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-97-people-died-on-board-shramik-trains-govt-tells-rajya-sabha-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8T6GoWt1iVeK2sTwrzlIvI.html
19-09-2020||India||China wants 50 PLA soldiers to stay back at Pangong Tso bank. India says no: 10 Points||With India’s China Study Group (CSG) meeting on Friday, the stage has been set for a meeting of military commanders of the two countries in the coming week, to discuss disengagement and subsequent withdrawal of PLA troops from Ladakh.The outcome of the military commanders’ meeting will largely depend on PLA’s posture along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and its deployment in occupied Aksai China.Consider the following :1. The PLA continues to build-up troops in occupied Aksai Chin and has started rotating troops on the LAC, indicating that it is preparing for a long haul on the border.ALSO WATCH | Ladakh: How Army, IAF are boosting troops, supplies amid China tension 2. A disengagement and de-escalation have been discussed and agreed to at the levels of Special Representatives (July 5) and Foreign Ministers (September 10), but the PLA has made the restoration of status quo ante on LAC conditional, thus putting the entire exercise at jeopardy. Rather than withdraw in toto to base camps, the PLA wants to have a toehold on the territory on the north bank of Pangong Tso to show its stamp of authority. During discussions, the PLA has talked about withdrawing to the pre-April position of Finger 8 spur on the lake but wants to leave 50 troops at the present position, eight-kilometre up at finger 4. At certain places, it wants to place cameras to monitor Indian movements. Basically, it wants to earmark the territory for future negotiations. This has been rejected by the Indian side.3. Just as the PLA has reached its perceived LAC on the north bank of the lake, the Indian side has reached its perceived LAC on the south bank, thanks to courageous pre-emptive action by the Indian Army on August 29-30. The only option to restore peace and tranquillity is for both sides to return to their base camps and stop contesting on friction points all over the 1597 km LAC in Ladakh. While the Indian side is willing to do this, the PLA sees this as a loss of face for a rising global power and would rather create a new normal on the LAC.4. There is a serious element of distrust about China’s intent. The Indian army is convinced the PLA wants to stay-put on the encroached territory — a sort of reward for initiating aggression against India on the LAC in May. This is unacceptable to the Narendra Modi government.5. With the weather taking turn for the worse, both armies will go into survival mode this winter rather than initiating operations against each other. The wind chill is a killer in these areas with temperatures touching 25 below zero routinely at Pangong Tso and Chushul. High altitude pulmonary oedema (HAPO) and acute mountain sickness will turn killers this winter — not bullets.6. The Pakistan move to create a fifth province in disputed Gilgit-Baltistan (GB) in the occupied northern areas is being pushed by the Chinese through the Pakistan Army as Beijing wants security for the CPEC corridor, which it also wants to expand. This means that the Line of Control (LOC) between India and Pakistan will become the border, with GB being assimilated into the Islamic state. The main reason behind the GB move is to expand the CPEC corridor as China wants to create an alternative to the Malacca Straits sea-route by pushing hydrocarbon and mineral supplies from West Asia, Africa and Afghanistan through the new route. With India blocking all Pakistani proposals at the World Bank for infrastructure development in Occupied Kashmir and Northern Areas on the ground of the areas being disputed, usurping the Shia dominated GB by Sunni Pakistan will help in the expansion of CPEC, and also protect the already sunk Chinese investment in CPEC.7. The expansion of CPEC will also help China in controlling the restive populations of Buddhist Tibet and Muslim Xinjiang as the economic growth will feed into the militarization of both the autonomous regions. Already, China has started an expansion of its airbases in Tibet and Xinjiang by building underground pens for fighter aircraft as well as the deployment of top of the line missiles.8. The PLA aggression from Daulet Beg Oldi to Chumar in Ladakh is part of a two-pronged strategy designed to ensure the depth to highway number 219 from Lhasa to Kashgar as well as to push India to yield to the construction of a parallel highway through Karakoram Pass to rival the one running through the Khunjerab pass north of Siachen Glacier.9. It is because China has grand plans for CPEC, that it has no incentive in settling the boundary issue with India as this will permanently block Beijing’s ambitions in South Asia.10. With Pakistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Myanmar now close allies, China’s next move could be to settle the border ostensibly in favour of Bhutan like it did with Yangon. Once the border is settled, it will open diplomatic ties with Thimphu and then, the kingdom may go the Nepal way. If this happens, India’s ring-fencing is complete.This may sound like a complete plan for China except for the fact that the Modi government will contest Beijing on each and every point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-gilgit-to-pangong-tso-10-factors-to-decide-outcome-at-military-talks/story-LTJSLWYnBuxnaU2H48DLEP.html
19-09-2020||India||Tripura HC seeks more details on state’s Covid-19 containment efforts||A week after Tripura high court asked the state government to file an affidavit answering certain Covid-19 related questions, the court asked the government to submit details on thirteen other queries related to the disease by September 28. The high court’s division bench comprising chief justice Akil Kureshi and justice Subhasish Talapatra took up the case suo motto after a series of allegations of poor health services for Covid-19 patients at Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital, a dedicated Covid hospital in the state, emerged. Last week, the high court asked the state to file an affidavit mentioning the total number of active Covid-19 cases, number of Covid care centres with their medical and paramedical staff, doctors and necessary infrastructure, fund allocation to upgrade government Covid care centres, if any private hospital has been given permission to admit Covid-19 patients. The court also asked for the government’s reply on alleged lack of communication between doctors and Covid-19 patients and their relatives. Also Read: Tripura to undertake mask enforcement drive across stateAfter reading state’s affidavit on Friday, the high court asked the government for further information related to the number of laboratory technicians in every district, number of patients and beds available at GBP hospital and Covid-19 patients admitted at other Covid care and health centres, amount of fine collected for violation of government order on wearing masks, social distancing, number of ventilators and ambulances equipped with oxygen for shifting Covid-19 patients, number of Covid tests conducted every day in the past seven days along with the positivity rate and the recovery rate. It also asked for the central team’s report and initiatives taken by the government to negotiate rates for treatment of Covid patients in private hospitals. Also Read: After journalist body issues ultimatum, Tripura CM says his speech was not to threatenThe court also gave suggestions to set up a special enquiry cell at GBP hospital to manage communication between Covid-19 patients and their relatives and also a complaints and suggestion center. Advocate Somik Deb was appointed as amicus curiae in the case. A total of 20,972 Covid cases have been recorded in the state so far including 235 patients who succumbed to the disease, as per the latest report. Two other Covid 19 patients died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-hc-seeks-more-details-on-state-s-covid-19-containment-efforts/story-vnYzmZSBeS8VL2zGVcs6IM.html
19-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: RS passes insolvency, bankruptcy bill||The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020 by voice vote.Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had moved the Bill for consideration and passing in the Upper House. The bill is aimed at replacing the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance 2020.The Ordinance was promulgated on June 5 to provide relief to companies from initiation of insolvency procedure due to sudden outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and consequent 68-day hard lockdown that disrupted the economy.The ordinance prohibited the initiation of insolvency proceedings for defaults arising during the six months from March 25, 2020 and extendable up to one year. Thus, it prohibits initiation of any insolvency proceedings by either any creditor or the corporate debtor.The government proclaimed the ordinance in response to the sudden outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic that battered businesses and put enterprises into stress for reasons beyond their control. The relief was also provided to stressed units as meaningful resolution was not expected in this kind of adverse business environment.The government suspended certain sections of IBC to prevent business into being pushed into insolvency. The government’s intention was to give immunity to stressed companies during this Covid-19 period through this ordinance.Among the speakers on the bill was Congress MP Vivek Tankha who said the ordinance, which was the precursor to the bill, was brought hurriedly. He sought the government look into certain provisions including the one year period clause.Responding to the point raised by Congress member, Sitharaman said not “exceeding one year” if removed would naturally mean excessive delegation to the executive.Sitharaman also listed how the government steps towards insolvency law had led to a large number of resolutions.The Bill was passed by a voice vote. Among other members, K K Ragesh (CPI-M) said why relief was not being provided to farmers who were also facing economic hardships. ENDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-rs-passes-insolvency-bankruptcy-bill/story-eYMqkabfVSevmw3Ka3onNK.html
19-09-2020||India||Odisha management graduates start home-cooked food delivery platform||The Covid-19 pandemic may have turned the world of several firms in the gig economy upside down, but it could not deter two graduates of business management in Odisha’s capital city of Bhubaneswar from starting their own food ordering platform amid an environment of overwhelming gloom.In August, 20-year-olds Suryanshu Panda and Epari Pritam, graduates from Bhubaneswar’s Xavier’s University of Business, started www.chefjunction.in, an online food ordering platform that fashions itself as the only platform that delivers food prepared at home.“Unlike Swiggy, Zomato or UberEats, our food ordering platform delivers food prepared by people at home. Due to the high amount of spices and poor quality of cooking oil used by restaurants, food quality in local restaurants have always been a matter of concern. During the pandemic, when immunity is the biggest issue, we realised a business opportunity exists as many people may not be ready to order such food from restaurants. After some brainstorming, we decided to start a food ordering platform that would connect customers to people cooking food in their homes,” said Panda, who did his Bachelors in business administration this year with specialisation in human resources.Panda’s batch mate Pritam, who did his BBA in marketing and shared his love for food, was too enthused to join. “Before the pandemic, both of us were planning to launch a start-up in advertising. But after some research, we realised that we may not get the clients we desired. As both of us were foodies and faced issues in getting quality food during college days, we agreed on a food start-up after 5 months of planning,” said Pritam, who hails from a businessman family.The two friends then pooled in Rs 1.5 lakh, rented an office space opposite a mall in the city and hired around half a dozen people. They then contacted several people in the city whose culinary skills were known in their small social circles and signed them up for the food platform.“Before we sign in a person for cooking food for our customers, the first thing we see is what kind of oils and spices they are using. If a home cook wants to join, they call us and we get to taste their food. If we like it we get them a licence under the food safety & standards authority of India (FSSAI) which is mandatory for any food business operator under the Foof Safety and Standards Act, 2006. The licence remains valid for 1 year,” said Panda. “For ensuring quality, we conduct surprise checks by ordering from the cooks without them recognising us.”Also Read: Odisha JEE 2020 Date: Exam to begin from October 12The start-up has so far signed in 30 home cooks across the city and has hired a dozen delivery boys who bike around the city wearing gloves and masks to deliver the food at doorsteps. Till September 6, the platform has delivered more than 1200 orders.“At a time when most of the business is not seeing much uptick, we are doing pretty decently. In the last one month, we have managed Rs 1.7 lakh turnover. We keep 15-20 per cent margins on the food and fix costs of each item so that they are affordable. As the food is being cooked by our chefs at their homes, the customer is relieved about the hygiene and taste. For many of our home cooks the platform has brought in extra income at a difficult time,” said Panda.Also Read: Death of two sloth bears in Odisha’s Nandankanan zoo spreads panicThe duo aims to expand their food business to Cuttack in the next 2 months and then take it to southern cities in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. They also want to make it available on a mobile app like Zomato and Swiggy soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-management-graduates-start-home-cooked-food-delivery-platform/story-tGmERc2jDrb48M9bjddQAP.html
19-09-2020||India||Delhi Police arrest 2 more people, including a Chinese national, in journalist spying case||A Chinese woman and a Nepalese man have been arrested by the Delhi Police for their alleged involvement in the spy ring involving Delhi-based journalist Rajeev Sharma, who is already in police custody for allegedly passing on classified information to China, officials said on Saturday.Sharma, a resident of Pitampura, was arrested for spying for China on September 14, police had said.Police have registered a case under the Official Secrets Act (OSA) against Sharma, and the Chinese and Nepalese nationals have been arrested under the same charges, deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said.“A freelance journalist, Rajeev Sharma, a resident of Pitampura New Delhi, has been arrested by the Special Cell in an Official Secrets Act case. He was found to be in possession of some defence related classified documents. Investigation of the case is in progress and further details will be shared in due course,” police said in a statement issued late on Friday.Sharma was produced before a city court on September 15, a day after he was arrested, after which he was sent to police custody for six days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-arrest-3-more-people-including-a-chinese-national-in-the-journalist-spying-case/story-EZ3wKwwu8wrC6qfTlkXmLL.html
19-09-2020||India||VVIP chopper scam: CBI files supplementary charge sheet against Michel, Saxena, 13 others||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a supplementary charge-sheet in the Rs 3,727 crore AgustaWestland chopper scam naming 15 individuals and entities, including British middleman Christian Michel James and Rajiv Saxena, who allegedly played key a role in facilitating kickbacks for politicians, bureaucrats and Indian Air Force (IAF) officials, people familiar with the matter said.The second charge-sheet filed on Friday has not named any politician or senior bureaucrat so far. The first charge-sheet in the case was filed in September 2017 and named former IAF chief SP Tyagi.’Also read: Ex-defence secy played key role in AgustaWestland deal, says CBIThe agency in March sought prosecution sanction against former defence secretary Shashi Kant Sharma, Air Vice Marshal (retired) Jasbir Singh Panesar and three other IAF officers, S A Kunte, Wing Commander Thomas Mathew and retired Group Captain N Santosh. But it decided to file the charge-sheet without naming them as a sanction is awaited from the ministry of defence (MOD).Officials familiar with the matter said another supplementary charge-sheet will be filed against Sharma and others when the sanction is accorded.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) made Saxena, who was brought to India from Dubai in January 2019, an approver in the case. But the agency later sought revocation of this status saying he misled the investigators.ED has accused Saxena of being a “hawala operator” who ran accommodation entry business in Dubai through companies like Matrix Group. Saxena is accused of laundering proceeds of crime in the scam.Anglo-Italian firm AgustaWestland allegedly paid Michel, who was extradited to India in December 2018 from Dubai, Euro 42 million (Rs 295 crore) to bribe politicians, bureaucrats and defence ministry personnel for swinging the deal for 12 VVIP choppers in favour of the company.“He was a frequent visitor to India and was operating as a middleman for defence procurements through a wide network of sources cultivated in the IAF and Ministry of Defence at different levels including retired and serving IAF officials. He was tracking the movements of the procurement process files and was sending periodical reports/despatches on the developments to the accused persons connected with M/s AgustaWestland. In this process, he shared the information collected from IAF and MoD with his associate(s), who used to transmit the despatches through FAX to the other counterparts sitting abroad in Italy and Switzerland,” said a CBI officer, who did not wish to be named.A second CBI officer said Michel was imposed as a controller on the other two middlemen, Ralph Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa, as they had no specific knowledge in the specific sector of helicopters.According to CBI’s investigation documents accessed by HT, at a meeting held in Cascina Costa (Italy) in July 2006, it was proposed that Michel will join Haschke and Gerosa in monitoring activities with regard to the acquisition of helicopters in India, keeping in view of his knowledge of Indian military operational mechanism. “During this meeting, they had negotiated a comprehensive fee equal to 7% of the supply contract amount to cover the expenses and fees of both of them,” said the second officer.Michel signed 12 contracts through two of his firms with Finmeccanica, AgustaWestland, Westland Helicopters UK etc to legitimise the illicit commission on the procurement of VVIP helicopters.“Finmeccanica paid total Euro 42.27million [Rs 295.00 crore approx] to the firms of Christian Michel as kickbacks/bribe without undertaking any work against the receipt of such amount,” said the second officer.Michel had prepared a note in which alleged bribes worth Euro 30 million meant for politicians and bureaucrats were mentioned. CBI pinned hopes on his interrogation, particularly to identify individuals who were referred to as “AP”, “Pol”, “Bur” and “AF” in the note.The note used abbreviations of designations like “DCH”, “PDSR”, “DG Maintt” and “FTT” under the head “AF (air force)”. Under the head “BUR”, it had entries like “DS”, “JS Air”, “AFA Air”, “DG Acq”, “VC” and “Auditor Gen” and under the head “POL”, it had “AP”. The note had a separate entry “Fam”, believed to be S P Tyagi’s family – his three cousins Sanjeev, Rajiv and Sandeep Tyagi. It mentioned that Euro 6 million were for “AF” (Air Force), 8.4 million for “BUR” (bureaucrats), 3 million for “AP” and 15-16 million for “Fam”.In its first charge-sheet, CBI said it had established the “money trail” of Euro 62 million (around 415 crore) out of suspected 67 million (Rs 452 crore) bribe paid to Indians through middlemen.The irregularities in the award of the contract to AgustaWestland led to an estimated loss of Euro 398.21 million (around Rs 2,666 crore) to the government in the Euro 556.262 million (Rs 3726.9 crore) contract, according to CBI.The contract was cancelled in January 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vvip-chopper-scam-cbi-files-supplementary-charge-sheet-against-michel-saxena-others/story-OES0O0YI6VcWXrUZbw6iqK.html
19-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: 97 people died on-board Shramik trains, govt tells Rajya Sabha||A total of 97 people were reported dead till September 9 while travelling on-board Shramik Special Trains deployed by the Centre to ferry migrant workers during the lockdown period, government said in response to a question in the Rajya Sabha.On May 30, Hindustan Times reported that almost 80 deaths took place on-board Shramik Special trains between May 9 and May 27, citing data from the Railway Protection Force. Also read: ‘Like this condescension,’ says Nirmala as she takes on Opposition over ‘Act of God’ remarkIn response to a question raised by Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien in the Rajya Sabha on Friday on details of total deaths that occurred on-board the Shramik Special trains since they started operating, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal said: “Out of these 97 cases of death, State Police sent dead bodies for post mortem in 87 cases. 51 post mortem reports have been obtained from respective State Police so far, in which the reasons for deaths have been shown as cardiac arrest/heart disease/brain haemorrhage/pre-existing chronic disease/chronic lung disease/chronic liver disease etc.” The railways minister’s response comes amid a political storm caused earlier this week by labour ministry’s response in the Lok Sabha on Monday stating that no data is available on the number of migrant workers who lost their lives during the 68-day lockdown enforced on March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Shramik Special Trains began operation on May 1 to ferry migrant labourers back to their home states during the lockdown period. In all, 4,621 Shramik Special Trains have been operated between May 1 and August 31, carrying 6,319,000 passengers to their home states, the ministry said in Parliament. “Policing on Railways being a state subject, prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains are the statutory responsibility of the State Governments, which they discharge through Government Railway Police (GRP)/District Police. Railway Protection Force (RPF) supplements the efforts of GRP/District Police to provide better protection and security of passenger area & passengers and for related matters. Based on the data provided by State Police, 97 persons have been reported dead till 09.09.2020 while travelling on board Shramik Special Trains during current Covid-19 situation/crisis. The State Police registers case under Section 174 of Cr.PC in cases of unnatural deaths and follows further legal process,” Goyal said.In an interview to HT on June 1, Goyal had said that the Indian Railways has been transparent about the deaths, and insisted on compiling a list of them, and finding out causes even as news reports suggested that “eight or nine migrants” died on trains. The real number has emerged only because of this, he suggested. Goyal had said some of the deaths could have been prevented with better medical screening but the doctors who were dealing with a heavy flow of people could not be blamed.“Indian Railways has a control system were the train is immediately stopped if someone is found ill and they are sent to the nearest hospital base to try and save their lives…In case of deaths, the local zones investigate the reason and without an investigation, there are allegations that they died of hunger when there was no shortage of food. Some deaths occurred and we are compiling the figures... we will issue the figures in a few days.” Railway Board CEO VK Yadav had said in May.A total of 113 complaints have been received by IRCTC from passengers travelling on 4,621 Shramik Special Trains on unavailability of food and water during the journey, Goyal said in response to a separate question on Shramik Trains in the Rajya Sabha. Goyal also clarified that Railways did not collect any fare directly from passengers for the Shramik trains. “Railways has collected fare for Shramik Special trains from State Governments or their authorised representatives. Railways did not collect any fare directly from the passengers,” he clarified.“Railways could recover only a small fraction of expenditure incurred on running of Shramik Special trains, thereby incurring a loss in the operation of these trains,” he added. Fare collected from state governments for running of Shramik Special Trains for May 1 to August 31, 2020 is approximately Rs 433 crore, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-97-people-died-on-board-shramik-trains-govt-tells-rajya-sabha/story-AvX2CNUL3QQnQKnkcSC0yM.html
19-09-2020||India||Govt should engage G-8 nations to build pressure on Pakistan: Demand in Rajya Sabha||A demand for the government escalating its engagements with the international media to build a global opinion against Pakistan for sponsoring cross-border terrorism and harbouring fugitives such as Dawood Ibrahim was made in the Rajya Sabha on Saturday.Through a Zero Hour mention, Sasmit Patra of the BJD said the government should also engage with the G-8 nations to increase international pressure on Pakistan just like its engagement with the US that reflected in the recent Indo-US joint asking Pakistan to ensure that no territory under its control is used for terrorist activities.With international pressure building and also in an attempt to come out from the Financial Action Task Force’s grey list, Pakistan recently banned 88 terrorists including Hafiz Saeed, Masood Azhar and Dawood Ibrahim.Patra said while the Indian media has reported on the address and the assets of Dawood Ibrahim in Pakistan, the international media hasn’t done that.The government should “escalate matter through engagement with international media”, he said, adding it should also use Parliamentarian just as the US administration associates with senators.BSP Rajya Sabha member Rajaram raised the issue of only two per cent reservation being provided to the OBCs and eight per cent to the SCs in Jammu.This despite the OBCs constituting 35 per cent of the population in the region and the SCs 17 per cent, he said. BSP supremo Mayawati had supported the government on the scrapping of Article 370 in August last year in hope that central policies such as that on reservation will get fully implemented in Jammu and Kashmir, he said.But even after more than a year, the reservation for OBCs is stuck at two per cent and that for SCs at eight per cent, well below the national average, he said.Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asked Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy to find out if the reason for the delay was administrative or due to pending census.Priyanka Chaturvedi of the Shiv Sena sought that relaxation in the age limit for candidates from reserved categories in educational institutions and jobs be also extended to those from the economically weaker sections (EWS).The EWS is provided 10 per cent reservation but no relaxation in the age limit is given to them, she said.Derek O’Brien (TMC) wanted the Central government to replicate the West Bengal model of paying cash to artists and artisans to support the informal sector ahead of the festive season.Neeraj Shekhar (BJP) demanded inclusion of the Bhojpuri language in the 8th Schedule as it is spoken by 20 crore people in India and 7-8 crore in countries such as Mauritius, the Maldives, Uganda, Surinam and Nepal.Ahmed Patel of the Congress sought the constitution of a task force to frame rules for conducting online classes for schoolchildren and provide help to those from the weaker sections of society who cannot afford digital education mediums such as computers or smartphones.K J Alphons (BJP) wanted the government to not slow down the fight against TB because of the coronavirus pandemic, and instead intensify tracking for Tuberculosis cases. YS Chowdary (BJP) sought measures for water conservation and management to avoid future catastrophe. PTI ANZ ANZ TIR TIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-should-engage-g-8-nations-to-build-pressure-on-pakistan-demand-in-rajya-sabha/story-WwQPHP04icE0WazrZO2bYI.html
19-09-2020||India||AgustaWestland scam: CBI files supplementary charge sheet against middlemen Christian Michel James, Rajiv Saxena and 13 others||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a supplementary charge sheet in the AgustaWestland scam against key middlemen Christian Michel James and Rajiv Saxena and 13 others, officials familiar with the development said on Saturday. The latest charge sheet details alleged role played by British middleman James in bringing bribes for politicians, bureaucrats and Indian Air Force (IAF) officials in India in the Rs 3,727 crore scandal.The second charge sheet was filed on Friday and doesn’t name any politician or senior bureaucrat so far. The first charge sheet in the case was filed in September 2017 naming former IAF chief SP Tyagi and others. In its first chargesheet, CBI had established “money trail” of 62 million euros (around Rs 415 crore) out of suspected 67 million euros (Rs 452 crore) total bribe paid to Indians through middlemen. According to the agency, the irregularities in the award of contract to AgustaWestland led to estimated loss of 398.21 million euros (around Rs 2,666 crore) to the Indian government in the 556.262 million euros (Rs 3726.9 crore) contract. Here are the 10 big developments in the case:* The agency had, in March this year, sought prosecution sanction against former defence secretary Shashi Kant Sharma, former Air vice marshal Jasbir Singh Panesar and three other IAF officers - deputy chief test pilot SA Kunte, wing commander Thomas Mathew and former group captain N Santosh, However, it decided to file a charge sheet without naming them as the ministry of defence (MoD) is yet to give its sanction. * A supplementary charge sheet will be filed against Sharma and others when the sanction is accorded, according to officials familiar with the development.* Rajiv Saxena was brought from Dubai in January 2019 and made an approver by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the case but the agency later sought revocation of this status saying he misled the investigators. ED had claimed that Saxena is a ‘hawala operator’ and accommodation entry provider who runs the accommodation entry business in Dubai through numerous companies known as Matrix Group companies and has laundered proceeds of crime in the cases of AgustaWestland scam, or VVIP chopper scam. * Michel was extradited to India on December 4, 2018, from Dubai. He was allegedly paid 42 million euros (Rs 295 crore) bribe by Anglo-Italian firm AgustaWestland for further paying to Indian politicians, bureaucrats and defence ministry personnel for swinging the deal for 12 VVIP choppers in favour of the company. * “He was a frequent visitor to India and was operating as a middleman for defence procurements through a wide network of sources cultivated in the IAF and ministry of defence at different levels including retired and serving IAF officials. He was tracking the movements of the procurement process files and was sending periodical reports/despatches on the developments to the accused persons connected with M/s AgustaWestland. In this process, he shared the information collected from IAF and MoD with his associate(s), who used to transmit the despatches through FAX to the other counterparts sitting abroad in Italy and Switzerland,” said a CBI officer who didn’t wish to be named. * According to second CBI officer, Christian Michel was imposed as a controller on the other two middlemen namely Ralph Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa (already roped in by AgustaWestland) as they had no specific knowledge in the specific sector of helicopters. Also read | How India got UAE to deliver AgustaWestland accused Rajiv Saxena, lobbyist Deepak Talwar* CBI investigation documents accessed by HT reveal that a meeting was held in Cascina Costa, Italy during July, 2006 in which it was proposed that Michel will join Ralph Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa in carrying out scouting and monitoring activities with regard to the acquisition of helicopters in India, keeping in view of his knowledge of Indian military operational mechanism. “During this meeting, they had negotiated a comprehensive fees equal to 7% of the supply contract amount to cover the expenses and fees of both of them,” said the second officer. * Michel entered into as many as 12 contracts through two of his firms - M/s Global Trade and Commerce Ltd London and M/s Global Services FZE, Dubai, UAE with Finmeccanica, AgustaWestland, Westland Helicopters UK etc to legitimise the illicit commission on the procurement of the VVIP helicopters. “Finmeccanica paid total 42.27million euros (Rs 295 crore approximately) to the firms of Christian Michel as kickbacks/bribe without undertaking any work against the receipt of such amount,” said the officer. * Michel had prepared a note in which alleged bribes worth 30 million euros meant for Indian politicians and bureaucrats were mentioned. CBI pinned hopes on his interrogation, particularly to identify individuals who were referred to as “AP”, “Pol”, “Bur” and “AF” mentioned in this note. * Abbreviations of designations like ‘DCH’, ‘PDSR’, ‘DG Maintt” and ‘FTT’ under the head AF (air force) were used in the note. It had entries like ‘DS’, ‘JS Air’, ‘AFA Air’ under the head ‘BUR’, ‘DG Acq’, ‘CVC’ and ‘Auditor Gen’ and under the head ‘POL’, it had ‘AP’. The note had a separate entry ‘Fam’, believed to be SP Tyagi’s three cousins - Sanjeev, Rajiv and Sandeep Tyagi. It said 6 million euros were for ‘AF’ (Air Force), 8.4 million euros for ‘BUR’ (bureaucrats), 3 million euros for ‘AP’ and 15-16 million euros for ‘Fam’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-middlemen-christian-michel-james-rajiv-saxena-and-13-others-in-agustawestland-scam/story-wKmDIZQ6xvr4baI0R7XleJ.html
19-09-2020||India||Earth Sciences ministry may buy instrumented research aircraft for Rs 250 crore||The ministry of earth sciences in considering procurement of an instrumented research aircraft at the cost of Rs 250 crore to study atmospheric processes, according to a Lok Sabha question answered by the union science minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. The aircraft will be a part of the National Facility for Airborne Research that the ministry will set up. The aircraft, equipped with a suite of scientific instrumentation, will help in studying different atmospheric parameters from the sky, including loud physics, aerosol and air chemistry, which will strengthen the current weather and climate models. “(This) might be useful to validate cloud schemes for improving the model physics of monsoon or tropical clouds. It will be useful for addressing air pollution assessment and associated impacts over India (health, visibility, climate),” the answer said. The India Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) in Pune, an autonomous institute under the ministry of earth sciences, will function as the nodal body for the collection and dissemination of the information. The setting up of National Facility for Airborne Research had been approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs in 2018 with a financial commitment of R 130 crore during 2020-21. The facility will come under the umbrella scheme ‘Atmosphere and Climate Research-Modelling Observing System and Services (ACROSS). ACROSS encompasses the atmospheric science programmes of the earth science ministry addressing various aspects of weather and climate services, including warnings for cyclone, storm surges, heat waves, thunderstorm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-earth-sciences-ministry-may-buy-instrumented-research-aircraft-for-rs-250-crore/story-wNYpMXLgs23ViSnzx9GqRI.html
19-09-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath orders land hunt for India’s biggest film city near Noida||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked officials to find a suitable land to set up the country’s ‘biggest’ film city in the Gautam Buddha Nagar district including the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida, officials said.The CM gave the directions during a meeting to review development projects in the Meerut division--comprising Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Baghpat and Gautam Buddha Nagar districts.He held the review meeting through video conferencing and union minister of state for road transport and highways General VK Singh (retd) and UP minister of state for health Atul Garg participated in it along with several public representatives and senior officers.Also Read: Agra hotels set to welcome tourists as Taj Mahal reopens from September 21“The CM, while addressing a review meeting, announced to set up the biggest and most beautiful film city of the country in Gautam Buddha Nagar. He instructed officials to search for a suitable land in or around Noida, Greater Noida or Yamuna Expressway and prepare an action plan,” an official statement said.Why western UP farmers are silent on Centre’s new farm billsOn the issue of builder-buyer conflict in Noida and Greater Noida, the CM asked to ensure the protection of consumers’ rights by all means and said as soon as a flat gets ready, its registry should be done.The Delhi-Meerut expressway, Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut regional rapid transit system and the inner ring road in Meerut will ease the traffic, the CM said. He directed for completion of the ongoing Delhi-Meerut expressway project by the end of this year. He also asked for the completion of the entire Meerut Metro project by March 2025, including finishing the priority section between Sahibabad to Duhai (17-km-long) by March 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-orders-land-hunt-for-india-s-biggest-film-city-near-noida/story-Ow2HMyvLUb7dpYEcOkU3gK.html
19-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 5.3 million, recoveries at 4.2 million||India recorded 93,337 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 1,247 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally past 5.3 million, according to the Union health ministry on Saturday. The health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am that there were 1,013,964 active cases of Covid-19 and the death toll has risen to 85,619.The health ministry said on Saturday that India has overtaken the United States to become No 1 in terms of global Covid-19 recoveries. According to the ministry, there are now 4,208,431 people who have been cured of the viral disease after 95,880 patients were discharged between Friday and Saturday. The recovery rate is now 79.28%.India, the second worst-hit country in the world, has been reporting daily recoveries of more than 70,000 since the past 11 days. The government said on Friday that recovered cases are 4.04 times the number of active cases. The top five states with high active caseload are also the ones which are presently reporting a high level of recoveries, it added.There were 59.8% of active cases being reported from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. These states are also contributing to 59.3% of the total recoveries. It said 90% of the new recoveries are reported from 16 states and U territories.Maharashtra (19,522) contributed 22.31% of the new recoveries while Andhra Pradesh (12.24%), Karnataka (8.3%), Tamil Nadu (6.31%) and Chhattisgarh (6.0%) followed with 32.8% of the new recoveries. These states together contribute 55.1% of total new recoveries, the health ministry said.The government attributed the “continuous streak of a very high level of recoveries” to the “effective clinical management and treatment protocols” issued by the Centre. “The Ministry of Health in active collaboration with AIIMS has been conducting the ‘National e-ICU on COVID-19 Management’ exercise which handholds ICU doctors of State/UT hospitals through the Centers of Excellence. Held twice a week, on Tuesday and Friday, these sessions have played a major role in India’s substantial rate of recovering and declining case fertility rate. So far, 19 such National e-ICUs have been held covering 249 hospitals of 28 States/UTs across the country,” it said.“India has also allowed for rational use of ‘Investigational Therapies’ like Remdesevir, convalescent plasma and Tocilizumab and adopted measures such proning, use of high flow oxygen, non-invasive ventilation, use of steroids and anti-coagulants to aid recovery in COVID patients. Supervised home isolation, improved services of the ambulances for ferrying patients for prompt and timely treatment have enabled seamless and efficient patient management,” it added.The country’s case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.62%, according to the health ministry on Friday.According to the Johns Hopkins UNiversity’s coronavirus tracker, there are 30,397,759 Covid-19 cases and 950,493 people have died because of the viral disease globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-past-5-3-million-recoveries-at-4-2-million/story-YjbCGMxyEsNIejCP6upHuO.html
19-09-2020||India||Ex-BJP MLA joins Congress ahead of MP by polls with fanfare||Ex-BJP MLA from Sagar in Madhya Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region, Parul Sahu (39), joined the Congress on Friday, giving it a shot in the arm ahead of crucial by polls to 28 assembly seats slated to be held with Bihar state assembly polls by November end, as announced by the Election Commission of India (ECI) recently. Sahu, daughter of a business magnate in Sagar district, announced joining the Congress in presence of state Congress president Kamal Nath and a horde of other party leaders and workers at the state Congress headquarters. “People of Surkhi assembly constituency (in Sagar district) want me to become their voice and fight against (an atmosphere of) arrogance and fear in the constituency,” said Parul Sahu in her brief address. State Congress president Kamal Nath said, “The by polls are not meant for only certain assembly constituencies but the entire state is looking at these bypolls as it will show how people give a befitting reply to the politics of manipulation as practised by the BJP.” Also Read: MP govt to rechristen Ladli Laxmi scheme, aims to make girls self-reliantParul Sahu represented Surkhi assembly constituency as a BJP MLA from 2013 to 2018. She had won the seat against the Congress candidate and now the minister for transport and revenue, Govind Singh Rajput (59), by a narrow margin of 141 votes in 2013 assembly elections. She was denied a ticket by the BJP in the 2018 assembly elections. Also Read: Covid-19: With 2,552 fresh cases, MP crosses 100,000-markRajput, fighting on Congress ticket, had defeated BJP candidate Sudhir Yadav by 21,518 votes in 2018 assembly elections and became the minister for transport and revenue in the then Kamal Nath cabinet. He was one of the 22 Congress MLAs who resigned from the state assembly in March this year in an act of rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath. They later joined the BJP. State BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Decision of Parul Sahu to join the Congress is not surprising. She was in touch with Congress for a long time. However, it will not affect the BJP’s prospects in the by polls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-bjp-mla-joins-congress-ahead-of-mp-by-polls-with-fanfare/story-KI7jMeTJxaXVo1vx8erq2O.html
19-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 9 senior RSS members contract Covid-19, hospitalised and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.9 senior RSS members contract Covid-19 at Nagpur headquarters, hospitalisedAt least nine senior RSS functionaries, housed at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh headquarters at Mahal in central Nagpur, have tested positive for coronavirus. All the infected full-time senior swayamsevaks-- most of whom are aged 60 years and above-- have been shifted to a private nursing home in the city for treatment. Read more.Almost 60% of students in India travel to school on foot: SurveyAs many as 59.7 per cent of students in India walk to school with the number being much higher in rural areas, according to the National Statistical Organisation’s (NSO) latest report on education. The percentage of girls travelling to school on foot is higher than the average at 62 per cent, while it is 57.9 per cent for boys. Read more.Why farmers are opposing ‘pro-farmer’ reformsIn May this year, the government announced important reforms in agricultural markets. These included deregulation of farm foods from the Essential Commodities Act (ECA). Farmers were also allowed to sell their produce outside government-regulated markets, or Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs). Read more.Priyanka Chopra wishes sister-in-law Danielle Jonas on her birthday: ‘Wish you love and happiness always’Actor Priyanka Chopra is every bit a family person and never misses a chance to wish her family members. On sister-in-law Danielle Jonas’ birthday, Priyanka shared love and good wishes for her. Read more.BMW R 18 cruiser to launch in India today: Price expectationBMW Motorrad India is all set to introduce the new R 18 cruiser in the country on Saturday (September 19). The BMW’s latest cruiser will be a direct rival against the competitors such as Harley-Davidson Fat Boy and the recently launched Triumph Rocket 3 GT. Read more.MI vs CSK: A battle royale to start the proceedingsIt’s the last ball of the 2019 final. Chennai Super Kings need two to defend their title while Mumbai Indians are in search of a dot ball. Lasith Malinga bowls a perfect slower one which Shardul Thakur fails to connect and is trapped leg before. The Rohit Sharma-led MI become champions for a record fourth time. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-9-senior-rss-members-contract-covid-19-hospitalised-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FaauG8EVcRhexhdz5vKrNN.html
19-09-2020||India||NIA arrests 9 al Qaeda operatives after raids in West Bengal, Kerala||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) said on Saturday nine al Qaeda terrorists planning attacks in several places in the country, including the National Capital Region (NCR), were arrested after simultaneous raids in locations in Kerala and West Bengal, officials said on Saturday.All the nine operatives arrested from Kerala’s Ernakulam and West Bengal’s Murshidabad are linked to a terror plot targeting Kochi, Delhi and Mumbai, according to NIA officials. Their targets included the Kochi naval base and shipyard, they said, adding that weapons and bomb-making material were also seized from the men.Six of them were arrested from Murshidabad and three from Ernakulam were planning single wolf attacks as human bombs, officials said.“NIA had learnt about an inter-state module of Al-Qaeda operatives at various locations in India including West-Bengal and Kerala. The group was planning to undertake terrorist attacks at vital installations in India with an aim to kill innocent people and strike terror in their minds,” the agency said in a statement.The agency has registered a case and initiated an investigation.“As per the preliminary investigation, these individuals were radicalised by Pakistan-based Al-Qaeda terrorists on social media and were motivated to undertake attacks at multiple places including the National Capital Region. For this purpose, the module was actively indulging in fundraising and a few members of the gang were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition. These arrests have pre-empted possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country,” it added.It added that a large quantity of incriminating material including “digital devices, documents, jihadi literature, sharp weapons, country-made firearms, a locally fabricated body armour, articles and literature used for making home-made explosive devices” have been seized from their possession.NIA is looking into whether any locals supported these operatives and is collecting details from their encrypted Telegram service.The three arrested in Kerala are also Bengalis but settled among migrant labourers. The raids by NIA are underway in Ernakulam and Murshidabad. More arrests are likely, said people who are part of the investigation.Kerala police were put on high alert following the arrests and are keeping a close tab on migrant workers’ camps, officials said. In Kerala, there is an estimated 25 lakh workforce from other states mainly engaged in construction, small scale units and hotels.The arrested men will be produced before courts in Kerala and West Bengal for police custody and further investigation, the agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-al-qaeda-operatives-arrested-by-nia-in-raids-conducted-in-west-bengal-kerala/story-LZsoOiUxyPZjh1HCfsQ7kI.html
19-09-2020||India||9 Al-Qaeda operatives arrested by NIA in raids conducted in West Bengal, Kerala. Full list||The National Investigative Agency (NIA) on Saturday arrested nine al Qaeda operatives after raids conducted at multiple locations in West Bengal’s Murshidabad and Ernakulam in Kerala.In a statement, NIA said these men held were radicalised by Pakistan-based al Qaeda module on social media and were motivated to undertake attacks at multiple places, including the National Capital Region (NCR).NIA Arrests Nine Al-Qaeda Terrorists from West Bengal and Kerala pic.twitter.com/qL7p4rR9lcThe investigative agency said that the module was actively indulging in fundraising and a few members of the gang were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition. The arrest of nine operatives, NIA said, has pre-empted possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country.NIA said it has also seized a large number of incriminating materials including digital devices, documents, jihadi literature, sharp weapons, country-made firearms, a locally fabricated body armour, articles and literature used for making home-made explosive devices.Here is the list of men arrested by NIA:Arrests from Ernakulam, Kerala:1. Murshid Hasan2. Iyakub Biswas3. Mosaraf HossenArrests from West Bengal’s Murshidabad:1. Najmus Sakib2. Abu Sufiyan3. Mainul Mondal4. Leu Yean Ahmed5. Al Mamun Kamal6. Atitur Rehman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-al-qaeda-operatives-arrested-by-nia-in-raids-conducted-at-multiple-locations-in-murshidabad-west-bengal-and-ernakulam-kerala/story-cYuFW7IqRjE9Ch3YElB6fP.html
19-09-2020||India||Heavy rain to persist in south, northeast India till October||Heavy and widespread rain in peninsular and northeast India will persist till October, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its weekly weather report. Northwest India will continue to remain dry and Rajasthan is likely to experience dry weather but weather models are not showing monsoon withdrawal commencement from northwest India as yet.Due to heavy rain over south India and parts of northeast India, rain deficiency of 30% in the week ending September 9 was not only compensated last week but an excess of 7% was recorded this week, according to the weekly report. “A change in weather patterns which resulted in above normal rain in the past week from -30% we reached 7% excess as far as weekly rain is considered. This change was possible because of a low-pressure system that formed over Andhra Pradesh coast, a cyclonic circulation over west coast of India which brought rainfall throughout south peninsular India. Monsoon trough shifted to the foothills during the end of the week, causing heavy to extremely heavy rain in parts of northeast India,” said Soma Senroy, scientist at the National Weather Forecasting Centre of IMD.Also read: Monsoon misses north India in September, hits south and east hardA fresh low-pressure area is likely to develop over northwest Bay of Bengal around September 20 which will bring heavy and widespread rains to east, northeast and peninsular India till end of September while northwest India is likely to record large deficiency. Between September 18 and 24, above normal rain is likely over west peninsular coast as westerlies strengthen due to development of the low-pressure area.There is a 12.6% deficiency in rain over the country in September; 52.8% deficiency over northwest India; 33.2% deficiency over central India; 1.9% deficiency over east and northeast India and 75.6% excess rain over peninsular India. In the monsoon season since June 1 there is 6.7% excess rain over the country; 15.1% deficiency over northwest India; 13.7% excess over central India; 1.9% excess over east and northeast India and 27.7% excess over south peninsula.“The circulation patterns are not suggesting withdrawal of monsoon yet. We are not seeing significant reduction in moisture. Westerly winds will strengthen next week due to development of low pressure area,” explained K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-to-persist-in-south-northeast-india-till-october/story-oP7frH8PtDtrKg9g1WGFlN.html
19-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: What to expect today||Indian parliament will not take any weekend break during this monsoon session. And on Saturday-- the first weekend in which they would be working-- the Narendra Modi government will introduce key reforms bills and push legislations brought during last few months to tackle the Covid-19 situation. The union labour ministry will introduce The Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code, 2020. The bills aim to consolidate and amend the laws regulating the safety, health and working conditions of workers in factories and other workplaces. The Industrial Relations Code, 2020 or the amendments to the laws relating to Trade Unions, conditions of employment in industrial establishment or undertaking, investigation and settlement of industrial disputes and the Social Security code will also be introduced on Saturday in the Lok Sabha. After the labour standing committee recommended heavy changes in the original bill, labour minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar will withdraw the original version of the three bills and introduce the amended bills. The Lower House will also try to pass The Taxation and Other Laws amendment bill that gives relaxation and amends certain laws such as income tax laws. The debate took a furious turn on Friday after minister of State for finance Anurag Thakur referred to the flaws in creation of the Prime Minister’s national relief fund in 1848, invoking furious protests from the Congress leaders. The Lower House may also clear The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The National Forensic Sciences University Bill, 2020 and The Rashtriya Raksha University Bill, 2020 on Saturday. In the Rajya Sabha, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will push amendments to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy code while union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will push The Epidemic diseases amendment bill 2020. The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 may also come up for passage in the Upper House. Congress and some other Opposition parties are opposing the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-what-to-expect-today/story-8n6VyWP073uwdEILLYVFnK.html
19-09-2020||India||No conclusive evidence of foodborne transmission of Covid-19: Lok Sabha informed||A committee constituted by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has opined that as of now, there is no conclusive evidence for foodborne transmission of Covid-19, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday.   It was also informed that food imported into India from Covid-19 affected countries is safe for human consumption. Consequent upon the Covid-19 outbreak in China and other countries and concerns raised regarding safety of food items imported from these countries, the FSSAI had constituted a committee of experts to examine the possibility of presence of Covid-19 in food imported from these countries and address the concerns in this regard.“The committee, in its report, opined that as of now, there is no conclusive evidence for foodborne transmission of coronavirus and concluded that food imported into India from coronavirus-affected countries is safe for human consumption,” Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said in a written reply.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe committee agreed with the advisories of global organisations like the World Health Organisation (WHO), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) that the predominant routes of transmission of Covid-19 appear to be human-to-human.  In light of findings of the expert committee, a press release was issued by the FSSAI on March 5 to address the concerns of consumers and general public in this regard.  Commissioners of Food Safety of all states and union territories were also advised vide letter dated March 6 to take appropriate steps to disseminate correct information to consumers and general public to counter any false propaganda.During the lockdown period, import clearance of food items and food testing laboratories (National Food labs at NCR and Kolkata and FSSAI accredited private labs) were classified as essential services and regular import clearance procedure was followed.To guide the public and Food Business Operators (FBOs) about safe food practices and facilitate the FBOs to ensure that the food supply chain is not affected, a number of steps have been taken by the FSSAI as part of which a detailed guidance note ‘Food Hygiene and Safety Guidelines for Food Businesses during Coronavirus Disease (Covid-19) Pandemic’ has been released.An e-handbook on ‘Eat Right during Covid-19’ for citizens highlighting safe food practices to be followed and tips on health and nutrition has been released. The FSSAI is using its social media extensively to disseminate information amid Covid-19, including public awareness material on eating right during coronavirus.  To avoid delay in issuance of license where licensing authority decided to conduct inspection prior to issue of license, licensing authorities were asked to conduct it by way of inspection. This has been extended up to December 31 this year.  The FBOs, other than manufacturers, were allowed to temporarily operate their businesses on the basis of application for license/registration submitted online. This facility has been extended up to December 31 this year.  The FBOs, whose FSSAI license/registration expired with effect from August 1, 2019, have been given grace period and allowed to continue their food businesses with their existing license/registration number without any late fee.The FSSAI also initiated through its flagship Food Safety Training and Certification (FoSTaC) programme, an online training module for food handlers on the essentials of food safety and hygiene practices during Covid 19 through its empanelled partners.The food authority interacted with top leaders of the food industry on May 12 with an aim to ensure uninterrupted food supply while minimising the risk of Covid-19 for workers, customers and players in the food supply chain. The discussions helped address most of the concerns and challenges voiced by the food industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-conclusive-evidence-of-foodborne-transmission-of-covid-19-lok-sabha-informed/story-4b5z2lLVx6wdTAcEqazawL.html
19-09-2020||India||Death of two sloth bears in Odisha’s Nandankanan zoo spreads panic||Death of two sloth bears in two days in Bhubaneswar’s Nandankanan Zoological Park, among the 14 big zoos of the country, has sent the zoo authorities into a tizzy with the officials worried over the possible spread of some sort of bacterial or viral infection.On Thursday, a 25-year-old female sloth bear named Aarti died with multiple haemorrhages, a day after a 7-year-old male sloth bear Debashish had died with similar symptoms. Aarti, brought from Ranchi zoo in September 2013, was the centre of attraction in Nandankanan as she often climbed trees and played with her off-springs when visitors crowded around her enclosure.“The exact cause of deaths of these two bears is not yet known. The post-mortem reports said it could be bacterial and viral infections. We are waiting for more confirmation about the deaths from the centre for wildlife health in Odisha University of agriculture and technology in Bhubaneswar,” said Shashi Paul, director of Nandankanan Zoological Park. “The female sloth bear did not have any issues till the previous evening. It suddenly developed symptoms and died the next day. The male sloth bear was quite sick for some time.”Paul said though the zoo was left with 15 sloth bears that are housed in separate enclosures, there is some concern over a communicable disease spreading around. “Two more bears which showed mild symptoms earlier have been isolated and necessary bio safety measures are being taken. We have sent the samples of the two dead sloth bears to Indian veterinary research institute (IVRI) Bareilly for more tests and confirmation about any viral disease,” he said.On August 30, a 28-year-old Himalayan black bear named Chulu had died. But officials said it probably died due to old age as bears are known to live for about 30 years. With over 3,000 wild animals, Nandankanan zoo is among the 14 big zoos of the country.Last year, Nandankanan had a big scare when four of the eight elephants died in a span of a month due to Elephant endotheliotropic herpesvirus that decreased the platelet count in elephants, leading to internal bleeding.Also Read: International Coastal Clean-up Day: Eight Indian beaches vie for international eco-labelThe zoo, shut for over 6 months due to Covid lockdown, has seen around half a dozen deaths including that of a king cobra, an anaconda, a monkey and Brahminy kite among other animals. With no visitors in the last 6 months, the zoo has lost around Rs 6 crore in revenue that it would have earned through ticket sales. It sees footfall of around 30 to 35 lakh people in a year.Also Read: Odisha plans social registry to weed out ghost beneficiaries using AadhaarHowever, the revenue shortfall has not affected the supply of meat and other food items as budgetary provisions have already been made before the lockdown started. The zoo authorities took a number of steps including isolation of the animals that were to be slaughtered for the meal of the carnivorous animals.Officials said the zoo is likely to be reopened in the first week of October under strict Covid-19 guidelines and a fixed number of visitors would be allowed. “We would not start a safari ride and there would be no battery-operated vehicles due to social distancing guidelines,” Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-of-two-sloth-bears-in-odisha-s-nandankanan-zoo-spreads-panic/story-KsBtaHAcswn4JW9aJckkRK.html
19-09-2020||India||9 senior RSS members contract Covid-19 at Nagpur headquarters, hospitalised||At least nine senior RSS functionaries, housed at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh headquarters at Mahal in central Nagpur, have tested positive for coronavirus. All the infected full-time senior swayamsevaks-- most of whom are aged 60 years and above-- have been shifted to a private nursing home in the city for treatment. According to the people privy to the developments, as many as nine senior functionaries were infected and almost all of them suffer from hypertension and diabetes.“They are stable and responding to the medicines,” a senior swayamsevak preferring anonymity, said. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and general secretary Bhaiyyaji Joshi, who also reside in the same building, are out of station. “They were informed about the development,” the senior functionary quoted above said, and added that almost all the infected members were found asymptomatic. In view of the growing cases at the RSS headquarters, entire premises including all rooms inside the building have been sanitized. Meanwhile, the guardian minister for Nagpur district, Nitin Raut, too, has tested positive for Covid-19. Raut, who is also the minister for energy, took to Twitter to inform his followers.Also Read: Maharashtra ministers Nitin Raut, Hasan Mushrif test positive for Covid-19“I have been tested positive for Covid-19 today. I would like to request all those who have come in contact with me in the past few days to get themselves tested as a precautionary measure. Stay Safe everyone and take care,” the minister tweeted. His wife, Sumedha also tested positive for the disease and was admitted to a private nursing home. Also Read: Rajya Sabha MPs meet NHRC officials over human rights violations in MaharashtraEarlier, union minister for transport and Lok Sabha member from Nagpur, Nitin Gadkari, had tested positive. Due to the rising cases of Covid-19 in Nagpur, a Janata curfew would be observed in the city on Saturdays and Sundays in the remaining two weeks of this month and a decision on extending it will be taken after September 30, said city mayor Sandip Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-senior-rss-members-contract-covid-19-at-nagpur-headquarters-hospitalised/story-GKzSALrQJxVPmM2aOVA7lI.html
19-09-2020||India||Pakistan rejects India’s demand for Queen’s counsel to represent Kulbhushan Jadhav||Pakistan on Friday rejected India’s demand that an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s counsel should be appointed for death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav to ensure a free and fair trial in this country. Foreign Office spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri, replying to a question during a media briefing, said India has been consistently making the “unrealistic demand” of allowing a lawyer from outside Pakistan to represent Jadhav, sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court for alleged spying.Also read: Pak parliament extends ordinance enabling Kulbhushan Jadhav to appeal conviction “We have informed India that only those lawyers are allowed to appear in Pakistani courts who have a license to practice law in Pakistan. This is in line with international legal practice. There can be no change in this position,” he said. Queen’s Counsel is a barrister or advocate, appointed Counsel to the UK Crown on the recommendation of the Lord Chancellor. Earlier this month, the Islamabad High Court in Pakistan directed the federal government to give India another chance to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav and adjourned hearing for a month. Pakistan’s Parliament on Tuesday extended for four months an ordinance that allowed Jadhav to file an appeal against his conviction in a high court as required by the International Court of Justice (ICJ). Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the government of Pakistan has not been able to fulfil its obligations on implementation of the ICJ judgment in letter and spirit.Also read: Kulbhushan Jadhav should get an Indian lawyer: Govt “It has not yet addressed the core issues, which include provision of all documents related to the case, providing unconditional and unimpeded consular access to Kulbhusan Jadhav and appointment of an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s counsel to ensure a free and fair trial,” he said at an online media briefing on Thursday. In 2017, India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence handed to him by a military court. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. India has slammed Pakistan for adopting a “farcical” approach in denying available legal remedies to Jadhav against his death sentence in contravention of the ICJ order. Fifty-year-old retired Indian Navy officer Jadhav was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. To a question about elevating Gilgit-Baltistan’s status to that of a full-fledged province, the Foreign Office spokesperson said that reforms in GB were an ongoing process that include political, administrative and economic reforms. “It (granting status of a province) has been a long-standing demand of the people of Giligit Baltistan. These reforms will continue in line with the needs of the people of Gilgit Baltistan,” he said. India has clearly conveyed to Pakistan that the entire union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of the country by virtue of its fully legal and irrevocable accession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-rejects-india-s-demand-for-queen-s-counsel-to-represent-kulbhushan-jadhav/story-rn9hSyBkOslJKN51NZ4ZKP.html
19-09-2020||India||PM Modi to attend two debates in this year’s ‘historic’ UNGA session: TS Tirumurti||India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations TS Tirumurti on Friday (local time) said the highlight of the “historic” UN General Assembly session this year will be the participation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in two debates in the high-level segments beginning from September 21.“This time, the UN General Assembly will be historic and in more than one way. As far as India is concerned, the highlight will be the participation of PM Modi in two debates in the high-level segments starting on Monday,” Tirumuti told ANI in an exclusive interview.He said the first event is a general debate where the Prime Minister will represent India at the UN and deliver the national statement while the other is the high-level plenary meeting to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the UN. “His address will certainly be the highlight of our participation in UNGA,” Tirumurti remarked.The diplomat informed that a biodiversity summit will be organised virtually on September 30 with the theme -- ‘Urgent action on biodiversity for sustainable development’. “This will be the first summit on biodiversity in the UN. Our Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar will be participating in this summit,” he said.Tirumurti stressed that India is one of 10 mega biodiverse countries in the world and the country has taken a leading role in the field of biodiversity.“India recently held the Conference of Parties of the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals in February this year. We had also organised the Conference of Parties to the UN Convention to Combat Desertification in September last year in Delhi, which saw the adoption of the ambitious Delhi Declaration,” he said.He also informed that an important event to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the World Conference on Women will be held on October 1 and the adoption of the Beijing Platform for action, which is “widely acknowledged as the most comprehensive plan for advancing rights of women and girls”.The event will be attended by Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani, underlining India’s strong commitment to women empowerment and gender sensitivity.Furthermore, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will be participating in some of the ministerial meetings which will be held on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, said Tirumurti.“On October 2, the UN will be holding International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will be delivering India’s remarks at this event,” he further informed.Tirumurti said the theme of the current UN General Assembly session is -- ‘The Future We Want, The UN We Need’, “reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism, confronting Covid-19 through effective multilateral actions”.He also said the UN General Assembly session will be different this year from all previous seasons as the world is still in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We hope that member states take Covid-19 as an opportunity to opt for reforms and change in order to have the future we want.”The diplomat stated that in view of the Covid-19 travel restrictions, most leaders will not travel to New York and the high-level debate will be conducted virtually.“World leaders will be delivering their national statements through pre-recorded videos. The hall of the General Assembly will not be empty. One representative per delegation will be allowed in the General Assembly hall. If they wish, they can introduce the video of their respective heads of state or government,” Tirumurti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-attend-two-debates-in-this-year-s-historic-unga-session-ts-tirumurti/story-SnyU73ejNrhR9EoMw6wZeO.html
19-09-2020||India||Almost 60% of students in India travel to school on foot: Survey||As many as 59.7 per cent of students in India walk to school with the number being much higher in rural areas, according to the National Statistical Organisation’s (NSO) latest report on education. The percentage of girls travelling to school on foot is higher than the average at 62 per cent, while it is 57.9 per cent for boys.The same trend is observed when data for rural and urban areas is looked at separately. While 61.4 per cent of boys walk to school in rural areas, the percentage of girls stands at 66.5 and it is 57.9 per cent and 62 per cent respectively in urban areas.Also read: 10 million children may never return to school after Covid-19 pandemic: CharityThe second most preferred mode of travel is public transport, with 12.4 per cent of the students using it in the country. In rural areas, 11.3 per cent of students use public transport to travel to school while a significantly higher percentage, 15.3, use it in urban areas.Information was also collected on how regularly students availed the concessional fare in public transport for attending educational institutions. As many as 48.3 per cent students who received concession used public transport, this number being higher in rural areas (51.3 per cent) than in urban areas (42.7 per cent).Also read: Govt should provide free smartphones to all school children: NGOTo give context to the data, the distance between students’ households and schools was also studied and it was found that in rural areas 92.7 per cent of households reported availability of primary school within 1 km from the house and in urban areas the number stood at 87.2 per cent.Nearly 68 per cent of rural households and 80 per cent of urban households reported upper primary schools within 1 km from the house while only around 38 per cent of rural households compared to around 70 per cent of urban households reported secondary schools within such a distance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/almost-60-of-students-in-india-travel-to-school-on-foot-survey/story-DJkvOMUarlY47DMMAdKUoN.html
19-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha MPs meet NHRC officials over human rights violations in Maharashtra||A group of MPs on Friday met senior officials of the National Human Rights Commission alleging various incidents of human rights violations in Maharashtra.The group comprised Rajya Sabha members Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Vikas Mahatme and Bhagwat Karad.They visited the National Human Rights Commission and met with its member Jyotika Kalra, Secretary General Jaideep Govind and other officers, and submitting a representation, the NHRC said in a statement.“They have adverted to various incidents of human rights violations by state officials of Maharashtra, of different dates and at different places,” the statement said.It has also being submitted to the NHRC by them that “considering the failure on the part of the state authorities to address the basic human rights of the citizens whereby the right to life, freedom of speech, freedom of peaceful assembly, right to equality and other such inalienable rights of the citizens purported to have been violated by the state of Maharashtra”. The Commission gave a patient hearing to the delegation, the rights panel said.  It has been apprised to the members of the Parliament that in many of the cases, the Commission has already initiated proceedings by taking cognizance, it added. “Nevertheless, the Commission will examine each and every incident mentioned in the representation of the alleged violation of human rights in various forms and if required, adequate measures by way of an enquiry will be initiated under the provisions of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993,” the statement said.“If the Commission deems it fit and proper in appropriate cases, it may initiate spot enquiry, subject however to requirement under the law,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-mps-meet-nhrc-officials-over-human-rights-violations-in-maharashtra/story-MabHJ3lkybZxGaYiBNOJSO.html
19-09-2020||India||Effective Covid-19 vaccine likely to be available by first quarter of 2021: Minister||If the advanced clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine succeed, then an effective vaccination is likely to be available by the end of first quarter of 2021, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey informed Lok Sabha on Friday. He was responding to a question about the time by which an effective Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be commercially launched. The minister further said that no advance purchase agreement with any vaccine manufacturers has been entered into. Responding to another question, Choubey said that the phase-I of clinical trials have revealed excellent safety of the two candidate vaccines indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Cadila Healthcare Ltd, and now their immunogenicity testing is in progress. Their phase II clinical trials are ongoing.   The government of India has formed a National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 chaired by the Member (Health) of Niti Aayog, which is creating a strategy on the procurement mechanisms for vaccine, including both indigenous and international manufacturing, along with guiding principles for prioritisation of population groups for vaccination, Choubey said. The Expert Group has deliberated on broad parameters guiding the selection of Covid-19 vaccine candidates for the country and working in close coordination with Standing Technical Sub-Committee of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), he said in a written reply to Lok Sabha. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has granted test license permission for manufacture of Covid-19 vaccine for preclinical test, examination and analysis to the seven manufacturers in India. These are Serum Institute of India in Pune, Cadila Healthcare Ltd. in Ahmedabad, Bharat Biotech International Ltd in Hyderabad, Biological E Ltd. in Hyderabad, Reliance Life Sciences Pvt Ltd in Mumbai, Aurbindo Pharma Limited in Hyderabad, and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Limited, Pune. The ICMR is facilitating studies related to Covid-19 vaccines. An inactivated whole virion candidate vaccine (BBV152) for SARS-CoV-2 has been developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd using the virus isolate provided by ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune.  “Phase I clinical trials along with parallel studies in hamsters and rhesus macaques have been completed and have revealed excellent safety of the candidate vaccine. Immunogenicity testing is in progress. Phase II of clinical trials are ongoing,” Choubey said.  A DNA vaccine has been developed by Cadila Healthcare Ltd. Pre-clinical toxicity studies were conducted in small animals: mice, rats, rabbits and guinea pigs. “The vaccine has been found to be safe and immunogenic. Cadila has partnered with ICMR for conduct of parallel pre-clinical studies in rhesus macaques. Phase I clinical trials have been completed. The trial has revealed excellent safety of the candidate vaccine. Immunogenicity testing is in progress. Phase II clinical trials are ongoing,” he said. Serum Institute of India (SII) and ICMR have partnered for clinical development of two global vaccine candidates, including ChAdOx1-S, which is a non- replicating viral vector vaccine developed by University of Oxford/AstraZeneca. This vaccine is undergoing phase III of clinical trials in Brazil. Phase II and III bridging studies have been initiated by ICMR at 14 clinical trial sites, the minister said. The ICMR and SII have also partnered for clinical development of a glycoprotein subunit nanoparticle adjuvanted vaccine developed by Novavax from the US. The trial will be initiated in the second half of October after the vaccine is manufactured by SII.  The trial is led by ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), Pune. The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and the Department of Science and Technology (DST) are also supporting more than 30 vaccine candidates which are in different stages of development.  The government of India conveyed its intent to be part of the Vaccine Pillar of the Access to Covid-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator, which may be beneficial in providing access to the global vaccine candidates in advanced stages, for their further utilization in the country. Under this pillar, COVAX facility has been created, which is led by GAVI and the World Health Organization (WHO), for fair and equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccine across the world, Choubey informed. The DBT through the IND-CEPI Mission is involved in key partnerships with ‘Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI)’ for supporting Indian researchers for development of clinical immune assays to advance vaccine research.  “No advance purchase agreement with any vaccine manufacturers have been entered into,” the minister said.  ICMR has so far spent more than Rs 25.00 crore from its intramural budget for undertaking work related to development of vaccine candidate and pre-clinical studies, Choubey said. The Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), a statutory body under the DST, has supported three projects under Covid-19 on vaccine research under Intensified Research in high priority areas (IRHPA). The sanctioned expenditure is Rs 22,27,579 and the committed expenditure is Rs 3,20,78,161.  The Department of Biotechnology is also supporting 08 proposals by Industry and academia for candidate vaccine development and associated research resources at a total cost of Rs 75 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/effective-covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-be-available-by-first-quarter-of-2021-minister/story-urz5Yft0DVY1u1FHwQm7nI.html
19-09-2020||India||Anil Dhasmana appointed as new chief of NTRO||Former Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) chief Anil Dhasmana has been appointed as the chief of National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO), India’s technical body that is responsible for geospatial intelligence and satellite imagery.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, cleared the appointment and the decision was formally conveyed to the retired Indian Police Service officer on Friday. Dhasmana succeeds former Intelligence Bureau officer Satish Jha, who demitted office on Thursday.Dhasmana, a 1981 batch IPS officer, is a Pakistan expert and was the lead planner of the Balakot air strikes in February 2019. He had stepped down a few months later when his extended term due to the general elections ended in June 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-dhasmana-appointed-as-new-chief-of-ntro/story-dCOZcbxoPy6yjolcz2pX8J.html
19-09-2020||India||Why farmers are opposing ‘pro-farmer’ reforms||In May this year, the government announced important reforms in agricultural markets. These included deregulation of farm foods from the Essential Commodities Act (ECA). Farmers were also allowed to sell their produce outside government-regulated markets, or Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs). Another set of changes allowed farmers to enter contract farming. While the government claims that these reforms will help farmers in getting a better price for their products, farmers’ groups have been agitating against these changes. Why are farmers opposing policies which are designed to help them? There are three factors which could explain these protests. Farmers do not trust big capital, and for good reason The entire logic of abolishing the monopoly of APMCs is that they artificially depress prices for farmers; allowing corporate players will guarantee better returns to farmers, the argument goes. Whether or not this happens cannot be said today. But farmers have a good reason to be circumspect about claims of growing presence of corporates being unambiguously good for them. Agricultural input markets , such as seeds, pesticides etc. have seen a large-scale corporatisation in the past decade, but this has been accompanied by a sharp rise in prices of intermediate inputs in agriculture. Data from the ministry of agriculture shows that a rising cost of intermediate goods has been the biggest reason for stagnation and eventual decline in terms of trade for farmers. Given this experience, the suspicion towards growing footprint of big capital leading to a squeeze in earnings cannot be dismissed just as dogma. It is not very difficult to understand why this happens. Farmers are often hard-pressed for resources against traders and end up selling their output when prices are lower. Replacing local traders with big capital will only increase this gap in bargaining power.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Farmers were never very anti-APMC to begin with The claim that agricultural markets were completely shackled before these reforms is factually incorrect. A National Statistical Office (NSO) report based on a 2012-13 survey found that farmers have been selling large part of their produce to private traders outside APMCs even earlier. For 31 crops sold between July 2012 and June 2013, local private traders were the single biggest buyers in the case of 29 crops. Mandis, not all of which were under APMCs, were the biggest buyers in just two crops; arhar in the kharif season and gram in the rabi season. Except in soybean, the share of farmers selling their crops to mandis did not even exceed 25% for any crop. In fact, farmers want more rather than less government intervention. A Reserve Bank of Indiastudy based on a survey of farmers and traders in 2018 found that more than 50% farmers found Minimum Support Price for crops to be the most beneficial scheme for farmers. This number was just around one-fifth for e-NAM, a pan-India trading portal introduced by the Modi government. Even on the priority list of measures that may help in right cropping decisions/better price realisation and abolition of intermediaries (which is what doing away with monopoly of APMC would achieve) was ranked way below facilities such as reliable weather forecasts and storage facilities.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The political economy of big-farmer protests There is merit in the criticism that the prevailing APMC model perpetuates some form of rent-seeking behaviour, both public and private, especially in the so-called green revolution areas. APMCs levy commission on the produce which is sold on their premises. This is a source of income for both governments and licensed traders. States such as Punjab and Haryana charge a higher commission than others. For example, the Shanta Kumar committee on restructuring the Food Corporation of India noted that Punjab and Haryana were charging a commission of 14.5% and 11.5% on wheat while this was just 3.6% in Rajasthan. This commission is a valuable source of revenue for these governments. The local elite, which have diversified interests in both farming and trading also benefit from the process. Any move to suddenly do away with these benefits, irrespective of its merits or demerits, is bound to trigger a political backlash.The resignation of Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) from the union cabinet is a case in point. According to the CSDS-Lokniti National Election Study, in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the SAD-BJP alliance had a lead of 25 percentage points over the Congress among Jat-Sikhs in Punjab. The SAD-BJP had the biggest support among this community, which represents the landed elite in Punjab, and which has also been the traditional supporter of SAD’s politics. By 2019, this massive lead had turned into a four percentage point deficit vis-a-vis the Congress. Also, in the 2019 elections, the SAD-BJP alliance polled the most votes among Hindu upper castes, who are more of an urban demography in the state. With the Congress government in Punjab attacking these reforms, the SAD clearly fears losing its support among its traditional loyalists, the Jat Sikhs. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-farmers-are-opposing-pro-farmer-reforms/story-yE7N4HT8vG6d8ZsEB8McZN.html
19-09-2020||India||Bengal allows tourism in its national parks, sanctuaries; no elephant safari for now||The West Bengal government will be opening up its national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves from September 23 for tourists once again after a gap of more than six months. There will be, however, no elephant safaris for now. The festive season has started with Mahalaya and Viswakarma Puja on Thursday and only a month is left for the Durga Puja, the biggest festival in West Bengal. This is the time when usually the flow of tourists increases and reaches its peak during the winter - October to January. The decision to allow tourists was taken in a meeting held by the state forest minister Rajib Banerjee earlier this week. On Friday, the forest department released a set of dos and don’ts on how tourism would be allowed in the forests. Here are some of the points which you wouldn’t want to miss out. * All entry tickets and bookings will be made online. You may not be allowed to enter if the thermal scanner detects that you have a higher body temperature. No refund would be given. * You need to wear masks and maintain social distance. Hand sanitizer is mandatory in vehicles and boats. Staff and entry gates will ensure these things. * One seat would be left vacant between two visitors. Limited number of vehicles would be allowed at a time so that not more than 20 people can enter watch towers at a time. * All safari vehicles, watch towers, rooms would be sanitized. Only 30% guests would be allowed at a time in closed spaces such as dining rooms. Cultural programs can be held in open spaces only, else not at all. * Zoos to open from October 2. Stress on proper sanitization every day. Things which visitors usually touch such as door knobs of wash rooms, handles, railings and barricades among others are to be sanitized every day. West Bengal has six national parks, 12 wildlife sanctuaries, two tiger reserves, two elephant reserves and a biosphere reserve. The tigers in the Sunderbans, the only tigers to inhabit any mangrove, elephants, gaurs, crocodiles, deer, leopard and rhinoceros are among the few animals that attract more than 2.5 million tourists visit to these national parks and sanctuaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-allows-tourism-in-its-national-parks-sanctuaries-no-elephant-safari-for-now/story-mNi7Cv3XSniXZYPbqaXKiM.html
19-09-2020||India||Andhra BJP leaders put under house arrest for planning rallies against attacks on temples||Scores of Bharatiya Janata Party leaders in Andhra Pradesh were placed under house arrest and hundreds of activists were taken into preventive custody on Friday in a bid to thwart their attempts to hold Chalo Amalapuram and Chalo Antarvedi rallies in protest against the recent attacks on temples in the state. State BJP president Somu Veerraju, former president Kanna Lakshminarayana, former Union minister Daggubati Purandeshwari, party general secretary P Vishnuvardhan Reddy and former state minister Ravela Kishore Babu were kept under house arrest in their respective residences since Thursday night. Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police in Eluru of West Godavari district, K V Mohan Rao told the media that no permission was sought for holding the protest rallies. “Some political leaders were kept under house arrest as they were trying to disturb peace in the Konaseema region. In those areas, Section 144 (prevention of Unlawful assembly) of the Criminal Procedural Code (CrPC) is already in place,” he said. Tension prevailed in Amalapuram area, as hundreds of BJP activists courted arrest after raising slogans against the government for not protecting the properties of temples and hurting the sentiments of the Hindus. The police made massive security arrangements in the region to prevent any untoward incidents. Speaking to the media, the state BJP president said the party would take up the issue of attacks on temples to all parts of the country. “The police are trying to suppress a democratic and peaceful agitation,” Veerraju alleged. Meanwhile, BJP Rajya Sabha MP and national spokesperson G V L Narasimha Rao wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah requesting that strict instructions be given to the state government to prevent attacks on Hindu religious institutions. “The Jagan government is resorting to undemocratic means and is hurting the sentiments of the Hindus. We requested the home minister to intervene and rein in the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-bjp-leaders-put-under-house-arrest-for-planning-rallies-against-attacks-on-temples/story-evPKlW43PNnudsEX1KGBdI.html
19-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||By October or November, Moderna will, on the basis of an ongoing study of tens of thousands of people, decide whether its vaccine is safe and effective – with the only thing holding it back at this time being the fewer infections the US is seeing (the study is comparing rates of infection in vaccinated and unvaccinated people). The company’s chief executive Stephane Bancel, who said this in an interview to The Wall Street Journal, added that if the results are positive, Moderna could seek emergency authorisation for its vaccine from the FDA. Interestingly, Bancel’s estimate seems aggressive, even when compared to details in the 135 page-long protocol his company released on Thursday on the clinical testing of its vaccine. The protocol also contained a timeline, which differed from Bancel’s own estimates; it expects initial data to become available for analysis only in December, and the final study (not the Year 2 study) to be ready only by the middle of next year.Pfizer, which is developing a vaccine with BioNTech, is also testing it on tens of thousands of people, and it too expects initial data to come in by late October. In an interview to The Washington Post, Pfizer’s CEO Albert Bourla dramatically said that in October “the truth will be revealed”. On Thursday, Pfizer too released a detailed note on the protocol being followed in its clinical tests.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe world is pinning its hopes on a vaccine. Sure, cases are down in the US and Brazil, two of the top three countries in terms of case count (both have seen a slight spike upwards in the past week, though), but they continue to rise in India (which is #2 in terms of cases). Worse, Europe is seeing a roaring second wave. France’s current seven-day average of new daily cases, at around 8,800 according to the New York Times database, is twice that seen in the peak of its first wave (in early April). Things aren’t as bad in the UK, although they are still worse than they were through much of the past three months. Daily new cases, at a seven-day average of around 3,400 cases, are at levels not seen since mid-May. The situation in Spain is as bad as in France, though – a seven-day average of almost 10,000 new cases a day, around 2,000 more than the peak of the first wave (in early April). Germany and Italy are better off, although both are seeing a second wave (Germany is where it was in late April; Italy, early May).Hardly any country, not the US, not France, and not even India, is talking about lockdowns though. It’s almost as if they were one-time-use-only weapons (and the jury is out on whether the timing of their use was right). Now everyone is talking about living with the virus – something that’s possible with strict adherence to the wearing of masks and social distancing. It’s probably the main reason cases are continuing to rise in India. If everyone wore masks outside their homes, and practised strict social distancing and hand hygiene, the number of daily cases in the country would drop drastically in perhaps the next four to five weeks. By how much? My guess (and it is that, not a scientific assessment; but remember, this is Dispatch 162) is to between a fifth and a tenth of the current number of daily new cases. And, of course, a vaccine is the perfect solution.India’s health minister Harsh Vardhan told Parliament on Thursday that a vaccine may be available by early next year, although he caveated that one may not be available in large-enough quantities immediately, and that people should continue to wear masks, follow social distancing rules, and wash their hands often. His estimate on vaccine availability is similar to the one offered by Robert R Redfield, the head of the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, who said this week that he expects a vaccine to be widely available only by the middle of 2021. In late July, White House coronavirus adviser Dr Anthony Fauci offered a similar timeline – that a vaccine won’t be widely available till “several months” into 2021.Also read: India talking to Russia for possible advancement of Sputnik V here, says health ministryIt has always been clear that a vaccine for Covid-19 will be found. Dispatch 111 on July 22 cited research, and indulged in a bit of extrapolation, to arrive at a 50% probability that a vaccine candidate in Phase 2/3 trials will be found efficacious and safe. There are now 18 candidates in Phase 2 trials; six in Phase 3; and five approved for emergency or limited use (according to HT’s vaccine tracker).The challenge has always been wide availability. And it could take till late 2021, perhaps early 2022, for at least half of India’s population to be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-8ql215KHgajB9aIxYalhtL.html
19-09-2020||India||‘Like this condescension’: Nirmala takes on Opposition over ‘Act of God’ remark||Taking on critics, Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said a “simple woman finance minister saying Act of God is taken sarcastically” while latin word ‘force majeure’ is well accepted. Speaking in Lok Sabha, Sitharaman -- who is also the country’s first woman finance minister -- said her remark is being criticised also because she “looks like a neighbourhood aunty” and asserted that twisting her comment is irresponsible. On August 27, she said the economy has been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, which is an ‘Act of God’, and it will see a contraction in the current fiscal. Her comment has been criticised by various political parties. “Many people spoke on GST compensation issue (and) my statement of Act of God was referred several times. I happy for that. People like using latin expression of force majeure, for expressing extraordinary situation. But simple woman finance minister saying Act of God is taken sarcastically. What is this sir?,” she said while replying to the debate on the first batch of supplementary demands for grants for 2020-21. Noting that force majeure in the court for clients is very well but not “Act of God”, she said, “because this woman, who is minister, looks like neighbourhood aunty. So, how can she ever say this”. “I like this condescension,” she said in an apparent dig at the Opposition. Defending her remark on GST compensation to the states, Sitharaman said that to twist what she has said to “say the Centre is reneging its responsibility is absolutely irresponsible comment towards a responsible government which is being led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi”. “I am ready to listen your suggestions but not sarcasm. Tell me one state government, which can tell me, no no we will manage it (current situation due to COVID-19),” she said. Referring to the current tensions between India and China at eastern Ladakh, the finance minister said that she does not want to speak in detail about the national security issue but despite the Ladakh situation, the government is not cutting down on devolution of taxes to the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-this-condescension-nirmala-takes-on-opposition-over-act-of-god-remark/story-iAh74qaPInCMf5VDXW9UvI.html
19-09-2020||India||Woman held for dropping month-old daughter into water tank. She wanted a son||A 21-year-old woman was arrested in Bhopal on Friday for allegedly killing her one-month-old daughter since she wanted a male child, according to the police. The woman, Sarita Mewada, a resident of Dehriya Khajoori village of the district was arrested under Section 302 (murder) of IPC after the police found inconsistencies in her statements. She confessed to the crime later, the police said. Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Bhopal, Irshad Wali said, “The father of the baby, Sachin Mewada, lodged a complaint with the Khajoori police station on Thursday about his daughter reported missing from inside his house. A police team recovered the body of the baby from inside a 500 litre water tank kept inside a room of the complainant’s house with the lid shut from the top.” “During the investigation police got to know that the child and her mother Sarita were alone in the house when the child was reported missing by the mother,” he added. Police interrogated Sarita Mewada and she confessed to having committed the crime. The DIG said, “In her statement given to the police, Sarita said she married Sachin Mewada a year ago. In August, she gave birth to a girl child but she was not happy as she wanted a boy. Sarita said her in-laws were also unhappy over the birth of the girl child. On Thursday, the baby was crying when she got upset and dropped her in the water tank. Then, she closed the lid of the tank.” The woman was produced before the district court from where she was sent to jail under judicial remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-held-for-dropping-month-old-daughter-into-water-tank-she-wanted-a-son/story-mztZvLwv3LSOZi2DRuP6nJ.html
19-09-2020||India||‘A protective shield’: PM Modi backs farm bills||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday took on critics of his government’s farm-liberalisation plan, a day after the Lower House passed two of the three farm bills, accusing detractors of spreading “misinformation and lies”, while reassuring farmers the reforms were in their best interests. Modi called the reforms a “protective shield” around farmers, which would bring “more options and opportunities”. His comments, made in a video address dedicating a railway bridge in Bihar and also on microblogging site Twitter, came after Lok Sabha passed by a majority voice vote the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. On Tuesday, the Lower House passed a third legislation, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. Modi addressed concerns about prices and the country’s procurement system, under which the government buys farm produce at federally-fixed minimum support prices (MSP) from farmers. There’s disinformation that the government would withdraw benefits of support prices, he said. The Prime Minister said the country’s procurement system will continue to run as usual. “People who ruled this country for decades and were in power… such people are trying to mislead farmers. They are telling lies to farmers,” Modi said. “Disinformation is also being spread that wheat and rice, etc, will not be procured by the government from farmers. This is an absolute lie, completely wrong and an attempt to cheat farmers,” the Prime Minister said. Modi said the government is committed to give farmers “appropriate prices” through the support-price mechanism. “I want to give farmers a message. Don’t fall for lies.” The main opposition Congress and a clutch of smaller parties are opposed to the reforms. A key opposition to the bills on Thursday came from the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, whose minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet, exposing a crucial rift between the two parties over efforts to unshackle the farm sector. India’s agricultural trade still requires licenced traders who must operate out of notified markets allotted to them. The bills aim to sidestep this system, called agricultural produce market committees (APMC), free up market restrictions, enable farmers and agribusinesses to engage more confidently under a new contract farming law and help to create modern supply chains. Critics argue the new system will lack adequate oversight in its current form. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, allows buyers of farm produce to trade outside the mandi system or wholesale markets run by states under APMCs, which have become cartelised over time. “The reforms will give new freedom to farmers. They will bring more options and opportunities for farmers to sell their produce,” Modi said. Also read| Failed to convince govt about farmers’ grouse: Harsimrat Kaur BadalCongratulating farmers of the country over passage of this bills in the Lower House, Modi said the reforms would “protect farmers” from “middlemen”. “Middlemen stand between farmers and their customers; these middlemen take a big chunk of a farmers’ income. These reforms have come as a protective shield for farmers.” APMC laws require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area where the farmers reside, rather than in open markets, which economists say scuttles price discovery, hurting farm profits. The bill enables farmers and buyers of their produce to trade outside these markets without any taxes and will therefore open up APMCs to competitions.“The agriculture sector will benefit from modern technology and our farmers will also be empowered,” the Prime Minister said.Modi made a veiled but sharp attack on the Congress for opposing the reforms. “These people who would make big promises to farmers during election time, would do it in writing, and in their manifestoes, forget these promises after elections,” he said. “Now when the BJP-NDA (the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-National Democratic Alliance) government is implementing those promises, which others have mentioned in their manifestoes, these people are wantonly spreading misinformation.”The Congress’s 2019 manifesto promised to liberalise agricultural markets. Modi said “people” who were opposing the reforms had promised them in their party’s election manifestoes. “The same APMC Act over which they are doing politics and opposing changes to provisions of agriculture marketing…these people mentioned these changes in their own manifestoes, but have now come down to spreading lies.” Major farmer organisations, such as the Bharatiya Kisan Union and the umbrella All-India All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a front for nearly 200 farmers’ groups, have opposed the bills. Modi said people trying to “mislead” farmers didn’t know how “aware” farmers of the country were. “They are watching; they know who is standing with middlemen.” Producers of items such as clothing, utensils and shoes, etc, have the freedom to sell where they want, Modi said, adding: “Only farmers were deprived of this freedom. Now they will have the freedom to sell wherever they want in the world.” Referring to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, who was present on the occasion, Modi said Kumar knew the problems of farmers. “That is why he had reformed agriculture to remove the APMC law when he first came to power.” Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the government itself was spreading lies. “Tell me which farmer is happy? Look at the state of farmers in states like Bihar which have junked the APMC system and compare them with farmers of Punjab and see the difference.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-protective-shield-modi-backs-farm-bills/story-e44mdpmxrXUzQlcapsbjCO.html
19-09-2020||India||Journalist with defence papers held for ‘spying’ in Delhi: Police||The Delhi Police said on Friday they arrested a freelance journalist after he was allegedly found in possession of defence-related sensitive documents and charged him under the Official Secrets Act for spying.An officer aware of the development said on condition of anonymity that the journalist was arrested on September 14. He was found to be in possession of confidential documents that he acquired over the last few months, the officer added.A statement issued by the police late on Friday said: “Investigation of the case is in progress and further details will be shared in due course.” It added that the journalist is a resident of New Delhi’s Pitampura.He was produced before a city court on September 15 after which he was sent to police custody for six months. He has filed a bail application that will be heard on September 22, according to the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-with-defence-papers-held-for-spying-in-delhi-police/story-WxMpMn3gk5dfNf0bK4U0OM.html
19-09-2020||India||Altitude begins to take a toll in Ladakh||The Indian Army has observed Chinese medical teams evacuate a few soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on stretchers from heights in the Finger Area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso to a nearby field hospital, officials familiar with the developments said on Friday, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Some Chinese troops have been evacuated from the Finger 4 heights to a field medical facility ahead of Finger 6 during the last two to three days due to health complications linked to high altitude, the officials said, with the development turning the spotlight on the challenges of high-altitude warfare. The Finger Area, a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake, is among the friction points in the eastern Ladakh theatre, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. Indian soldiers are barely a few hundred metres from Chinese troops who are holding positions on the Finger 4 ridgeline. As a harsh winter draws closer in eastern Ladakh, where Indian and Chinese soldiers are holding towering heights and already exposed to sub-zero temperatures, both armies will face the challenge of ensuring that casualties related to high-altitude illnesses are kept at their lowest, the officials said. “Extreme weather at those heights of 16,000 to 17,000 feet is bound to create health complications for soldiers --- both Indian and Chinese. And the harsh winter is yet to set in. The conditions will only get worse in the coming weeks and months,” said one of the officials cited above. Also read: No power can stop Indian forces from patrolling Ladakh areas, asserts Rajnath SinghIndian soldiers occupying positions in the eastern Ladakh sector have undergone the necessary acclimatisation to be deployed at high altitudes and adequate forward medical facilities are available to cater for any emergency, said a second official. “Indian soldiers have held positions at even higher heights on the Siachen glacier. But high-altitude warfare comes with its own unique challenges,” the official said. Prepared for the long haul in the Ladakh theatre, India has made arrangements to provide logistics support, including medical facilities, to its soldiers deployed in forward areas -- more than 50,000 Indian troops are likely to remain stationed in the theatre through the winter months to deal any provocation by the Chinese forces. “It will be best for soldiers to lie low at those heights and avoid any unnecessary manoeuvres or activities that could trigger severe health complications. Troops from both sides will face the same set of challenges as far as weather goes,” said Lt General BK Chopra (retd), a former director general of armed forces medical services. Chopra said high-altitude cerebral oedema (Haco) and high-altitude pulmonary oedema (Hapo) are among the serious illnesses that soldiers can develop at those heights. Around 1,000 soldiers have died guarding Siachen since the army took control of the inhospitable glacier in April 1984, almost twice the number of lives lost in the Kargil war. Almost a fifth of the casualties were linked to enemy fire before the November 2003 ceasefire between India and Pakistan kicked in. The remaining deaths were because of nature’s fury, accidents and medical reasons.Advancements made in high-altitude medicine, better gear, best possible training, in-house innovations, and following proper drills have helped the Indian Army keep the casualty rates low in high-altitude areas, experts previously told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/altitude-begins-to-take-a-toll/story-uSlcDjGzhv6QetoEetlrwI.html
19-09-2020||India||Govt, Opposition spar over PM CARES Fund||Questions raised by opposition parties on the alleged lack of transparency in the PM CARES Fund, and a comment by minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur about the alleged lapses in the paperwork of the PM National Relief Fund created by then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru in 1948, led to the first major disruption of Parliament’s pandemic-hit monsoon session, leading to at least four back-to-back adjournments on Friday.Amid protests and heated exchanges between members from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla held meetings with both sides to come out with a compromise formula. “It is my responsibility to protect all the members, I would request Mr Anurag Thakur to say a few words on the objections raised by the other members, whatever I said was aimed to run the House effectively, if anyone’s sentiments got hurt, I personally apologise for it,” Birla said. Following the direction, Thakur expressed regret over his remarks. “I had no intent to hurt the sentiments of anybody. If anyone is hurt, then I regret it,” Thakur said. Some other remarks made by the minister about the current Congress leadership were expunged, and are therefore not being included in this report.During the introduction of the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill in the Lower House quickly turned into a debate about the PM CARES Fund on Friday, as Congress floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and former ministers Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari criticised the charitable trust while opposing the bill.The bill seeks to provide the same tax treatment to the PM CARES Fund — created for emergencies and disasters such as Covid-19 — as is available to the Prime Minister National Relief Fund (PMNRF). Also read: Lok Sabha adjourned 4 times after row over Anurag Thakur’s remark on Nehru-GandhisAdhir said when Nirmala Sitharaman started speaking, we heard her patiently. “We didn’t say anything unparliamentary. We didn’t even referred to the prime minister. How could he (Thakur) take these names?”Opposition parties have previously demanded that the government be more transparent about the PM CARES fund, a charitable trust set up to deal with emergencies such as that posed by Covid-19 pandemic.Thakur, who stood in support of the bill, said in response: “In 1948, the PM ordered like a king for the formation of the PMNRF. But the fund has not been registered so far... How did the fund get FCRA clearance? How did it become a trust without registration? How did you give exemptions under ATG? I want to ask you all these questions,” Thakur said as massive protests erupted.Chowdhury lashed out at Thakur. “There was no problem when [finance minister] Nirmala Sitharaman was speaking. But [the minister] came and spoiled the situation. When Nehru is no more, why is he trying to defame him?” he asked.Other MPs also stood up, and some left their seats to stand in the aisles, demanding an apology from Thakur. The Lok Sabha was adjourned and a meeting of floor leaders to resolve the disruption was called. Later, defence minister Rajnath Singh praised the Speaker for having resolved the differences.During the arguments after the bill was introduced, Congress leader Tharoor said: “This (the bill) would permit the Government to retrospectively validate its failure and extend the time limit indefinitely while disbursing compensation to states. That is an unconstitutional violation with government undertakings in the name of ‘Act of God’.” Trinamool Congress leader Saugata Ray demanded that the PM CARES Fund be abolished and all the money be transferred to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. “Whoever wants to be benefited from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund, let them apply to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund, and not to the newly formed entity called the PM CARES Fund,” he said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who was involved in the ending the logjam, described Anurag Thakur as a good speaker and young leader. “The minister has clarified and now the House should run properly,” he said.During the debate, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Jayant Sinha defended the bill saying, “Credit is the life blood of the economy and if during this time of Covid-19 pandemic emergency, our financial sector suffers and the life blood of our economy is not available, it will be very difficult for our economy to recover, for companies to get the credit that they deserve, for MSMEs to be able to get working capital loans and also for smaller entrepreneurs to be able to fund their activities and prosper.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-oppn-spar-over-pm-cares/story-4FWTQvhz2R2q7SgJizQBeK.html
19-09-2020||India||Top govt panel reviews latest developments in eastern Ladakh||A high-powered panel on China reviewed the latest developments in the eastern Ladakh theatre on Friday with a focus on charting the course of future negotiations to restore status quo ante of mid-April along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the developments said, requesting anonymity.The officials said the agenda for the next round of military talks between Indian and Chinese corps commander-ranked officers — expected to take place shortly — was discussed at the high-level meeting attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, national security adviser Ajit Doval, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane and other top officials.The meeting took place a day after Singh told Parliament that no force in the world can stop the Indian Army from patrolling its borders, signalling a resolve to regain access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along the LAC.While the date is yet to be finalised, the corps commander-ranked officers could meet in the next few days to take the military talks forward, the officials said. The situation in Ladakh remains tense after a series of recent manoeuvres by the two armies in the Pangong Tso area.Corps commander-ranked officers have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock. The upcoming meeting will be their first after the Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied key heights to prevent the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.The Indian Army controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other.“The recent developments have increased India’s bargaining power as there will definitely be an element of quid pro quo in the talks,” one of the officials said.Tensions flared up in early May and subsequent developments saw Indian and Chinese troops coming face-to-face at multiple points along the de-factor border, known as the LAC. In some of these areas, particularly the Finger Area and Depsang in Ladakh, Indian forces have been cut off from reaching areas they could previously patrol.“No force in the world can stop Indian jawans from patrolling. If our soldiers have made sacrifices, it is for this reason that they have laid down their lives,” Singh told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-discusses-ladakh-situation/story-AT755iW5m8J3LM9YjCR4nN.html
19-09-2020||India||Nod to bill On 30% Pay cut for MPs; Oppn seeks restoration of MPLADS FUNDS||Rajya Sabha on Friday passed two legislations to reduce the salary and allowances of Union ministers and Members of Parliament (MPs) by 30% in view of austerity measures following the Covid-19 pandemic with the support across the political divide even as several members demanded restoration of the MPLADS funds. Parliament Affairs minister Prahlad Joshi moved the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020, while minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy moved the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Lok Sabha had cleared the bills on Tuesday. Both the bills, which aim to reduce the salaries and emoluments of ministers and MPs in view of the resource crunch because of Covid-19, were passed with a voice vote in the upper house. Earlier during discussions on the two bills, several members raised questions on the government decision to do away with Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) funds for two years and demanded that the funds be restored, arguing that the money was spent on the needs of the people especially on local demands which would otherwise be ignored. Leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said it was praiseworthy that MPs were willing to take a salary cut even though a majority of them were solely dependent on their pay. “I would request that looking at the feelings of MPs, it (MPLADS) should be done away with only for one year and that too only half of it and the rest should be provided to the MPs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nod-to-bill-on-30-pay-cut-for-mps-oppn-seeks-restoration-of-mplads-funds/story-K2QAF5QbJWuVvou2oZskvM.html
19-09-2020||India||680 projects in protected areas given wildlife clearance in 5 years||The National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) has never met during the past five years with all its 47 members in attendance. Only the standing committee of the NBWL, which the board constitutes and is authorised to exercise its powers, met 23 times between 2015-16 and 2019-20, a period during which 680 projects were granted wildlife clearance, the environment ministry informed the Rajya Sabha on September 14.These projects are located in protected areas or wildlife-rich areas, and the fact that such a large number of projects were cleared without the full board meeting even once raised questions whether the NBWL was carrying out its mandate of promoting conservation of wildlife and development of forests, “As per law it is the NBWL that constitutes the standing committee. If NBWL hasn’t even met in the past five years when and how did they constitute the standing committee? The standing committee is supposed to work under the direction and supervision of NBWL, if they never meet there is no way of exercising supervision,”said environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta.“There is no power vested in the standing committee or even NBWL to approve projects inside protected areas unless it is for the benefit of wildlife. The law is very clear on that. The standing committee and its approval of various projects which can cause immense damage to wildlife are illegal,” Dutta said.The Prime Minister is the chairman of the 47-member NBWL, whose members include three MPs; five representatives of non-government organisations; 10 eminent conservationists or experts; and heads of the Central Zoo Authority; National Institute of Oceanography; Zoological Survey of India; secretary of the ministry of tribal affairs; and one representative each from 10 states and UTs on a rotational basis. The board is mandated to promote conservation of wildlife and development of forests, according to the Wildlife Protection Act.“We need to analyse data to see if there is an increase in wildlife clearances compared to previous years,” said a senior environment ministry (forest division) official on condition of anonymity. An analysis of total wildlife clearances recommended or granted between 2010 and 2015 was not available, but according to a paper published on June 26, 2010, in the Economic and Political Weekly titled Diversion of Protected Areas: Role of the Wildlife Board, the standing committee of NBWL considered 244 projects for diversion of forests in wildlife areas between 1998 and 2008. Out of the 244 cases considered between 1998 and 2008, 25 cases were approved, 17 rejected and 202 cases were kept pending. These proposals were for the non-forest use of 2,75,875 hectares within protected areas.The NBWL was constituted in 2003 after the amendment of Section 5A of the Wildlife (Protection) Act. Its predecessor was he Indian Board for Wildlife, which was also headed by the PM. In addition to areas within protected areas, any project requiring environmental clearance (under the Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2006) or any activity within 10 kilometers of a national park or sanctuary needs the permission of the NBWL.According to NBWL’s meeting minutes uploaded on the Parivesh website, 24 members met on July 3; but on June 11, only five members met and on April 7, 26 members participated in a meeting through video conferencing.According to an analysis by the Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment, a legal and environmental organization, the standing committee of the NBWL considered 59 proposals between January and July this year out of which 28 proposals were for diversion of land within wildlife sanctuaries and national parks. A total of 212.23 hectares was diverted in wildlife sanctuaries and national parks and conservation reserves; no proposal was rejected. Around 74% of diversion was due to linear projects (transmission lines, roads and bridges) and 222.67 hectares was approved for diversion within tiger habitat for linear projects, defence projects and infrastructure development.“The NBWL has the mandate to inform and push the government to prioritise conservation of wildlife and forests; take measures to contain illegal poaching and wildlife trade and even publish a status report on wildlife in India every two years. This mandate has gone missing in the recent years. Instead the NBWL and its standing committee have unfortunately been in the news for letting go of areas important for wildlife for linear and area based infrastructure projects like roads or hydro power,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research.Some contentious approvals granted recently include allowing coal mining in the Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve; expansion of the National Highway 4-A, double-tracking an existing railway line and laying a 400 KV transmission line in Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park, Goa; the nod given to the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project for which forest land will be utilised from the eco-sensitive zone of Sanjay Gandhi National Par, Tungareshwar wildlife sanctuary and Thane creek flamingo sanctuary .In reply to another query, the environment ministry said it had received 31 coal mining projects for environmental clearance this year. Out of these, 14 projects have been granted environment clearances while seven project developers have either withdrawn their applications or not participated in the appraisal process. The rest are pending because of additional queries raised by the appraisal committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/680-projects-in-protected-areas-given-wildlife-clearance-in-5-yrs/story-xw4fTYNZtsGxyX5wSLJCuK.html
19-09-2020||India||New ECI database to track settlements of ex-gratia payment: Report||The Election Commission of India (ECI) is looking set up a national database to track settlements of ex-gratia payment, according to documents accessed by HT.At present, the poll watchdog pays Rs 10 lakh to the next of kin of those who died in poll duties through cheques. A system of making the payment immediately using bank transfers is being considered. Last month, Pramila Devi, the wife of late Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan Ramesh Kumar, 31, wrote to chief election commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, highlighting the delay in such payments.Kumar died in a grenade attack during the 2002 Jammu and Kashmir elections.In her letter dated August 10, Devi said she had not received the payment; she was entitled to Rs 5 lakh as per the allotment 18 years ago.Arora sent an email to Devi on August 26, apologising for the delay. The commission ordered the transfer of Rs 20 lakh to her bank account.“Although money cannot compensate for the loss of his, but I would like to apologise for the delay and assure you that your husband’s sacrifice will not be forgotten,” Arora wrote in his email.The poll watchdog also sent a strong message to state election commissions to assess if any such cases were pending with them.“A stern view has been taken of the institutional failure and lack of sensitivity, bordering on apathy, on part of the administrative machinery, which failed to respect the memory of the departed,” ECI said in the letter to chief electoral officers (CEOs). HT has seen a copy of the letter.The letter asked CEOs to create a digital database to track the settlement of such legacy claims and all future claims. A national level database will also be created by the commission. According to officials, only two such cases were found in Jammu and Kashmir, and they were being immediately addressed.ECI is also working out the modalities of how payments will be expedited to reduce any kind of inconvenience to the families.“The idea is that once death on duty is confirmed, ECI will directly transfer the compensation into the bank of account of the next of kin if available,” said an official.According to former CEC SY Quraishi, ex-gratia payments should be completed as soon as possible. “Such cases of severe delay are rare,” said Quraishi. “Bank transfers make sense, as salaries and other benefits too have moved to that platform.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-ec-database-to-help-poll-staff/story-2o6k8RL2xeam1zsLXUGV1I.html
19-09-2020||India||Failed to convince govt about farmers’ grouse: Harsimrat Kaur Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who resigned from the Narendra Modi Cabinet on Thursday in protest against three farm bills, spoke to What does your resignation from the Union Cabinet really mean for the alliance between the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party? These are matters concerning the party high-ups and the core committee. I can only say that alliance is intact and I have moved out the government because I failed to convince my Cabinet colleagues over a very sensitive issue concerning my state. Did you ever expect that the matter will reach a flashpoint and you will quit?I’ve been very fortunate that I was a part of the Modi Cabinet for six years. We took several historic decisions in favour of Punjab and its people, such as the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor, the elimination of the black list, waiver of GST on langar, allowing foreign donations for Darbar Sahib, road infrastructure, IIM, and much more. I can name a multitude of things, and for that, I am really grateful to the Prime Minister. But I think I failed to convince the government about the farmers’ grouse on the farm ordinances. When I realised that because of sheer numbers, these ordinances will be passed. I decided to stand with the farmers of my state, as they were petrified because their future is at stake due these ordinances. Why did you fail to convince the government of which you were a part? I could not make my Cabinet colleagues understand that my apprehensions related to the farm bills were different from those in other parts of the country. In Punjab, middlemen, or arhtiyas, play a key role in the procurement which may not be a case in other states. I took up their issue at every level and at every forum I could, but I couldn’t convince them, so, I took onus on myself. Also, I think I was probably the lone voice who came from a 100% agrarian state. The officers who made the ordinances were unable to see Punjab differently from rest of the country. What is next course of action for you? My party will decide that. I will stand with the farmers shoulder to shoulder and do whatever needs to be done to get them justice. Do you plan to join them in protests? If required, Yes. Your opponents say that the SAD has changed its position after it had fallen into a trap by supporting the ordinances. It doesn’t matter what my opponents say. They need to first answer why they got the APMC Act amended in Punjab. Why, in 2017 and 2019, the Congress manifesto promised laws similar to the ordinances? Why the doublespeak? They opposed in Parliament and implemented in Punjab... the corrupt Congress government can’t raise aspersions on us. What role do you see for yourself in Punjab when the state is 18 months away from the state polls in 2022? I will play an active role that my party gives me.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/failed-to-convince-govt-about-farmers-grouse-harsimrat-kaur-badal/story-GcoCtZqPcNy1ATcmyGKPfO.html
19-09-2020||India||Self-regulation of TV news requires strengthening, says Supreme Court||The existing mechanism governing self-regulation of media is ineffective and needs to be strengthened so that media freedom is not used to the detriment of human dignity, the Supreme Court observed on Friday, taking exception to the contents of a television programme, Bindas Bol, aired by Sudarshan News.A three-judge bench headed by Justice DY Chandrachud said that the court will not stand in the way of media discussing dubious funding of NGOs or issues concerning national security, and it is fully conscious of the dangers of restricting media freedom after the excesses of the Emergency in 1975. But free speech rights and media freedom cannot be used to the detriment of human dignity, the court added.The court was responding to the defence put up by Sudarshan News, which claimed that it had through its programme only intended to highlight the alleged dubious sources of foreign funding received by an organisation, Zakat Foundation, which supports and provides coaching for civil service aspirants.“We know what happened during Emergency (when media was censored by the ruling dispensation). So we have to ensure there is free flow of information. But we have to also ensure human dignity is protected and human dignity should be balanced with free speech,” Justice Chandrachud remarked.Experts said that a verdict in the case, which has taken a larger dimension over the course of its hearings and sparked a debate on media freedom, could have larger implications on TV journalism at a time when news content has become a divisive issue.Also read| Digital media may require regulation, TV doesn’t: Govt“It is a loud clarion call to the media to self-regulate and engage in responsible journalism. The court has exercised maximum restraint and has expressed disinclination against prior restraint. If the court passes directions, it could have a significant impact on TV media. In the prevailing conditions, such guidelines will be momentous for Indian media. Self-regulation has been found wanting,” said Supreme Court lawyer, MF Philip.The Supreme Court on Friday told Sudarshan News that targeting an entire community on the basis of dubious funding of one organisation is not acceptable, and calling for a more robust self-regulation mechanism. It directed the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) to come up with concrete suggestions on strengthening the body and its self-regulation mechanism.NBA, which is a private association of 26 news and current affairs broadcasters, has framed a code of conduct for self-regulation of media. It can hold inquiry against broadcasters for violation of the code and can impose fine of up to Rs 1 lakh. The court, however, took a grim view of NBA’s functioning, calling it “toothless”. “NBA says they have a committee headed by a retired Supreme Court judge. They can impose a maximum fine of Rs 1 lakh. This shows how toothless you are,” justice Chandrachud said, underscoring that the fine will not have any impact on a news channel.He also pointed out that the NBA’s jurisdiction extends only to those broadcasters which are its members.Advocate Nisha Bhambani, representing NBA, said that it was not a toothless organisation, and several news channels have apologised and published retraction after NBA’s intervention.“Several Supreme Court and high court judgments have commended our regulations,” she said.“Do you watch TV? Are you able to control it?,” justice Chandrachud asked.Bhambani replied that the situation has improved significantly, but admitted that many news channels were not members of NBA which meant it could not exercise jurisdiction over such channels.Sudarshan News, which is not a member , in its programme Bindas Bol had made allegations regarding the entry of Muslim candidates in civil services. In the programme’s trailer, which was widely shared on social media platforms, the anchor and editor-in-chief of Sudarshan news, Suresh Chavhanke, was seen questioning how there has been a sudden increase in the number of Muslims succeeding in IAS and IPS exams.Chavhanke went on to ask about what the consequences would be if “Jihadis from Jamia [university]” would hold positions of authority and power like that of Collector and Secretary.A lawyer, advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan, approached the top court, which, on September 15, barred further telecast of the controversial programme after it expressed its disapproval of the first four episodes of the show.Senior counsel Shyam Divan, representing Sudarshan News, said that the programme raised serious concerns regarding terrorist organisations funding Zakat Foundation. He pointed to a recent media report about surveillance of Indian leaders by a Chinese company arguing that media has to bring out such stories in national interest.The bench which also comprised justices Indu Malhotra and KM Joseph, said that national security is of paramount importance but took exception to the manner in which the controversial programme depicted THE Muslim community, particularly by showing stereotyped representative images.The bench repeatedly referred to the visual which formed part of the programme which showed flames of fire along with a person in a green t-shirt and skull cap, and described some of the images as “hurtful”.The court asked Sudarshan News to file an affidavit giving details of what changes it proposed to make regarding the programme so as to convince the court to lift the injunction imposed on September 15.The case will be heard next on September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-regulation-of-tv-news-requires-strengthening-sc/story-Kmgag13gWIzcPgdgII7rsJ.html
19-09-2020||India||Farm bill row: How will the new laws work?||The government’s ambitious farm-liberalisation agenda in the form of three bills, currently being enacted into laws, could see new ways of engagement between producers of food and their buyers. How will the new system work? “The government’s design is that all three bills will work towards the same goals i.e. removing inefficiencies through efficient investment and enabling freer trade. Big companies will meet small farmers,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity. The three bills are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. The first two were passed by a majority voice vote on Thursday in the Lok Sabha, while the third had already been passed on Tuesday. They will now have to be passed by Rajya Sabha. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 is a law that creates a new legal framework for contract farming. It is this law that has the biggest potential to change the game. The contract farming bill provides for a national framework on farming agreements. According to the bill’s preamble, it seeks to protect and empower farmers to engage with agri-business firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for farm services and sale of future farming produce at a mutually agreed remunerative price. Also read: Why farmers are opposing ‘pro-farmer’ reformsContract farming is not new to the country but has seen limited success. Snacking firms, for instance, often enter into contracts with farmers for produce for potato wafers and crisps. However, the new legislation seeks to create a new legal framework. Currently, in states permitting the practice, contract farming requires registration with the agricultural market produce committees (APMCs), which also act as dispute settlers. Market fees and levies are to be paid to these APMCs. The new law frees up farmers and agri-business companies to engage directly, bypassing APMCs. Agribusinesses are quite cautious about entering into contracts because of the way the political economy works. “They feel if farmers fail to deliver or violate the contract, the political system will always side with farmers. There are issues with prices agreed to be paid. If they are set too low, it could attract political criticism,” said Amira Tandon, partner, Agstock, a firm that offers agri-consultancy. Last year, PepsiCo sued Gujarat farmers for almost Rs 1 crore for illegally growing and selling a potato variety registered by PepsiCo. PepsiCo withdrew the cases after the state government intervened. The new contract farming law’s intent is to make sure investment flows into farms. By clearly defining the legal framework, the new law could inspire confidence of both the farmers and agribusinesses. Once contract farming becomes mainstream, agribusinesses will pool farmers together, invest in their land, provide them with know-how and technology without farmers having to fear adverse impact on land titles or corporations fearing sunk investments. According to the government’s report on doubling farmers’ income, the Dalwai committee report, contract farming “will allow smallholders to integrate their production into the supply chains of processing plants” leading to efficient supply chains. The report notes that the poultry business in India already runs on a successful contract farming model. According to the Dalwai committee’s report, 66% of poultry production in the country is under contract farming. Under the new law, a dispute mechanism can be triggered with the local magistrate, who can then call for the dispute to be settled through reconciliation or settle the dispute within 20 days. The main operative clauses of the contract farming law are that a farmer may enter into a written agreement to supply produce at a future date at a mutually agreed price. The contract can range from 1 to 5 years. The agreement must include the price or a price band. If any extra amount over the agreed price is to be paid, the prevailing price in APMC markets will be counted. A big advantage of contract farming is that investments in the farm will come from the agri-business company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bill-row-how-will-the-new-laws-work/story-An3EcV7sbgebbc0yu6PjhO.html
19-09-2020||India||PMC bank fraud case: ED attaches three Delhi hotels worth ₹100 crore||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached three hotels in Delhi, worth Rs 100 crore, in connection with its money laundering probe into the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) bank fraud case, officials familiar with the development said. So far, properties – belonging to HDIL promoters Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan – worth Rs 360 crore have been attached by the agency, officials said.This is the first such case of money laundering when the ED has not touched properties which are free from any encumbrance or are mortgaged with the bank. This was done in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, which had taken control of PMC Bank in September last year over concerns expressed by depositors. ED had given a no-objection certificate (NOC) in November 2019 for the bank to recover the money from HDIL’s mortgaged properties, said an officer cited above. Among the assets attached on Friday include - Hotel Conclave Boutique at A-20, Kailash Colony; Hotel Conclave Comfort at D-150, East of Kailash and Hotel Conclave Executive at C-22, Kalkaji, which are allegedly owned by Libra Realtors Pvt Ltd, M/s Deewan Realtors Pvt Ltd, Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Romy Mehra, and M/s Libra Hotels Pvt Ltd and its Directors; companies linked to HDIL, according to a second ED officer. The second officer said that three hotels are now known as Fab Hotels.“Investigation revealed that proceeds of crime totaling Rs 247 crore were obtained fraudulently by M/s Libra Realtors Pvt Ltd, M/s Deewan Realtors Pvt from PMC Bank in the guise of loans. These loans are part of the Rs 6117 crores owed by HDIL group of Companies to PMC Bank,” the anti-money laundering probe agency said in its statement on Friday.The ED had initiated a probe under prevention of money laundering act (PMLA) in the case in October last year against Housing Development Infrastructures Ltd (HDIL), it’s promoters Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Sarang Wadhawan, PMC bank’s chairman Waryam Singh and then Managing Director Joy Thomas and others on the basis of an FIR filed by the Economic Offences Wing of the Mumbai Police. The ED found that Wadhawans laundered more than Rs 2500 crore out of a total Rs 6600 crore the company - HDIL - had taken from PMC Bank between 2007 and 2013. Earlier, assets belonging to accused Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan and Wadhawan Family trust totalling to Rs 193 Crore were also attached and jewelry worth 63 crores was seized. Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan and his son, Sarang, were arrested by ED on October 17, 2019 and they are presently in judicial custody.HDIL’s lawyer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that he or his clients were not aware of latest ED attachments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmc-case-ed-attaches-three-delhi-hotels-worth-100-cr/story-SgDAzMsl9nytsPYd7sQ8oI.html
19-09-2020||India||Doctor who pioneered ORS use dies: Dhiman Barua (1920-2020)||Dr Dhiman Barua, who died two months short of his 100th birthday, was a cholera and diarrhoeal diseases expert whose work on promoting oral rehydration salts (ORS) solution -- called “potentially the most important medical advance” of the 20th century by The Lancet -- is continuing to save millions of lives every year.Born to a family of doctors and traditional medicine practitioners in Rangoon, Burma (now Nay Pyi Taw in Myanmar), which was then a part of undivided India, his family moved to his ancestral village near Chittagong, then a part of undivided India, when he was four years old.A scholarship to study for a medical licence in Chittagong Medical School in the late 1930s changed his life, and he witnessed first-hand the effects of the Bengal famine. He held a short-commission posting during World War II and served in Malayasia, India and Burma with Indian Army Medical Corps. On his commanding officer’s advice, he joined Calcutta Medical College for a medical degree, did his doctoral work in Lucknow, followed by a postdoctoral fellowship at The Pasteur Institute in Paris and The London School of Tropical Medicine. Dr Barua began working for the World Health Organization in 1965 with the cholera control team based in Manila,and in 1966, he moved to the WHO head office in Geneva as a medical officer working on cholera and other diarrhoeal diseases. In 1978, he established the Diarrhoeal Diseases Control Programme, under which health workers were trained in the use of ORS to save lives.“My first memory of cholera was when I was eleven. The village in what is today Bangladesh was dying of cholera. I asked the doctor why and he told me that the only treatment was intravenous saline (IV) and that, without it, people die. And before my eyes, the doctor, his wife – who was related to me – and their two daughters died. Our household was not affected, but most households in the village were affected. People died like flies. That was really shocking,” he said in an interview to WHO in 2009. Till the late 60s, intravenous (IV) saline in glass bottles was the standard treatment for cholera and diarrhoeal disease. “A one-litre bottle was so heavy that to transport it by air was many times more expensive than the fluid itself. These circumstances obliged us think about alternatives to IV fluid in oral rehydration,” said Dr Barua, who, along with Dr Dilip Mahalanabis at the Johns Hopkins International Center for Medical Research and Training in Kolkata, struggled for years to convince sceptical clinicians that ORS could be administered by people with no medical training. Things changed at the end of 1970, when a Swiss company succeeded in packaging the ingredients in aluminium foil bags to prevent absorption of moisture and caking of the powder. Dr Barua described this a great discovery, because of long shelf life and easy transportation, without which they would never have succeeded. “After retirement, he embraced IT and with the help of many helping hands, taught himself to read more widely online and enjoyed keeping meticulous notes based on his inquisitive pursuit of knowledge for knowledge’s sake. He developed a dementing illness in the last years of his life, but he steadfastly maintained a cheerful attitude to his devastating loss of autonomy,” said his son Dr Basab Barua, a retired general physician who lives in Windsor, UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-who-pioneered-ors-use-dies-dhiman-barua-1920-2020/story-AVMPQSkfYOlGjHPDVaXPSI.html
19-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Ensure free movement of oxygen, MHA tells states||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Friday asked all states and Union Territories to ensure free movement of vehicles carrying oxygen as it is an essential public health commodity and an important prerequisite for managing moderate and severe Covid-19 cases. In a letter to chief secretaries, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said some states were trying to curb interstate movement of oxygen supplies by exercising provisions of the Epidemic Disease Act, Disaster Management Act, Essential Commodities Act or other state/Union Territory specific law, and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He added that some states mandated manufacturers or suppliers located in the state to restrict their oxygen supplies to hospitals within the state. “It is emphasised that medical oxygen is an essential public health commodity and any impediment in the supply of medical oxygen in the country may critically impact the management of patients suffering from Covid-19 in other parts of the country,” the letter said. The home secretary said states/UTs should make sure there are no such restrictions imposed on the movement of medical oxygen between states and transport authorities should be instructed to allow free interstate movement of oxygen carrying vehicles. The MHA also told state governments they may constitute multidisciplinary teams, comprising representatives of the health, industry, transport and other related departments, to continuously monitor the availability of medical oxygen in their respective jurisdictions. “Any shortfalls or related problems that are encountered in this regard, should be immediately brought to the notice of the Central Control Room that has been established in the ministry of health and family welfare,” he said. The home secretary also referred to Unlock-4 guidelines that mentioned the lockdown was limited to Covid containment zones and all activities are permitted outside the containment zone, except a few prohibited activities. “Further, there shall be no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement of persons and goods,” the letter said.The letter came roughly a week after the Union health ministry asked states not to place restrictions on transport or supplies of medical oxygen. The letter was sent in response to a Maharashtra government order under the Disaster Management Act, that sought to prohibit movement of oxygen from outside the state. The Madhya Pradesh government reported shortage after Maharashtra stopped supplies on September 7, reserving 80% of production in the state for its Covid hospitals. At least three other states — Punjab, Karnataka and Telangana — reported problems in getting supplies.This week, the Madhya Pradesh high court ordered that oxygen supply would continue uninterrupted to the state without being influenced by the Maharashtra government’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-free-movement-of-oxygen-mha-tells-states/story-q5HlhyrQOSEUKYxknIIneN.html
19-09-2020||India||AFSPA exceeded in three J-K killings: Army||The army on Friday said that powers vested under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) were violated in the July killing of three people, believed to be terrorists, in Shopian in the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir, and that the three were actually locals from Rajouri in the same UT, although their involvement in terror activities is still being investigated. The families of the three had blamed army for killing them in a fake encounter.Army spokesman Rajesh Kalia said in a statement that the inquiry ordered by army authorities into the operation at Amshipora in Shopian on July 18 has concluded. “The inquiry has brought out certain prima facie evidence indicating that during the operation, powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 were exceeded and the Do’s and Don’ts of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court have been contravened. Consequently, the competent disciplinary authority has directed initiation of disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable,” the spokesman added.He said the evidence collected showed that the three unidentified men killed in Amshipora are actually Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohd Ibrar, from Rajouri. “Their DNA report is awaited. Their involvement with terrorism or related activities is under investigation by the police. Army is committed to ethical conduct of operations,” the spokesman said. Last week, the families of the three wrote to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, seeking his intervention after the DNA reports were delayed.The three men, related to each other, were gunned down in an encounter on July 18. DNA samples from their families were sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) Srinagar, and the FSL at Chandigarh. People familiar with the matter said the government has received the FSL report from the Srinagar lab, but its content had not been made public.“Our children left for Shopian on July 16, in search of work where one of our relatives, Imtiyaz Ahmed, works in the house of the ‘Lambardar’. After a couple of days, we lost contact with the children. So, we decided to lodge a missing complaint,” the letter from the families said, adding that on August 10, they came to know, via social media, that all three men were killed in an encounter.“We identified them from pictures of the bodies. On August 13, a Shopian police team collected DNA samples from us. We were assured that the DNA report would be out within 10 days. To date, we have not been informed about the reports,” the plea to Sinha said.“Our children had no connection with militancy. For this, we are demanding an inquiry. They were killed in cold blood, and were merely students and labourers. We are demanding an impartial and fair inquiry into the killings as well as the DNA reports, so that things can be made public,” read the letter. The families added in the letter that several of its members are still serving in the army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afspa-exceeded-in-j-k-killings-army/story-sN9Dk939Aq3wPEoEVDUvzJ.html
19-09-2020||India||Opposition in favour of middlemen who loot farmers: PM Modi in fresh pitch for farm bills||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hailed the passage of agriculture bills in the Lok Sabha and slammed the Opposition for not supporting reforms that he claimed will prove to be “farmers’ shields” against middlemen.Farmers will have more opportunities to sell their produce without having to worry about middlemen and this will result in increased profits, PM Modi said in a virtual message after inaugurating Kosi rail mega bridge via video-conferencing.Also read: Agriculture bills passed in Lok Sabha, farmers protest: All you need to know“Farmers have been given new independence in agriculture. They’ll now have more options and opportunities to sell their produce. I congratulate them on the passage of the bills. It was necessary to bring these to protect them from middlemen. These are farmers’ shields,” he said.Taking a swipe at those protesting against the bills, PM Modi said that many forces were trying to “mislead” farmers on this issue.“Beware of the politics of those who ruled the country for decades and did nothing to empower farmers. These people are in favour of middlemen who unfairly loot the profit of farmers,” PM Modi said. His statements came in the backdrop of protests across the country against the passage of the bills. While Congress MPs from Punjab burnt copies of the bills inside Parliament complex on Thursday, farmers of the state said they will stage a ‘rail roko’ agitation from September 24 to September 26 .Also read: PM dedicates Kosi rail mega bridge to nation, inaugurates several rail projects in BiharHarsimrat Kaur Badal resigned as the Union minister for food processing industries in protest against the bills and her party Shiromani Akali Dal has, along with Congress, Trinamool Congress and Revolutionary Socialist Party, opposed them.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed in the Lok Sabha on Thursday. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill was passed in the lower house on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-in-favour-of-middlemen-who-loot-farmers-says-pm-modi-in-fresh-pitch-for-farm-bills/story-qQjR8kDAmwfaLu1rWY1dTL.html
19-09-2020||India||Agriculture bills passed in Lok Sabha, farmers protest: All you need to know||The Lok Sabha, through voice vote, passed two controversial legislations on Thursday-- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The Lower House also passed Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill earlier.The three bills will now be tabled in Rajya Sabha and become laws after the Upper House also passes them.Moving the bills in the House, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar assured all members that famers will be able to get better prices for their produce and the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement system will continue.Also read: Farm bills: Farmers’ body announces three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation in Punjab from September 24Opposition parties including Congress, Trinamool Congress and Revolutionary Socialist Party opposed the bills on the grounds that they were “anti-farmer”. Meanwhile, minister of food processing industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned over the passage of these bills.Here is all you need to know:1. According to the government, the reforms will accelerate agricultural growth through private sector investment in building agricultural infrastructure and supply chains for Indian farm produce in national and global markets.2. The bills are aimed at creating employment opportunities and strengthening the economy.3. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the bills will not override Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Acts of the states.4. The bills will promote a barrier-free, inter-state and intra-state trade and commerce outside the physical premises of markets notified under State Agricultural Produce Marketing legislations, a government release said, calling the passage of these bills a “historic-step” in unlocking the regulated agriculture markets in the country.5. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also praised the passage of bills and said they will free the farmers of middlemen and other bottlenecks. Also read: President accepts Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation, Narendra Singh Tomar assigned her portfolio6. Farmers in Punjab have organised a three-day protest against the bills. They will stage a ‘rail roko’ agitation across the state from September 24-26, a farmers’ body said. Despite reassurances from the government, farmers believe that the bills will render the current MSP procurement system ineffective, leaving them at the mercy of “big farmers”.7. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the only Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) representative in the Modi government, tendered her resignation as the Union minister for food processing industries to protest the “anti-farmer” bills. Her resignation was accepted on Friday by the President. Narendra Singh Tomar was given the charge of the food processing industries ministry.8.  SAD chief and Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s husband Sukhbir Singh Badal said that the party opposed the legislations but said it will continue to be a part of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agriculture-bills-passed-in-lok-sabha-all-you-need-to-know/story-n7SikWEpLhJCcN8ZiJMZlI.html
