20-09-2020||India||Ahead of Uttarakhand assembly session, speaker Premchand Aggarwal tests positive for Covid-19||Three days ahead of the assembly session, Uttarakhand speaker Premchand Aggarwal has tested positive for Covid-19 in the antigen test on Sunday afternoon. This comes a day after the leader of opposition in the state assembly, Indira Hridayesh tested positive for coronavirus. “I tested positive for Covid-19 through an antigen test on Sunday afternoon. Doctors have advised me to stay at home as I do not have symptoms. I will be in home isolation and in constant touch with my doctors,” Aggarwal said. When asked whether he would be virtually joining the three day assembly session scheduled from September 23, Aggarwal said, “The assembly session will take place as scheduled, even if I am not able to join through any online mode. The deputy speaker will handle the assembly proceedings.” Meanwhile, politics heated up in Uttarakhand after Congress leader and leader of opposition Hriyadesh alleged that the government had failed in handling the Covid-19 epidemic after she was allegedly not given a bed for treatment at a top private hospital in Dehradun. Sumit Hridayesh, her son, said, “Even after waiting for over four hours, my mother was not given a bed at a top private hospital in Dehradun. On Saturday, we shifted her from Susheela Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani to Dehradun, but she was not given a bed even after calls from the state assembly speaker and the cabinet ministers. She is now being treated at a private hospital in Gurgaon.” Reacting to the allegations levelled by the leader of opposition, Bipin Kainthola, state BJP spokesperson said, “Coronavirus does not infect people looking at who is a VIP or not. Congress leaders should not politicise this matter, the government is doing everything possible to give the best possible treatment to people during the time of this epidemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-uttarakhand-assembly-session-speaker-premchand-aggarwal-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-qeEQJWpmINq1VhrGtTyL7H.html
20-09-2020||India||1.67 million people in J&K given domicile certificates: Centre||As many as 1.67 million people in Jammu and Kashmir have been given domicile certificates so far, the government told the Lok Sabha on Sunday. In his reply to a written question, union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said that according to information provided by the Jammu and Kashmir administration, a total of 21,13,879 people had applied for domicile certificates. A total of 16,79,520 people were given the certificates, he said, adding altogether 1,21,630 applications had been rejected for not providing the required documents. He said the Rule 5 of the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, mandates certain documents which are to be attached with an application. As per the registration records maintained with the Provincial Rehabilitation Officer (PRO), Jammu and Kashmir, a total of 6,565 families were registered as displaced families from the Chhamb Niabat area during the Indo-Pakistan war of 1971. For the displaced families of 1971, agricultural land at the rate of 4 acres (irrigated) or 6 acres (un-irrigated) was allotted, Reddy said, adding a cash compensation of Rs 7,500 per family was also paid. He said that due to the Indo-Pakistan war of 1947, a total of 31,619 families got displaced from Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir (POJK), out of which 26,319 families got registered and settled in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. A total of 5,300 families, who were initially registered with the PRO, Jammu and Kashmir, subsequently moved to other parts of the country, the minister added. In reply to another question, he said there are no restrictions on movement of any individual, including the members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Based on inputs received from the law enforcement agencies in view of the prevailing security situation in Jammu and Kashmir, Reddy said the movement of some individuals, who are under protection, got restricted to ensure their safety and security after the nullification of Article 370 a year ago. The Article conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir, which has been divided into Union territories -- J&K and Ladakh.“At present, there are no restrictions on movement but for the security advisories to maintain the law and order situation and no person is under house arrest in Jammu and Kashmir for reasons not related to public health guidelines,” he said. The minister said there are no restrictions on the movement of any individual, including PDP leaders. “Considering the law and order and security situation of a particular area, it is imperative that prior intimation is given by the protected persons regarding their movements etc.,” Reddy said. To another written question, Reddy said internet restrictions in Jammu and Kashmir are in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India. “The internet services are already available in Kashmir on fixed line and that too without any speed restrictions as well as 2G speed mobile data services are also operational since January 24, 2020. Restrictions on accessing social media sites have also been lifted from March onwards,” he said. “The 2G mobile internet speed is not an impediment in Covid control measures including dissemination of information to general public as well as health workers. E-learning apps and education and e-learning websites of the government are accessible over 2G internet for downloading e-books and other study material,” added Reddy. He said high-speed 4G mobile data services have started in Ganderbal and Udhampur districts of the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-67mn-people-in-j-k-given-domicile-certificates-centre/story-HTyO5NZ5Q5Ywtjdw0Ie6VL.html
20-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand Assembly curtailed to one day, no question hour||After Uttarakhand assembly Speaker, leader of Opposition and many MLAs tested positive for Covid-19, the Business Advisory Committee of the legislative assembly, which met here on Sunday evening, decided to curtail the assembly session from three days to one day, with no question hour. The three-day assembly session was scheduled to start from September 23. Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and MLA from Haridwar said during the meeting it was decided that as many MLAs and Speaker of the House have tested positive and cases in the state are soaring, the three-day session be curtailed to one day with no question hour. Kaushik said arrangements have also been made for virtual participation of the MLAs in the assembly proceedings if they don’t want to attend the session physically. “We have made arrangements for the virtual participation from the districts through NIC (National Informatics Centre). The aim is to ensure the safety of the MLAs at a time when the Covid cases are spiking in the state and many legislators have already tested positive, including the Speaker”, he said. Kaushik said in case of MLAs who will be attending the session physically, they will have to go through the RT-PCR test first. “In 71-member assembly, we have made arrangements for ensuring social distancing during the one-day session. In the main assembly hall, 30 MLAs can attend the session. Ten MLAs can attend the session from the gallery while 30 MLAs can attend the session from hall number 107 where arrangements for virtual participation have been made,” he said. “Also, 18 to 19 ordinances that have been promulgated by the state government, would be tabled in the House for approval,” he said. Raghunath Singh Chauhan, deputy speaker of the Uttarakhand assembly said during the meeting Congress MLAs said they would seek adjournment motions so that debate could be held on four important issues that include unemployment, law and order situation, Covid pandemic and inflation in the state. Speaker Premchand Aggarwal tested positive for Covid-19 in the antigen test on Sunday afternoon, a day after the leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh tested positive for the virus. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 40,000 Covid-19 positive cases and a death toll of 478. On Saturday, the state recorded the biggest single-day spike in fresh Covid-19 cases with 2,078 cases, taking the positivity rate in the state to over 7 %.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-assembly-curtailed-to-one-day-no-question-hour/story-YBywXiDH2kmzDNmm1C3qCM.html
20-09-2020||India||Critics cite crucial loopholes in farm bills||The National Democratic Alliance government termed the two farm bills passed by Parliament on Sunday to liberalise the agriculture sector as “historic”, but farmers’ groups and activists opposing them allege the bills will create a system lacking adequate oversight and make cultivators vulnerable to exploitation. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 aims to ease all restrictions on trade of agriculture produce. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, lays down a new architecture for contract farming in the country so that agribusiness and farmers can engage with one another more confidently, enable modern supply chains and investments by agribusinesses in cultivation. Farm produce, under a decades-old system, are sold and bought in wholesale markets run by so-called agricultural produce marketing committees, or APMCs, under state laws. This is the mandi system. The bill enables food traders to buy farmers’ produce from any market, outside the purview of APMCs, rather than be bound to a specific market where they are licensed to operate. Ushered in during the 1960s, APMCs were originally meant to protect farmers from distress selling by creating a system of notified markets that records all transactions and prices. Over time, however, these have often acted as monopolies, evidence suggests. In December 2010, when onion prices peaked, a probe by the country’s statutory anti-monopoly body, the Competition Commission of India, revealed that one firm accounted for nearly a fifth of the total onion trade for that month at Lasalgoan APMC, Asia’s largest onion market in Maharashtra’s Nashik. While the APMC system is cartelised, bypassing it altogether will leave farmers vulnerable to big food corporations and the country will have no way of knowing what is being traded and at what price, critics argue. Intelligence on price and stock are critical to protect farmers and consumer interests both, they say. “The govt is abdicating all oversight responsibility since it is not prescribing a system of registration of all traders of farmers’ produce,” says Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture. “Nor does it want to build a price intelligence system even as it weakens the mandi system. How and when will it intervene then?” On Sunday, parties such as the Congress and Biju Janata Dal said the government ought to have included federally-fixed “minimum support prices” as the benchmark for any farm trade. The lack of any mention of MSP, which is considered as a basic remunerative price mandated by the government and federally fixed, in any of the legislations has given rise to suspicion that the new system will weaken the existing MSP regime. It’s not surprising that farmers and middlemen have come together to oppose the bill. Critics say the bill doesn’t consider the realities of interlocked farm markets. In India farmers typically are “locked” in with middlemen because the latter loans farmers money to meet cultivation costs with an assurance to buy their produce. HT research shows that farmers value MSPs highly and negatively view middlemen (https://bit.ly/35SWAIU). The bill allows tax- or levies-free markets, whereas APMCs charge between 4.5% to 8% in mandi levies. This will lead to a loss in revenue. Critics say the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, which brings a new contract-farming regime, doesn’t adequately protect the farmer. Sections 19 states that “no civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings in respect of any dispute which a Sub-Divisional Authority or the Appellate Authority is empowered by or under this Act to decide”. This bar of jurisdiction will hurt interests of farmers, they argue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/critics-cite-crucial-loopholes-in-farm-bills/story-cXkw5I5xHpSpjwEDJxhCxK.html
20-09-2020||India||Will comply with laws, says Sudarshan TV; urges SC to lift injunction||Television channel Sudarshan News filed a fresh affidavit before the Supreme Court on Sunday, stating that it will comply with all laws in airing the remaining episodes of a controversial programme relating to the entry of Muslims in civil services, and appealed for the lifting of a September 15 injunction on the telecast . The affidavit filed by editor-in-chief of the channel, Suresh Chavhanke, reiterated the channel’s earlier stance that it does not harbor any ill-will against any particular community and reaffirmed its commitment to abide by the Programme Code under the Cable Television Network Rules which prescribes the permissible limit of TV content.“I will strictly comply with all laws while airing the remaining episodes of ‘Bindas Bol’ program series on the subject of UPSC {Union Public Service Commission} jihad. The respondent (Chavhanke) further states that he will abide and comply by the programme code and directions of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting strictly,” the affidavit filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain said.Interestingly, Chavhanke, in his affidavit, highlighted two shows aired by NDTV, one in September 2008 titled Hindu Terror: Myth or Fact, and another in 2010, titled Is Saffron Threat Real? which, he submitted “pained” and “shocked,” him. “The deponent (Chavhanke) was shocked and pained when on September 17, 2008 NDTV (English News Channel) had broadcast a programme anchored by Ms. Barkha Dutt titled as “‘Hindu Terror: Myth or fact.” In this programme just adjacent to the programme caption i.e. “‘Hindu’ Terror: Myth or fact?”, a Hindu Saint was shown with ‘Tilak’ and ‘Chillam’ and also a ‘Trishul’ (one of most scared symbols for Hindus and associated with most revered deity of the Hindus, ‘Lord Shiva’)”, the affidavit said.The Supreme Court had on September 18 ordered Sudarshan News to file an affidavit giving details of what changes it proposed to make in Bindas Bol so as to convince the court to lift the injunction imposed on September 15.The injunction was imposed after a lawyer, Firoz Iqbal Khan, approached the top court alleging that the programme contained statements which were derogatory about the entry of Muslims in the civil services and was in violation of the programme code.The Noida-based news channel had earlier filed an affidavit on September 16 claiming Bindas Bol is only intended to highlight the alleged dubious sources of foreign funding received by an organization, Zakat Foundation, which supports and provides coaching for civil service aspirants. The channel had said that it does not oppose selection of any meritorious candidate and its intention was only to highlight anti-national activities.The Supreme Court, during a hearing of the case on September 18, said that it will not stand in the way of media discussing dubious funding of non-government organisations (NGOs) or issues concerning national security. But targeting an entire community on the basis of alleged dubious funding of one organization is not acceptable, it said. The court took exception to certain visuals aired in the first four episodes of Bindas Bol which the bench said were “very hurtful” and stereotyped the Muslim community.Meanwhile, the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) also filed an affidavit before the apex court asking the court to pass directions to ensure that the Code of Ethics laid down by NBA for self-regulation of TV news channels should be given the force of law by including it under the Programme Code.This would make the Code of Ethics binding on all TV broadcasters irrespective of whether or not the broadcaster is a member of NBA, the affidavit filed on September 19 added.The Programme Code under Rule 6 of the Cable TV Rules regulates TV content by laying down what is not permissible to be carried in a cable service. The Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act of 1995 along with Cable TV Rules and the Programme Code regulate television content.Besides, the NBA, which is a private association of 26 news channels, has also framed a code of conduct for self-regulation of media. It can hold an inquiry against broadcasters for violation of the code and can impose a fine of upto Rs 1 lakh. But it is applicable only to its members and many broadcasters, including Sudarshan News, are not members of NBA.The Supreme Court had taken a grim view of NBA’s functioning on September 18, calling it “toothless”. “NBA says they have a committee headed by a retired Supreme Court judge. They can impose a maximum fine of Rs.1 lakh. This shows how toothless you are,” justice DY Chandrachud, who was heading the bench, said, underscoring that a fine of Rs 1 lakh will not have any impact on a news channel.Justice Chandrachud also pointed out that the NBA’s jurisdiction extends only to those broadcasters which are its members.The court had, therefore, asked NBA to come up with concrete suggestions on strengthening its self-regulation mechanism.“The court should grant recognition to the independent self-regulatory mechanism, so that complaints against all news broadcasters, whether members or not, may be entertained by NBA and the orders passed by it would be binding on all news broadcasters,” NBA said in its affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-comply-with-laws-says-sudarshan-tv-urges-sc-to-lift-injunction/story-HvGBRfs6vCMoWiCtyw8L0I.html
20-09-2020||India||In process of amending wildlife act: Centre||The Union environment ministry has informed Parliament that it is in the process of amending the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, after a review committee submitted a report to the ministry, suggesting several revisions to the Act, introducing tougher penalties for breaches of the legislation.Addressing other contentious issues during this monsoon session, the ministry said the Char Dham road project is not under its purview and that the draft environment impact assessment notification, 2020, removes existing redundancies.The Wildlife Protection Act was last amended in 2003. “The environment ministry had constituted a Committee for drafting the amendments to the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 on May 1 2018, which has submitted its report. The drafting Committee has proposed a comprehensive review of various provisions of the Act,” the ministry said on September 15. Amendments likely to be made include a larger role for eco-development committees which are joint committees of the forest department and local people living in the fringes of protected areas. “Apart from involving more local people in conservation and stricter penalties, the CITES (the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) clauses will be introduced in the act,” a senior ministry official told HT on condition of anonymity.CITES is an international treaty that protects over 35,000 species.The environment ministry on Saturday also told Parliament that the 900 km Char Dham road project to connect four Hindu pilgrimage sites in Uttarakhand has not been referred to it for appraisal. The project does not need to be appraised by the ministry although it entails the loss of trees and ecological damage to the fragile Himalayas.The ministry cited an August 2013 notification exempting all projects related to the expansion of national highways up to 100 km from the purview of the Environmental Impact Assessment Notification, 2006. The exemption was granted on the recommendation of a high-level committee constituted to review the provisions in the notification related to environmental clearance for roads, buildings, and special economic zone projects. “In view of the... thresholds applicable to roads in Char Dham projects, no project has been referred to the MoEFCC {Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change} for appraisal,” the ministry told Rajya Sabha.India needs move away from a a “hyper-legal and technocratic approach” to protecting the environment, a legal expert said. “Environment regulation requires a much more reflexive approach and not a defensive one. The approval of the Char Dham project is yet another case in point when poorly thought out and hasty decisions have resulted in severe and irreversible damage. Acknowledging it will not just help taking project-specific remedial action, but also allow us to bring back progressive legal measures that may have been undone through numerous exemptions introduced by successive governments,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.Forest diversionAccording to the environment ministry, forest land larger than Delhi and slightly smaller than Goa has been approved for non-forestry purposes like mining, irrigation, and hydropower from 2008 and 2020.It said 247,843.49 hectares of forest land has been approved for diversion under the Forest Conservation Act. The ministry added that certificates of compliance with the Act for diversion of forest land are obtained from district collectors. It added the proposals for such diversions have been placed before concerned village councils and forest-dwellers.On whether the contentious draft environment impact assessment rules dilute existing norms and deprive local residents the opportunity of public consultations on the impact of projects on their environment, the ministry on September 18 informed Parliament that draft seeks to remove redundancies and encourage modernization.It brings defaulters into the environmental regime with requisite action, penalty and remediation; and introduces standardization and technology-driven processes, the ministry said.Based on the nature of the project, public consultation through any other appropriate mode, such as the electronic or virtual mode will also be allowed now. Physical hearings will also continue to exist, the ministry said. The ministry had received around 1.7 million letters and emails with suggestions, comments, and objections to the draft EIA notification. Environmental groups had opposed it citing clauses including one that allows regularisation of projects set up in violation of EIA Notification, 2006, by starting construction before receiving environmental clearance; exempting certain projects from public hearings and so on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-process-of-amending-wildlife-act-centre/story-mnFQlGvSh8dZnl8B70Vh6L.html
20-09-2020||India||NIA questions six arrested al Qaeda men in Kolkata||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday questioned the six al-Qaeda terrorists, a day after they were arrested from West Bengal’s Murshidabad district, for more than 10 hours.The agency plans to fly the suspects to Delhi on Monday after they are questioned by a team of the Kolkata Police’s Special Task Force (STF), officers aware of the developments said. The officials cited above said that the bank accounts of two of the men showed deposits that did not match their incomes. It is suspected that the arrested men are members of a common social media group. It is also being probed whether they had recruited people from other districts in the state.The six men were also subjected to a medical examination on Sunday.Significantly, the arrests came five days after an NIA court in Kolkata ordered seven-year jail sentences and fines for two men connected with the 2014 IED blast at Khagragarh in Burdwan district, where the banned terrorist organization Jamat-ul-Mujaheedin of Bangladesh (JMB) was operating a cell.On Saturday, NIA teams conducted simultaneous raids across Ernakulam in Kerala and Murshidabad, and arrested nine men suspected to be associated with a Pakistan-sponsored module of the Al-Qaeda.The three men arrested in Kerala were identified as Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas and Mosaraf Hossen. Those arrested in Murshidabad are Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal and Atitur Rehman.The NIA said the group was planning to undertake terrorist attacks in Delhi and at vital installations in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-questions-six-arrested-al-qaeda-men-in-kolkata/story-rlEL1g0xJyfsJbuAxkvNUJ.html
20-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha proceedings delayed due to protests in RS||Protests by MPs in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday took a rare toll on the proceedings of the Lok Sabha as a crucial debate on the Covid-19 situation was delayed. According to the new protocol adopted due to the Covid-19 pandemic, MPs of one house are asked to sit in the other House in order to maintain social distancing to reduce the risk of infection. As a result, Lok Sabha MPs allotted seats in the Rajya Sabha were unable to sit for the session as the chamber was occupied by the protesting MPs.The Lok Sabha proceedings were scheduled to start at 3 pm. However, with opposition MPs protesting against the three farm laws in the Rajya Sabha, Congress floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury appealed to the Speaker to delay the discussion on Covid-19. Inclined to start the debate at the scheduled time, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla assured the House that any MP who can’t find a seat in the other House, will be accommodated in the Lok Sabha galleries and the chamber. Chowdhury, however, persisted and Birla agreed to halt the proceeding for an hour. The Congress leader said the magnanimity of the Speaker will set an “example”. During the debate on the situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress lashed out at the government. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor described India as the poster child for the worst-case scenario, saying, “We have the worst of both sides. We have neither managed to stop or limit the spread of the virus nor have managed to keep the economy afloat. The GDP for the first time in 41 years will actually shrink and our employment crisis has become even worst than before.” Reacting to the Congress attack, BJP member Kirit Solanki highlighted various welfare schemes announced by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government. He said the poor were provided free food grains and cash incentives during the lockdown.Solanki said the country has so far tested five crore people for coronavirus of which 1.5 crore tests were conducted in the last two weeks.The BJP member also pointed out that 33 crore poor people were given Rs 31,235 crore through the direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) and the beneficiaries include farmers, women and senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-proceedings-delayed-due-to-protests-in-rs/story-mbnA5pRDsi0lkBQxUlJSbN.html
20-09-2020||India||Govt seeks to make FCRA laws more stringent||The Centre on Sunday sought to make the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) – the law that governs foreign funding -- more stringent through a bill which proposes to bar public servants from receiving any money from abroad and makes Aadhar registration mandatory for non-government organisations (NGOS) to get such funding.The legislation seeks to prohibits transfer of foreign funds to a third party and designates State Bank of India, New Delhi, as the only bank where such funds can be received. Union minister of state for home (MoS) Nityanand Rai introduced the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020 in the Lok Sabha, where it is likely to be taken up in the coming week. Significantly, if the law is amended, organizations receiving foreign funds won’t be able to use more than 20% of the money for administrative purposes. This limit hitherto has been 50%. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has often alleged that office bearers of NGOs misuse foreign funds, actually meant for social work, by spending it on their personal travel, shopping or office furniture. A key change proposed in the new bill, which gives sweeping powers to the Centre, says that licence of any NGO can now be suspended for more than 180 days in case of any violations. According to section 13 of FCRA, MHA had the powers to suspend the licence of an organization for only 180 days during which no foreign funding could be received. The period is when an inquiry is conducted by concerned FCRA department officials and an appeal is heard. “This means MHA can keep any licence under suspension till it wants without cancelling it,” said an officer who didn’t wish to be named. The bill also gives considerable powers to the Centre as it will be able to cease the use of foreign funds by conducting just a “summary inquiry” instead of “found guilty” previously. Apart from barring public servants including judges from receiving any funds from abroad, the proposed bill says that no organisation will be able to transfer foreign contribution to any association/person under Section 7 of the FCRA. It also makes Aadhar mandatory for all office bearers of NGOs and other organisations which are seeking foreign contributions. “Every person who has been granted certificate or prior permission for foreign funding shall receive foreign contribution only in an account designated as ‘FCRA Account’ which shall be opened by him in such branch of the State Bank of India at New Delhi, as the Central Government may, by notification, specify and for other consequential matters relating thereto”, the bill says. Tanveer Ahmed Mir, a criminal lawyer who specialises in FCRA and money laundering, said:“The provisions in the bill give unbridled powers to the executive and officials to take action unreasonably and arbitrarily and there will be no checks and balances. Government is geared to demolish the due process in India. By making SBI, New Delhi as the designated bank, are they trying to say that other banks are crooks or that only SBI will survive in this country in future?” According to the government, the proposed amendments “seek to streamline the provisions of the FCRA by strengthening the compliance mechanism, enhancing transparency and accountability in the receipt and utilisation of foreign contribution worth thousands of crores of rupees every year”. The need to amend the law was felt after it was found that “the annual inflow of foreign contribution has almost doubled between the years 2010 and 2019, but many recipients of foreign contribution have not utilised the same for the purpose for which they were registered or granted prior permission under the said Act. Many of them were also found wanting in ensuring basic statutory compliances such as submission of annual returns and maintenance of proper accounts,” according to the government statement. “This has led to a situation where the central government had to cancel certificates of registration of more than 19,000 recipient organisations, including non-governmental organisations, during the period between 2011 and 2019. The criminal investigations also had to be initiated against dozens of such non-governmental organisations which indulged in outright misappropriation or mis-utilisation of foreign contribution,” it adds. Over Rs 58,000 crore of foreign funds were received by NGOs registered under the FCRA between 2016-17 and 2018-19. India has around 22,400 NGOs. Amitabh Behar, CEO of Oxfam India, tweeted: “Devastating blow. Red carpet welcome for foreign investments for businesses but stifling and squeezing the nonprofit sector by creating new hurdles for foreign aid which could help lift people out of poverty, ill health and illiteracy”.  “This will further stifle the space for non-profit sector and affect the smaller organisations working on the ground,” he told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-seeks-to-make-fcra-laws-more-stringent/story-li4tp6Ajc5IpO7Ua1cgWoK.html
20-09-2020||India||MSP, APMC buzzwords in controversy over bills||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government described the two farm bills passed by Parliament on Sunday to liberalise the agriculture sector as “historic,” but farmers’ groups and activists opposing them allege that the legislation will create a system lacking adequate oversight and make cultivators vulnerable to exploitation. Replying to the debate on the bills, farm minister Narendra Tomar said the bills would not jeopardise or end minimum support prices (MSPS) in any way. He also said the bills do not end the current agricultural produce market committee system in the country. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 aims to ease all restrictions on trade of agriculture produce. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, lays down a new architecture for contract farming in the country so that agribusiness and farmers can engage with one another more confidently, enable modern supply chains and investments by agribusinesses in cultivation. Farm produce, under a decades-old system, is sold and bought in wholesale markets run by so-called agricultural produce marketing committees, or APMCs, under state laws. This is the mandi system. The bill enables food traders to buy farmers’ produce from any market, outside the purview of APMCs, rather than be bound to a specific market where they are licensed to operate. Ushered in during the 1960s, APMCs were originally meant to protect farmers from distress selling by creating a system of notified markets that records all transactions and prices. Over time, however, these have often acted as monopolies, evidence suggests. In December 2010, when onion prices peaked, a probe by the country’s statutory anti-monopoly body, the Competition Commission of India, revealed that one firm accounted for nearly a fifth of the total onion trade for that month at Lasalgoan APMC, Asia’s largest onion market in Maharashtra’s Nashik. While the APMC system is cartelised, bypassing it altogether will leave farmers vulnerable to big food corporations and the country will have no way of knowing what is being traded and at what price, critics argue. Intelligence on price and stock are critical to protect farmers and consumers’ interests, they say. “The government is abdicating all oversight responsibility since it is not prescribing a system of registration of all traders of farmers’ produce,” says Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture. “Nor does it want to build a price intelligence system even as it weakens the mandi system. How and when will it intervene then?” On Sunday, parties such as the Congress and Biju Janata Dal said the government ought to have included federally fixed minimum support price (MSP) as the benchmark for any farm trade. The lack of any mention of MSP, which is considered as a basic remunerative price mandated by the government in any of the legislation has given rise to suspicion that the new system will weaken the existing MSP regime. It’s not surprising that farmers and middlemen have come together to oppose the bill. Critics say the bill doesn’t consider the realities of interlocked farm markets. In India farmers typically are “locked” in with middlemen because the latter loans farmers money to meet cultivation costs with an assurance to buy their produce. HT research shows that farmers value MSPs highly and don’t negatively view middlemen (https://bit.ly/35SWAIU). The bill allows tax- or levies-free markets, whereas APMCs charge between 4.5% to 8% in mandi levies. This will lead to a loss in revenue. Critics say the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, which brings a new contract-farming regime, doesn’t adequately protect the farmer. Sections 19 states that “no civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings in respect of any dispute which a Sub-Divisional Authority or the Appellate Authority is empowered by or under this Act to decide”. This bar of jurisdiction will hurt the interests of farmers, they argue. “The bills were passed in a hurry. They lacked greater scrutiny of select committees. They create a system which will leave farmers vulnerable to exploitation. We will continue to protest,” said VM Singh, convenor of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msp-apmc-buzzwords-in-controversy-over-bills/story-j7jecxgUqDlXjRuiQ9AqaM.html
20-09-2020||India||Beginning of unprecedented era in agriculture sector: Amit Shah hails farm bills, says ‘MSP will remain’||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday hailed the passage of two farm bills in Rajya Sabha, calling it the beginning of an “unprecedented era towards the development of agriculture sector”.  In a series of tweets, Shah also applauded PM Modi and said that passage of the bills show his unwavering determination to strengthen India’s agriculture sector.“The passage of two important bills related to agriculture in Parliament today shows PM Narendra Modi’s unwavering determination towards the development of our farmers and strengthening the agriculture sector. This is the beginning of an unprecedented era of development in India’s agricultural sector,” the BJP leader wrote on Twitter in Hindi.On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha passed two bills -- Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The government says that these bills will help boost the farming sector through private investments. During the farm bills debate in the Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) today, a lot of ruckus and uproar took place as several Opposition parties raised strong objection against the bills. Slamming the lawmakers, Shah further said, “For decades, people who took farmers’ votes and kept them in darkness and poverty, are again trying to provoke and mislead them by opposing the biggest decision in the interest of farmers.I assure the farmer brothers that if anyone thinks for your interests, it is Prime Minister Narendra Modi.”“These agrarian reforms by the Modi government will free our farmer brothers from the clutches of middlemen who kill their profits, and will also play a positive role in increasing their income by selling their produce anywhere and getting the right price for it. Even after this decision, the system of MSP (Minimum Support Price) will remain and government procurement will also continue,” he further tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-era-amit-shah-hails-farm-bills-says-msp-will-remain/story-OVcRt7ONlKVkrpEpCaD7lN.html
20-09-2020||India||Pained by NDTV’s 2008 show on Hindu Terror: Suresh Chavhanke tells SC||Television news channel Sudarshan News filed a fresh affidavit in the Supreme Court on Sunday stating that it will comply with all laws while airing the remaining episodes of the controversial programme Bindas Bol relating to the entry of Muslims in civil services and prayed that the September 15 injunction on the telecast of remaining episodes be lifted. The affidavit filed by Editor-in-Chief of the channel, Suresh Chavhanke reiterated it earlier stance that the channel does not harbour any ill-will against any particular community and reaffirmed its commitment to abide by the Programme Code under the Cable Television Network Rules which prescribes the permissible limit of TV content.“I will strictly comply with all laws while airing the remaining episodes of ‘Bindas Bol’ program series on the subject of UPSC Jihad. The respondent (Chavhanke) further states that he we will abide and comply by the programme code and directions of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting strictly,” the affidavit filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain said.Interestingly, Chavhanke, in his affidavit highlighted two shows aired by another NDTV, one in September 2008 titled “Hindu Terror: Myth or Fact” and another in 2010 titled “Is Saffron Threat Real?” which he submitted “pained” and “shocked” him. “The deponent (Chavhanke ) was shocked and pained when on September 17, 2008 NDTV (English News Channel) had broadcast a programme anchored by Ms. Barkha Dutt titled as “‘Hindu’ Terror: Myth or fact.” In this programme just adjacent to the programme caption i.e. “‘Hindu’ Terror: Myth or fact?”, a Hindu Saint was shown with ‘Tilak’ and ‘Chillam’ and also a ‘Trishul’ (one of most scared symbols for Hindus and associated with most revered deity of the Hindus, ‘Lord Shiva’)”, the affidavit said.The Supreme Court had on September 18 ordered Sudarshan News to file an affidavit giving details of what changes it proposed to make regarding Bindas Bol so as to convince the court to lift the injunction imposed on September 15.The injunction was imposed after a lawyer, Firoz Iqbal Khan approached the top court alleging that the programme contained statements which were derogatory about the entry of Muslims in the civil services and was in violation of the programme code.The Noida-based news channel had earlier filed an affidavit on September 16 claiming Bindas Bol is only intended to highlight the alleged dubious sources of foreign funding received by an organization, Zakat Foundation which supports and provides coaching for civil service aspirants. The channel had said that it does not oppose selection of any meritorious candidate to UPSC and its intention was only to highlight anti-national activities.The Supreme Court, during the hearing of the case on September 18, said that it will not stand in the way of media discussing dubious funding of NGOs or issues concerning national security. But targeting an entire community on the basis of dubious funding of one organization is not acceptable, the court added taking exception to certain visuals aired in the first 4 episodes of Bindas Bol which the bench said were “very hurtful” and stereotyped Muslim community.Meanwhile, the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) also filed an affidavit before the apex court asking the court to pass directions to ensure that the Code of Ethics laid down by NBA for self-regulation of TV news channels should be given the force of law by including it under the Programme Code.This would make the Code of Ethics binding on all TV broadcasters irrespective of whether or not the broadcaster is a member of NBA, the affidavit filed on September 19 added.The Programme Code under Rule 6 of the Cable TV Rules regulates TV content by laying down what is not permissible to be carried in a cable service. The Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act of 1995 along with Cable TV Rules and the Programme Code regulate television content.Besides, the NBA which is a private association of 26 news channels has also framed a code of conduct for self-regulation of media. It can hold inquiry against broadcasters for violation of the code and can impose fine of up to Rs 1 lakh. But the same is applicable only to its members and many broadcasters including Sudarshan News are not members of NBA.The Supreme Court had taken a grim view of NBA’s functioning on September 18 calling it “toothless”. “NBA says they have a committee headed by a retired Supreme Court judge. They can impose a maximum fine of 1 lakh. This shows how toothless you are,” justice DY Chandrachud who was heading the bench said, underscoring that a fine of Rs 1 lakh will not have any impact on a news channel.Justice Chandrachud also pointed out that the NBA’s jurisdiction extends only to those broadcasters which are its members.The court had, therefore, asked NBA to come up with concrete suggestions on strengthening its self-regulation mechanism.“The court should grant recognition to the independent self-regulatory mechanism, so that complaints against all news broadcasters, whether members or not, may be entertained by NBA and the orders passed by it would be binding on all news broadcasters,” NBA said in its affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pained-by-ndtv-s-2008-show-on-hindu-terror-suresh-chavhanke-tells-sc/story-ctjqz9p033A6rk65qxK0AM.html
20-09-2020||India||NCB arrests IRS official’s son in Lucknow for sourcing curated marijuana from US||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday said it seized 2.7 kilogram of curated (refined quality) marijuana, which was sourced from the US, from Delhi and arrested a 21-year-old son of a senior Indian Revenue Service (IRS) official from his residence Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar area in this connection on September 18.NCB officials in Lucknow, who are privy to the matter, said the marijuana was concealed in an air compressor. They said it was to be collected by Cherish Gidwani, the son of the senior IRS official, who was arrested.A senior NCB official said the consignee (Gidwani) made the payment through bitcoins and came in contact with the US-based consignor through an Instagram account.He claimed that the man admitted that he used to import such parcels on a regular basis for the last one-and-a-half years for himself and his friends.He said the accused, an engineering graduate, had been trying for jobs for the past few months but failed in his attempt due to sudden recession following Covid-19 outbreak.The official further said the accused used to order drugs from the USA through Instagram or Wickr (an instant messenger application of an American software company of the same name) and the payments were made through bitcoins.He said a total of 2.7 kg of bud was seized and the best quality of this marijuana was sold at the rate of about ₹ 5,000 per gram. He said the accused also revealed that he used to get ‘charas’ and marijuana from Delhi and Bengaluru-based suppliers.He said the recent seizures of curated marijuana show that the THC (tetrahydrocannabinol— the chemical responsible for most of marijuana’s psychological effects) content in these contrabands is higher than those seized (Indian grown weeds) earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-arrests-irs-official-s-son-in-lucknow-for-sourcing-curated-marijuana-from-us/story-2o47yAeJEPEnGHt559E3XI.html
20-09-2020||India||Indian Army strengthens hold over 20 strategic heights in Eastern Ladakh; Rafales to carry out sorties||The armies of India and China are set to hold the sixth round of Corps Commander-level talks in the next couple of days to explore ways to defuse tension in eastern Ladakh even as India further bolstered its dominance in over 20 mountain heights around the friction points near the Pangong lake, government sources said on Sunday.They also said that the IAF is set to use the newly-inducted Rafale jets to carry out sorties in Ladakh as part of the overall boosting of combat readiness in view of “provocative actions” by Chinese troops including the three incidents of shots being fired in the air in the last three weeks.On the sixth round of Corps Commander meeting, the sources said a joint secretary-level officer from the Ministry of External Affairs is expected to be part of the Indian delegation as India is looking for some concrete outcome from the dialogue.“It is set to take place in the next two days. There is a possibility that it may take place tomorrow (Monday) itself,” said a source.The main focus of the meeting is expected to be on the implementation of a five-point agreement reached between the two countries.Both sides reached the agreement to resolve the border row at a meeting between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) meet in Moscow on September 10.The agreement included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The sources said the Indian Army also strengthened its dominance in over 20 strategic mountain heights around the northern and southern banks of Pangong lake as well as in the extended general area of Chushul in the last few days even as freezing conditions are gripping the area, the sources said.The deployment of French-made Rafale jets in Ladakh came less than 10 days after they were formally inducted into the IAF.At a ceremony in Ambala on September 10 where five Rafale jets were inducted into the IAF, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the induction of the fleet was crucial considering the atmosphere being created along the frontier and that it is a “big and stern” message to those eyeing India’s sovereignty.Speaking on the occasion, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria had said induction of Rafale jets could not have happened at a more opportune time considering the security scenario. The Rafale fleet is stationed in Ambala air force station.The multirole Rafale jets, built by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are known for air-superiority and precision strikes.“The Rafale jets are flying around Ladakh,” said a source without elaborating.The IAF has deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The IAF is also carrying out night time combat air patrols in the eastern Ladakh region.The IAF has also deployed Apache attack choppers as well as Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations in eastern Ladakh.The sources said the Army has made elaborate arrangements to maintain the current level of troops and weapons in all forward areas in eastern Ladakh and other sensitive high-altitude sectors in the harsh winter months when the temperature drops up to minus 25 degrees Celsius.They said the situation remained tense in both southern and northern banks of the Pangong lake areas as well as in other friction points.There have been at least three attempts by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army(PLA) to “intimidate” Indian troops along the northern and southern bank of Pangong lake area in the last three weeks where even shots were fired in the air for the first time at the LAC in 45 years.The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong Lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30.On September 7, Chinese troops unsuccessfully attempted to close in on the Indian position and even fired shots in the air in the Mukhpari area of Rezang-La ridgeline on the southern bank of Pangong lake.As Jaishankar and Wang were to hold talks in Moscow, the Chinese military resorted to firing a barrage of “warning shots” into the air on the North Bank of Pangong lake to “intimidate” the Indian troops, Army sources had said.India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has been occupying the areas between Finger 4 and Finger 8. The mountain spurs in the area are called Fingers.China has strongly objected to India’s move. However, India has maintained that the heights are on its side of the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-strengthens-hold-over-20-strategic-heights-in-eastern-ladakh-rafales-to-carry-out-sorties/story-MPufyYSGG0hoo6dCKUNThP.html
20-09-2020||India||NIA interrogates alleged al Qaeda terrorists for ten hours in Kolkata||Officers of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday interrogated the six alleged al-Qaeda terrorists, arrested the day before from Bengal’s Murshidabad district, for more than ten hours at the agency’s office at Salt Lake in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata. The agency has plans to fly the suspects to Delhi on Monday evening. Before that they will be questioned by a team of the Special Task Force (STF) of the Kolkata Police, officers aware of the developments said. An officer from the state CID questioned the suspects on Sunday evening. Officials aware of the developments also said that bank accounts of two of the suspects showed deposits that did not match their income. Efforts were being made to find out if the arrested men were members of a common social media group. It is also being probed whether they had recruited people from other districts, especially Birbhum, where gelatin sticks stolen from stone quarries have been smuggled in large quantities in recent years. The arrested men were examined by doctors from a local hospital on Sunday since they are in transit police remand. Significantly, the arrests were made five days after a NIA court in Kolkata ordered a seven-year jail sentence and fine for two men connected with the 2014 IED blast at Khagragarh in Burdwan district where the banned terrorist organization Jamat-ul-Mujaheedin of Bangladesh (JMB) was operating a cell. On Saturday, NIA teams conducted simultaneous raids at several locations at Ernakulum in Kerala and Murshidabad and arrested nine men suspected to be associated with a Pakistan sponsored module of al-Qaeda. The three men arrested in Kerala were identified as Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas and Mosaraf Hossen. Those arrested in Murshidabad are Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal and Atitur Rehman. The NIA said that it got to know about an inter-state module of al-Qaeda operatives at various locations in India including West Bengal and Kerala. The group was planning to undertake terrorist attacks in Delhi and at vital installations in India with an aim to kill innocent people, the agency said in a statement. According to the NIA, incriminating material including digital devices, documents, jihadi literature, sharp weapons, country-made firearms, a locally fabricated body armour, articles and literature used for making home-made explosive devices were seized from the possession of the arrested men. “As per preliminary investigation, these individuals were radicalised by Pakistan-based al-Qaeda terrorists on social media and were motivated to undertake attacks at multiple places including the National Capital Region. For this purpose, the module was actively indulging in fund raising and a few members of gang were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition. These arrests have pre-empted possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country,” said a NIA statement. On September 15, a NIA court in Kolkata ordered a seven-year jail sentence for two men in the 2014 Khagragarh blast case. Mustafizzur Rehman alias Saqib alias Tuhin was arrested in December, 2018 and convicted under Section 120B and 125 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 18, 18A, 18B, 19 and 20 of the UA (P) Act. The second convict, Kadar Kazi alias Kador was arrested in January 2019. He was convicted under Section 120B and 125 of the IPC and Section 18 and 20 of the UA (P) Act. On October 2, 2014, the IED went off accidentally when it was being assembled by JMB members who had taken the house on rent to carry out operations. Two people died in the blast while a third suffered injuries. The case was initially probed by the state police before NIA took over the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-interrogates-alleged-al-qaeda-terrorists-for-ten-hours-in-kolkata/story-ct5RlNSFoHEfBu7kVvMNxN.html
20-09-2020||India||Odisha police arrest man who sacrificed 7-year-old boy to become grandfather||Six days after the body of a 7-year-old boy in coastal Balasore district was found near his home, Odisha police on Sunday arrested a man who had allegedly sacrificed him in the hope that his daughter-in-law could become a mother. The son of the accused was also arrested for his alleged involvement in the crime, police said.Laxmidhar Mallick, a 50-plus man was arrested for the murder last week of a seven-year-old boy of Dhaiansahi village under Khantapara police station area. The boy had gone missing while playing outside his home on September 13. The child’s body and blood-soaked clothes were found near a pond on Monday.Khantapara police inspector Sanjay Parida said Laxmidhar was stressed over his daughter-in-law not being able to conceive a child even five years after marriage. “He then consulted a local woman who often practised black magic and was said to be possessed by some spirit. The woman reportedly advised him to sacrifice the child of his neighbour,” said the inspector.Police said last week Laxmidhar lured the boy with a chocolate while he was playing outside his home alone. He then took the boy to a pond and strangled him. When the boy’s body was found the next day, his family lodged an FIR alleging murder.After investigation, police zeroed in on Laxmidhar and his son Bhagrirathi. During interrogation, Laxmidhar confessed to his crime, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-arrest-man-who-sacrificed-7-year-old-boy-to-become-grandfather/story-UPg927Lc0iK13IBWRGhRyI.html
20-09-2020||India||Onion exporters permitted by Centre to send some trucks to Bangladesh||Eight trucks loaded with onions entered Bangladesh through the Mahadipur land port in West Bengal’s Malda district on Saturday, after the Centre allowed relaxation for vehicles that reported for customs clearance on or before September 14, the day the ban on onion export was ordered in view of the steep price rise across India. Following the order, many exporters started diverting trucks headed for Bangladesh to wholesalers in West Bengal. As a result, prices came down by around five rupees in the state’s retail markets. On September 14, the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) under the Union ministry of commerce and industry issued a notification, stopping export of onions to foreign countries. Hundreds of trucks headed for Bangladesh got stranded at the six land ports in Malda, North Dinajpur, Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri and North 24 Parganas districts. Uzzal Saha, general secretary, West Bengal Exporters’ Coordination Committee, said, “The DGFT has said in a new notification that trucks that reported to the customs on or before September 14 for inspection and document verification may be allowed to enter Bangladesh.” “Eight trucks reached Bangladesh on Saturday through Mahadipur but hundreds more are still stranded at the other land ports. We are receiving reports that around 25 per cent of the onions have turned bad because of heat and humidity. Many exporters have started selling their consignments in local markets,” said Biswas. “We suffered huge losses during the nationwide lockdown. The ban on onion export will add to that loss,” he added. On September 15, the West Bengal Exporters’ Coordination Committee wrote a letter to the DGFT, saying exporters are having difficulty because many consignments are sent against letters of credit issued by banks of the importing countries. It is difficult to divert these consignments to local markets as that would be breach of commitment, said the letter. In recent weeks, Bangladesh has exported around 200 tons of Hilsa to West Bengal. Considered a delicacy, Hilsa has been in short supply at local markets this year because of low yield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onion-exporters-permitted-by-centre-to-send-some-trucks-to-bangladesh/story-Qfn0SJkZu2YNxBYHtkrTfP.html
20-09-2020||India||Bike-borne killers shoot dead school principal in broad daylight in Gorakhpur||A school principal was shot dead in broad daylight in Gorakhpur on Sunday and her teenage daughter was injured when two motorcycle-borne assailants fired at them, police said.Forty-three-year-old Nivedita Major, principal of Ahirauli primary school in Kushinagar district,was brought dead to the BRD Medical College while the condition of her daughter is critical.Nivedita Major had left her home near Saint John Church in Basaratpur locality of Gorakhpur along with her 18-year-old daughter Delysia on a scooter for her in-laws residence in Ram Janki Nagar in the afternoon.Two unidentified persons on a motorcycle overtook their scooter and the pillion rider whipped out a pistol and fired on the mother and daughter.The criminals fired indiscriminately on Nivedita and Delysia. Police said Nivedita was hit thrice while her daughter was hit by a single bullet in the chest. The two women fell on the road after being shot.When the passerby rushed toward the spot, the criminals fired in the air to disperse them and escaped. The local people informed the police about the incident and the two women were rushed to the BRD Medical College hospital where the doctors declared Nivedita dead on arrival. The Medical College administration said, condition of Delysia is critical. Eyewitnesses said the assailants were wearing helmets.Senior police officers including Deputy inspector General of Police, (Gorakhpur Range), Rajesh Modak, SSP, Jogendra Kumar reached the spot with a forensic team and a dog squad. The SSP said the crime branch has started investigation into the killing of the school principal. Police teams have been constituted to nab the killers. The police have detained a few persons including a property dealer for interrogation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bike-borne-killers-shoot-dead-school-principal-in-broad-daylight-in-gorakhpur/story-k3aS8kYxAC9Q2aoLPUSnSJ.html
20-09-2020||India||‘Strongly condemn aggression towards deputy chairman’: Rajnath Singh||The government on Sunday said it strongly condemned the “aggressive and violent behaviour” by opposition members towards the Rajya Sabha vice-chairman during the debate to pass the two farm bills in the House. Addressing a press conference along with several of his colleagues, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “Whatever happened was against parliamentary dignity. It has delivered a big blow. Rule books were torn, other important papers were torn. Mikes were snatched. Opposition members were in the well and attempts were made to climb onto the vice-chairman’s chair.” He was joined by his colleagues Prakash Javadekar, Prahlad Joshi, Piyush Goyal, Thawar Chand Gehlot and Mukhtar Abbas Naqwi. Parliament witnessed chaos during the voice vote to pass The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. ALSO READ | After ruckus in Rajya Sabha, Venkaiah Naidu to take a call on unruly behaviour of MPsOpposition members, claiming that their demand for a division vote was being ignored, attempted to stall the proceedings and raised slogans in the well of the house, leading to an adjournment for 10 minutes. “Such an incident has never happened in the history of Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha. It is all the more unfortunate that this happened in Rajya Sabha, which is known as the house of elders,” Singh said. At a press conference in the evening, Singh said the opposition was trying to mislead farmers. “Neither minimum support prices (MSPs) nor agriculture produce market committee are going to be ended. Our government has increased MSPs and they will never be ended under any circumstances,” Singh said. On the issue of no confidence motion against deputy chairman Harvansh, Singh said: “Notice has gone. Chairman will decide. It is his prerogative.” On the resignation of Shiromani Akali Dal minister in the Modi Cabinet, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Singh said there were political reasons behind it and he would not like to comment on it. “There was full discussion from 9.30 am to 1.30 pm. Even if one were to assume that the opposition was being ignored, are they right to get violent and attack the deputy chairman?” Singh asked. On the question of opposition MPs seeking a division vote and being ignored, minister of minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the deputy chairman kept urging opposition MPs to go to their seats and demand a division vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strongly-condemn-aggression-towards-deputy-chairman-rajnath-singh/story-2KdtyiKqay2xmlpQsaKQMI.html
20-09-2020||India||UP government plans a new film city: All you need to know||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath last week announced that his government is working towards setting up the country’s biggest film city. The site of the new project will be in Gautam Buddha Nagar district (better known as Noida).Noida already boasts of a film city in its 16A sector which houses many film production companies and offices of media houses.Adityanath has instructed officials to search for a suitable land in or around Noida, Greater Noida or Yamuna Expressway and prepare an action plan.The new film cityThe ambitious project will provide a good space for shooting of films and other programmes. UP BJP secretary Chandramohan said that the film city would generate revenue, bring in employment and also help showcase the state’s rich heritage. “There are vast untapped spots with pristine natural beauty and though film city has been talked about for long, it is now, that the project has got a move on,” he said.A better alternativeAccording to a statement issued by the Uttar Pradesh government, the proposed film city will provide a bettwr alternative for filmmakers.The project will give a boost to tourism and help bring in more talent, according to state government.The preparationThe Greater Noida authority has scrapped the night safari project for the proposed film city. The authority is set to request the Uttar Pradesh government to give necessary approvals paving way for starting the work at the site without any delay because it has 550 acres land available for this purpose. “As per the land use norms we can allow construction of studios on 200 acres of land with ground plus maximum eight floors above it and rest will be green in this dedicated city. At least 8 lakh square metres area can be developed for shooting as per initial estimates paving way for the best suited location for film making,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-government-plans-a-new-film-city-all-you-need-to-know/story-e6lANK939cjHKcZkDrFIXK.html
20-09-2020||India||‘Somewhere we made mistakes’: Shiv Sena’s Arvind Sawant on implementation of Covid-19 lockdown||Shiv Sena leader Arvind Sawant on Sunday highlighted the shortcomings of the sudden announcement of the Covid-19 lockdown. Speaking on a discussion on the management of the Covid-19 pandemic in the Lok Sabha, the MP from South Mumbai said that post-announcement of the lockdown there were so many people on the streets that the idea of social distancing went for a toss.He also said that there were no trains to ply the migrant workers back to their native places but goods trains mowed down people while they were sleeping on railway tracks.“After the announcement of lockdown, Mumbai streets saw more people than the number of people who would have come to streets post-Partition. But the government didn’t start trains. People were mowed down by (goods) trains on railway tracks. Somewhere we made mistakes,” he said.Sawant also highlighted how the Dharavi model became a standard for curbing the coronavirus contagion. He said that authorities in the Philippines implemented the same techniques to address the surge in the number of infections. He also said that the foreign as well as national media praised authorities in Maharashtra for the way they handled the infection in Dharavi, which is one of the largest slums in Mumbai, where people live in close proximity.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also highlighted the need of having discussions in Parliament on the coronavirus disease. “I have been saying it from the first day that you have given a positive message to the nation, by coming to Parliament in such large numbers even in the wake of a threat to health security,” said Birla.The Speaker also called the outbreak one of the greatest challenges to mankind. He said that these conversations will provide solutions to the nation in solving the challenges of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/somewhere-we-made-mistakes-shiv-sena-s-arvind-sawant-on-implementation-of-covid-19-lockdown/story-8D0TYbr6Uo7PjAbJrqkscL.html
20-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Hong Kong bans Air India flights, says one-third of 23 new cases recently travelled from India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Hong Kong bans Air India flights, says one-third of 23 new cases recently travelled from IndiaThe Hong Kong government on Sunday suspended flights from Air India after a surge in the number of coronavius disease cases, according to local media reports. Read moreDefence minister Rajnath Singh says ruckus in Rajya Sabha taints image of Parliament in front of entire nationDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the ruckus which took place in the Rajya Sabha during the debate on farm bills has tainted the image of Parliament in front of the entire nation. He called the behaviour saddening, unfortunate and shameful. Read moreAmid China’s actions across Indo-Pacific, 2nd Quad meeting slated to be held in Tokyo in OctThe members of the Quad, especially India, Japan and Australia, have also stepped up work on forging partnerships with like-minded countries in the region, or those with interests in the Indian Ocean, with an eye on China’s increasing assertiveness and aggressiveness. Read moreIPL 2020: Jos Buttler to miss Rajasthan Royals’ opening game against Chennai Super Kings due to quarantine requirementIPL 2020: The BCCI had reduced their quarantine period to 36 hours instead of the six days that other players underwent as they entered one bio-bubble from another, having arrived on a chartered flight. Read moreDeepika Padukone on being a badminton player during school days: ‘That was my life, no late nights, no TV, no movies’During her appearance on Nat Geo show Mega Icons, Deepika Padukone revealed her school days were all about badminton which did not allow her to spend time with her friends or enjoy watching TV or movies. Read moreHere’s what TikTok said after Donald Trump gave his blessings for Oracle dealThe new entity called TikTok Global would set up a new headquarter in the US and bring “25,000 jobs across the country.” Read moreUncharted Destination: Know all about Tuvalu island, one of the least visited travel destinationsLocated in the Pacific Ocean, the isolated island of Tuvalu is counted as one of the world’s least visited travel destinations but its gorgeous beaches and stilt houses are too dreamy to miss. Read moreWatch | Why USA top court judge’s death caused political fight: Trump vs Biden||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-hong-kong-bans-air-india-flights-says-one-third-of-23-new-cases-recently-travelled-from-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gIzGrNJlJ7RfMmom1aJFcI.html
20-09-2020||India||Assam CM orders probe into leak of question paper for police recruitment test||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal has ordered an inquiry into the leak of a question paper of a written test for police sub-inspectors which was scheduled for Sunday. Sonowal, who holds the home portfolio, directed Director General of Police (DGP) Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta to conduct the inquiry expeditiously and nab the culprit responsible for the leak. He also asked Mahanta to probe if there was any conspiracy to derail the recruitment process. The written examination for 597 posts of sub-inspectors, which drew thousands of applicants in 154 centres across the state, had to be cancelled after the question paper was leaked. “Before the start of the examination, the question paper was leaked and circulated on Whatsapp,” a statement issued by the chairman, state level police recruitment board, said. “In the interest of justice to the aspiring candidates and to ensure merit based selection, on the direction of the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Assam, the examination was cancelled,” it added. The criminal investigation department (CID) of Assam Police has lodged an FIR in this regard and started investigations to nab the culprits. The new dates of the written examination are expected to be announced within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-orders-probe-into-leak-of-question-paper-for-police-recruitment-test/story-WCX6Jjd7ApiKcyVAlyKA2H.html
20-09-2020||India||This kind of attack on the Chair...: Smriti Irani on Opposition’s ruckus in Rajya Sabha||Union minister Smriti Irani on Sunday strongly condemned the ruckus created by Opposition parties in Rajya Sabha as the Upper House of the Parliament cleared the farm bills.Calling the whole incident saddening, Irani slammed the lawmakers for breaking the microphone of deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha. “The kind of attack on the Chair of Deputy Chairman, is saddening incident. Is it befitting to the politics of this nation? Is it right to go and break the mic at a chair on which not only deputy chairman but also the Vice President of the nation sits?,” the BJP leader was quoted by ANI as saying.A major ruckus was created in Rajya Sabha by Opposition parties over farm bills on Sunday. Many lawmakers firmly protested against the bills in the House.  Some MPs broke the microphones on the chairman’s desk. The camera showed some MPs tearing papers and protesting near the chair in Rajya Sabha on Sunday.The Opposition has moved a no-confidence motion against the Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh Narayan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddening-incident-smriti-irani-on-opposition-s-ruckus-in-rajya-sabha/story-ar0zCLoMQCxcqrpoKd5MdK.html
20-09-2020||India||Amid China’s actions across Indo-Pacific, 2nd Quad meeting slated to be held in Tokyo in Oct||The second ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad is expected to be held in Tokyo early next month, people familiar with developments said, with the meet coming against the backdrop of China’s aggressive actions across the Indo-Pacific. The meet will be held at a time when all four members of the Quad have serious differences with China – India is engaged in a border standoff in Ladakh, the Australian government has pledged to halt projects under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), Japan is worried about Chinese intrusions near the Senkaku Islands, and the US is engaged in a trade war. There has been no official word on the Quad meeting, with the external affairs ministry only saying the four sides were in talks to decide the venue and timing. The people cited above said the meeting is expected to be held in the Japanese capital in early October. ALSO READ | India forging key ties, with an eye on ChinaThe members of the Quad, especially India, Japan and Australia, have also stepped up work on forging partnerships with like-minded countries in the region, or those with interests in the Indian Ocean, with an eye on China’s increasing assertiveness and aggressiveness. External affairs minister S Jaishankar said last week India and Japan were looking at cooperating on projects in Bangladesh and Myanmar as part of their efforts to work together in third countries. India, Australia and France held their inaugural senior officials’ trilateral dialogue, with the focus on building convergences in the Indo-Pacific, on September 9, the same day that India and Japan signed the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA), a pact for reciprocal provision of supplies and services between their defence forces. ALSO READ | India, Japan sign key pact for reciprocal provision of supplies, services between defence forcesChina has eyed the Quad, which was revived in 2017, with suspicion, especially after the grouping was upgraded to the ministerial level in September last year. The upcoming Quad meeting will also be the first such high-level meet to be held in Tokyo since March, when the Covid-19 pandemic stopped virtually all travel by top government functionaries. Former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had played a key role in the revival of the Quad and the holding of the meeting in Tokyo is expected to signal that his successor Yoshihide Suga is expected to continue with similar security and diplomatic policies, the people cited above said. Senior officials of the Quad countries have held several virtual meetings during the pandemic to share experiences and coordinate on efforts to counter the Coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-china-s-actions-across-indo-pacific-2nd-quad-meeting-slated-to-be-held-in-tokyo-in-oct/story-glsVPEW6xCPQQqFdNK1B7H.html
20-09-2020||India||Don’t want to say anything political: Rajnath Singh on Opposition’s no-confidence motion||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday refused to comment on the no-confidence motion moved by the Opposition against Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh. Addressing a press conference along with other Union ministers, Singh condemned the ruckus created in Parliament during the passage of the farm bills. This day will go down in history as 'black day'. The way these bills have been passed goes against democratic processes & amounts to killing democracy. 12 Opposition parties have moved a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha Dy chairman: Congress MP Ahmed Patel pic.twitter.com/OKVSB97VNrReplying to a question on what the next course of action will be as 12 Opposition parties have moved a no-confidence motion against the deputy chairman, the defence minister said, “Notice has been given to the chairman. A decision will be taken by him. I don’t want to say anything political. This is the prerogative of the chairman.”Also Read | Defence minister Rajnath Singh says ruckus in Rajya Sabha taints image of Parliament in front of entire nation“There has been a long debate over the bills. Even if I agree that the Opposition was not being heard, which I don’t actually agree with, does it warrant that they will attack the deputy chairman? Does this justify damaging the microphone?” the defence minister said. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed by the upper house of Parliament amid protests from the Opposition in Parliament, and farmers in several parts of the country.Also Read | Be assured, MSP will continue, says Rajnath Singh on farm billsOn Sunday, Opposition MPs trooped into the well of the House protesting against the farm Bills. Some MPs broke the microphones on the chairman’s desk; and were seen on camera tearing papers. Some MPs were caught on camera protesting near the chair.Also Read | After ruckus in Rajya Sabha, Venkaiah Naidu to take a call on unruly behaviour of MPsWhile Derek O’Brien from the TMC was caught waving the rule book at the chair, AAP’s Sanjay Singh was carried out by the marshals later. At least 12 Members of the Opposition later sat in protest in the House, after the proceedings were over“Rajya Sabha deputy chairman should safeguard the democratic traditions but instead, his attitude today harmed the democratic traditions and processes. So we have decided to move a no-confidence motion against him,” Congress Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel said earlier. “This day will go down in history as ‘black day’. The way these Bills have been passed goes against democratic processes and amounts to killing democracy. 12 Opposition parties have moved a no-confidence motion against the deputy chairman,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-to-say-anything-political-rajnath-singh-on-opposition-s-no-confidence-motion/story-8JFoPV6mMY2ZrZbWeo51nM.html
20-09-2020||India||Be assured, MSP will continue, says Rajnath Singh on farm bills||With all the ongoing uproar over farm bills that were passed in the Upper House of Parliament on Sunday, defence minister Rajnath Singh at a press conference assured farmers that the minimum support price (MSP) will continue. “I want to assure farmers that minimum support price and APMC will continue. These will never be removed at any cost,” the defence minister said at the press conference.Apart from Rajnath Singh, Prakash Javadekar, Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal, Thawarchand Gehlot and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi were also present at the press conference.At the media briefing, Rajnath Singh strongly asserted that such conduct by Opposition parties was not expected in a healthy democracy.The government has been on the receiving end ever since the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were approved in Rajya Sabha on Sunday.Condemning Opposition’s ruckus in Parliament, Rajnath Singh said, “What happened in Rajya Sabha today was saddening, unfortunate and shameful. It is the responsibility of the ruling side to enable discussions in the House but it is also the duty of the Opposition to maintain decorum.”The government says the farm bills will help boost the farming sector through private investments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-assured-msp-will-continue-says-rajnath-singh-on-farm-bills/story-CjEOQl0I87MAKHHz3Enn1H.html
20-09-2020||India||‘I am also a farmer’: Rajnath Singh’s counter to attack on farm bills||Condemning the ruckus in the Rajya Sabha during the debates on farm bills on Sunday, Union minister Rajnath Singh said whatever happened in the Upper House of Parliament is shameful, unfortunate and sad.Here is what the defence minister said: * Discussions were on about two bills in the Rajya Sabha. What happened in the Rajya Sabha was sad, shameful. It tarnishes the image of parliamentary democracy.* While the ruling party is responsible for the smooth functioning of Parliament, the Opposition is also responsible to maintain decorum. This is not what democracy is.* This two bills are historic for both farmers and the agricultural sector of the country. Farmers will naturally earn more. But farmers are being misled to believe that MSPs will end. In reality, farmers will be able to sell their products wherever they want.Also Read | Defence minister Rajnath Singh says ruckus in Rajya Sabha taints the image of Parliament in front of the entire nation* The entire country saw what happened to the deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha. Something like this never happened in the Lok Sabha, not in the Rajya Sabha either. This happening in Rajya Sabha is an even bigger matter. We call it the House of Elders* I am also a farmer. I can’t believe in my life that the government would do something which will harm the farmers. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed by the upper house of Parliament amid protests from the Opposition in Parliament, and farmers in several parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-also-a-farmer-what-rajnath-singh-said-on-rajya-sabha-ruckus/story-YLhFJxM1yUxrpDFtOyAyJL.html
20-09-2020||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh says ruckus in Rajya Sabha taints image of Parliament in front of entire nation||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the ruckus which took place in the Rajya Sabha during the debate on farm bills has tainted the image of Parliament in front of the entire nation. He called the behaviour saddening, unfortunate and shameful.“As far as I know, this has never happened in the history of Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha. This happening in Rajya Sabha is an even bigger matter. Attempts are being made to mislead the farmers on the basis of rumours. What happened is against the decorum of House,” said Singh while addressing a press conference.“Rajya Sabha is called House of Elders. Those who believed in parliamentary procedures will be hurt by such behaviour,” he added.He also hailed the bills passed by Parliament, saying these are landmark legislations.The defence minister said the legislations have “cemented the strong foundation for ‘Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) Agriculture’.”The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed by the upper house of Parliament amid protests from the Opposition in Parliament, and farmers in several parts of the country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also hailed the passage of the bills, stating it was a “watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture”.In a series of tweets, Prime Minister said that the passage of bills will liberate farmers from decades of various constraints and bullying by middlemen.“A watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture! Congratulations to our hardworking farmers on the passage of key bills in Parliament, which will ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector as well as empower crores of farmers,” said in one of his tweets.Prime Minister further called the passage of bills a welcoming step, which will let the farmers have easier access to futuristic technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-says-ruckus-in-rajya-sabha-taints-the-image-of-parliament-in-front-of-the-entire-nation/story-cFBdgrq7EvJAeklJZBsA8O.html
20-09-2020||India||Mumbai, Thane brace for heavy rain as IMD sounds orange alert||The weather bureau on Sunday upgraded its rain warning for Mumbai and Thane to an orange alert - heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places - for Tuesday.A yellow alert has been issued for Monday with a forecast for heavy rain at isolated areas or thunderstorms accompanied by lightning with gusty winds.“Active monsoon conditions and enhanced rain activity up to September 22 due to the development of a low pressure area over northeast Bay of Bengal, which will strengthen surface level winds and its convergence along the west coast,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Though a yellow alert had been sounded for Sunday as well, no rain was recorded throughout the day between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm. Over the past 24 hours, between 8.30 am Saturday and 8.30 am Sunday, the Santacruz weather observatory recorded 12.4 mm rainfall while Colaba received 2.8 mm rain.“While light to moderate rain was recorded over 24 hours ending Sunday across Mumbai and Thane, northern suburbs of Mira Bhayander received heavy rain. Heavy rain is expected along north and south Konkan and isolated areas of interior Maharashtra on Monday and Tuesday” said Hosalikar.The drop in rain activity led to a rise in temperatures on Sunday as Santacruz recorded the maximum temperature at 32.4 degrees Celsius, 1.7 degree Celsius above normal while Colaba recorded the day temperature close to the normal mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-thane-brace-for-heavy-rain-as-imd-sounds-orange-alert/story-IRm8JzGjPcc6XMLZFMxNUO.html
20-09-2020||India||Vipin gives a musical tribute to his father!||Music composer and singer Vipin Patwa believes staying connected to one’s roots is a must for all of us. “My 2020 takeaways are that never forget your roots and appreciate your parents before they are gone. I lost my father recently! Thankfully, I had an opportunity to be with him for almost a month,” said the UPite. Vipin feels content that he was able to spend time with him. “Above everything, I sang for him and he loved my bhajans wholeheartedly! I will cherish always those days. I found a sense of belonging and have attained peace of mind,” he said during his recent visit to his hometown Gorakhpur. ‘Housefull 4,’ ‘De de Pyaar de’ and ‘Daas Dev’ composer is working on original singles. “I continued composing for different projects from my home during the lockdown and unlock phases. This phase gave me a lot of time for myself and music. In between, I went to Chandigarh to shoot for a music video for a Punjabi singer. I simultaneously worked on quite a few singles and this week I’ll be releasing my new single ‘Pukara’ written by Dr Sagar that I have composed and sung. It is my small tribute to my father.” When asked to pick between composing and singing, he was quick to revert, “I live music, I was a music scholar before reaching Bollywood so for me music is first and foremost. Of late, singing has been my focus and I’m enjoying it too but composing remains my first love. “ Vipin has composed songs for upcoming films like, ‘The Girl on the Train’, ‘Nikamma’ and others along with his singles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/vipin-gives-a-musical-tribute-to-his-father/story-5QksM1JwtBxJDyXfqYyapN.html
20-09-2020||India||Richa set to follow her acting dream!||Lucknow girl Richa Sinha is going places. The model-turned-actor, who was last seen in Bulleya-singer Amit Mishra’s recently released single ‘Tere Bina’ with actor Faisal Khan, is all set to shoot for her first feature film. She shot for Amit’s song just ten days back. “We shot for the music video over two days in Mumbai. The song has been written by Palak Muchhal and composed by Palaash Muchhal,” she shared. Richa started her career as a model. And it was after her intermediate course that she relocated to Mumbai to pursue acting. “I won World Supermodel South Asia (2018) and then bagged second runners-up in World Pageant in Fiji representing India. I was also crowned as Miss India Global (2019) in China.” After winning the pageants she took up acting last year, “Since last few months I devoted time to pursuing a number of acting courses and workshops. Last year I did an OTT film ‘One Stop for Love’ but the upcoming feature film will see me playing a protagonist. The shoot is scheduled to start in Shivpuri from October 7 and the film is being directed by Ayush Raina (maker of Horror Story). It’s going to be a horror-thriller film.” The recent lockdown brought Richa back to Lucknow. “With onset of unlock phase I started travelling again for work. I shot for commercials in Jaipur, Delhi, Mussoorie and Neemrana Fort. I have also shot for a love song for a new singer that is slated for Navratri. Besides, I’ll soon shoot another song for Palaash,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/richa-set-to-follow-her-acting-dream/story-GLPYPBk3WzsHascTA3FkBL.html
20-09-2020||India||Farmers in Maharashtra’s Dhule laud farm bills passed by Rajya Sabha||Farmers in Maharashtra’s Dhule district lauded the contentious agriculture bills passed in Rajya Sabha, saying the Modi government has removed all the compulsions that farmers have had for a long time.“The bills introduced in the Lok Sabha by the Modi government has removed all the compulsions that farmers have had for so long. Now we can sell our harvests all over the country,” news agency ANI quoted a farmer as saying.“The decision that has been taken by the government is in interest of farmers. Earlier we were not getting the expected price of the crops and now I think the Central government is standing with us and supporting the farmers of the country,” said another farmer.The Rajya Sabha on Sunday gave a nod to two crucial farm bills as the upper house of Parliament witnessed a ruckus by the slogan-shouting Opposition leaders.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, were passed by voice votes.As per the bills, farmers can take their produce anywhere - inter-state or intra-state - beyond agricultural produce market committees (APMCs).The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, also tabled by the Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, could not be taken up due to the time limitation.These bills will now go to President Ram Nath Kovind for his assent after which they will become law.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against the bills.Describing it as the “anti-farmer”, agriculturists fear that these bills will end the mandi system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-in-maharashtra-s-dhule-laud-farm-bills-passed-by-rajya-sabha/story-YqUJPQFEOmzf5lYmUZ3fkK.html
20-09-2020||India||Heavy rain batters Kerala, IMD sounds red alert for six districts||A red alert has been sounded in six districts of Kerala as the low pressure that has developed over the Bay of Bengal gained strength. It will continue to rain for the next three days, the India Meteorological Department’s regional centre in Thiruvananthapuram said. Several parts of the state have been receiving heavy rain for the past few days and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams are on standby in affected areas. Shutters of many swollen dams have been opened to ease storage and several rivers are filled to the brim. People living in low-lying areas have been shifted to relief camps as a precautionary measure. IMD regional centre director, K Santhosh, said the low pressure area is likely to become more marked over the northwest part of the Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours. Fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea and landslide-prone areas have also been warned. On August 7, a landslide in Idukki district had flattened a row of dwelling units claiming 70 lives. Usually the IMD sounds a red alert if the rainfall is expected to be more than 20 cm and above in 24 hours and orange alert if it is between 11 and 20 cms. Vadakara in Kozhikode district received 10 cam rainfall till Sunday noon and many areas also witnessed high-speed winds. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority has banned night travel in hilly areas in view of the prevailing situation. Red alert is in force in six districts_ Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Malappuram and Idukki and orange alert in four other districts. The state has already crossed the 2000 mm rainfall mark during the current south-west monsoon season-- this is the third consecutive year the state is surpassing the usual quota of (2000 mm) of rain, IMD data showed. In 2018, the state had witnessed a severe flood which claimed more than 500 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-batters-kerala-imd-sounds-red-alert-for-six-districts/story-uaHVG4VT3CgmxkuKnxxvAN.html
20-09-2020||India||Banquet hall in Uttarakhand’s Rudrapur turned into Covid care centre for prisoners||Authorities in Uttarakhand’s Rudrapur area have converted a banquet hall into a temporary Covid care centre for prisoners to house 73 inmates who tested positive for Covid-19 in the central jail in Sitarganj on Thursday.Two elderly Covid-19 positive prisoners from Sitarganj Jail have also died at Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital Haldwani in the last three days. They were admitted in the hospital last week where their Covid-19 tests were carried out.“Prisoners who tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday have been housed in a banquet hall in Rudrapur. Health officials are conducting Covid-19 test on the rest of the prisoners in jail,” said Dadhi Ram Maurya, superintendent, central jail, Sitarganj. Sitarganj jail has around 700 prisoners. Samples are being collected for the rest of the prisoners for RT-PCR test.“So far 337 samples have been collected in the last two days after the 73 prisoners tested positive”, said Maurya. “Two teams of the health officials are collecting samples of the prisoners after 73 prisoners tested positive. This is the third round of testing in the jail. Earlier in March and August, samples were collected since the outbreak started in the state,” he said.The jail superintendent said the entire prison premise is being sanitized twice a day as a precautionary measure. “Entry and exit from jail premises has been absolutely restricted to curb the further spread of the virus. Social distancing is also being maintained by prisoners in jail,” he said. Two elderly Covid-19 positive prisoners from Sitarganj Jail have also died at Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital Haldwani in the last three days. “They were admitted for treatment in the last week at the hospital in Haldwani. Later, they tested positive for Covid-19. The two prisoners included a 76-year- old prisoner who hailed from Kunwarpur Sisaiyan village and an 86-year-old prisoner, who was from Bichai village. Both these villages fall under Nanakmatta police station in Udham Singh Nagar district,” said Maurya||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banquet-hall-in-uttarakhand-s-rudrapur-turned-into-covid-care-centre-for-prisoners/story-a47Vu4nVdINXHET1VU0fHP.html
20-09-2020||India||Clone trains will arrive at destinations 2-3 hours before parent trains: Official||With the Railways rolling out 40 clone trains from Monday, waitlisted passengers on high traffic routes can hope to reach their destinations two-three hours before the corresponding parent train, a senior official said on Sunday.These clone trains -- primarily 3-AC trains with fewer halts, higher speeds and a departure time before the parent train -- come as a boon for the passengers who have to travel in an emergency or have made last-minute plans, the official said.Their stoppages will be limited to operational halts or the Divisional Headquarters en-route (if any), thereby reducing their journey time, the official said.“These trains will reach their destinations two to three hours in advance. That’s how they have been planned,” a senior official told PTI.“We are assuming that during these times, people will travel only in an emergency and we want to make sure that on the high traffic routes, we can accommodate all passengers who want to travel.” The Railways has introduced these 20 pairs of trains on high demand routes with most trains between Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.While the tickets for 19 pairs of these trains -- all 18 coaches -- will be charged at the Humsafar Express rates, it will be at par with the Janshatabdi Express rates for the 22-coach clone train between Lucknow and Delhi.The advance reservation period for these trains will be 10 days and the booking opened at 8 am on September 19, the Railways said.“It is better to run trains on routes where there is more demand, than keeping the assets idle. We tried to implement this earlier, but not enough path was available. Now, with this pandemic there is no dearth of path and this is the right time to test the market for such trains,” the official said.“The clone trains will be primarily 3AC trains and run ahead of the already operating special trains. The zones have been given flexibility to decide how much of a head start the clone trains will be given depending on the availability of path and commercial viability it can be one hour or four hours or even more ,¨ he added.While as of now, no dynamic fare is being charged for these trains, sources said that in the near future, it can be considered. This initiative was first announced by then Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu in 2016, but it failed to take off primarily because of congestion on the rail network. While the 19 pairs of Humsafar Express trains will be of 18 coaches, the Lucknow-Delhi train will have 22 coaches.According to the list of trains being run by the Railways, 10 trains (5 pairs) will operate between Bihar and Delhi under the East Central Railways.These trains will originate and terminate at Bihar’s Saharsa, Rajendra Nagar, Rajgir, Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur.The two trains operating under the Northeast Frontier Railway are also from Bihar: Katihar to Delhi and back.The Northern Railway will also run 10 trains (5 pairs) which will operate between Delhi and Bihar and back, West Bengal to Delhi, Punjab to West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh to Delhi among others.The South Central Railway will operate two trains between Danapur (Bihar) to Secunderabad and back.The South Western Railway will operate 6 trains (3 pairs) between Goa and Delhi, Karnataka-Bihar and Karnataka-Delhi.The Western Railway will run 10 trains (5 pairs) between Bihar (Darbhanga)-Gujarat(Ahmedabad), Delhi-Gujarat, Bihar (Chhapra) to Gujarat (Surat), Mumbai-Punjab, Gujarat(Ahmedabad)-Bihar (Patna) The Railways had suspended all passenger trains services due to the imposition of a nationwide lockdown from 25th March. However, it resumed services in a staggered manner, with Shramik Special trains to help stranded migrant workers reach their home states from 1st May. Then, it started 230 special trains across the country, followed by another 80 special trains from September 12. The additional trains were announced keeping in mind the COVID-19 situation, and also to allow reverse migration of workers to urban areas for work, with the country entering into Unlock 4.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clone-trains-will-arrive-at-destinations-2-3-hours-before-parent-trains-official/story-MIK5IDiPjSyhyf2CZdtx3J.html
20-09-2020||India||Delhi Assembly panel issues fresh notice of appearance to Facebook India VP||A fresh notice has been issued by the Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee to Facebook India vice president and managing director Ajit Mohan to ensure his presence for deposing before the panel on September 23.Any defiance to the subsequent notice for appearance will be deemed to be an act of “breach of the constitutionally-guaranteed privileges” of the committee, warned a statement issued by the panel on Sunday.The final warning to the social media giant was issued by the committee chaired by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha as Mohan did not appear for his deposition during the last meeting of the panel.Chadha had said the non-appearance of the top Facebook official to depose before the committee was a contempt of the Delhi Legislative Assembly as well as the people of the national capital.He had insisted that Facebook must honour the proceedings taking place under Delhi’s state legislature in the same manner as they did for a parliamentary standing committee.“Any rebuttal or disregard to this subsequent notice shall be deemed as a wilful act of breach of privilege and thus, shall entail various proceedings initiated against Facebook India,” the statement said.The committee had taken cognizance of the accusations against Facebook for its alleged “complicity” in the northeast Delhi riots of February on the premise of the “incriminatory material” produced on record by the witnesses as well as their depositions in its previous meetings.“In the interest of natural justice, the committee had decided to call Ajit Mohan as an official representative of Facebook to dispel the allegations levelled against the platform and enable the aggrieved citizens to restore their faith on their platform and services offered by them,” the statement said.The hearing by the Assembly panel started in the backdrop of a Wall Street Journal report that claimed that a senior Facebook India policy executive had intervened in internal communication to stop a permanent ban on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker from Telangana, after he allegedly shared communally-charged posts on the social media platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-assembly-panel-issues-fresh-notice-of-appearance-to-facebook-india-vp/story-aDuq4czlNHdo0Xnx0V0tPN.html
20-09-2020||India||Closed for 6 months due to pandemic, Taj Mahal set for reopening on Monday||The stage is set for the reopening of the Taj Mahal on Monday after six months of closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Preparations are in full swing for the 17th century monument to welcome visitors, albeit with social distancing and other restrictions.A maximum of 5,000 visitors will be allowed in a day into the monument.Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials said they had not neglected the monument despites its gates having remained closed for so long.“Lawns were maintained all through these six months and we are all set for the Taj re-opening from September 21 – from sunrise to sunset. The tourists would go through thermal check and they would be provided with sanitizer,” said AN Gupta, the new conservation assistant for ASI at Taj Mahal. Gupta said not more than five visitors will be allowed at a time within the main mausoleum which houses the graves of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan and his wife Mumtaz Mahal. Tickets will not be sold through the window counters. These can be booked online from the ASI website or mobile app. “Taj Mahal and Agra Fort will reopen for tourists from Monday. Ticket sale will be online and the Taj will remain closed on Fridays. Protocol for Covid-19 will be followed while allowing tourists inside the monument,” said Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh. Vasant Swarnkar, superintending archaeologist for ASI’s Agra Circle, said, “The Taj Mahal will have visitors in two slots — pre-lunch and post-lunch. In each slot, there would be a maximum of 2,500 visitors. Once tickets for the first slot are sold, tickets will be issued for the second slot. In a day, a maximum 5,000 visitors can visit the Taj Mahal.” Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawans will remain at a distance and check visitors with hand-held metal detectors.While no goods are to be carried inside the Taj Mahal, an ambulance would be ready at the gates of the monument, Gupta said. Those who make a living in and around the Taj are also excited. For instance, Munawwar Ali, 50, began cleaning items at his marble goods shop on Sunday for the first time since March 16. “We have called the staff on Monday after six months. We expect business to be slow but at least we will see tourists going to the Taj,” said Ali who has a shop adjoining the western gate of the monument. ‘Yes, we are excited about the reopening of the Taj after such a long duration. Once the gates of the Taj open, a day will come when international flights will resume. In the beginning, domestic tourists from nearby regions would come,” said Rajiv Tiwari, president of the Federation of Travel Association of Agra.“ASI needs to follow the Covid protocol so that all goes smoothly. The government should begin thinking about restarting international flights as European nations have resumed tourism. We have to live with the coronavirus,” Tiwari added. Indians will have to pay Rs 50 per ticket for visiting the Taj and shell out Rs 200 more for entering the main mausoleum. During routine days, it was mostly foreign tourists who used to pay extra to enter the main mausoleum.Tourism trade experts recollect that the Taj Mahal had never remained closed for such a long period before. The decision to close monuments all over the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic was taken on March 17, even before the lockdown. “It is perhaps for the first time that the ‘monument of love’, which attracts a large number of tourists to India, had been closed for such a long time,” said Arun Dang, former president of Tourism Guild and veteran of the Agra tourism trade. “This is unprecedented. Though the monument was closed during the Second World War and also during two wars with Pakistan in 1965 and 1971, the closure had not been so long,” said Dang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/closed-for-6-months-due-to-pandemic-taj-mahal-set-for-reopening-on-monday/story-YV86ca5AFR8dGzNuuuVfJJ.html
20-09-2020||India||Democracy is ashamed of govt’s ‘death warrant’ against farmers: Rahul Gandhi on farm bills||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed the farm bills that were passed in the Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) on Sunday, saying that the ‘democracy is ashamed’ by the decision.“The farmer who grows gold forom earth, Modi government’s pride is making that farmer cry tears of blood,” the Congress leader wrote on Twitter in Hindi.Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, which the government says will help boost the farming sector through private investments, were approved in Rajya Sabha today, inviting a lot of criticism from opposition parties. “Democracy is ashamed of the way this government issued a death warrant against farmers through these bills in Rajya Sabha,” Rahul Gandhi further wrote on Twitter. जो किसान धरती से सोना उगाता है,मोदी सरकार का घमंड उसे ख़ून के आँसू रुलाता है।राज्यसभा में आज जिस तरह कृषि विधेयक के रूप में सरकार ने किसानों के ख़िलाफ़ मौत का फ़रमान निकाला, उससे लोकतंत्र शर्मिंदा है।The Parliament on Sunday witnessed a lot of drama and uproar. Calling the farm bills introduced by the government as “black laws”, Congress party hit out at the government and raised the issue of Minimum Support Price (MSP).“Why the government is running away from providing legal obligation for MSP. Who will take a guarantee of MSP outside ‘Mandi’,” Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/democracy-is-ashamed-of-govt-s-death-warrant-against-farmers-rahul-gandhi-on-farm-bills/story-2r1Zlmn1O32Bx7QaiJr2hP.html
20-09-2020||India||Srinagar airport security gets a boost with latest baggage screening system||The latest inline baggage screening system (ILBS) that can detect explosives easily was installed at the Srinagar international airport on Sunday to strengthen security at the facility, officials said.Santosh Dhoke, airport director, Srinagar international airport said that the ILBS will make the airport more secure.“Even explosives can be detected by the new screening system. This explosive detection system scans baggage 360° and creates CT-Slice with 3D image to detect explosive material in baggage “ he said.The scanner is capable of handling up to 1,800 bags per hour, making the baggage screening process faster and more efficient, he said.Dhoke said that ILBS with CTX 9800 DSI (Computed Tomography) Scanners was made operational for enhancement of aviation safety and security infrastructure at the Srinagar airport. “The Inline hold baggage handling system (HBS) has been integrated with airport Baggage Handling System (BHS) in order to provide a complete hold baggage processing and screening system,” he said.He said that the ILBS is a latest and superior technology and is being used all over the world at major airports for screening hold baggage.The new system will also eliminate queues at departure lounges where stand alone x-ray machines have been in use till now. “Stand-alone machines occupy space at departure lounges and also cause big queues, which disrupt passenger flow during peak hours. Keeping in view the security threat and hypersensitiveness, the multi-level CT-EDS based in-line detection system has been installed at Srinagar Airport,”Dhoke said.He said that now onwards passengers no need to scan their registered baggage before dropping at the check-in counters, resulting in faster passenger processing, minimum queuing time, and less congestion at the check-in area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-airport-security-gets-a-boost-with-latest-baggage-screening-system/story-WqRDiKbuXsBd2672TgnGLJ.html
20-09-2020||India||India provides soft loan of $250 mn to the Maldives||India on Sunday provided a soft loan of $250 million to the government of the Maldives as budgetary support to mitigate the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the latest in a string of support measures for the Indian Ocean archipelago. The aid was welcomed by the Maldives’ foreign minister Abdulla Shahid, who said it would help bridge the revenue gap and meet his government’s immediate needs. The Covid-19 pandemic has had a massive impact on the tourism industry, the mainstay of the Maldives’ economy. The financial aid, first announced during a virtual meeting between Shahid and his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on August 13, was handed over at a ceremony in the Maldives’ foreign ministry attended by Shahid, finance minister Ibrahim Ameer, Indian envoy Sunjay Sudhir and senior State Bank of India official Bharat Mishra. Shahid, who spoke in Hindi at the event, said: “The whole world has been confronted by an unprecedented challenge, an unseen enemy, a threat we can’t disregard, a virus that has stopped operations by the world’s airlines, and forced all countries to make difficult decisions. It is a pandemic that forced us to close our borders and our homes. “But our friends, as always, have proved this pandemic couldn’t get them to close the doors to their hearts. Even at this difficult time, India has been our great friend.” Shahid also tweeted: “Grateful to receive the USD 250 million financial assistance from India to the Maldives today. The financial assistance provided through subscription in GoM Domestic Treasury Bonds by SBI will support the financing of the revenue gap, and meet the Gov’s immediate financing needs.” The Indian side said the budgetary support was provided in response to a request by President Ibrahim Solih to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for assistance to overcome the difficult economic situation. The soft loan has a very low interest rate and can be repaid over 10 years, said a statement from the Indian mission in Male.The loan is “extended without conditions” and the Maldives is “at liberty to use the money in repairing the domestic economic situation in line with its own priorities”, the statement said. The aid is “being routed through SBI, Male so that it does not reflect in the external borrowings of the Maldives” and the Indian government has provided a sovereign guarantee to SBI for the loan. “Since the principal payment is due only at the end of 10 years, it will not put any immediate debt servicing liability other than bi-annual interest payment. Maldives is the only country to which India has provided such assistance,” the statement said. During the meeting of the two foreign ministers on August 13, India also unveiled a $500-million package to help the Maldives build a connectivity project linking its capital Male with three islands. As part of measures to counter Covid-19, India will send doctors and nurses recruited on short-term contracts to reinforce the health system of the Maldives. Over the past few weeks, a total of 500 Maldivians patients travelled to India in eight batches for treatment. A team of Indian doctors and specialists visited the Maldives in March to assist in Covid-19 preparedness and two consignments of 11.7 tonnes of medicines were provided in April and May. India also lifted export restrictions on medical supplies, respiratory apparatus, test kits and reagents and maintained the supply of essential commodities to the Maldives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-provides-soft-loan-of-250-mn-to-the-maldives/story-yEtwD2LBZX9RszJnTSmDtO.html
20-09-2020||India||After ruckus in Rajya Sabha, Venkaiah Naidu to take a call on unruly behaviour of MPs||Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu will take a call on the action that could be taken against the opposition MPs who trooped into the well of the House on Sunday while protesting against the farm bills. According to people aware of the details, the chair has called a meeting with the parliamentary affairs minister to discuss the issue. While protesting, some MPs broke the microphones on the chairman’s desk; and were seen on camera tearing papers. Some MPs were caught on camera protesting near the chair.While Derek O’Brien from the TMC was caught waving the rule book at the chair, AAP’s Sanjay Singh was carried out by the marshals later. At least 12 Members of the Opposition later sat in protest in the House, after the proceedings were over; they also moved a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh. BJP MP and national general secretary, Bhupender Yadav critcised the “unruly behaviour” of the opposition members. He said the “chair is competent” to take a decision on what action should be taken.As per the rules of the House, the decision to ask an MP to leave is taken by the Chairman. Rule 256 provides for suspension of member; it says, “If the Chairman may, if he deems it necessary, name a member who disregards the authority of the Chair or abuses the rules of the Council by persistently and willfully obstructing the business thereof. Rule 256 (2) says if a member is so named by the Chairman he shall forthwith put the question on a motion being made, no amendment, adjournment or debate being allowed, that the member (naming him) be suspended from the service of the Council for a period not exceeding the remainder of the Session: Provided that the Council may, at any time, on a motion being made, resolve that such suspension be terminated; while 256 (3) says a member suspended under this rule shall forthwith quit the precincts of the Council.While several MPs complained the audio system was turned off, hampering the live proceedings of the House through the Rajya Sabha TV; there was no clarity on whether the mikes were turned off on the instruction of the chair. “There was a lot of disruption. After the mikes were broken, the sound system was affected, so even inside the House, the members could not hear the proceedings,” said a functionary aware of the details. Speaking outside Parliament, Prahlad Joshi, the parliamentary affairs minister criticised the behavior of the Opposition. The people of the country have given a mandate to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and “this (ruckus) is an insult of the people’s mandate,” he said. He went on to add, “Opposition has showed height of intolerance in Parliament today. They think of themselves as baadshah (king). We condemn the unruly behaviour of the opposition and we will never budge to such threats,” he said. Questions were also raised about the propriety of MPs shooting videos inside the House. O’Brien who tweeted a video from inside Parliament, told mediapersons that recordings were made by MPs to put on record the proceedings. He said he did not tear up the rule book and will put out the proof at the right time.A person familiar with the rules of the house said, the MPs have privileges, but if the chair deems fit, it can seek an explanation. “It is considered unethical, but since this an extra ordinary situation, the MPs may have recorded the visuals for the record. However, since the videos include what was expunged or not allowed to go on record; these cannot be used by the media,” the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ruckus-in-rajya-sabha-venkaiah-naidu-to-take-a-call-on-unruly-behaviour-of-mps/story-UZPCIwBkybnRh9C1b84GJN.html
20-09-2020||India||Tripura’s Covid-19 death rate highest in Northeast region, says govt report||Tripura, the smallest northeastern state, has the highest Covid-19 death rate in the region, according to the latest data released by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.According to the data, Sikkim recorded 1.03% death rate followed by Meghalaya with 0.79%, Manipur (0.63%), Assam (0.35%), Nagaland (0.28%), Arunachal Pradesh (0.18%) while Mizoram has no death so far.The fatality rate of Tripura, as per latest data shared by the state government, is 1.11%.Out of Tripura’s Covid-19 tally of 21,507, the death toll stands at 239. Two other patients died by suicide. The positivity rate in the state stands at 6.09% compared to the national positivity rate (8.01%) while the recovery rate is 68.83%. The state is conducting 88,334 tests per million, according to the state government’s data.Among the eight districts, West district is the worst affected in terms of fresh Covid-19 cases and deaths, according to the latest report of the state government. Agartala that falls in the West District has 70% of the positive cases.Barely a week ago, an analysis by the West District administration found that massive social functions including more than 3,000 wedding ceremonies, religious festivals and political rallies between August 9 and August 26 emerged were the main reasons for the spurt of Covid-19 cases in the district. “People did not maintain social distancing and that’s the reason for surge in the coronavirus cases in the district and mainly in Agartala,” West district magistrate Dr. Shailesh Kumar Yadav said earlier.After identifying ten different wards of Agartala Municipal Corporation with 70 per cent of Covid-19 positive cases, the administration set up testing centres in these wards. The testing centres conduct 400-700 tests each day in these places out of which 20-30% turn out to be positive cases, officials said. “In order to prevent deaths, we have focused on conducting tests extensively. We have also started satellite mapping of the positive cases to deal with the situation. We also found that delay in admission of patients in the hospital resulted in their death and we urge people that if they have Covid symptoms, to contact hospital or health centres immediately,” said Yadav.Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb has already asked every district hospital to provide treatment to the Covid-9 patients instead of shifting them to Agartala. The state also constituted a special corona team comprising ten medical officers and another ten IAS officers to monitor the situation.A three-member central team which toured different parts of the state, found violation of social distancing norms, improper use of masks and late admission of patients to hospital as the main reasons for the rise in Covid-19 cases and casualties. They have already submitted their reports to the government.After getting feedback from the central team, the government framed ‘The Tripura Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulations, 2020’ to make mandatory wearing of masks and imposed a fine of Rs 200 on the violators. A subsequent offence will cost the violator Rs 400. The government which conducted a two-day Mask Enforcement Drive that ended on Saturday, is yet to share the figure of violators and the amount of fine collected.According to the data from March 24 to September 14, a total 10,560 people were arrested for violating lockdown guidelines and curfew and the police collected an amount of Rs. 2.57 crore as fine. In the meantime, the state-run Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital, the only dedicated Covid hospital in Agartala has come under fire over poor health services for Covid-19 patients after videos and images of bodies of patients lying on the hospital floor became viral on social media.After such reports surfaced in media, the Tripura High Court on September 11 asked the state to submit an affidavit on total number of Covid-19 cases, availability of medical and paramedical staff and doctors and necessary infrastructures in the Covid care centres, ways of communication between patients and their relatives, fund allocation to upgrade the government Covid care centres etc. After the government submitted its affidavit on September 18, the court again asked for further details on the state’s Covid-19 containment efforts and also the central team’s report by September 28.The court also suggested setting up a special enquiry cell to manage communication between Covid-19 patients and their relatives including a complaints and suggestion centre at the GBP hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-s-covid-19-death-rate-highest-in-northeast-region-says-govt-report/story-ieaqTLfqT1xND1gARBtPLL.html
20-09-2020||India||KCR’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha clocks a million followers on Twitter||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter and former parliamentarian Kalvakuntla Kavitha on Sunday became the first woman politician in South India to clock a million followers on Twitter. “We are a million! Thank you for all your unconditional support,” Kavitha said on her twitter handle @RaoKavitha, as the number of her followers crossed the million mark in the afternoon. Some of the prominent women politicians who come close to Kavitha in terms of social media followers are Divya Spandana (Ramya), former MP from Mandya in Karnataka (831.1K followers), Kanimozhi of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) (around 524K) and Jothimani Sennimalai, Congress MP from Karur constituency in Tamil Nadu (around 122K followers). Though Congress leader from Tamil Nadu, Khushboo Sundar has more than a million followers, it is mainly because she is also a popular actress rather than a full-time politician. “The follower count has been gradually going up despite the constraints in meeting people directly due to Covid-19 pandemic. I have been constantly in touch with a cross section of people through social media, attending to their needs during the pandemic and constantly interacting with them, answering their queries,” Kavitha told Hindustan Times. The TRS leader, who represented Nizamabad parliamentary constituency between 2014 and 2018, had been associated with the movement for a separate Telangana state since 2008. “I joined Twitter in 2010, when the movement was at its peak. I have been using this social media platform to represent the interests of the Telangana statehood movement,” she said. While her father KCR was spearheading the Telangana movement through electoral politics, Kavitha gave it a cultural thrust by launching a social movement called Telangana Jagruthi to invoke the spirit of Telangana culture and tradition. “Through Twitter, I have been echoing the people’s voice and their sentiments while carrying forward the political movement,” Kavitha said. After the formation of Telangana state, Kavitha became the first woman Member of Parliament from Telangana. She raised her voice in Parliament on issues of regional and national interest echoed on social media, national television, and regional media. “Social media campaigns like #SistersForChange and #GiftAHelmet during Raksha Bandhan evoked massive response from the people online and offline. Celebrities from all across joined this campaign like ace badminton player P V Sindhu, cricketer Virendra Sehwag, current Member of Parliament and former cricketer Gautam Gambhir, film-stars like Mahesh Babu, Rahul Dev, Nameis Nani and famous sand artist Sudarshan Patnaik and many others,” Kavitha said. Her latest campaign #ThankYouWarriors that Kavitha had run to thank Covid-19 frontline warriors while serving the society have left a long-lasting digital and real impression upon people. She reached out to frontline Covid Warriors thanking them and celebrating their invaluable contribution towards combating Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-s-daughter-kalvakuntla-kavitha-clocks-a-million-followers-on-twitter/story-qwhwkMOO3g2aTrpVCXG0rI.html
20-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Which party stands where on farm bills and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farm bills passed in Parliament: Which party stands whereThe Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) on Sunday passed two contentious farm bills amid uproar by Opposition members. The bills have triggered protests by farmers at several places. Read morePLA opens three fronts in South China Sea to distract the world from LadakhPost the military flare-up at Galwan Valley, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has mobilised four out of five of its military theatre commands with reports suggesting that live firing drills and exercises from the East China Sea, the Yellow Sea to the South China Sea to date were a distraction for its calculated aggression in Ladakh. Read moreApple Watch SE vs Series 3: Which one should you go for?Apple launched a bunch of new products at its event earlier this week. It also introduced an affordable smartwatch this time called the “Apple Watch SE”. Read moreHyundai India expects sales to remain robust with Creta, Venue leading chargeHyundai Motor India expects its sales to further pick up in the next few months with few of its models continuing to lead in various segments during April-August period of the current fiscal year, a senior company official said. Read moreAnand Mahindra gifts tractor to farmer in Bihar who carved 3 km long canal in 30 yearsAnand Mahindra, the business tycoon, often takes to Twitter to share various posts. While some of his posts make people chuckle, a few leave them inspired. Read more‘Baseless…’: Anurag Kashyap denies actor Payal Ghosh’s sexual assault claimsActor Payal Ghosh accused filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of sexual assault. She alleged that the incident happened during the making of Bombay velvet. WatchPreity Zinta shares how she ‘kept sane during quarantine’ in latest fitness video from DubaiKeeping fans updated with her test results from the hotel, Bollywood actor Preity Zinta finally ended the mandatory quarantine in Dubai where she will be attending the Indian Premier League 2020 as co-owner of the IPL team Kings XI Punjab. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-which-party-stands-where-on-farm-bills-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uNyyvmX8J0uXzHIf7p0KkO.html
20-09-2020||India||Heavy rains continue to wreak havoc in Karnataka, 250 SDRF personnel deployed in Udupi||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday predicted widespread rainfall with heavy rainfall at a few places in Karnataka on September 20 and 21. Heavy downpour has already wreaked havoc in several parts of Karnataka, especially in Udupi district where the rescue operations by National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Relief Force are in full swing. The MeT department has also predicted very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy downpour at isolated places in costal Karnataka for Sunday and Monday. An alert for heavy rainfall has been issued for Malnad, coastal regions and a few interior and northern districts for next couple of days, PTI said citing Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) officials.The state is already recovering from the floods that drowned North Karnataka last month and now is fighting the strong hits of southwest monsoon. Coastal Udupi is witnessing the worse as the heavy rainfall destroyed houses, washed away roads and submerged several villages.The heavy rains have also destroyed standing crops. Looking at the grim situation in Udupi, state home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday issued a statement, urging the district to take relief measures.A team of 250 SDRF members have been deployed in Udupi district for rescue operation.“I am aware of the floods in Udupi inundating a few villages. I have directed the district authorities to rush a 250-member team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) there. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) will also reach there,” he said in a statement, as quoted by PTI.So far, 200 people from Udupi have bene relocated. “As of now, 200 people have been relocated. NDRF will also reach the district anytime from now. I have instructed the district administration to take necessary measures. I have also spoken to Revenue Minister in this regard. I have also requested Defence Ministry to deploy a helicopter for the operation,” the statement further reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-continue-to-wreak-havoc-in-karnataka-250-sdrf-personnel-deployed-in-udupi-for-rescue-operation/story-6ncqlPt4dpTbYPk4XWKmLI.html
20-09-2020||India||Govt has paved way for ‘Atmanirbhar Agriculture’: Rajnath Singh after farm bills’ passage||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday the passage of the “two landmark” agricultural bills in the Rajya Sabha has “cemented the strong foundation for ‘Atmanirbhar Agriculture’ as he praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his vision and leadership.Amid protests from the opposition, the Rajya Sabha passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.“With the passing of two landmark agriculture Bills in Rajya Sabha today, India has cemented the strong foundation for ‘Atmanirbhar Agriculture’. This is the result of endless dedication and determination of the Govt under the leadership of PM Shri @narendramodi,” Singh tweeted.“The passage of both the Bills in Parliament is indeed a landmark day for Indian Agriculture. I am thankful to the Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi for his vision to unleash the true potential of India’s agriculture,” he added.The defence minister also congratulated Tomar for “explaining all aspects of the Bills with clarity and conviction in both the Houses of Parliament.”Opposition parties demanded that the farm bills be sent to select committees but the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson did not agree to do so which led to a ruckus in the Lok Sabha following which the proceedings were adjourned till 9am on Monday.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has maintained that the farm bills will increase the scope for farmers to earn more profits and expand the markets. The opposition still believes that the farm bills will hurt the minimum selling price (MSP) and procurement of food grain processes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-paved-way-for-atmanirbhar-agriculture-rajnath-singh-after-farm-bills-passage/story-wHriBOdAUWbWVTUY0cklBP.html
20-09-2020||India||Taj Mahal to reopen from tomorrow, 5,000 tourists allowed per day | Check guidelines||After remaining closed for six months, Agra’s Taj Mahal will reopen its doors to visitors on September 21. Only 5,000 tourists will be allowed to visit the Taj Mahal per day. All you need to know* This was the first time that the Taj Mahal was closed for such a long period of time. It was closed on March 17 — before the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 was announced.* Agra Fort will also reopen from Monday. Only 2,500 visitors will be allowed daily.* All other historical monuments in Agra have already reopened from September 1.Also Read | Agra hotels set to welcome tourists as Taj Mahal reopens from September 21* The local administrations didn’t allow tourists at the Taj Mahal and the Agra Fort because of their vicinity to containment zones.* Tourists will have maintain six-feet distance even to get clicked in the same photo. Posing for solo photos is allowed.* Only cashless transactions will be allowed.* Only licensed guides to be allowed inside the premises. * The Taj Mahal will remain closed on Fridays and Sundays. Agra fort will remain shut only on Sundays.* The centre allowed all ASI-protected monuments to reopen from July 6. But the final decision was left with the local administrations.* In July, the Agra district administration decided against reopening the Taj Mahal as a few fresh Covid-19 cases got reported at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-to-reopen-from-tomorrow-5-000-tourists-allowed-per-day-check-guidelines/story-2eHb1inz8RfqpaUx75z0gL.html
20-09-2020||India||SAD urges President to not give assent to farm bills passed by Parliament||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to not give assent to the farm bills which were passed by Parliament on Sunday.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal requested the President to return these bills to Parliament for reconsideration.The SAD, part of Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), had opposed the bills, calling them anti-farmers. Badal had on Saturday said that there can be no talks with the Centre until agriculture bills are taken back.Also read: 2 farm bills clear Rajya Sabha hurdle amid protestsBadal said the passage of the bills marked a “sad day” for democracy and millions in the country.“Democracy means consensus, not majority oppression,” the SAD leader said in a statement shortly after Rajya Sabha passed two of the three bills.“Please stand by the farmers, ‘kisan mazdoors’, ‘arhtiyas’, mandi labour and Dalits. Please intervene on their behalf with the government. Otherwise they will never forgive us,” Badal said in the statement.The party showed its opposition in the Rajya Sabha too on Sunday. Its leader and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned in protest against the bill.Dubbing the SAD chief’s sudden U-turn on the farm ordinances as a cheap gimmick to hoodwink the farming community, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday dared Sukhbir Singh Badal, to quit the BJP-led Centre to prove his party’s sincerity in the matter.Amid an uproar by the Opposition, Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.They were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday. A third bill is yet to be passed in Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-urges-president-to-not-give-assent-to-farm-bills-passed-by-parliament/story-ceJVMxORfu1CGCthLsM1GK.html
20-09-2020||India||Haryana farmers lift highway blockade, Parliament clears farm reform bills||The three-hour long protest by farmers in Haryana ended peacefully after they lifted the blockade from all national and state highways at 3pm on Sunday. No incident of violence was reported from the state amid a heavy deployment of police force by the district administrations.The protests were witnessed in almost all the districts as most of the highways in the state, except NH44 connecting Delhi with Chandigarh, remained blocked for traffic for three hours from 12pm to 3pm.Addressing a farmers gathering at Yamunanagar, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, who was leading the protest, thanked the farmers for their support, making the protest successful.He urges the farmers to also support the Bharat Bandh call given by several national level farmer organisations on September 25.Talking to HT, Charuni said the protest was peaceful and 17 farmer organisations had extended their support to the Chakka Jam (traffic blockade). He said the next decision will be taken after a discussion with the leaders of other farmer organisations.Watch: Rajya Sabha passes two farm bills; cops deployed at Haryana border as farmers protestFarmers, mostly in Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against agriculture reform bills, with their leaders alleging that the legislations will dismantle the existing system of MSP (minimum support price) for their crops guaranteed by the government and leave them to the mercy of corporate interests.Rajya Sabha passed two such farm reform bills with voice vote earlier on Sunday afternoon amid slogan shouting by the Opposition benches. They had earlier been passed in Lok Sabha.Also Read: Farm bills passed in Parliament: Which party stands wherePrime Minister Narendra Modi has assured that the existing government support system of MSP will continue while describing the passage of the two farm sector bills as a “watershed moment” in the history of Indian agriculture and asserted that the new laws will ensure a complete transformation of the farm sector and empower crores of farmers. The BJP ruled Centre has been alleging that Opposition parties have been misleading the farmers into distrusting the “reformative” laws. The Centre maintains that the new farm reforms will liberate farmers from numerous adversities including the tentacles of middlemen, allowing them to discover the best price for their produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-farmers-lift-highway-blockade-parliament-clears-farm-reform-bills/story-PTsArl3xGEB9SoxoQxtxIM.html
20-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha Chairman likely to take action against MPs who created ruckus, tore papers||Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu is likely to take action against those Members of Parliament who created ruckus in the Upper House over agriculture bills.Amid protest from Opposition parties, The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill passed by Rajya Sabha.Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien, Congress MP Ripun Bora, AAP MP Sanjay Singh and DMK MP Tiruchi Siva were seen making attempts to snatch the podium mike of Deputy Chairman Harivansh, raised slogans against the chair, and tore papers.Also read: PM Modi calls passage of farm bills ‘watershed moment’ for agricultural sectorDue to ruckus in the House, the proceeding of the Rajya Sabha was stopped for 10 minutes. Later, the agriculture bills were passed finally.Sources told ANI that Rajya Sabha Chairman is very upset with the incident and he is likely to take action against those MPs who have created ruckus in the house and raised slogans against the chair and also tore papers.BJP is also unhappy with the behaviour of Opposition MPs the way they protested and attempted to stall proceedings of the Rajya Sabha.Many BJP MPs, who took part in the proceeding today on condition of anonymity, told ANI that strict action must be taken against those MPs who behaved in an unparliamentarily way.Opposition MPs protested against agriculture Bills and were demanding that bills be sent to the select committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-chairman-likely-to-take-action-against-mps-who-created-ruckus-tore-papers/story-MqT7dyLpPbXLPW9oKA2jeJ.html
20-09-2020||India||J-K amends domicile rules, empowers Naib Tehsildar to issue Permanent Resident Certificate||The Jammu and Kashmir government has amended the Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, authorising Naib Tehsildar in addition to Tehsildar to issue the certificate to the permanent resident certificate (PRC) holders and their children. “In exercise of the powers conferred by Article 309 of the Constitution of India, read with Section 15 of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralization and Recruitment) Act, 2010, the Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020,” the general administration department (GAD) said in a notification issued Saturday night. The amendment in Rule 5, Clause 1 authorises both Tehsildar and Naib Tehsildar to issue the domicile certificate to PRC holders and their children, while naming Deputy Commissioner as the appellate authority.“The applicants of this category (PRC holders) shall have to attach PRC certificate , while their children need to attach the PRC of parent and the birth certificate issued by a competent authority,” an official spokesman said.On May 18, the Jammu and Kashmir government notified Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, which specify the conditions and the process to obtain the documents required for applying for jobs and to avail other privileges restricted to residents.Those who have resided in the union territory for 15 years or have studied for seven years and appeared in class 10th or 12th examination in an educational institution in the region, and their children, are eligible for grant of domicile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-amends-domicile-rules-empowers-naib-tehsildar-to-issue-permanent-resident-certificate/story-AHDoVMH8V0I1KXZks1RmFO.html
20-09-2020||India||Farm bills passed in Parliament: Which party stands where||The Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) on Sunday passed two contentious farm bills amid uproar by Opposition members. The bills have triggered protests by farmers at several places.The two bills - Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 - were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday.These bills will now be sent to President Ram Nath Kovind for his assent.The Opposition parties protested against the bill, criticising the manner in which they were passed in Parliament. In fact, the Opposition members who had earlier moved amendments refused to participate in the proceedings when the bill was being put to vote.Here’s the stand taken by the various Opposition parties:Bharatiya Janata PartyBJP president J P Nadda hailed Parliament’s nod to two farm sector reform bills on Sunday, saying they will give farmers freedom in selling their produce and rid them of middlemen.He also hit out at the opposition parties over the ruckus in the Rajya Sabha after the Chair proceeded to take up the bills for passage as he termed the behaviour “highly irresponsible” and an attack on democracy.YSRCPThe party led by Jagan Mohan Reddy announced its support for the bill. YSRCP MP Vijaysai Reddy slammed the Congress and said that there is no reason for it to oppose agriculture-related bills. “I want to bring the hypocrisy of Congress party. In their manifesto of Lok Sabha elections, they have said the same things which are in the bills and now they are not supporting the bills,” he said.Janata Dal (United)Ram Chandra Prasad Singh of the JD(U), while supporting the bills, said it is for the first time that a farmers’ policy has come after a long time. He said in 1991 when the country saw liberalisation, it missed bringing agriculture reforms.He cited the example of Bihar where the Nitish Kumar government has abolished the APMC Act in 2006 and yet farmers are getting good price for their produce through MSP and farmers are producing more.CongressThe Congress has targeted the government on the issue of Minimum Support Price (MSP), calling the farmer bills introduced by the government as “black laws”. “Why the government is running away from providing legal obligation for MSP. Who will take a guarantee of MSP outside ‘Mandi’,” Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said. The Centre has tried to allay the concerns of the farmers that the MSP will remain intact and slammed the Opposition parties for misleading the farmers for their political gain.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted to say on Sunday afternoon that the MSP will remain intact, and hailed the passage of the bills in Parliament.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)SAD, the oldest constituent in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), said that there can’t be any talks with the Centre unless the agriculture bills are taken back. This stand was announced by SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday.Punjab food and civil supplies minister BB Ashu took a dig at SAD for taking a “U-turn” on the issue. He accused Akali Dal of changing their position on the Bills after “realising the seriousness of the matter.”Trinamool Congress, DMK and CPMThese parties wanted the bill to be sent to a select committee of Rajya Sabha for greater scrutiny. Deputy Chairman Harivansh put their demands for vote and said the motions have been negated by voice vote. There was then slogan-shouting as the members tried to heckle the presiding officer who was protected by House marshals.Rashtriya Janata DalHitting out at the Modi government over the issue of the farm bills, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav said on Sunday that his party has always fought for the rights of farmers and will fight “tooth and nail” against this “corporatisation of the agriculture sector”.Why did a Union cabinet minister resign if the bills were not “anti-farmer”, he said while speaking to news agency PTI. Yadav was referring to SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal quitting the Cabinet last week over the farm bills issue.Shiv SenaThe Maharashtra party took a stand against the farm bills with its leader Sanjay Raut demanding a special session to discuss them. Raut also asked the government to guarantee that no farmer will commit suicide after the bills are passed, and that their incomes will increase.AIADMKThe Tamil Nadu party, part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), opposed the bills. It claimed the bills will favour the corporate houses.Telangana Rashtra Samiti TRS chef and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had said he is against the bills, alleging these would cause great injustice to farmers in the country.Major farmers’ organisations, such as the Bharatiya Kisan Union and the umbrella All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a front for nearly 200 farmers’ groups, have also opposed the bills.Aam Aadmi PartyThe AAP has opposed the farm bill. The party’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh lashed out at the government alleging it wants the corporates to take over the agriculture sector of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bill-passed-in-parliament-which-party-stands-where/story-YVY2L8aXinQ99lcx4KLw4O.html
20-09-2020||India||PM Modi calls passage of farm bills ‘watershed moment’ for agricultural sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed the passage of the farm bills in the Rajya Sabha, saying these bills will revolutionise the agriculture sector.With this, the government’s proposed reforms for the agriculture sector have cleared the legislative hurdle. These bills will now go to President Ram Nath Kovind for his assent after which they will become law.The prime minister pointed out that the farming sector in India is in need of technological and structural upgrades citing that the bills will pave a path for farmers to increase their yields by using better tools. In a series of tweets, PM Modi assured India’s farmers that the Centre aims to serve the farmers and build a stronger agricultural industry for future generations. PM Modi wrote on Twitter, “Our agriculture sector is in desperate need of the latest technology that assists the industrious farmers. Now, with the passage of the bills, our farmers will have easier access to futuristic technology that will boost production and yield better results. This is a welcome step.”Our agriculture sector is in desperate need of latest technology that assists the industrious farmers. Now, with the passage of the bills, our farmers will have easier access to futuristic technology that will boost production and yield better results. This is a welcome step.2 farm bills clear Rajya Sabha hurdle amid protestsA watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture! Congratulations to our hardworking farmers on the passage of key bills in Parliament, which will ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector as well as empower crores of farmers.He also highlighted the need of removal of middlemen in the farming industry. He said that for many decades farmers in India have been ‘bullied by middlemen.’ For decades, the Indian farmer was bound by various constraints and bullied by middlemen. The bills passed by Parliament liberate the farmers from such adversities. These bills will add impetus to the efforts to double income of farmers and ensure greater prosperity for them.Modi said, “For decades, the Indian farmer was bound by various constraints and bullied by middlemen. The bills passed by Parliament liberate the farmers from such adversities. These bills will add impetus to the efforts to double income of farmers and ensure greater prosperity for them.”Farm bills passed in Parliament: Which party stands whereThe prime minister reiterated his assurance regarding the system of minimum selling price (MSP) and government procurement saying that these systems will continue unhindered and the passage of the bills do not affect them in any manner. He said the bills are intended to transform the sector and empower farmers to lead a better life. The opposition has targeted the government over the minimum selling price (MSP) and government procurement systems saying that the passage of the bills will affect these processes. MPs from several opposition parties feared that these bills will benefit private players and give rise to contract farming. The Upper House was also adjourned as MPs from the opposition parties created a ruckus during the seventh day of the Parliament’s Monsoon Session on Sunday when the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman disagreed to send the bills to a select panel. Several farmer leaders and farmer unions have begun staging protests across Punjab and Haryana. The government has assured that the bills will not affect the minimum selling price and the system of public procurement will not be affected by these bills. It has maintained that the APMC laws which state governments have implemented will not be affected by the bills but will only bring trade done outside the APMC farm yards under the ambit of the legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-farm-bills-passed-in-parliament-will-not-only-bring-radical-changes-in-agriculture-sector-but-will-also-empower-farmers-tweets-pm-modi/story-Wsi1df81nxjXQFeAHXPVtI.html
20-09-2020||India||‘My dream is to see...’: President Kovind lauds NEP in Jammu and Kashmir||President Kovind on Sunday welcomed the implementation of the National Education Policy in Jammu and Kashmir and said that education is the biggest catalyst for change and the youth is the most potent agent of social transformation. He said that NEP will prove to be a milestone in realising India’s unprecedented demographic dividend.The President was addressing video conference on Sunday attended by the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, vice chancellors of universities and other principals of colleges in Jammu and Kashmir. Here is the full text of President Kovind’s address:I am happy to address this conference on the implementation of the National Education Policy in Jammu and Kashmir, which used to be rightly called the Paradise on Earth. Through this conference, we must deliberate the methods and devise the ways to restore this region its glory, using education as a tool.In my opinion, there could not be a better way to realise your dreams than through education. The National Education Policy, approved by the Union Cabinet in July 2020, is nothing short of a revolution. So far as Jammu and Kashmir is concerned, I have been meeting and interacting with school children from the region at Rashtrapati Bhavan every year. In my own experience, I can say it with conviction that Jammu and Kashmir is a reservoir of extremely intelligent, talented and innovative children. I feel that the implementation of the education policy will produce students with “ignited minds” if I borrow the phrase of my illustrious predecessor Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. Such youth would unleash the hidden potential and take India to greater heights in future.Dear participants,The unfolding of India‟s growth story rests on the talent and energy of its youth. Our nation has an unprecedented demographic dividend but it can be realized only if the young people constituting a substantial segment of the population become skilled, professionally competent, and above all educated in the real sense.In this regard the National Education Policy will prove to be a milestone. I firmly believe that education is the biggest catalyst for change and the youth is the most potent agent of social transformation. And whenever these two forces have come together, it has changed the course of history.2Dear participants,Kalhana, the great Kashmiri scholar and poet, in his masterpiece, Rajatarangini‟ had said, “Learning, lofty homes, saffron, ice water and grapes: things that in heaven are difficult to find are common here”. It is important to note that the “learning” figured first among the five things that he referred to.Jammu and Kashmir is a land of rich and diverse cultural traditions. From Hinduism to Buddhism to Sufi Islam, all faiths and beliefs have found home in the cultural ethos of this land. This peaceful and shared coexistence manifests in the lives of its people. We should always remember that education brings people together; it is ignorance that divides.Jammu and Kashmir since time immemorial has been a centre of literature and learning, science and spirituality. Whether it be Mahayana Buddhism or monistic Shaiva metaphysics, Tantric theory and practice, the theory of art and aesthetics or the philosophy, language, communicative role of Sharda script or enrichment of Sanskrit literary styles, Kashmiris‟ creative innovations in almost all areas of art and thought have been highly significant. Any history of India‟s cultural traditions will remain incomplete without taking them into consideration.It is not at all surprising, therefore, that Kashmir became a favoured place for the pan-Indian intellectual community and also for scholars from other countries, to gather here and interact on issues related to different disciplines and fields of knowledge. The quest for knowledge was uplifted by the serene Himalayan surroundings, turning it into a quest for the meaning of life.I feel that a land with such a great and shining past should strive hard to add new chapters of excellence and achievements to its history. I wonder why the land of such scholarly accomplishments cannot walk along with the rest of the world on the path of progress and academic excellence.3If we want to ensure that our children and youth excel in life, we have to ensure value-based education for them. To understand your value system, you need to understand your roots, your tradition and rich cultural heritage. This understanding cannot be complete without taking your mother tongue into consideration.In this context, I feel the National Education Policy has done a great service. The most encouraging feature of the Policy is that it adheres to the cultural ethos of each region. The three-language formula which is envisioned in this policy is of immense significance and can promote multilingualism as well as national unity. However, there will be greater flexibility in the three-language formula, and no language will be imposed on any state or union territory.Dear participants,Education is the biggest enabler. It enables us to take charge of our destiny and we want to enable the youth of Jammu and Kashmir to become masters of their fate. The new policy, with its emphasis on vocational education, has given us a blueprint to realize this dream.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a call to make India “Aatmnirbhar‟, or self-reliant, and this is possible only when we make our youth self-reliant. Vocational training will play an important role in this regard.The policy focuses on ensuring Accessibility, Equality, Affordability, Accountability and Quality in Education and also tends to encourage Skill Development, Experience-Based Learning and Logical Thinking. I think this will ensure new and better pedagogical standards in the country.We live in an era where research and innovation are the keys to success and development. Jammu and Kashmir is a land of extremely talented people. Its youth have excelled in every field. Today, when we are seeing a new dawn in Jammu and Kashmir, we want the youth of this land to be the harbinger of change by excelling in their respective fields. The National Education Policy will help them realize their true potential and make their dreams come true.Dear participants,My dream is to see Jammu and Kashmir emerge as a centre of knowledge, enterprise, innovation and skill development. In the field of education and scholarly pursuits, the region has set unmatchable milestones. Many of the core ideas and concepts that have shaped the Indian mind over the centuries have emanated from this region. I hope that through this conference you will make determined efforts to make this paradise a hub of knowledge, innovation and learning by implementing this policy in letter and spirit. Let us strive together to make Jammu and Kashmir a Firdaus on the earth, a bright jewel on the crown of Mother India.With these words, I wish you all the best in this endeavour. I thank Lieutenant Governor, Shri Manoj Sinha for inviting me to share my thoughts with you.I wish the people of Jammu and Kashmir, especially the youth, a very happy, peaceful and prosperous future.Thank you,Jai Hind!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-dream-is-to-see-president-kovind-lauds-nep-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-SxLMI0XyKkK1jscr3etc4N.html
20-09-2020||India||‘Freedom to farmers’: BJP’s Nadda after Rajya Sabha’s nod to 2 farm bills||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda said on Sunday the government has, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, given a better future to the farmers of the country after the Rajya Sabha passed two crucial farm bills.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, were passed by voice vote in the upper house amid opposition protest.“I congratulate Prime Minister @narendramodi on the passing of the bills brought by the central government for the empowerment of agriculture and farmers in Parliament and wish all the farmer brothers of the country. I also thank all MPs and political parties for their support,” Nadda said in a series of tweets in Hindi.“The bills The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, passed by Parliament will truly give farmers the freedom to store, harvest and sell their crops and middlemen. Let’s free them from middlemen,” he said.Also read: ‘Will not sign on farmers’ death warrant’: Heated debate in Parliament as farm bills tabled in Rajya Sabha“MSP -- minimum support price--was, is and will remain. The system of APMC will also be maintained. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, while showing foresight, has taken these steps for the better future of farmers, which will play an important role in doubling the income of farmers,” he added.Nadda also criticised the Congress, saying the party, in its manifesto for the Lok Sabha election last year, had talked about abolishing the APMC system, while the MSP and APMC will continue to operate according to these bills. “The Modi government is providing better options to the farmers. After all, why does Rahul Gandhi and Congress not want to see farmers becoming stronger,” he said.“Congress never brought about any reforms for the empowerment of farmers. It had neither the thought nor the will to do it. Congress has an old habit of doing politics by misleading farmers and the poor. The farmers are aware of the double character of the Congress, they are not going to fall into its mischief,” he added.Union minister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar moved the crucial farm bills in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday, amid the ongoing protests by farmers in Punjab and Haryana.“The two bills are historic and will bring a change in the lives of the farmers. The farmers will be able to freely trade their produce anywhere in the country. I want to assure the farmers that these bills are not related to Minimum Support Price (MSP),” Tomar said in the Rajya Sabha.Two bills were passed; however, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, could not be taken up due to time limitations.During the heated debate over the contentious farm bills, members of opposition including Trinamool Congress’ Derek O’Brien climbed the chairperson’s podium in protest after their demand for voting on motion to send the farm bills to select panel was not considered. They also showed the rule book to chairperson Harivansh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freedom-to-farmers-bjp-s-nadda-after-rajya-sabha-s-nod-to-2-farm-bills/story-CvWG5B0xWsfBwS62rNMEcJ.html
20-09-2020||India||Char Dham road project: Restoration plan for damaged Himalayan slopes sought||A week after Supreme Court said the Char Dham road project will be carried out according to the 2018 circular of the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), the chairperson of the SC appointed high-powered committee (HPC) has now written to the ministry asking it to submit a work plan for a sustainable restoration of damaged Himalayan slopes under the project. Sources in the HPC privy to the matter said the letter has been written by Ravi Chopra, chairperson of HPC to the regional head of MoRTH on four points, including the formation of a comprehensive work plan to comply with the SC order. “We have asked them to submit the rapid environmental assessment report so that a comprehensive view can be taken on how to protect the Himalayas. Secondly, we have asked them to submit a full inventory of the vulnerable slopes and muck dump by September 25. This inventory has to be put in the public domain according to the Supreme Court’s original order (August 2019),” said a senior member of the HPC, who did not wish to be named. The senior member further said, “We have also written for the submission of a work plan by September 29, for sustainable restoration of the damaged slopes and authorised muck dump sites. This also has to be put in the public domain. Fourth is, submission of a comprehensive plan to bring the Char Dham Pariyojana in compliance with the SC’s direction that it will follow MoRTH’s 2018 circular.” VS Khaira, chief engineer, regional office of MoRTH Uttarakhand and project in-charge of Char Dham road project, confirmed that the chairperson of the HPC has written to them. “We have been asked to submit a comprehensive work plan on how to comply with the Supreme Court’s order and we have started working on it. We are re-working with all the agencies involved and we will send a plan to the HPC at the earliest. To mitigate the environmental damages already done, we will look into the stability of slopes to understand what treatment needs to be undertaken for slope stability,” said Khaira. Khaira said the work has been completed on over 350 km of road, adding that the road width of the completed stretch is 12 metres. He added that work is underway for over 600 km of road, with different stretches being at different stages, some at the hill cutting stage and others where work has to be started from scratch. Also Read: Char Dham road project not referred for appraisal, says ministry in Rajya SabhaHearing the matter on September 8, the SC ruled that the width of the Char Dham road shall not exceed the 5.5 metres that the Union road transport and highways ministry specified in 2018 for under-construction roads in mountainous terrains. It referred to the fragility of the hilly terrain and the impact of the road width on the Himalayan ecosystem while issuing the order. A March 23, 2018 circular of the MoRTH with the subject “Standards for Lane width of national highways and roads developed under Central Sector Schemes in Hilly and Mountainous terrains”, states, “The carriageway width shall be of intermediate lane configurations, i.e. of 5.5 m width with two-lane structures”. Also Read: Uttarakhand CM lists why Char Dham road widening is important: It’s strategicMeanwhile, the 150 km long stretch from Tanakpur to Pithoragarh of the Char Dham project, the only part in the Kumaon region, has been constructed with a road width of 12 meters based on a 2012 circular of MoRTH. “We had already cut the road according to the 2012 circular of MoRTH and constructed accordingly, but now work on the project will be done according to the SC’s ruling,” said LD Mathela, executive engineer of National Highway and in charge of the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-road-project-restoration-plan-for-damaged-himalayan-slopes-sought/story-tGMXpQKZaIEmfSHirU6LAL.html
20-09-2020||India||ICMR is actively exploring saliva test option for Covid-19, says Harsh Vardhan||The Indian Council of Medical Research is exploring saliva testing method for Covid-19 detection, but no firm has approached it yet, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said, addressing his weekly programme Sunday Samvaad. In this online programme, the minister answers questions of social media users. #WatchNow the second episode of #SundaySamvaad!Delighted to continue the wonderful conversation we started last week ... To watch the entire episode:https://t.co/MrGI3PleFN@MoHFW_INDIA @moesgoi @IndiaDST @DBTIndia @CSIR_IND @IMDWeather @rajeevan61 @Ashutos61 @RenuSwarup pic.twitter.com/KiIRSokeS0In August, US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) gave the Yale School of Public Health emergency use authorisation for its ‘Salivadirect’ Covid-19 diagnostic test.Also Read | Only 10 states are reporting maximum cases, says minister Harsh Vardhan on Covid-19 community transmission“ICMR has validated saliva test. But no firm has approached ICMR in this regard,” the minister said. Saliva tests will be low-cost and people will be able to collect their samples on their own, which will minimise the risk of healthcare workers. Additionally, test results will be delivered faster that RT-PCR tests.The RT-PCR test, which takes hours or even days before a result, detects genetic material of the virus using a lab technique called polymerase chain reaction. The antigen Covid-19 test detects certain proteins in the virus. An antigen test, which collects throat or nasal swab, can produce results in minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-is-actively-exploring-saliva-test-option-for-covid-19-says-harsh-vardhan/story-AV0TGDBrT9HCIm8cnvTTCN.html
20-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes two key farm bills amid protests||The Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed through a voice vote two key agricultural reforms bills, which have been opposed by farm groups, even as the opposition protested against the legislations and stormed the well of the House.Opposition members from the Trinamool Congress and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam were seen on camera tearing documents – some reports claimed it was the rule book --- and rushing to the chairman to register their protest. This led the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to demand action over violation of rules. No division of votes was sought as opposition members continued to oppose the chair’s decision of extending the house beyond the scheduled 1pm closing time to complete the voting process.On Thursday, the Lok Sabha passed by a majority voice vote the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. Also Read: Haryana farmers block highways including NH 344 over farm billsIn the Rajya Sabha on Sunday, a section of the opposition demanded that the two bills be sent to a select committee for further scrutiny. The opposition members, who had earlier moved amendments, refused to participate in the proceedings when the bill was being put to vote. Earlier in the day, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar introduced the legislations in the House. “The two bills are historic and will bring a change in the lives of the farmers. The farmers will be able to freely trade their produce anywhere in the country,” Tomar said in the House, reassuring farmers.Speaking to the media outside Parliament, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said the people of the country have given a mandate to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and “this (ruckus) is an insult of the people’s mandate”. If the Opposition wanted, they could have asked for a division, the minister said. The deputy chairperson was ready, he added.BJP president JP Nadda said the bills will bring in historic reforms in the agriculture sector and those opposing these bills have proved that they are “anti-farmer”. Commenting on the protest by opposition MPs, he said their behaviour was “irresponsible and condemnable”, and that they broke the rules for physical distancing imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read: Delhi Police on alert amid farmers’ protests on agriculture billsTrinamool’s Derek O’Brien said 12 MPs will sit in the Rajya Sabha chambers till 3pm to protest the passage of the bills. He said the MPs had to record evidence inside Parliament and denied that he tore the rule book. “We have all the footage with us and we will release it at the right time,” he said.The main opposition Congress and a clutch of smaller parties are opposed to the government’s farm liberalisation plan. A key opposition to the bills came on Thursday from BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal, whose minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet over efforts to unshackle the farm sector. PM Modi has accused detractors of spreading “misinformation and lies”, while reassuring farmers the reforms were in their best interests. Modi has called the reforms a “protective shield” around farmers, which would bring “more options and opportunities”. The two legislations seek to liberalise farm trade, enable modern supply chains, allow agribusinesses and farmers to engage with one another more confidently, break interlocked markets and create a seamless commodities trade, currently fragmented. India’s agricultural trade still requires licenced traders who must operate out of notified markets allotted to them. The bills aim to sidestep this system, called agricultural produce market committees (APMC), and free up market restrictions. But critics argue the new system will lack adequate oversight in its current form. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, allows buyers of farm produce to trade outside the mandi system or wholesale markets run by states under APMCs, which have become cartelised over time. APMC laws require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area where the farmers reside, rather than in open markets, which economists say scuttles price discovery, hurting farm profits. The bill enables farmers and buyers of their produce to trade outside these markets without any taxes and will therefore open up APMCs to competitions.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, lays down a new architecture for contract farming. It provides for a national framework on farming agreements, enabling a farmer to engage with agri-business firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for sale of future farming produce at a mutually pre-agreed price. Major farmers’ organisations, such as the Bharatiya Kisan Union and the umbrella All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a front for nearly 200 farmers’ groups, have opposed the bills.After the Upper House passed the bills, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “The dictatorial attitude of the Chair in not wanting to get a sense of the House, which is the convention to extend the session beyond the scheduled 1 pm, led to bedlam & chaos. The anti-farmer Bills were passed in the din without voting. Why the tearing urgency? On whose orders?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-two-key-farm-bills-opposition-triggers-ruckus/story-jpMTI6jsavLUnsU7Bi1BoI.html
20-09-2020||India||Agriculture sector Bills will turn farmers into slaves: DMK||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MP TKS Elangovan on Sunday said that the Bills on agriculture sector reform will turn farmers into slaves.“Farmers who contribute at least 20 per cent to the total GDP of the country, will be turned into slaves by this Bill. This Bill will not help farmers. It will kill the farmers and make them a commodity,” Elangovan said in the Rajya Sabha.Also read: 2 farm bills clear Rajya Sabha hurdle amid opposition protest“Farmers are left to discuss with traders to fix the price. The Bill is an insult to farmers,” he said. “Farmers are agitating while the traders are enjoying. It should have been both should enjoy the freedom of choice. So when farmers are not enjoying why this Bill, throw this out,” the DMK MP said. “This Bill will be used ultimately to sell the farmers themselves as slaves to the big industrial houses,” he added.Earlier today, Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar moved two agriculture Bills in the Upper House.These Bills are -- Farmers’ and Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. Both of them were passed by the Lower House with a voice vote a couple of days back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agriculture-sector-bills-will-turn-farmers-into-slaves-dmk/story-giWHUAx3s4AnhWlwk6WxEJ.html
20-09-2020||India||Govt proposes to amend FCRA, make Aadhar mandatory for NGOs to receive foreign funds||The Centre on Sunday proposed amendments in the Foreign Contribution Regulations Act or FCRA through a bill it introduced in the Lok Sabha or lower house of Parliament.According to the government, the proposed amendments “seek to streamline the provisions of the FCRA by strengthening the compliance mechanism, enhancing transparency and accountability in the receipt and utilisation of foreign contribution worth thousands of crores of rupees every year”.The proposed amendments seek to bar public servants from receiving foreign funding.The amendments seek to make Aadhar mandatory for all office bearers of NGOs and other organisations which are seeking foreign contributions.The bill also seeks to limit the use of foreign funds received under FCRA for administrative purposes from the current limit of 50 per cent to 20 per cent.“The annual inflow of foreign contribution has almost doubled between the years 2010 and 2019, but many recipients of foreign contribution have not utilised the same for the purpose for which they were registered or granted prior permission under the said Act. Many of them were also found wanting in ensuring basic statutory compliances such as submission of annual returns and maintenance of proper accounts,” according to the proposed amendment.“This has led to a situation where the central government had to cancel certificates of registration of more than 19,000 recipient organisations, including non-governmental organisations, during the period between 2011 and 2019,” it further says.The bill, if passed, will empower the government to ask a violator to not use the funds by holding a “summary inquiry”.After the amendments are passed, no organisation will be able to transfer foreign contribution to any association/person under Section 7 of the FCRA.“Every person who has been granted certificate or prior permission for foreign funding shall receive foreign contribution only in an account designated as “FCRA Account” which shall be opened by him in such branch of the State Bank of India at New Delhi, as the Central Government may, by notification, specify and for other consequential matters relating thereto,” the proposed amendment says.The FCRA was enacted to regulate the acceptance and utilisation of foreign contribution or foreign hospitality by certain individuals or associations or companies and to prohibit acceptance and utilisation of foreign contribution or foreign hospitality for any activities detrimental to the national interest and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.The act came into force on the May 1, 2011, and has been amended twice since then. The first amendment was made by Section 236 of the Finance Act, 2016 and the second amendment was made by Section 220 of the Finance Act, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-proposes-to-amend-fcra-make-aadhar-mandatory-for-ngos-to-receive-foreign-funds/story-6OQ8z35lKN9gddrZoSq7CI.html
20-09-2020||India||Only 10 states are reporting maximum cases, says minister Harsh Vardhan on Covid-19 community transmission||Answering questions from social media users during his weekly programme Sunday Samvaad, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said only 10 states are reporting the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases in the country. The minister was replying to a question which asked whether India is at the phase of community spread of Covid 19. #WatchNow the second episode of #SundaySamvaad!Delighted to continue the wonderful conversation we started last week ... To watch the entire episode:https://t.co/MrGI3PleFN@MoHFW_INDIA @moesgoi @IndiaDST @DBTIndia @CSIR_IND @IMDWeather @rajeevan61 @Ashutos61 @RenuSwarup pic.twitter.com/KiIRSokeS0“Large outbreak of Covid-19 in certain districts indicate an acute spread of the novel coronavirus. In view of specific efforts of the states, only 10 states are contributing 77 per cent active cases. If you see state-specific data, you will find that these cases are concentrated in a few districts,” the minister said.Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Telangana, Assam, Chattisgarh, Kerala, Delhi are these 10 states.Community transmission is the phase where the source of a new infection can’t be identified.The health ministers comment comes a day after Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain took a dig at the Centre and said the Centre should have accepted community transmission. “Community transmission is a technical term, but with so many cases being reported from Delhi and other parts of the country, community transmission should have been accepted. But, it is only the centre and scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) who can say so, however the infection is spreading in the community,” Jain said on Saturday.On several predictions of Covid-19 peak in the country, the health minister said often these predictions fail. “An epidemic curve has ascending, peaking and descending phases. India is at multiple trajectories across the urban, semi-urban and rural populations. Mathematical models that predict a peak are based on several assumptions, which may not always be accurate,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-10-states-are-reporting-maximum-cases-says-minister-harsh-vardhan-on-covid-19-community-transmission/story-412TuTVEuUWvF4KX2XHmSO.html
20-09-2020||India||2 farm bills clear Rajya Sabha hurdle amid protests||The Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed two contentious farm bills by voice vote as the House witnessed chaotic scenes after some slogan-shouting opposition members lead by the Trinamool Congress climbed on to the chairperson’s podium demanding a discussion.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, was passed by the upper house. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, part of the broader farm liberalisation plan, could not be taken up and the House was adjourned for the day.Opposition members, including those from the TMC, Congress and Left, created ruckus after deputy chairperson Harivansh did not consider their demand for a division of votes on a resolution to send the two bills to a select committee. Amid the ruckus, the House was adjourned briefly.Members of the Trinamool, including Derek O’Brien, and other opposition members had earlier climbed the chairperson’s podium after their demand for voting on motion to send the farm bills to select panel was not considered. They also showed the rule book to Harivansh during the debate on the contentious farm bills.The upper house was adjourned for a short while.Several members, including O’Brien, the CPI’s KK Ragesh, Trichi Siva of the DMK and Congress’ KC Venugopal, moved resolutions asking for the two bills to be sent a select committee of the House for consideration before they are taken up for passage.Union minister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar moved two crucial farm bills in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. The bills The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. Both of them were passed by the Lower House with a voice vote earlier in the week.“The two bills are historic and will bring a change in the lives of the farmers. The farmers will be able to freely trade their produce anywhere in the country. I want to assure the farmers that these bills are not related to Minimum Support Price (MSP),” Tomar said in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday.ProtestsAgriculturists, who have been agitating against the bills passed in the Lok Sabha earlier, said they are “anti-farmer” and fear they will end the mandi system. The Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Trinamool Congress are among the partied which have opposed the bills.The Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut had called for a special session of Parliament for a discussion on the agriculture sector reform bills. “You are saying it is in the interest of the people. Can the government assure the country that after the passing of the agriculture reform bills, farmers’ income will double and no farmer will commit suicide?.... A special session should be called to discuss these bills,” Raut said during a discussion on the two agriculture bills in the Upper House.“Why farmers are protesting in Punjab and Haryana if it is for their interest?” he added.Taking a dig at the Centre over Lok Sabha MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigning from the Cabinet, Shiv Sena MP said, “The Prime Minister has said that the government is not ending the MSP system. It is just a rumour. So, did a Union minister resign on the basis of a rumour? The government is giving markets to private companies.”Harsimrat Kaur Badal, of the Bharatiya Janat Party (BJP) ally Shiromani Akali Dal, had resigned from the Union Cabinet on September 17 in protest of the three bills.Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad had earlier demanded that reply to the debate on the two bills be postponed until Monday as the scheduled time for sitting on Sunday was over.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, allows the electronic trading of farmers’ produce and the setting up transaction platforms for facilitating direct online buying and selling of farm products. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 provides for a farming agreement prior to the production or rearing of any farm produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-adjourned-after-chaos-oppostion-members-demand-voting-on-farm-bills/story-jjHKGfpnSzq8E148zTD90I.html
20-09-2020||India||Haryana farmers block highways including NH 344 over farm bills||Thousands of farmers have blocked most of the national and state highways including NH 344 also known as Ambala-Roorkee national highway near Milk Majra village of Yamunanagar district in Haryana to oppose the farm reform bills under consideration in the Parliament .Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) state president Gurnam Singh Charuni led the protest in Yamunanagar and thanked the farmers for coming out in large numbers and extending support to the agitation against the three farm ordinances, which the central government is trying to pass as bills in the current session of Parliament. Addressing the farmers, Charuni said that the state government used police force, registered false cases and farmers and also tried to divide farmers but it failed on all fronts.“I want to assure the farmers of the state that the agitation will continue till the Central government withdraws its ordinances and the government cannot suppress the voice of the farmers,” he added.In Kaithal, the farmers blocked Ambala-Hisar highway near Titram Mor of Kaithal. The farmer leaders made it clear that the highway will remain blocked for three hours and further decisions will be taken after a state-level meeting on September 25. In Kurukshetra, district farmers blocked national and state highways at Ladwa, Kurukshetra and Shahbad towns. The commission agents have also extended support to the farmers. The police were deployed but they did not stop the farmers. The police were seen managing the traffic which has been diverted on the link roads. While farmers were protesting on the roads, the commission agents held a meeting in the grain market and assured their support to the farmers’ protest. Farmer leaders have got huge support from farmers, commission agents and the protests had spread leading to the blocking of highways at five locations in Kurukshetra district, which was the epicenter of September 10 protests. Similar protests were witnessed in Karnal, Yamunanagar and Kaithal districts.Protests are also being backed by the opposition parties like the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and the Congress. The opposition leaders were seen at the protest sites extending support to the farmers. Ram Karan Kala, Shahbad MLA of Jannayak Janta Party, which is in the ruling alliance with the BJP, was seen among the protesting farmers, assuring to take up their issue with the state government. He did not give any satisfactory answer when the farmers asked him to resign and support the agitation, saying, “ I have come here to extend my support to the farmers and will take up their concern with the government”.Meanwhile in New Delhi, Union minister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar moved two farm bills in the Rajya Sabha, reported agencies. Farmers’ and Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed by Lok Sabha with a voice vote a couple of days back.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 permits the electronic trading of farmers’ produce and allows the setting up of transaction platforms for facilitating direct online buying and selling of farm products.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 provides for a farming agreement prior to the production or rearing of any farm produce. A guaranteed price to be paid for the purchase of farming produce will be mentioned in such agreements.Farmers’ bodies in some states and the Opposition parties have alleged that the two bills are aimed at benefitting big corporates and ending the minimum price based procurement of farm produce by the government||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-farmers-block-highways-including-nh-344-in-ambala-as-protests-swell/story-h0ej96QmELA6X9f4cn2zNM.html
20-09-2020||India||Man, wanting son, rips open pregnant wife’s stomach in Uttar Pradesh||In a loathsome incident, a father of five daughters here allegedly ripped open the stomach of his pregnant wife on Saturday evening allegedly to find out if she was going to deliver a son this time. Pannalal slit the stomach of his wife, aged around 35, with a sharp-edged weapon in the Nekpur locality under the Civil Lines police station area, injuring her seriously, SP (City) Pravin Singh Chauhan said. An FIR has been lodged and the husband has been arrested, the SP said, adding that the reasons behind the crime is being looked into. The family of the woman, who was rushed to a Bareilly hospital in a serious condition, alleged that Pannalal wanted a son and committed the crime to know if it was male or female foetus. The locals immediately rushed the woman to the district hospital from where she was sent to the Bareilly hospital in a serious condition. The woman is said to be six to seven months pregnant, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-wanting-son-rips-open-pregnant-wife-s-stomach-in-uttar-pradesh/story-WdIUCI7SkXGY6UVq9a0fKN.html
20-09-2020||India||Central team of experts studying rising Covid deaths in Jammu, visits GMCH||Amid the spike in Covid-related deaths and a surge in the number of infections caused by the fatal pandemic, a four member team of experts from the Union health ministry is in Jammu on a two day visit to ascertain the causes and suggest corrective measures to reverse the trend, said officials. The team visited government medical college and hospital (GMCH) Jammu and held deliberations with principal Dr Nasib Chand Digra and senior faculty members for nearly two hours on the first day of their visit on Saturday. Dr Vijay Hadda, one of the team members said, “We are here to see how hospitals are combating Covid-19 pandemic, how are they equipped to tackle it, how can we make them better and how Centre can help improve the situation.” Dr Hadda also said that the team spoke to the medical superintendent, deputy medical superintendent, the principal of the hospital and other faculty members to understand difficulties faced by them. “We felt that there are certain areas where we can improve the facilities. We have also come to know about certain problems, but I won’t be able to discuss them before the media. These problems certainly need a solution and we hope that all of us contribute in controlling the pandemic,” he added. Dr Hadda said that the team will also be visiting other major hospitals in the region.“We discussed about ICU beds, per day arrival of patients, death rate and trend of the infection. We have prepared a list of three to four major hospitals in Jammu where the team will visit. These are the hospitals that witnessed a sudden spike in deaths and they include government chest diseases hospital and the GMCH,” said Dr Hadda. Besides Dr Hadda, who is a professor with the department of pulmonary critical care, AIIMS, New Delhi, the team comprises SK Singh, director, national centre for disease control (NCDC), and Dr Ramesh, an epidemiologist. The Centre on Friday decided to depute a high-level medical team to Jammu after the district reported a rise in the number of new Covid cases in recent days. Also Read: Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, NC says ‘declare medical emergency in Jammu’Principal of the GMCH, Dr Nasib Chand Digra said the visiting team discussed facilities, reasons behind the recent spike in deaths and new Covid infections. Patient care has been severely hit at GMCH Jammu, which has become a battlefield for senior doctors and the incumbent principal Dr Nasib Chand Digra. Peeved over indiscipline and chaos, Dr Digra had recently written to L-G Manoj Sinha, opting for VRS citing interference in working of the hospital from “extra-institutional” officials. He, however, didn’t name them in the letter. Attendants of Covid patients at the hospital complained of shortage of oxygen cylinders and an unavailability of beds while a video, in which paramedics were seen escaping out of windows leaving behind patients at the mercy of God at an isolation ward of the hospital, went viral on Thursday. The team said it will support the state’s efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. The Central team shall also help in effectively managing the challenges related to a timely diagnosis and follow up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-of-experts-studying-rising-covid-deaths-in-jammu-visits-gmch/story-XNPmSkHqCZNCpFNT6uNqDJ.html
20-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Ricin found in White House originated in Canada, say police and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ricin found in White House originated in Canada: PoliceA letter containing the deadly poison ricin that was mailed to the White House may have originated in Canada, Canadian law enforcement has said. Read morePLA war drill in South China Sea a distraction for Ladakh aggression or otherwise? | AnalysisPost the military flare-up at Galwan Valley, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has mobilised four out of five of its military theatre commands with reports suggesting that live firing drills and exercises from the East China Sea, the Yellow Sea to the South China Sea to date were a distraction for its calculated aggression in Ladakh. Read moreAgriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar moves crucial farm bills in Rajya SabhaThe contentious farm bills that were passed in the Lok Sabha on September 17 have been moved in the Rajya Sabha by Union minister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar. Read moreCheck Point details Iranian hacker group’s ongoing espionage campaignCheck Point Research revealed details on an Iranian hacker group that has developed tools to steal information from Windows systems, Telegram and even via SMS. According to the researchers at Check Point, these hacking tools were primarily used against Iranian minorities, anti-regime organisations and resistance movements. Read moreShekhar Suman on claims of drug use at Karan Johar’s 2019 party: ‘Why wasn’t any action taken then?’Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest on drugs-related charges in the Sushant Singh Rajput case opened a floodgate, and Bollywood’s alleged drug links are under the scanner. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He’s a genius,’ Sam Curran surprised by MS Dhoni’s decision to promote him in batting orderThe first night of the Indian Premier League 2020 saw two former champions taking on each other in Abu Dhabi. Mumbai Indians batted first and scored 162 runs. Read moreSand artist illustrates correct way of wearing a mask, impresses netizensThe importance of masks in these perilous times has been emphasized on by several people through various social media posts. Read moreIndia moves a step closer to bring in vehicle scrappage policyThe government on Saturday said a Cabinet note has been formulated for the vehicle scrapping policy. Read moreIleana D’Cruz rowing ‘away from responsibilities’ is exactly how we fantasise our 2021 travel plansFans can vouch that Barfi star Ileana D’Cruz is hands down a beach baby and there are enough pictures and videos on her social media handle to back the claim. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ricin-found-in-white-house-originated-in-canada-says-police-and-all-the-latest-news/story-KjyOigM1G8wNwosWLIHVdK.html
20-09-2020||India||‘Can govt assure no farmer will commit suicide after passage of farm bills?’: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut took a stand against the farm bills that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seeks to get passed in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday, demanding that a special session must be called to discuss them.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, have been tabled in the Rajya Sabha after being passed in the Lok Sabha last week.Also read: Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar moves crucial farm bills in Rajya SabhaRaut asked the government whether it could assure the nation that no farmer will commit suicide and the farmers’ income will increase after the passage of the bills. “Can the government assure the country that after these agriculture reform bills are passed, farmers’ income will double and no farmer will commit suicide? A special session should be called to discuss these bills,” Raut said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured the nation on Friday that after these bills become laws, farmers will have more opportunities to sell their produce without having to worry about middlemen and that this will result in increased profits.Also read: ‘Defeat them, this is what farmer wants’: Kejriwal on farm bills in Rajya SabhaOn September 17, the PM also told farmers that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system will remain unchanged. “A lot of power is engaged in confusing the farmers. I assure my farmer brothers and sisters that the system of MSP and government procurement will remain. These bills are really going to empower the farmers by giving them many more options. #JaiKisan,” he tweeted.“PM has said that the government is not ending the MSP system and it is just a rumour. So, did a union minister resign on the basis of a rumour?,” Raut said in his pitch against the bills in the Rajya Sabha.He was referring to Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who had resigned as the Union minister for food processing industries earlier this week in protest against the bills. Her party, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), is an old ally of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-govt-ensure-no-farmer-will-commit-suicide-after-farm-bills-are-passed-sanjay-raut/story-QeARLObo8Nog9SqZNjX1PI.html
20-09-2020||India||Schools to reopen in these states from Monday: Check list, rules, guidelines||Some states have allowed schools to reopen partially from Monday after a gap of more than five months as the coronavirus pandemic forced authorities to shut educational institutes across the country to contain the spread of the viral disease. The Centre had allowed the partial reopening of schools in the fourth phase of the Unlock process and said that students of Classes 9 and 12 can return purely on a voluntary basis.The government also made it clear that it is not mandatory for educational institutions to resume schools from Monday. The government had asked the states to take the final call on resuming classes amid the coronavirus pandemic. The Centre has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for a partial reopening of schools for students of Classes 9 to 12.Delhi, Gujarat, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have announced that they will not allow classes to resume from Monday. Bihar’s education department will hold a meeting on Tuesday to take decision on reopening school in the state. A proper guideline will be issued after consulting stakeholders for ensuring safety of children at schools, a senior official said.Here’s what states have decided on reopening of schools from Monday:Andhra PradeshSchools in Andhra Pradesh are set to resume normal classes from Monday for students of Classes 9 to 12. Authorities have issued guidelines and students living outside containment zones will be allowed to visit their schools on a voluntary basis to clear their doubts and take guidance from their teachers. They would have to submit a written consent of their parents and guardians to their respective schools.AssamHigh and higher secondary schools in Assam are set to reopen from Monday and will have to follow SOPs issued by the secondary education department to maintain social distancing norms and other precautionary measures against the viral outbreak. From Monday, classes will resume for students between graded 9 and 12 for the next 15 days following which the situation will be reviewed.While all government schools will start functioning, private school authorities have been asked to take a call on their own. Students’ attendance in schools is not mandatory. Parents and guardians need to give their consent in writing following which students will be allowed to attend classes.DelhiAll schools in the Capital will continue to remain closed till October 5 in view of the rising number of the cases, the Delhi government has said. It had said earlier that it would allow senior students to come to schools if they need any guidance from their teachers. But now the government has made it clear that there will be no partial reopening of the schools — not for any student.“All government and private schools will remain closed for all students until October 5. However, online teaching and learning activities will continue as usual,” an official order issued by the Directorate of Education (DoE) said. School principals are authorised to call “staff as per requirement for smooth conduct of online classes or any other work”, it said.HaryanaThe Directorate of School Education has directed all district education officers to ensure that SOPs are in place for the partial reopening of schools for students of Classes 9 to 12 from Monday. In a letter, the department has asked all district education officers to ensure that the teachers get a Covid-19 test and download the Aarogya Setu app on their phones. Attendance is not compulsory and students can go on a voluntary basis to clear any doubts related to their course.“Students will have to bring written consent from their parents before coming to school. The students will also have to undergo thermal scanning before entering the school and wear face masks and adhere to safety guidelines,” the letter stated.Earlier, the education department had conducted trial classes for board students at Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu, in Karnal and Bazidpur Saboli in Sonepat to check the feasibility of partial reopening of schools.Jammu and KashmirSchools will reopen in the Union territory, however, attendance of students will be on a voluntary basis. Officials have said schools will reopen with 50% attendance of staff and students and the attendance of the students will be as per the written consent of the parents. The officials have also stated that all the SOPs will be in place when the schools reopen after such a long gap.Only 50% of the staff will report every day until Class 8 and students of classes 9, 10 11, and 12 can come to school on a voluntary basis with 50% attendance. Officials have said parents can decide whether they will allow their children to attend the classes. The authorities have further stated that online classes and digital education activities will continue as usual.KarnatakaThe state government has prohibited students of Class 9 to 12 from visiting schools and pre-university colleges to meet teachers amid the coronavirus pandemic. It said in a statement that students were earlier allowed by the education department after Covid-19 cases in the state had come down. However, as the pandemic continues to rage the state, the state government felt it was not safe to call students to colleges or schools to meet teachers, it said.PunjabThe Punjab government has allowed the opening of higher education institutions from September 21 for PhD scholars and postgraduate students pursuing technical and professional courses requiring experimental work. However, schools, colleges and coaching centres will remain closed in the states.The guidelines were issued in compliance with the directives of the current phase of the coronavirus lockdown issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). As per the orders, online distance learning will be permitted and encouraged but schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed for students and regular classes.Satish Chandra, special chief secretary (home), said in an official statement, said 50 per cent of the teaching and non-teaching staff will be allowed to attend schools at a time for online teaching/telecounselling and related work in areas outside the containment zones, only as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued on September 8 by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-to-reopen-in-these-states-from-monday-check-list-rules-guidelines/story-Xf4AZ5RJMO3g9VgTIBCWiI.html
20-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Fresh Covid-19 restrictions imposed in these cities||Several state and local administrations have reimposed restrictions in the view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases even as the country is in the last leg on Unlock 4, which began from September 1.Here is a complete list of cities/districts which are under restrictions in September. Some restrictions have been freshly imposed while some have been just extended.Raipur: The local administration on Saturday has announced a fresh lockdown in Raipur — from September 21 9pm to September 28 midnight — as Chhatisgarh is witnessing a spike in the number of fresh cases. “Raipur district has so far reported over 26,000 COVID-19 cases and 900-1000 cases are being recorded daily. To break the chain of transmission, it has become necessary to declare the entire district a containment zone. Inter-district borders in Raipur will remain sealed during this duration,” the order said. Lockdown has also been imposed in seven urban bodies in Bilaspur from September 22 morning till September 28 midnight, while it will be between September 20-30 in six areas, including Durg and Bhilai.Chhattisgarh’s COVID-19 count stands at 84,234 as of Saturday.Jaipur: Not a lockdown, but the Rajasthan government has decided to impose Section 144 of the CrpC in 11 districts of the state, which includes Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Udaipur, Sikar, Pali and Nagaur.Aizawl: The Mizoram government extended the partial lockdown in Aizawl Municipal Corporation (AMC) area till September 20 — in order to facilitate and expedite the process of contact tracing and collection of samples from people, who came in contact with positive patients.Also Read | No nationwide lockdown from September 25, Centre calls viral order fakeChandigarh: All municipal towns in Punjab are observing Sunday lockdowns throughout September. In August, the state was observing weekend lockdowns on both Saturdays and Sundays.Mumbai: Section 144 has been extended in Mumbai till September 30, though no new restrictions have been imposed.Noida: Section 144 was extended till September 30. It does not include any fresh restriction.Section 144 versus lockdownWhile lockdown prohibits several activities, Section 144 bars a gathering of more than four persons without permission.Can local administration impose restrictions in Unlock 4?The MHA (ministry of home affairs) order pertaining to Unlock 4 said state/UT governments shall not impose any local lockdown (state/district/sub-division/city level), outside containment zones, without prior consultation with the Centre. No nationwide lockdownAmid rumours of a second nationwide lockdown to be imposed from September 25, the Centre has clarified that no such proposal is on the table. There will be no nationwide lockdown.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-fresh-covid-19-restrictions-imposed-in-these-cities/story-I1OlQHkcGW8FLjQaQGMtoN.html
20-09-2020||India||India took 7 months to reach 2 million Covid-19 cases, 42 days to get to 5 million: All you need to know today||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday crossed the 5.4 million mark with a spike of 92,605 new cases and 1,133 deaths in the last 24 hours. The country has been recording the highest number of cases every day since early August when it started witnessing more than 50,000 cases every day.The country saw more than 90,000 Covid-19 cases in a day on September 6 with 90,632 fresh infections – the highest single-day spike globally – a trend which has seen an upward scaling this month.Here’s a round-up of Covid-19 statistics in India today:- India saw 92,605 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours.- The number of active Covid-19 cases in India stands at 1,010,824 as of Sunday, while 4,303,043 people have recovered so far. These account for 18.72 per cent of the total cases India has seen so far.- India is currently the second worst-hit nation, ranking after the United States which has reported more than 6.7 million infections so far. At the current rising surge in caseload, India is expected to overtake the US as the worst-hit nation by the pandemic in the coming few weeks.- India crossed the two million case mark in seven months on August 7 after it reported the first case on January 30 in Kerala. It has taken India only 42 days to record another three million cases. India crossed the five million mark earlier this week on September 16.- A total of 1,113 people died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said, taking the death toll to 86,752, which is a relatively low 1.6 per cent of all cases.- India’s single-day recoveries have surpassed the number of fresh infections reported for the second consecutive day on Sunday after 94,612 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours.- The Covid-19 case fatality rate in the country stands at 1.61 per cent.- Authorities in India have tested a cumulative total of 6,36,61,060 samples till September 19 with 12,06,806 samples being tested on Saturday.- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh continue to remain the five worst-hit states and report the highest number of casualties.- More than 70 per cent of deaths have occurred due to comorbidities, the health ministry has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-took-7-months-to-reach-2-million-covid-19-cases-42-days-to-get-to-5-million-all-you-need-to-know-today/story-Gs6BmprZQNpFiR7ig4NK6L.html
20-09-2020||India||Haryana farmers eyeing highway blockade to oppose farm reform bills||Farmers in Haryana have set in motion their planned protest against the three farm reform bills by mobilising to block national and state highways on Sunday even as Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar made an appeal asking farmers not to block highways and invited their leaders for a talk to clear alleged misgivings on the bills, as per reports.Farmers in Kurukshetra, Karnal, Yamunanagar and a few other districts of the state were using tractor-trailers, bikes and cars to reach protest spots with an aim to block the highways, reported agencies. NH 344 between Ambala and Roorkee had been blocked by farmers as per the latest reports. Several farmer leaders were also using social media platforms to mobilise more farmers to join the protest.As per the initial reports, focus of farmer unions will be in the northern districts of Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Ambaka, Karnal and Kaithal and the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni will lead the agitation in Yamunanagar by blocking the NH 344, near Milk Majra toll plaza.Charuni uploaded several video messages on social media urging farmers not to get misled by the government and join the protests.“News is being spread that the national highways will not be blocked, this news is fake and I appeal to the farmers to block all national and state highways except for the Chandigarh-Delhi highway (NH 44),” Charuni told his supporters in a video message on Sunday morning.Following instructions by the state home department, the district administrations have made heavy police deployment to ensure people do not face any problem due to the planned blockade of the highways. Talking to Hindustan Times, Yamunanagar superintendent of police, Kamaldeep Goyal said, “Our priority will be to convince the farmers and we will request them not to block the highway, but if they will continue with the blockade we have also made arrangements to divert the traffic if required, so that commuters do not face any problem”.Since Kurukshetra remained the hotspot for protests, where a lathi charge on farmers on September 10 had led to criticism of the police, the district police have made elaborate arrangements to avoid a repeat of the clashes.Also Read: Khattar urges farmers to defer agitation, invites them for talksKurukshetra SP Astha Modi told HT that seven points have been identified in the district where the farmers are likely to hold protests and block traffic before adding that the district police have made elaborate arrangements to divert the traffic and ensure that the protests remain peaceful.“Even, we have made a plan to divert the traffic on the NH 44 from Pipli to avoid traffic jams as there were reports of protests by a political party in Ambala,” she added.Also Read: Vij appeals to farmers to not block Highways, takes a dig at BadalsIn a statement issued late night Saturday, the chief minister said that in a democracy, everyone has a right to express views, but maintaining peace in the state is also the utmost duty of any government.He assured that the farm ordinances are entirely in the interest of farmers and it is unfortunate to see that the opposition parties are blatantly politicizing the issue so as to achieve their vested interests by misleading the farmers.The farmer leaders said that they did not get any invitation for talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-farmers-eyeing-nh-blockade-to-oppose-central-farm-ordinances/story-rlYhb0iDv58JVn4EYnFWwM.html
20-09-2020||India||PLA opens three fronts in South China Sea to distract the world from Ladakh||Post the military flare-up at Galwan Valley, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has mobilised four out of five of its military theatre commands with reports suggesting that live firing drills and exercises from the East China Sea, the Yellow Sea to the South China Sea to date were a distraction for its calculated aggression in Ladakh.While both India and China have still to finalise the dates of military commanders’ meeting with each asking for postponement once, PLA is continuing to build-up along the 1,597-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the western sector. After the India and China foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10 in Moscow, a decision was taken to ask the military commanders to implement the total disengagement and then de-escalation agreement on the ground. The two sides are still to fix a mutually convenient date for the meeting but is expected in this week. It is understood that the meetings at the corps commanders’ level will restrict itself to disengagement of forces post-April and the Depsang Bulge issue will be taken up at a separate divisional commanders’ level.Also read: PLA’s actions aimed to test India’s mettleAccording to a report in Nikkei Asian Review, PLA has mobilised its Southern Theatre Command, which oversees the South China Sea, Northern Theatre Command, which overseas Korean Peninsula, and Eastern Theatre Command, which oversees arch-rivals Japan and Taiwan. The newspaper said that just like the Chinese annexed Tibet in 1950s against the backdrop of its intervention in the Korean war, the present mobilisation was a distraction for a real stand-off in the Karakoram-Zanskar ranges of Himalayas. For the Ladakh operations, PLA’s western theatre command has been fully mobilized with military districts of Xinjiang and Tibet fully involved in the aggression.The Korean War in the 1950s also turned out to be a distraction for Jawahar Lal Nehru government and Indian diplomacy as they got involved in sorting out the North Korea issue leaving their own flanks in western and eastern sector open to Chinese military in 1962. PLA chose to attack India in 1962 when the entire world was diverted towards the Cuban missile crisis.Also read: India readies for QUAD and 2 plus 2 dialogues, China is elephant in the roomWhile India is engaging China through both military and diplomatic channels to resolve the current stalemate, the military commanders are prepared for the worst on all the borders and at sea. They know that distraction, diversion and deception are part of Chinese information warfare with psychological operations playing the lead role before the flag goes up.By deploying three military commands against the US from South China to the East China Sea and test firing both DF-26 also called Chinese’ Guam Killer and DF-21 D also called the Carrier Killer intermediate-range ballistic missiles in last week of August, the PLA is sending a message that it can take both US on its eastern and India on its western flank. The missile firing was to show-case Chinese capability to taken on the exercising USS Navy’s supercarrier Ronald Reagan and Nimitz around the Chinese nuclear submarine base at Hainan Islands in the South China Sea. Maybe the Ladakh incursion is a distraction for Chinese moves on Taiwan after Hong Kong and not the other way around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-war-drill-in-south-china-sea-a-distraction-for-ladakh-aggression-or-otherwise-analysis/story-I2IiROajJhYTeW0ZWyimFK.html
20-09-2020||India||‘Will not sign on farmers’ death warrant’: Heated debate in Parliament as farm bills tabled in Rajya Sabha||Union minister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar moved three crucial farm bills in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. The bills include the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. “The two bills are historic and will bring a change in the lives of the farmers. The farmers will be able to freely trade their produce anywhere in the country,” Tomar said in the Rajya Sabha.“I want to assure the farmers that these bills are not related to Minimum Support Price (MSP),” he said regarding the farmers’ concern that it will lead to the sale of their products below MSP.Agriculturists, who have been agitating against the bills passed in the Lok Sabha earlier, said they are “anti-farmer” and fear they will end the mandi system.The ordinances have been opposed by several opposition parties as well including the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Trinamool Congress.“Farmers who contribute at least 20% to the total GDP of the country, will be made slaves by these bills. It will kill the farmers and make them a commodity,” said TKS Elangovan of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) party in the Rajya Sabha.“It appears that there is a compulsion that the ruling party doesn’t want a debate or discussion on these Bills. They are only rushing through these Bills. You have not even consulted any farmer associations,” said Ram Gopal Yadav of Samajwadi Party.Also read | Farm bills: Farmers’ body announces three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation in Punjab from September 24Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien also opposed the bill in the upper house of Parliament.“Prime Minister said that Opposition is misleading the farmers. You (Centre) said double farmer income by 2022. But, at current rates, the farmer income will not be doubled before 2028,” he said. “Your credibility is low to make promises,” he added.“Congress opposes these ill-conceived and ill-timed Bills. Congress rejects these bills. We will not sign on this death warrant of farmers,” said Congress’ Partap Singh Bajwa.PM should explain why there’s a hurry to pass the bills amid pandemic. He should explain what would farm bills do for farming community in short & long term & how it will help in achieving government's goal of doubling farmers’ income, said former PM and Janata Dal (Secular) MP HD Devegowda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-sign-on-farmers-death-warrant-heated-discussion-in-parliament-as-farm-bills-tabled-in-rajya-sabha/story-si5qSZ2yY7iAx5UQTP927O.html
20-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: AIIMS forensic team likely to meet CBI today||The forensic team of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which went to Mumbai to re-examine the circumstances leading to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, is likely to meet the CBI Special Investigation Team (SIT) and submit its report on Sunday. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had approached the AIIMS seeking its medico-legal opinion on the autopsy files. The forensic team, led by Dr Sudhir Gupta, conducted a viscera test to check the possibility of poisoning. The team is scheduled to meet the SIT today.The report, however, will not be made public as the case is subjudice now. “The report will be conclusive,” Dr Gupta said earlier. Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14. In the parallel drug case related to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the Bombay high court on Friday directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to file replies to bail applications filed by three arrested accused — Rajput’s domestic staff, Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant, along with alleged drug peddler Abdel Basit Parihar. The next hearing will be on September 29.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-aiims-forensic-team-likely-to-meet-cbi-today/story-CKwo0zLFtdudCo6AXpTKUO.html
20-09-2020||India||Kejriwal asks non-BJP members to unite against farm bills in Rajya Sabha||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to members of all opposition parties to vote against three controversial agriculture bills in the Rajya Sabha.“The BJP does not have a majority in the Rajya Sabha. It is my appeal to members of all non-BJP parties to join hands against the bills. This is what the farmers of the nation wants,” said Kejriwal, the national convener of the Aam Aami Party (AAP) , which has three members in the Upper House.The bills were tabled in the Rajya Sabha for discussion and passage on Sunday.Also Read: Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar moves crucial farm bills in Rajya SabhaThe Lok Sabha, where the BJP and its allies enjoy a brute majority, passed two of these bills --- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 --- through a voice vote on Thursday. It has earlier passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.The AAP, which has one MP in the Lok Sabha, voted against the three bills.The main opposition Congress and a clutch of smaller parties are opposed to the reforms. A key opposition to the bills came on Thursday from BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal, whose minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet over efforts to unshackle the farm sector.Also Read: BJP, Opposition seek to rally support as farm bills reach Rajya SabhaIndia’s agricultural trade still requires licenced traders who must operate out of notified markets allotted to them. The bills aim to sidestep this system, called agricultural produce market committees (APMC), free up market restrictions, enable farmers and agribusinesses to engage more confidently under a new contract farming law and help to create modern supply chains. Critics argue the new system will lack adequate oversight in its current form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-asks-non-bjp-members-to-unite-against-farm-bills-in-rajya-sabha/story-unJdgB9bNJNk84KgEIS9ZI.html
20-09-2020||India||Covid-19: 5 Indian states and Union territories least affected by coronavirus disease||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has claimed as many as 86,752 lives and infected more than 5.4 million people in the country. However, there are still some parts of the country which have not reported any deaths related to Covid-19 so far.Additionally, some states are still recording significantly lower deaths due to Covid-19, indicating that the virus outbreak has still not reached every part of the country.Here are the five Indian states and Union territories least affected by Covid-19 in terms of deaths:MizoramMizoram is the only Indian state which has not reported any death due to Covid-19 so far and has among the lowest number of total positive cases. As of Sunday, the state’s tally was logged at 1,578 after 14 people – including six security personnel – tested positive for the virus. There are 588 active Covid-19 cases in Mizoram and a total of 973 people have recovered, according to the data released by the state.Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and DiuWith only 208 cases of Covid-19, the Union territory is the second least affected part of the country in terms of deaths reported. As of Sunday, the death toll in Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu stood at two.Arunachal PradeshThe third least affected state in terms of death due to Covid-19, Arunachal Pradesh has seen 13 casualties so far. Despite a significantly low death rate, Arunachal Pradesh has a comparatively higher rate of positive cases. With more than 7,000 positive cases, the state has witnessed a higher number of cases than Nagaland, Ladakh, Mizoram, Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep.NagalandIn the list of least affected states, Nagaland ranks at fourth spot with 15 deaths reported so far. The northeastern state now has 1,206 active Covid-19 cases in the state, while 15 people died of the viral disease and 21 migrated to other states. The recovery rate among coronavirus disease patients in the state is currently at 76.96 perSikkimAnother northeastern state contributing a fewer number of Covid-19 deaths is Sikkim. Despite seeing high infections, it has seen only 28 deaths so far. The state has close to 2,342 cumulative positive cases of the viral infection. The state now has 426 active cases, while 1,891 patients have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-5-indian-states-and-union-territories-least-affected-by-coronavirus-disease/story-SsvLPog2mVVhaqm9RoZmyJ.html
20-09-2020||India||HC cites sketchy evidence to uphold acquittal of 2009 Goa bomb blast accused||Acquittal of six persons charged by the national investigation agency (NIA) for allegedly planting a bomb at a Diwali eve celebration at Margao to be attended by then Goa chief minister Digambar Kamat, has been confirmed by the Bombay high court at Goa, citing lack of sufficient evidence against the accused. Vinay Talekar, Vinayak Patil, Dhananjay Ashtekar, Dilip Mangaonkar, Prashant Ashtekar and Prashant Juvekar, all barring Mangaonkar, residents of Maharashtra, faced trial under various sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, the Explosive Substances Act and the Indian Penal Code, after a homemade bomb went off on the eve of Diwali in 2009 in Margao in South Goa. Two persons -- Malgonda Patil and Yogesh Naik -- who were reportedly ferrying the bomb, were killed in the explosion after the bomb went off prematurely. The duo were also named as accused but since they died, the charges against them were abated. Three other accused were absconding and never found. On the eve of Diwali on 16th October, 2009, when effigies of Narkasur, a mythical demon king, are burnt all over Goa, an explosion took place at a distance of hardly 400 metres from the venue of the Narkasur effigy competition. The explosives were placed in an Eterno scooter belonging to a close relation of the accused persons.The NIA investigation built a case that the Sanatan Sanstha, which had been regularly opposing the holding of any Narkasur effigy competition claiming the demon’s grand effigies were taking the focus away from Lord Krishna’s assassination of Narkasur, had planted the bomb to disrupt the competition. “The motive for the accused persons (was) to cause an explosion at the venue of the competition and thereby instil terror not only in the minds of organizers of such competitions but also in the members of the public, who, in hundreds attend such competitions,” the NIA said. The court while partially agreeing with them, however, found the evidence sketchy. “There is evidence on record that the accused persons had close links with the Sanatan Sanstha and there is evidence on record that this Sanstha for the period between 2001 and 2009 was protesting the holding of any Narkasur effigy competition in the State of Goa,” the High Court bench of Justices M S Jawalkar and M S Sonak said in its order. “The prosecution may have established that there was an explosion at Margao. However, that by itself is not sufficient to hold that such an explosion was a result of conspiracy hatched by the accused persons. There is no independent evidence on record to establish the conspiracy or meeting of minds amongst the accused persons. The evidence regarding conspiracy is quite sketchy,” the high court observed. Also Read: Goa: German woman found dead by daughter in her flatThe court ruled that that merely linking the accused with Sanatan Sanstha and putting on record the organisation’s opposition to the effigy competition doesn’t establish their role in the bomb blast.“Merely because the accused persons may have links with Sanatan Sanstha and Sanatan Sanstha was opposed to holding of Narkasur effigy competitions, is by no means sufficient to establish the accused persons had conspired to make explosion at such competition on the fateful night of 16th October, 2009,” the High Court ruled. “Suspicion, however, grave, can never take the place of proof which is required in such matters,” the high court said. Also Read: Alaya F shares stunning photo in a cutout monokini on Goa beach, says ‘freedom’The court however, disagreed with the trial court which had said that the NIA had launched a malafide investigation against the Sanstha. “To suggest that there was some manipulation in the FIR or that the prosecution was unfairly directed against a particular institution, is not an inference which could be legitimately drawn on the basis of the evidence on record. The observations made doubting the veracity of FIR or suggesting any malafides in the launch of the prosecution… cannot be sustained and are required to be set aside as being contrary to the weight of evidence on record,” the High Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-cites-sketchy-evidence-to-uphold-acquittal-of-2009-goa-bomb-blast-accused/story-rTrTFgAPji92vriz7w4z2K.html
20-09-2020||India||With 92,605 Covid-19 cases and 1,133 deaths, India’s tally over 5.4 million||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went past the 5.4 million mark and the country reported 4,303,043 recoveries so far, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Sunday. The number of active cases stood at 1,010,824 and the country’s death toll rose to 86,752, according to the health ministry’s coronavirus dashboard at 8am.Data showed India recorded 92,605 new infections and 1,333 patients died between Saturday and Sunday morning. There were 94,612 Covid-19 patients who recovered and were discharged between Saturday and Sunday morning. The recovery rate is now at 79.67%.India has overtaken the United States, the worst-hit country globally, and become the top nation in terms of Covid-19 recoveries. India now accounts for close to 19% of the total global recoveries, the government has said.The health ministry has said that 90% of the new recovered cases are being reported from 16 states and Union territories and about 60% are being reported from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.Also read | India added 461,587 Covid-19 cases in a week, recovery rate nears 80%“Centre-led focussed, responsive & effective measures of early identification through high & aggressive testing, prompt surveillance & tracking coupled with standardised high-quality clinical care have together resulted in this global achievement,” it said.The health ministry said that 1.2 million tests were conducted on Saturday across the country, the highest number of samples tested in a day so far, and there have been more than 63.7 million so far. The country had conducted the first test for Covid-19 on January 23 at Pune’s National Institute of Virology in Pune.“Higher testing leads to early identification of positive cases, timely & effective treatment and low mortality. While the number of daily tests has increased as integral part of CHASE THE VIRUS strategy, States have been advised that all symptomatic negatives of Rapid Antigen Tests are mandatorily subjected to RT-PCR,” it said.India has been conducting one million tests, reverse transcript polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid antigen tests (RAT), on average every day.Also read | PM Modi likely to hold Covid-19 review meet with chief ministers on Sept 23The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, amid rising incidents of harassment and violence against health workers due to a lack of awareness about coronavirus. It provides for up to seven years of imprisonment for those convicted of attacking doctors and healthcare workers during an epidemic. The act will replace an ordinance issued on April 22.The commission or abetment of violence will be punishable with imprisonment for a term of three months to five years, and with a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 200,000 under the act. In cases of causing grievous hurt, the imprisonment shall be for a term of six months to seven years, with fines ranging from Rs 100,000 to Rs 500,000.According to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker, 30,683,828 people have been infected and 955,841 have died across the world so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-92-605-covid-19-cases-and-1-133-deaths-india-s-tally-over-5-4-million/story-q5JGvfi4dhNxkXaZ6tMmoJ.html
20-09-2020||India||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar moves crucial farm bills in Rajya Sabha||The contentious farm bills that were passed in the Lok Sabha on September 17 have been moved in the Rajya Sabha by Union minister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar.Farmers’ and Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 will become laws after the Upper House also passes them on Sunday.Out of the 245-member Rajya Sabha, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is confident of getting the support of over 130 members including nine members of the AIADMK and six of the YSR Congress if a division of votes is sought on these bills, according to news agency PTI.The bills will deregularise farm foods from the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) and farmers will be allowed to sell their produce outside government-regulated markets.According to the government, the bills aim to accelerate agricultural growth through private sector investment in building agricultural infrastructure and supply chains for Indian farm produce in national and global markets. A government release called the passage of these bills a “historic-step” in unlocking the regulated agriculture markets in the country.However, farmers believe that the bills will render the current Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement system ineffective, leaving them at the mercy of “big farmers”. The farmers fear they would be forced to make distress sales to private companies.The passage of these bills in Lok Sabha saw protests across the nation with farmers in Punjab holding a three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation from September 24 to September 26 and Opposition leaders burning copies of the bills in Parliament.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Narendra Modi Cabinet on Thursday in protest against the “anti-farmer” bills. “I think I failed to convince the government about the farmers’ grouse on the farm ordinances,” she said in an interview with Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crucial-farm-bills-moved-in-rajya-sabha/story-sImHCDZIs348e8shNig0fL.html
20-09-2020||India||Earth sciences ministry may buy research aircraft to study atmosphere||The Union ministry of earth sciences (MoES) is considering procurement of an instrumented research aircraft to study atmospheric processes at a cost of Rs 250 crore, according to a Lok Sabha question answered by Dr Harsh Vardhan, the minister for science and technology. The aircraft will be a part of the National Facility for Airborne Research (NFAR) that the ministry will set up. The aircraft, which will be equipped with a suite of scientific instrumentation, will help studying various atmospheric parameters from the sky, including loud physics, aerosol and air chemistry that will strengthen weather and climate models. “(This) might be useful to validate cloud schemes for improving the model physics of monsoon or tropical clouds. It will be useful for addressing air pollution assessment and associated impacts over the country such as health, visibility, and climate,” said the minister. Also Read: Earth Sciences ministry may buy instrumented research aircraft for Rs 250 croreThe Pune-based India Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), an autonomous institute under the MoES, will function as the nodal body for the collection and dissemination of the information. The setting up of NFAR was approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) in 2018 with a financial commitment of Rs 130 crore during the current financial year. The facility will come under a scheme called Atmosphere and Climate Research-Modelling Observing System and Services (ACROSS). The scheme encompasses the atmospheric science programmes of the ministry addressing various aspects of weather and climate services such as warnings for cyclones, storm surges, heat waves and thunderstorms..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earth-sciences-ministry-to-buy-instrumented-research-aircraft-to-study-atmosphere/story-yB7WrDs9bW3VtdYCZxvPcI.html
20-09-2020||India||H D Deve Gowda takes oath as Rajya Sabha member||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda on Sunday took oath as a member of the Rajya Sabha. Gowda, 87, was in June elected to the Rajya Sabha from Karnataka. This is the first time that the JD(S) leader has become a member of the Upper House since 1996. When the House met for the day, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu called for oath-taking by newly elected members.After taking oath in Kannada, Gowda greeted the chair with folded hands. Naidu remarked that he is a “good addition to our House”.“Former prime minister and one of the senior-most leaders of our country has come to our House,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/h-d-deve-gowda-takes-oath-as-rajya-sabha-member/story-MsIBNJqx8Z6lVQdgIXqvlL.html
20-09-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 test touches a record 1.2 million||India on Saturday conducted 1.2 million tests across the country to detect the coronavirus disease (Covid-19); it is the highest number of samples tested in a single day so far.With that, the total number of samples tested for Covid-19 in the country in the past eight months has reached about 60.4 million.The first test for Covid-19 in the country was performed on January 23 at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) apex virology laboratory at National Institute of Virology in Pune.There has been a progressive rise in Covid-19 testing in the country. From about 10,000 till April 8, the number of tests reached 1 million by May 3; 5 million by June 10; 10 million by July 7; and is now about 60.4 million, according to Union health ministry data.Also Read: India added 461,587 Covid-19 cases in a week, recovery rate nears 80%“Higher testing leads to early identification of positive cases, timely and effective treatment and low mortality,” said the health ministry. On average, India has been administering one million tests every day for almost four weeks now, and that largely includes two tests—reverse transcript polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests and rapid antigen tests (RAT). The rapid antigen test comprises between 30% and 40% of the total Covid-19 diagnostics tests currently, according to the government data. “While the number of daily tests has increased as an integral part of chase the virus strategy, States have been advised that all symptomatic negatives of rapid antigen tests are mandatorily subjected to RT-PCR,” the health ministry further said.Also Read: Herd immunity unviable, Covid-19 vaccine the only solutionICMR, which has been spearheading the Covid-19 testing initiative in the country, has been constantly making efforts to scale up the testing infrastructure to be able to effectively execute government’s policy to test, track and treat as part of ‘chase the virus’ policy to cut the disease transmission cycle.ICMR, in a statement, said, “Recently, an increasing number of cases has been reported from states of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Naidu. ICMR is enhancing testing capacity in these states. ICMR has been regularly assessing the situation and responding by revising testing strategy. In its latest advisory on Covid-19 testing strategy, ‘testing on demand’ for individuals has been allowed. The State/UT governments have been allowed to simplify the modalities to facilitate testing on demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-test-touches-a-record-1-2-million/story-0C5XQXQVZ2oEP2JFMDi0dN.html
20-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: India added 461,587 Covid-19 cases in a week, recovery rate nears 80% and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India added 461,587 Covid-19 cases in a week, recovery rate nears 80%India added more than 460,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and over 6,000 people died in the last week, taking its tally past 5.3 million, data from the Union health ministry data shows. There are 428,324 patients of the viral disease who have recovered between Monday and Saturday morning, according to the health ministry.Read more. Mercury rises in north as monsoon loses steamThe monsoon has gone missing from all of north and north-west India in September , and the heat and humidity the region is witnessing may last for the rest of the season, with experts blaming the monsoon trough from Bay of Bengal travelling in a westerly direction instead of the usual north-westerly one for this.Read more. Herd immunity unviable, Covid-19 vaccine the only solutionSome countries, including India, have recently re-confirmed re-infection using genome sequencing to demonstrate that the second infection was caused by genetically distinct Sars-CoV-2 virus, which has made depending on “a nice big epidemic” – in the words of UK pandemic advisor Graham Medley – to end the public health emergency not just facetious but very stupid.Read more. PM Modi likely to hold Covid-19 review meet with chief ministers on Sept 23Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold a meeting with chief ministers of seven states next week to review the Covid-19 situation in country.Read more. IPL 2020: CSK beat MI by 5 wickets in Game 1Chennai Super Kings beat Mumbai Indians by 5 wickets in the opening match of IPL 2020 in Abu Dhabi. Mumbai Indians posted 162/9 in 20 overs with Saurabh Tiwary top scoring with 42 runs. Lungi Ngidi was the most successful CSK bowler with figures of 3/38. CSK won the match with 4 balls to spare as Faf Du Plessis remained unbeaten on 58. The star of the match for CSK was Ambati Rayudu, who scored 71 runs in just 48 balls.Read more. Actor accuses Anurag Kashyap of sexual assault, he says all claims are baselessA Bollywood actor late on Saturday accused filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of sexual assault. In an interview, she mentioned that the incident happened during the making of Bombay Velvet. Anurag later took to Twitter to deny all claims and called them baseless.Read more. Face masks: Check out which coverings offer sufficient protection and which do not work against Covid-19As face masks become the new fashion accessory and the most effective tool in the battle against coronavirus, it is important that you opt for a covering which offers sufficient protection. Read on to know about the best and worst face coverings. Read more. Take a trip down memory lane with these ‘nostalgic mood’ recommendations by Amazon Prime IndiaOne’s favourite childhood shows and movies can easily teleport them to simpler times. If you’re someone who believes in that notion, then this post by Amazon Prime India’s may seem like a perfectly designed time machine to you.Read more. Amazfit Band 5 with SpO2 monitor, 15-day battery life launchedAmazfit has launched a new fitness tracker that looks quite similar to the Mi Band 5. The Amazfit Band 5 has been made official in the US, and it comes packed with an array of features including an SpO2 monitor.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-india-added-461-587-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-recovery-rate-nears-80-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YFoWlOpk0fjwhSswzN8v9N.html
20-09-2020||India||India added 461,587 Covid-19 cases in a week, recovery rate nears 80%||India added more than 460,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and over 6,000 people died in the last week, taking its tally past 5.3 million, data from the Union health ministry data shows. There are 428,324 patients of the viral disease who have recovered between Monday and Saturday morning, according to the health ministry.India has been reporting 90,000 fresh Covid-19 infections every day on average and more than 1,000 deaths since Monday, according to the health ministry’s coronavirus dashboard.On Monday, there were 986,598 active cases of Covid-19, 3,780,107 recoveries and 79,222 deaths across the country. The infection tally at the beginning of the week stood at 4,846,427, health ministry data showed. On Saturday, the country’s active cases rose to 1,013,964, 4,208,431 coronavirus disease patients recovered and the death toll shot up to 85,619.Also read | Herd immunity unviable, Covid-19 vaccine the only solutionThe government has said India has overtaken the United States and become the top country in terms of global Covid-19 recoveries. India now accounts for close to 19% of the total global recoveries, which has strongly pushed the national recovery rate to 79.28%, it said“Centre-led focussed, calibrated, responsive and effective measures of early identification through high and aggressive testing, prompt surveillance and tracking coupled with standardised high-quality clinical care have together resulted in this global achievement,” it said.Also read | Covid-19 cloud may end monsoon session by WednesdayThe health ministry’s data also shows India registered the highest ever single-day recoveries between Friday and Saturday morning with 95,880 patients discharged on Saturday. It said 90% of the new recovered cases are being reported from 15 states and Union territories. Of the new recovered cases, about 60% are being reported from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. These five states are also the ones with the maximum caseload.Maharashtra has alone contributed more than 22,000 (23%) and Andhra Pradesh has contributed more than 11,000 (12.3%) to the single-day recoveries.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to meet the chief ministers of seven states next week to review the coronavirus situation. News agency PTI cited sources saying the meeting is likely to be held on September 23.Chief ministers of Maharashtra, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh among others are expected to attend the meeting, PTI reported. The Prime Minister has been regularly holding meetings to review the pandemic situation across the country with a focus on states and Union territories where the situation is more serious.His last such meeting was on August 11 with chief ministers and representatives of 10 most-affected states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh.Globally, there are 30,673,633 cases of the coronavirus disease and 955,404 people have died, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker. The US has the most number of cases, followed by India and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-added-461-587-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-recovery-rate-nears-80/story-mrr4iXveVpd54BdFywGz4I.html
20-09-2020||India||BJP, Opposition seek to rally support as farm bills reach Rajya Sabha||Rajya Sabha is likely to take up the contentious farm bills on Sunday with the Congress and many opposition parties trying to put a united front to oppose these proposed legislations terming them as anti-farmer and pro-corporate, even as the ruling BJP is also reaching out to several regional outfits for support. The numbers, however, appear to be in favour of the ruling dispensation to get these bills passed from Rajya Sabha, while the lower house has already cleared them despite a key NDA member Shiromani Akali Dal vehemently opposing them.Also read: Why western UP farmers are silent on Centre’s new farm bills Some key BJP leaders are said to be in touch with various non-Congress opposition parties to seek support from their Rajya Sabha members for these bills. While the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance is yet to have a clear majority of its own in the 245-member Rajya Sabha, many regional parties have backed it for the last several sessions to ensure passage of various legislations proposed by the government. BJP leaders expressed confidence that they will get the support of over 130 members, including nine of the AIADMK and six of the YSR Congress -- both of whom are not part of the ruling alliance if a division of votes is sought on these bills. Another regional party, Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) was also being wooed by the BJP, but its chief and Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday asked his party MPs to vote against these bills, alleging these would cause great injustice to farmers in the country. The BJP itself has the highest tally with 86 seats, followed by 40 of the Congress. The three members of the SAD are sure to vote against the bills, but Shiv Sena, a former BJP ally and now in opposition, has expressed it support for these bills. The Maharashtra party has three members in Rajya Sabha. Several other regional parties, including three-member Aam Aadmi Party, Samajwadi Party with eight seats, and BSP with four, have joined the opposition’s ranks in protest against these bills but it may not prove enough to hinder their passage. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s forceful defence of the three bills and blistering criticism of the Opposition for protesting against them on Thursday made it clear that he remains unfazed by the opposition and that his government will press on to get Parliament’s nod for these measures aimed at opening private avenues for farmers to sell their produce.Also read: PM Modi defends farm bills, says critics misleading farmers His assertion came amid Congress and several other parties besides the SAD coming out strongly against these bills, calling them “anti-farmers”. Farmers in states like Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against these proposed laws which, their leaders allege, will end up dismantling the existing government-backed support system they have.    A number count of parties that have come out against these draft legislations suggests that there are as of now nearly 100 MPs opposing them. There is no clarity about the stand of some small parties which have around a dozen members put together. Since the Modi government assumed office for its second time in 2019, its rivals have not been able to scuttle any of its major bills due to a rise in the ranks of treasury benches and a corresponding fall in the opposition ranks. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday, while the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill was passed on Tuesday. These bills seek to replace ordinances already promulgated by the government.  With opposition parties dubbing the three bills as “anti-farmers” and the SAD quitting his government to protest them, Modi refuted their criticism, describing these proposed laws as “historic” and stating that they will unshackle farmers by allowing them to sell their produce anywhere at a better price. A day after resigning from Union Cabinet, senior SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal said she feels “saddened” that her voice in support of farmers was not heard and demanded that the government should pause on these legislations by referring them to a parliamentary panel for wider consultations.Also read: Agriculture bills passed in Lok Sabha, farmers protest: All you need to know  The government has presented these bills as pro-farmers, saying these will ensure that farmers get better prices for their produce and do not get subjected to regulations of ‘mandis’. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said on Thursday in Lok Sabha that farmers will be free to sell their produce to anyone and these bills will increase competition and promote private investment, which will help in the development of farm infrastructure and generate employment. However, opposition parties have slammed the bills as “anti-farmers”, claiming that the agriculture sector will be left to the fate of corporate interests. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal also appealed to all non-BJP parties to unite in Rajya Sabha and oppose the three bills that he claimed would leave farmers in the hands of big companies for exploitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-opposition-seek-to-rally-support-as-farm-bills-reach-rajya-sabha/story-EcgwrMK0EJnzIwWlII73XM.html
20-09-2020||India||Hashish worth crores seized from Mumbai bound truck, 2 smugglers arrested||In a major success, anti narcotics task force foiled a smuggling bid and recovered a huge consignment of high grade Hashish or hash worth crores headed for Mumbai and arrested two interstate smugglers in Jammu on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Ali Mohammad and Aamin Khan of Somalpur, Ajmer in Rajasthan. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) ANTF J&K, Vinay Sharma stated that an information from reliable sources was received about a truck (number RJ10GB-3411) parked near Tawi bridge on Nagrota- Narwal bypass road in Jammu, in which, a large quantity of Hashish was concealed in apple boxes and was being smuggled from Kashmir to Mumbai. Also Read: Anurag Kashyap claims Ravi Kishan used to smoke weed, opens up on his own struggle. “During a search of the truck, 35 kg of Hashish like substance was recovered. Both the drug smugglers Ali Mohammad and Aamin Khan have been arrested and are in police custody,” he said. Sharma said the department will probe if there was a cross-border link to this haul.“We are working to unearth all the links of these drug dealers,” said the SSP and added that all possible aspects including cross border smuggling were being probed in this case and more arrests were likely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hashish-worth-crores-seized-from-mumbai-bound-truck-2-smugglers-arrested/story-hKdPiC3vCTx2FNRgUHmwvO.html
20-09-2020||India||Helium balloons explode during PM Modi’s birthday fete in Chennai, BJP workers injured||A huge bunch of balloons burst into a ball of fire after sparks from firecrackers punctured them just before release during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s weeklong birthday celebrations here injuring a number of people, police said on Saturday.The incident occurred when BJP members, all set to release the balloons, burst firecrackers while garlanding a farmers wing state level office-bearer, Muthuraman at Padi on Friday.The BJP is celebrating Modi’s birthday (September 17) as “Seva Saptah” for a week.Sparks, that emanated from the crackers punctured the balloons and in a trice they burst into a huge ball of fire, prompting party workers to take to their heels and the blaze dissipated in moments, police said.The BJP members had planned to release a hundred hydrogen filled balloons into the air and the mild explosion caused minor injuries to a number of people who were admitted to the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital for treatment,they said.Since the event was held without permission, the Korattur police booked a case against the organisers and a brief video of the freak accident went viral in social media.Also read: Here is what PM Modi wants as birthday giftWhile the party cadres were holding hundreds of balloons filled with hydrogen gas, sparks from firecrackers hit some balloons and in no time all balloons burst leading to a fire, police said.Meanwhile,a case was booked against BJP state unit chief L Murugan and others for taking out a “chariot ride” in violation of prohibitory orders clamped in view of the coronavirus pandemic and for alleged “unlawful” assembly. Also, a case was registered for putting up illegal banners,they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helium-balloons-explode-during-pm-modi-s-birthday-fete-in-chennai-bjp-workers-injured/story-gWa6nClOlQRzi9Tkt6EzkO.html
20-09-2020||India||PM Modi likely to hold Covid-19 review meet with chief ministers on Sept 23||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold a meeting with chief ministers of seven states next week to review the Covid-19 situation in country. “The meeting is likely to be held on September 23,” sources told news agency PTI.Also read: PM Modi to meet chief ministers today on Covid-19 situation; discussion on Delhi on WednesdayChief ministers of Maharashtra, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh among others are expected to attend the meeting, they said.This meeting comes in the backdrop of Covid-19 cases breaching the 5.3-million mark in India on Saturday, according to the health ministry dashboard. As many as 85,619 people have died of the infection in the country.PM Modi has regularly been holding these meetings to review the pandemic situation across the country with a focus on states and UTs where the infection is more widespread. Also read: PM Modi meets ministers to assess India’s response to Covid-19 pandemicThe last such meeting was held on August 11 and chief ministers and representatives of 10 most-affected states -- Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh took part in it.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-likely-to-hold-covid-19-review-meet-with-chief-ministers-on-sept-23/story-wigi8jxAiz7QGW14E7YggO.html
20-09-2020||India||HC upholds acquittal of six accused in ’09 Goa blast case||The Goa bench of Bombay high court on Saturday upheld the order of a special court acquitting all the accused charge-sheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with a bomb blast that took place in Margao in 2009.As per the NIA, those charge-sheeted allegedly had links with right-wing group Sanatan Sanstha.The bomb, which was placed in a scooter, went off on October 16, on the eve of Diwali, killing two persons who police identified as Malgonda Patil and Yogesh Naik.The duo was ferrying the bomb when it exploded, the police had said at the time.NIA counsel Advocate Pravin Faldesai told reporters in Panaji on Saturday that Vinay Talekar, Dhananjay Ashtekar, Prashant Ashtekar, Vinayak Patil, Prashant Juvekar and Dilip Mazgaonkar were acquitted by the High Court bench of Justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar, which gave them the benefit of doubt.“The High Court considered the appeal in larger detail and held that the accused be given the benefit of doubt. The HC expunged a statement in the special court order which had said the NIA investigation was with malafide intention,” Faldesai said.The special court had acquitted the accused in 2013 after which the NIA approached HC.A total of eleven persons, including the two deceased, were named as accused in the case. “There was one major circumstance which we had to prove that this particular Sanstha had the motive to conduct this blast..., but the court said that we could not submit a strong proof, ” Faldessai added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-upholds-acquittal-of-six-accused-in-09-goa-blast-case/story-mOzlQ12sJeDhjfG8A3VhQO.html
20-09-2020||India||Heavy rain in peninsular region to persist, says IMD||Heavy and widespread rain in peninsular and northeast India will persist till October, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Northwest India will continue to remain dry and Rajasthan is likely to experience dry weather but weather models are not showing monsoon withdrawal commencement from northwest India as yet.Due to heavy rain over south India and parts of northeast India rain deficiency of 30% in the week ending September 9 was not only compensated last week but also recorded an excess of 7% this week according to the weekly weather report. “A change in weather patterns which resulted in above normal rain in the past week from -30% we reached 7% excess as far as weekly rain is considered. This change was possible because of a low-pressure system that formed over Andhra Pradesh coast, a cyclonic circulation over west coast of India which brough rainfall throughout south peninsular India. Monsoon trough shifted to foothills during the end of the week causing heavy to extremely heavy rain in parts of northeast India,” said Soma Senroy, scientist at the National Weather Forecasting Centre of IMD.A fresh low-pressure area is likely to develop over northwest Bay of Bengal around September 20 which will bring heavy and widespread rains to east, northeast and peninsular India till end of September while northwest India is likely to record large deficiency. Between September 18 and 24 above normal rain is likely over west peninsular coast as westerlies strengthen due to development of the low-pressure area.Widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Kerala, Karnataka and Konkan and Goa from September 19 to 22. Extremely heavy rain is also very likely over Coastal Karnataka during September 19 to 20; over north Kerala and ghat sections of South Interior Karnataka on September 19 and 20; over south Konkan and Goa on September 21 and 22.Localized flooding of roads; water logging in low lying areas; mudslides; damage to horticulture and standing crops in some areas due to inundation and riverine flooding in some river catchments is likely in these areas, IMD said on Saturday. Extremely heavy rain is also likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on September 22 and 23.There is a 12.5% deficiency in rain over the country in September; 53.9% deficiency over northwest India; 32.4% deficiency over central India; 4.4% deficiency over east and northeast India and 77.4% excess rain over peninsular India. In the monsoon season since June 1 there is 6.6% excess rain over the country; 15.5% deficiency over northwest India; 13.5% excess over central India; 1.5% excess over east and northeast India and 28.4% excess over south peninsula.“The circulation patterns are not suggesting withdrawal of monsoon yet. We are not seeing significant reduction in moisture. Westerly winds will strengthen next week due to development of low-pressure area,” explained K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-in-peninsular-region-to-persist-says-imd/story-gfTg8l4E3gt7uLNqO0U9jP.html
20-09-2020||India||Mercury rises in north as monsoon loses steam||The monsoon has gone missing from all of north and north-west India in September , and the heat and humidity the region is witnessing may last for the rest of the season, with experts blaming the monsoon trough from Bay of Bengal travelling in a westerly direction instead of the usual north-westerly one for this.The sultry conditions may last for the next 10-13 days, the experts added, at least till the monsoon fully withdraws from the region without any rainfall. The withdrawal will finally result in pleasant weather, they added. According to the India Meteorological Department, the rainfall deficit in the northern part of India in September is near total -- up to 99% of the normal, the highest for any region in the country. The southern states of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana received up to 50% excess rain during the same period with Chitradurga district in Karnataka seeing 245% excess rainfall.In Himachal, the tribal district of Kinnaur, known for its delicious royal apples harvested this month, received 88% less rainfall, the highest for any district in the state. In Uttar Pradesh, the western parts were almost dry with districts such Bulandshahr and Mathura recording 100% rain deficiency.Delhi was slightly better than its neighbouring states with 61% rain deficiency. New Delhi, the seat of the Central government, recorded 76% less rainfall than normal, the most for any district in the national capital. Likewise, southern Haryana districts such as Gurugram and Faridabad recorded close to 90% less rainfall.“Only one trough formed in the Bay of Bengal during this period and that also travelled towards the westerly direction bringing in some rain in West Bengal, Odisha and North-East India. Hence, the north and north-west remained dry,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate and meteorology, Skymet Weather, a private forecaster.North and north-west India receive rains due to the oscillation of troughs, getting its moisture feed from the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. With few troughs forming, the region witnessed westerly winds adding to the humid conditions, said an IMD scientist, who asked not to be named as he is not authorised to speak to media. The warmer-than-usual period, with temperatures ranging from 32 degrees Celsius in the hills of Himachal and Uttarakhand to 39 degrees in Delhi, five to eight degrees above normal, showed its impact on horticulture crops.“Because of the excessive heat, the colour of apples in my orchards turned almost yellow from red. No rain has resulted in leaf-fall turning the fruit, which looked good a month ago, into bad quality. Nobody buys a small size and pale red apple,” said Chander Mohan Justa, an orchad owner in Shimla.Devendra Sharma, an agriculture expert, said poor rainfall in the food bowl states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, could have some impact in the kharif output. “Though the sowing was good because of good early monsoon rains, the dry patch in August and September has hurt farmers.” North and north-west India’s loss was east and south India’s gain -- depressions in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal moved towards the west bringing heavy rains. The western coast, from Maharashtra to Kerala received 90-100% excess rain whereas most of the North-Eastern states received up to 50% more rainfall than normal, IMD data showed. A recent study by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, said that by the end of this century southern India is likely to register the maximum increase in rainfall compared to the states in central and north India. “In the worst-case scenario, rainfall could increase by 2.7 mm per day in north India and by 18.5 mm per day in Western Ghats in southern India,” said Rajib Maity, a professor of civil engineering at IIT Kharagpur, who led the study.In its weekly forecast, IMD did not project any major rainfall in the remaining part of the monsoon season; the monsoon is expected to withdraw from western India in the third week of September. The temperature is expected to be higher than normal for northern and central Indian plains.The anti-cyclone activity, a sign of monsoon withdrawal from western India, is now visible in central Pakistan, meaning that the monsoon will start withdrawing from Rajasthan in a week, Palawat said. Despite less rainfall in September, Mritunjay Mohapatra, director-general of IMD, said on September 8 that je expected the overall monsoon in India to be 102% of the normal with south, central and western India receiving substantially more than normal rainfall .“We are not expecting any improvement in rain deficiency over northwest India now because we are heading towards monsoon withdrawal,” said DS Pai, senior scientist, IMD Pune, agreeing that the monsoon is pretty much over in northern India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-rises-in-north-as-monsoon-loses-steam/story-BUMSX60CMzgTKlffIz8FEN.html
20-09-2020||India||AugustaWestland case: CBI names Rajiv Saxena in second charge sheet||The Central Bureau of Investigation has filed a supplementary charge sheet in the ₹3,727 crore AgustaWestland VVIP chopper case, naming nine Indian nationals including Rajiv Saxena; the former managing director of AgustaWestland, Giacomino Saponaro; and five companies that allegedly played a crucial role in facilitating the movement of kickbacks meant for politicians, bureaucrats and Indian Air Force officials, people familiar with the probe said. The charge sheet, the second in the case – first was filed in September 2017 naming former IAF chief S P Tyagi and 10 others – doesn’t name any politician or government official. It also doesn’t name former defence secretary Shashi Kant Sharma, then Air Vice Marshal Jasbir Singh Panesar and three senior retired IAF officials, chief test pilot S A Kunte, Wing Commander Thomas Mathew and retired Group Captain N Santosh. The agency recently sought sanction from the defence ministry to prosecute former bureaucrats and IAF officials. The sanction is yet to be accorded. “Investigation against beneficiaries has been kept pending for now but a supplementary charge sheet will soon be filed against politicians and government officers,” said one of the people familiar with the matter. Among those arraigned as accused in the CBI charge sheet, filed on Friday, are Rajiv Saxena, a middleman who was deported to India from Dubai in January 2019 and was made an approver in the case by the Enforcement Directorate in April the same year. However, the anti-money laundering probe agency sought revocation of his approver status in November last year alleging that he has misled the investigators and is “not reliable”. The matter is still pending in courts. The Delhi high court had refused to revoke his approver status. ED has accused Saxena of being a “hawala operator” who ran accommodation entry business in Dubai through shell companies. Accommodation entry is an aspect of money laundering where a sum of money is broken up and moved to several accounts over a period of time so as to make the transaction difficult to trace. Apart from Saxena, the eight other Indians, who helped create shell companies, or assisted AgustaWestland in procuring documents related to the VVIP chopper contract, named by CBI are: SP Tyagi’s cousin Sandeep Tyagi, Praveen Bakshi, Pratap Krishan Aggarwal (ex-Managing Director of IDS Infotech Ltd), Narendra Kumar Jain, Rajesh Kumar Jain of Kolkata, Sunil Kothari, Deepak Goyal, KV Kunhikrishnan (former GM of Westland Support Services Ltd, New Delhi). Kunhikrishnan has been linked to British middleman Christian Michel, who helped him procure contract documents and and former managing director of AgustaWestland - Giacomino Saponaro. CBI’s latest charge sheet establishes how a cash payment of ₹5 crore given to SP Tyagi’s cousin Sandeep Tyagi was brought to India through small companies in Mauritius and India and also through banking channels. It mentions details of discussions between European middlemen Guido Haschke, Carlo Gerosa and Christian Michel related to bribes to be paid to different persons. The three were already named as accused in CBI’s first chargesheet in September 2017. The agency said that when Michel was procuring classified defence documents for the contract, he gave over ₹90 lakh to Kunhikrishnan for the same. It is alleged that Anglo-Italian firm AgustaWestland allegedly paid Michel, who was extradited to India in December 2018 from Dubai, Euro 42 million (₹295 crore) to bribe politicians, bureaucrats and defence ministry personnel for swinging the deal for 12 VVIP choppers in favour of the company. According to CBI’s investigation documents, which have been reviewed by HT, at a meeting held in Cascina Costa (Italy) in July 2006, it was proposed that Michel would work with Haschke and Gerosa in monitoring activities with regard to the acquisition of helicopters in India, keeping in view his knowledge of Indian military deals. “During this meeting, they negotiated a comprehensive fee equal to 7% of the supply contract amount to cover the expenses and fees of both of them,” said the second officer. Michel signed 12 contracts through two of his firms with Finmeccanica, AgustaWestland, Westland Helicopters UK etc to legitimise the illicit commission on procurement of helicopters. “Finmeccanica paid total Euro 42.27 million [₹295.00 crore approx] to the firms of Christian Michel as kickbacks/bribe without undertaking any work against the receipt of such amount,” said the second officer. Michel had prepared a note in which alleged bribes worth Euro 30 million meant for politicians and bureaucrats were mentioned. CBI pinned hopes on his interrogation, particularly to identify individuals who were referred to as “AP”, “Pol”, “Bur” and “AF” in the note. The note used abbreviations of designations like “DCH”, “PDSR”, “DG Maintt” and “FTT” under the head “AF (air force)”. Under the head “BUR”, it had entries like “DS”, “JS Air”, “AFA Air”, “DG Acq”, “VC” and “Auditor Gen” and under “POL”, it had “AP”. The note had a separate entry “Fam”, believed to be S P Tyagi’s family – his three cousins Sanjeev, Rajiv and Sandeep Tyagi. It mentioned that Euro 6 million were for “AF” (Air Force), 8.4 million for “BUR” (bureaucrats), 3 million for “AP” and 15-16 million for “Fam”. In its first charge-sheet, CBI said it had established the “money trail” of Euro 62 million (around 415 crore) out of suspected 67 million (Rs 452 crore) bribe paid to Indians through middlemen. The irregularities in the award of the contract to AgustaWestland led to an estimated loss of Euro 398.21 million (around ₹2,666 crore) to the government in the Euro 556.262 million (₹3726.9 crore) contract according to CBI. The contract was cancelled in January 2014. Michel’s lawyer Aljo Joseph said: “There is no evidence against my client. The whole case is based on false allegations”. Saxena’s lawyer R K Handoo said the allegations are “baseless”. Legal representatives of others named in charge sheet could not immediately be reached by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/augustawestland-case-cbi-names-rajiv-saxena-in-second-charge-sheet/story-GzbCeBoWD9wLhnM74RzPwJ.html
20-09-2020||India||UK believed Rajiv Gandhi ran ‘oriental court’, was ‘king among courtiers’||The British government had a poor opinion of Rajiv Gandhi’s performance as the prime minister (1984-89) and on the eve of the 1989 general election, concluded that the atmosphere in his cabinet was that of an “oriental court”, where he was “king among courtiers”.The confidential assessment of Gandhi’s tenure in office was penned by the then British high commissioner in New Delhi, David Goodall, and received in the Foreign Office in London as an “astute and perceptive analysis”. It has now been declassified and released by National Archives.The Gandhi-led Congress lost the 1989 election. Gandhi was the focus of two detailed confidential notes by the diplomat, who wrote he had a difficult time explaining to an “incredulous” then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in September 1989 that Gandhi would not return as the prime minister.The notes are particularly critical of Gandhi’s ways of functioning, and his alleged dependence on a “coterie”. They quote former foreign secretary M K Rasgotra and former diplomat Ronen Sen to substantiate the assessment of Gandhi’s “appalling” working methods.Goodall wrote: “The small coterie of privileged bureaucrats and political associates on whom he relies for advice are liable to go in and out of favour with disconcerting suddenness; and the question who currently has the Prime Minister’s ear is the perennial topic of speculation among both Indian and foreign political observers in Delhi”.“After over four years in office, inexperience is no longer a sufficient excuse. It has become clear that Gandhi also has problems of indecisiveness and a tendency to lose interest in the implementation of policies”.“It would be unfair to apply to him Lord Beaverbook’s dictum about Lord Derby that, like a cushion, he bears the imprint of the last person to have sat on him; but it is a frequent observation that he is too influenced by the last person who has spoken to him, and that he signally lacks judgment in his choice of close advisers”.According to Goodall, Gandhi had failed to revivify the Congress party, had become aloof and inaccessible to party workers, lacked “any profoundly thought-out political philosophy of his own”, and was ineffectual in foreign affairs.“I believe that at the root of Gandhi’s monarchical proclivities there lies a sense of personal insecurity…Perhaps the only confidante he trusts completely is his wife, Sonia…(There) is little doubt that in private she is a tower of strength, and exercises a powerful influence on his choice (and rejection) of friends”, the diplomat, who passed away in 2016, wrote.He added: “Indeed with Ministers his status is more that of king among courtiers than first among equals. We are told that in cabinet no-one, with the possible exception of K C Pant, the Defence Minister, dares to contradict him. With 24 re-shuffles in four years, no Minister has been allowed to remain in one job long enough to establish an independent political reputation”.“In other respects too, the atmosphere is that of an oriental court; indeed comparisons, not altogether far-fetched, are sometimes drawn with the late Shah of Persia…Alongside the urbanity and the gentleness appear flashes of unpredictable petulance”.On the credit side, the declassified notes mention Gandhi’s pro-western outlook, lineage and the Nehru-Gandhi family’s long-standing links with Britain, particularly its leading lights attending schools and universities in the country over the decades.The note says: “Rajiv was strikingly handsome. He was a most attractive person to be with. He had charm, modesty and human warmth. He was full of decent instincts and devoted to his family. Undoubtedly, he wanted to do the right thing for India; and in the end he spent himself in the attempt”.“But the truth is that his character, admirable in many ways, was not big enough for the job. He tried, but he never seemed to try hard enough…(He) never succeeded, either by force of character or example, in making even the smallest dent on the moral decay and galloping corruption of Indian political life and Indian political institutions,” Goodall wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-believed-rajiv-ran-oriental-court-was-king-among-courtiers/story-gSwowKxfPI15pkG1uunoCJ.html
20-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand reports biggest single-day spike with 2,078 new Covid-19 cases, 14 people die||Uttarakhand on Saturday recorded the biggest single-day spike in fresh Covid-19 cases with 2,078 patients. With this the state’s tally of total cases increased to 40,085 and crossed the 40,000 mark. The state also reported 878 recoveries on Saturday with a maximum of 325 from US Nagar, taking the tally of total recoveries to 26,973. With this, the recovery rate now stands at 67.29% and the rate of doubling of cases stands at 20.78 days. The state recorded the death of 14 Covid-19 patients. With this, the death toll increased to 478 in the state. Out of the 478 deaths, 151 cases were of deaths due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday evening, a maximum of 668 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by US Nagar (397), Haridwar (289), Nainital (231), Tehri (146), Pauri (99), Uttarkashi (67), Chamoli (54), Almora (43), Pithoragarh (39), Champawat (19), Bageshwar (13), and Rudraprayag (13). Dehradun district has reported the maximum 10,277 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (8087), US Nagar (7340) and Nainital (5033). The state has so far tested over 5.94 lakh samples of which results of over 11,000 are awaited. The infection rate stands at 7.01% in the state at present. Uttarakhand currently has 492 containment zones in nine districts including a maximum of 369 in Haridwar district. Anoop Nautiyal, the founder of Dehradun-based think-tank Social Development for Communities that has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the hill state, said, “With continuous rise in cases, Dehradun has now crossed over 10,000 cases. This is alarming and needs the highest levels of intervention from the state government. As per official figures, the infection rate in Dehradun district is at an average of 31% for the past one week. If we look at today’s cases (Saturday) the infection rate is around 40% in Dehradun. Experts and the state government need to identify the spread in the district and take immediate steps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-with-2-078-new-covid-19-cases-14-people-die/story-O2xBFdm8yGbOXj43AhXKeN.html
20-09-2020||India||9 al Qaeda men arrested for plan to trigger attacks in India||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) said on Saturday that it has busted an al Qaeda module and arrested nine people who were allegedly planning to carry out major terror strikes in India at the direction of their Pakistan-based handler.The nine suspects were picked up from West Bengal and Kerala on Saturday, people familiar with the developments said, requesting anonymity. The suspects, under the scanner for some time, were arrested after the agency learnt that they acquired large quantities of weapons, country-made firearms, locally fabricated body armour, jihadi literature, and literature used for making explosives, according to the officials cited above.Also read: Kin of alleged al Qaeda operatives arrested from Bengal still puzzled about offenceThe suspects were planning attacks at several locations, including Delhi-NCR, Kochi and Mumbai, and they were about to leave for Kashmir to receive a consignment of weapons, which was likely to arrive from Pakistan, the officials added. “NIA learnt about an inter-state module of al Qaeda operatives at various locations in India, including West Bengal and Kerala. The group was planning to undertake terrorist attacks at vital installations in India with an aim to kill innocent people and strike terror in their minds,” NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang said in a statement.Also read: 9 Al-Qaeda operatives arrested by NIA in raids conducted in West Bengal, Kerala. Full list“These individuals were radicalised by Pakistan-based al Qaeda terrorists on social media and were motivated to undertake attacks at multiple places, including the National Capital Region (NCR). For this purpose, the module was actively indulging in fund-raising and a few members of gang were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition. These arrests have pre-empted possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country,” the statement said. The handler of the module has been identified as Abu Hamza, who is in Pakistan. He is said to be directly linked to the main al Qaeda outfit headed by Ayman al-Zawahiri, according to the officials familiar with the investigation. The suspected Indian operatives were found to have been in touch with the leadership of the al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), and not the general high command of the terror group.All nine suspects are residents of West Bengal. While three of them (Murshid Hasan, a labourer; Iyakub Biswas, a salesman; and Mosaraf Hossen, a cook at a small eatery) were held in Kerala’s Ernakulam, the remaining six (Abu Sufiyan, a tailor; Mainul Mondal, a cook; Leu Yean Ahmed, an electrician; Ali Mamun Kamal, a driver; and Najmus Sakib and Atitur Rahman, both pursuing graduation) were taken into custody from West Bengal’s Murshidabad. Murshid Hasan is believed to be heading the nine-member module and was receiving directions from Pakistan through social media. A senior official who did not want to be named said that the agency recovered YouTube videos of Murshid Hasan --- who is believed to have been in touch with the Pakistan-based handler for a year --- in which he purportedly threatened to kill non-Muslims. Also, the agency detected a YouTube channel of Leu Yean Ahmed on which he allegedly propagated jihadi ideology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-al-qaeda-men-held-for-plan-to-trigger-attacks/story-I5CmQZ8bMp7qVHMG4mXKgK.html
20-09-2020||India||Covid cloud may end monsoon session by Wednesday||Parliament’s monsoon session may end as early as on September 23, eight days ahead of its schedule, after many political parties agreed to cut it short amid a rising number of Covid-19 cases linked to the Parliament House complex. So far, two Union ministers, 30 MPs and several House officials have tested positive for Covid, posing a serious challenge on the ongoing session schedule despite the health safety makeovers. Both ministers attended some days of the session that started Monday. At Saturday’s meeting of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC), a panel that decides the weekly agenda of the House, the government’s floor managers said they had no objections to cut short the session but wanted 20 laws — including the ratification of 11 ordinances — to be cleared. It had previously shortlisted 14 bills for the week amid talks of shortening the session at the BAC meeting, and furnished a list of another 6 bills. So far, 11 out of 20 bills have been cleared by the Lok Sabha and 5 have been approved by both Houses. Now, amidst the push to cut short the session, more bills might be cleared without long debates, two Opposition leaders said. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAs India faced the first wave of Covid-19 cases, the budget session of Parliament was cut short on March 23. Two days later, a sweeping federal lockdown that eventually lasted 68 days kicked in. As Covid cases kept increasing, particularly in Delhi, the monsoon session was deferred by two months from its usual mid-July start. It finally started from September 14; the Indian Constitution makes it mandatory to start a session within six months of the previous one. At Saturday’s meeting, parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi listed the three labour codes — on social security, industrial relations and occupation safety — FCRA amendments, J&K official languages bill and The National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Bill for passage. Congress chief whip K Suresh argued that it’s not feasible that only government agenda would be cleared and issues raised by the opposition parties not find any mention. The Congress insisted in the meeting that the environment impact assessment draft that has become controversial, the new national education policy, and issues related to the economy and delays in GST compensation payments to the states be discussed. A non-Congress Opposition leader said that both sides may come to an adjustment to take up one or two Opposition-sponsored debates. And a few bills may be quickly passed to save time, this person added. While all 20 legislations might not get cleared, all bills replacing ordinances and the labour reform bills are likely to be cleared. Also read: Stricter punishments for attacking medics workers during an epidemicOnly two parties, Trinamool Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party have not agreed to the curtailment plan so far. Trinamool’s floor leader Derek O’Brien tweeted, “First, this Govt calls an 18-day Parliament Session. After 6 days have they realised it’s a hare-brained idea? Now want Opposition to find them a solution.” The monsoon session set an ambitious 18-day schedule with no weekend breaks. Aiming to keep MPs in Delhi for as less time as possible, it was decided to hold the two Houses in shifts, with lawmakers spread across both chambers and galleries to ensure social distancing, and with added protection such as plexiglass partitions in the lower house and a complete ban on visitors. All MPs were also required to take a RT-PCR test ahead of the session. With two ministers and some officials testing positive, they have been recommended to take these tests as many times as they want. Other officials and journalists attending Parliament have to take a rapid antigen test everyday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cloud-may-end-session-by-wednesday/story-pyJQckQ5b6N6eGyj47yAQK.html
20-09-2020||India||Stricter punishments for attacking medics workers during an epidemic||The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which provides for up to seven years of imprisonment for those convicted of attacking doctors and healthcare workers during an epidemic.The Bill, which was introduced by health minister Harsh Vardhan in the Upper House, was supported by parties across lines. The Act will replace an ordinance issued on April 22.Under the Act, the commission or abetment of violence will be punishable with imprisonment for a term of three months to five years, and with a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 2,00,000. In cases of causing grievous hurt, the imprisonment shall be for a term of six months to seven years, with fines ranging from Rs 1,00,000 to Rs 5,00,000.Vardhan explained that the ordinance was put in place as incidents of harassment and violence against health workers were rising due to a lack of awareness about coronavirus. “We have all noticed that there has been a dramatic decline in the incidents of violence against health workers all over the country,” he said.He said the step had to be taken as there were few laws and powers in this regard in some states. “There was a need to have a central law to put in place a prohibitory mechanism to stop such activities,” Vardhan said.Binoy Viswam of the Communist Party of India (CPI), who moved a statutory resolution on the Bill, said it did not address the issue of violence on health professionals within hospitals.He said that issues such as non-payment of salaries to doctors and nurses, failure to provide protective equipment and other safety concerns are being ignored, as these issues have not found a mention in the Act.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicCongress’ Anand Sharma said there is a need to expand the provision to protect police and personnel of various other services engaged in providing relief. “There are personnel engaged in providing relief and managing quarantine shelters. They should also be, in the future, included into the expanded list of people, who need support and protection,” he said.He also suggested the immediate setting up of a national task force for stakeholders’ consultation, with states and institutions, including the scientific community and medical fraternity, for a comprehensive review and amendment to make the proposed Act contemporary, taking lessons from the current situation.Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) alleged that the Centre is interfering in the functioning of states through the move. “There are sinister provisions in the Bill. States must be authorised to take decisions.”Ram Gopal Yadav, of the Samajwadi Party, stressed the need for special provisions to penalise people and private hospitals that are making a quick buck on the pretext of Covid-19 treatment.Vandana Chavan of the NCP suggested adding ASHA workers to the list of those protected by the Act.Replying to the points raised during the discussion, Vardhan said issues related to biological emergencies are also covered under the National Disaster Management Act. On overcharging by private hospitals, he said the Central government has issued guidelines to states in this regard. “We have tried to rationalise these prices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stricter-punishments-for-attacking-medics/story-KJJ8iPzeKHJLkd09YKW1PK.html
20-09-2020||India||Congress hits out at NDA govt over farm bills||A day before the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government is expected to push three contentious legislations on farm reforms in the Rajya Sabha, the Congress sought to mount pressure on the ruling side, signaling an imminent confrontation when the bills come for passage in the Upper House on Sunday. Senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram compared the farm reforms proposed by his party and the NDA’s version. “While our promise is clear, the Modi government has surrendered to the corporates and traders,” he said in a statement on Saturday. “Every political party has to take a stand — is it with the farmers or is it with the BJP threatening the livelihood of farmers,” he said.His comments came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi took on critics of the farm-liberalisation plan, accusing detractors of spreading “misinformation and lies” while reassuring farmers the reforms were in their best interests. Modi called the reforms a “protective shield” around farmers and took a veiled but sharp attack on the Congress. “These people who would make big promises to farmers during election time, would do it in writing, and in their manifestoes, forget these promises after elections,” Modi said. The Congress’s 2019 manifesto promised to liberalise agricultural markets. Chidambaram alleged that the government and the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) “deliberately and maliciously distorted the Congress manifesto”. “Little knowledge is dangerous and little reading is even more dangerous”, he said, and added that the BJP was caught in a web of its own creation. The Congress, meanwhile, has issued a three-line whip to its members, asking them to be present in the Rajya Sabha during the debate and voting on the farm bills on Sunday. The party has also called a meeting of its general secretaries and in-charge of states on Monday to discuss the course of action on the bills and give a final shape to its proposed nationwide agitation. The meeting, to be held at the party headquarters in Delhi, is expected to be attended by six members of a special committee (AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala). Also read: Punjab’s farmer leaders to burn copies of farm bills tomorrowThe BJP, which does not have a majority in the Upper House, too, has asked all its members to be present in the House. The Lok Sabha, where the BJP and its allies enjoy a brute majority, passed two of these bills --- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 --- through a voice vote on Thursday. It has earlier passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. The main opposition Congress and a clutch of smaller parties are opposed to the reforms. A key opposition to the bills came on Thursday from BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal, whose minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet over efforts to unshackle the farm sector. India’s agricultural trade still requires licenced traders who must operate out of notified markets allotted to them. The bills aim to sidestep this system, called agricultural produce market committees (APMC), free up market restrictions, enable farmers and agribusinesses to engage more confidently under a new contract farming law and help to create modern supply chains. Critics argue the new system will lack adequate oversight in its current form. “The Bills assume perversely that the farmer and the private purchaser have equal bargaining power. They do not. The small farmer will be at the mercy of the private purchaser,” Chidambaram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-hits-out-at-nda-over-farm-bills/story-e1OSkxnqKX8XLoCE7YOVsO.html
20-09-2020||India||₹1,350-cr aid to revive business sector in J&K; power, water bills subsidised||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday announced a Rs 1,350 crore economic package for the revival of the business sector in the Union territory, along with a 50 per cent rebate on electricity and water bills for a one-year period. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Sinha said, “I am glad to announce a Rs 1,350 crores economic package for the people in the business community facing economic difficulties. This is additional to the benefits of Atma Nirbhar Bharat and other measures taken by us to comfort the business community.”Under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliance campaign) of the Central government, the L-G said, Rs 1400 crore have already been provided to the people of the UT through the Jammu and Kashmir Bank.“For one year, we will be giving a 50 per cent concession in water and electricity bills. We will be spending Rs 105 crore on this. This will benefit farmers, normal people, businessman and others,” the L-G said. “This is a beginning and more things are in the offing.”He added that the government is working on a structured mechanism and package for taxi drivers, transporters, autorickshaw drivers, houseboat owners, shikarawallas and others who have been affected by the economic slowdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are setting up a customised help tourism scheme by the Jammu and Kashmir Bank for financial assistance to persons associated with the tourism sector with attractive pricing and repayment features. We are setting up an exclusive land bank and will make available land for warehouses in industrial estates and food parks,” Sinha said.The main component of the ‘Business Revival Package’, Sinha said, is a 5 per cent interest subvention to all borrowers irrespective of their sizes. “You know that at the most, a two-per cent interest subvention is provided and that is what the people expect as well. However, keeping in mind the special situation here -- businesses have been suffering for the last about 20 years -- we have decided to give an interest subvention of five per cent without any discrimination to all businesses whether small, medium or heavy. This is an unprecedented decision,” he said. The Union Territory administration will directly support this with Rs 950 crore, he added.The L-G also announced that stamp duty has been exempted for all borrowers till March 2021. “From October 1, J&K bank will set up special desk for the youth and women entrepreneurs,” he said.The administration has also decided to assist bus drivers/conductors, auto/taxi drivers etc, who may have lost their livelihood, by providing for an appropriate mechanism. “A further 50% or Rs 5 lakh subsidy, whichever is lower, shall provided to the transporters for replacement of old buses and the insurance premium shall be borne by the Government,” Sinha announced.He also announced that those associated with the handloom and handicraft sectors will get an enhanced credit of Rs 2 lakh in their credit cards as also a seven-per cent interest subvention to improve these sectors.“Overall, this economic package is historic in terms of volume and reach. I can see that Kashmiris are eager to contribute to the growth of the Union Territory as they are fed up with the cross-border terrorism sponsored by our neighbour. I strongly feel that it is our collective responsibility to ensure that a lot of money goes into creation of jobs, strengthening of businesses and coming together of families for a quick bounce-back of Jammu and Kashmir’s economy,” Sinha said.The L-G had constituted a committee on August 18 to assess the help required by the business community of Jammu and Kashmir and also suggest administrative measures to boost banking, industry, tourism, agriculture and handicrafts.The committee, headed by K K Sharma, the advisor to the L-G, submitted its report on September 1 after deliberations with at least 35 business organisations from Srinagar and Jammu.The package also includes the Guaranteed Emergency Credit Loan (GECL), Working Capital Demand Loan (WCDL) facility for Private Educational Institutions and the J&K Business Support Loan Scheme for hotels and guest houses, which are likely to be rolled out soon. Welcoming the package, Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industries’ president Shiekh Ashiq said that Sinha has kept his promise. “The business community appreciates this gesture of the government. We are going through the components of the package and if there will be any shortcoming, we will again meet the Lt Governor. We are really thankful for this package.” (With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-350-cr-aid-to-revive-business-sector-in-j-k-power-water-bills-subsidised/story-U32620pj6XgOTimU83zu6H.html
20-09-2020||India||Covid-19: 97 died while travelling on Shramik trains, says Centre||The railways ministry has said that 97 people died while travelling on the Shramik special trains that were operated to repatriate domestic migrant workers, the first official confirmation of a string of fatalities that prompted questions over how the lockdown for Covid-19 was planned and on the measures made to help vulnerable, urban workers who were left without pay and jobs return to their homes in the Indian hinterland.The disclosure was made on Friday as a response to a question by Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien in the Rajya Sabha. At the start of the monsoon session, a separate government department – the labour ministry – said it did not have data on how many migrant workers had died when the country locked down to stem the spread of Covid-19. “Out of these 97 cases of death, state police sent dead bodies for post mortem in 87 cases. 51 post-mortem reports have been obtained from respective state police so far, in which the reasons for deaths have been shown as cardiac arrest/heart disease/brain hemorrhage/pre-existing chronic disease/chronic lung disease/chronic liver disease etc,” said the reply by Union railways minister Piyush Goyal. Also read: Parliament monsoon session: No data available on migrant deaths during lockdown, says CentreThe data accounted for deaths till September 9. On May 30, Hindustan Times first reported that between May 9 and 27, almost 80 deaths took place on board Shramik special trains, according to data accessed from the Railway Protection Force. Shramik special trains began operation on May 1 to ferry migrant labourers back home after hundreds were seen setting out on foot for their towns and villages hundreds of kilometres away in the middle of peak summer conditions. In all, 4,621 Shramik special trains were run between May 1 and August 31, 2020, carrying 6.3 million passengers to their home states, the ministry said in Parliament. In an interview to HT on June 1, after the report on the deaths, Goyal said that the Indian Railways has been transparent about the deaths, and insisted on compiling a list of them, and finding out causes even as news reports suggested that “eight or nine migrants” died on trains. The real number has emerged only because of this, he suggested. “We are very concerned... My heart goes out to the families (of those who have died),” the minister said.Separately on Saturday, the labour minister said the government is collecting information on suicide of migrant workers from states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/97-died-in-shramik-trains-says-centre/story-Odye5Oz6jzu3nafMGj4mwL.html
20-09-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah calls for 4G restoration in J-K, talks with Pakistan||National Conference MP Farooq Abdullah on Saturday said that no progress is taking place in Jammu and Kashmir in the absence of high-speed internet. Addressing the Lok Sabha for the first time since his release from detention, Abdullah said that the decision to suspend internet services in the region was against the interest of students and businessmen. “No progress is taking place in Jammu & Kashmir. People there do not have access to 4G facility, how are they going to grow in the present time when the rest of the country has access to every facility on the internet… Today our children, shopkeepers don’t have a 4G facility that is there in the rest of the country. How will they study, get education, when everything these days is on the internet,” he asked during zero hour of the ongoing monsoon session. Mobile phone, landline and internet services were suspended in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir hours before the Centre, on August 5 last year, effectively nullified Article 370 which accorded the region special status. The state was bifurcated into Union territories— Jammu & Kashmir with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one.The government, on August 15 this year, restored high-speed mobile internet services in two districts of Jammu and Kashmir on a trial basis, a little over a year after the facility was snapped ahead of the revocation of the region’s special status and its bifurcation.Abdullah also called for talks with Pakistan, referring to the ongoing talks with China amid the border standoff at Ladakh.“Border skirmishes have been rising and people are dying…as you are talking to China to attempt that it withdraws (from LAC), we should also talk to our (other) neighbour to find a way to get out of this situation,” he said.Abdullah was among several leaders who were put under detention by the Centre last year ahead of the changes in the regions status, and was released in March this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-calls-for-4g-restoration-talks-with-pak/story-UGn3jvX8rk7jUB2JnQ9BhK.html
20-09-2020||India||Defamation case: Ramani seeks acquittal, says freedom of speech intrinsic to a democratic society||Rebecca John, the lawyer for journalist Priya Ramani, concluded her arguments on Saturday in an online hearing of the criminal defamation suit filed against her client by former Union minister MJ Akbar. Akbar filed the case under Section 499 of the Indian Penal Code in November 2018 after Ramani made an allegation of sexual misconduct against him on Twitter in October 2018 during the Me Too movement. Ramani “exercised due care and attention” in her tweets which were “made in good faith” and “for public good” John said.“Freedom of speech and expression as given under article 19 of the Constitution of India is critical and intrinsic to a democratic society. Priya Ramani has been able to show the truth and the public good of her statements made in the public domain. She was a small part of a large nationwide and global movement that uncovered the pervasive nature of sexual harassment at the workplace. The Me Too movement revealed the prevalence and normalisation of sexual harassment at the workplace with hundreds of thousands of women across the world participating in it,” John told the court of Additional Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja.Ramani’s allegation pertained to the time when Akbar purportedly interviewed her in 1993 for a reporter’s position while he was the editor of Asian Age newspaper. Akbar denied the allegation and said the meeting, as described by Ramani, did not take place.Refuting the charge that Ramani’s tweets and an article which she wrote on sexual harassment at the workplace were “per se defamatory” and harmed the reputation of Akbar, John said that it was not defamation if what was imputed is the truth and was stated in good faith for the public good. In February, Akbar’s lawyer Geeta Luthra had said during her closing arguments that Ramani’s statements against Akbar were “per se defamatory” and were made with the intention to harm the reputation of her client.Citing other cases, Luthra had said, “It is sufficient to show that the accused has reason to believe that [what they said] will harm the reputation of the person.” “I have examined people who said that they held [Akbar] in high regard, and the respect they held for him was lowered in our eyes… In this case, no reasonable person can say that it was not defamatory,” Luthra said.John pointed out that Akbar’s lawyers had opened the door to the issue of Akbar’s reputation, which put the onus upon her to contest their claim. “There was an avalanche of disclosures against the complainant. [Ramani’s] was one of them,” John said.Fourteen women made allegations of sexual harassment and inappropriate behaviour at the workplace. One of them, journalist Ghazala Wahab, was Ramani’s witness. Akbar, who was the minister of state for external affairs at the time the allegation was made, resigned shortly after they surfaced. “There are some people who, when their reputation is hurt, it shatters their whole existence. It destroys them,” Luthra said during her closing arguments.“My case has always been that before I met him I admired him as a journalist and as a writer. But his conduct with me on that night in December 1993, and the experiences of other women, does not justify this complaint,” John said on behalf of her client, on Saturday.John quoted deceased United States Supreme Court judge Ruth Bader Ginsberg, who in a 2015 interview spoke of the “arbitrary barriers put in women’s way”, which is “the experience of everyone who grows up female”. “The Me Too movement and the challenge to sexual harassment at the workplace was an attempt to correct the historical wrong, and an attempt to remove the arbitrary barriers that have been put in women’s way,” John said.Luthra will respond to John’s final arguments on October 13 and 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defamation-case-ramani-seeks-acquittal-says-freedom-of-speech-intrinsic-to-a-democratic-society/story-eLpoHteM4i6PGMAcTGNQXJ.html
20-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India reports the highest recoveries in a day, takes over US||India has recorded the highest number of recoveries from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the world and has overtaken the US, which is the country with the highest number of cases. India currently accounts for 18.83% of the total global recoveries as compared to 18.77% recoveries from the US, according to the data provided by the union health ministry on Saturday.The country accounts for 17.2% of the total cases that have been reported worldwide and increasing, with over 90,000 cases being recorded from India daily.Also read: Only ICMR or Centre can comment on ‘community spread’ in India, says Delhi health ministerFollowed by India and the US, Brazil has the highest number of recoveries accounting for 16.96% globally, the data shows. The top three countries are followed by Russia with 4.03% of global recoveries and Colombia with 2.08%.India recorded the highest number of recoveries in a single day on Saturday (95,880). They were higher than the 93,337 new cases recorded the same day.Within India, 60% of the people, who recovered from the infection till Friday midnight, are from five states – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra alone accounted for 23% and Andhra Pradesh 12.3% of the recoveries recorded in a day on Friday. These are also the states that have been reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases – accounting for a total of 54% of the total cases reported in a day on Friday, according to the data.The ministry has attributed the high recovery rate to the standardisation of clinical management based on the emerging global evidence and allowing the use of investigational therapies such as antiviral medication Remdesivir and the use of convalescent plasma.“The health ministry has issued a comprehensive standard clinical management and treatment protocol. Drawing from global emerging evidence, these have been regularly revised and strengthened. India has allowed for rational use of investigational therapies like Remdesevir, convalescent plasma, and Tocilizumab and adopted measures such proning (giving oxygen while a patient lies facing down), use of high flow oxygen, non-invasive ventilation, use of steroids and anti-coagulants to aid recovery in the Covid patients,” a press release from the ministry said.For those who are asymptomatic or have mild to moderate symptoms are supervised at home or are under facility-based isolation. There have been improved ambulance services for promptly ferrying patients to hospitals. These measures have also aided the recoveries, the ministry said.Teleconsultation provided by doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, twice a week has also helped in the nation-wide increase in the recovered cases and low, steadily declining mortality. At present, the country’s case fatality ratio stands at 1.61%, much lower than the global average of 3.1%.The Centre has also deployed multi-speciality central teams to several states to help them in strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, and efficient clinical management. A regular review of the availability of medical oxygen in hospitals and health facilities is also being done, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-reports-the-highest-recoveries-in-a-day-takes-over-us/story-aEt1Hm1IzaQU77pvfWoeRN.html
20-09-2020||India||International flights: Air bubbles with 13 countries finalised||In the ongoing process of gradually resuming international flights, the civil aviation ministry has added more destinations to the list of countries where Indians can fly. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had earlier announced that talks were on with 13 countries to set up air bubbles, which has now been finalised, the minister tweeted. Air Bubbles are in place with 13 countries. Others are being finalised.In addition to existing countries, people can also fly between India & Afghanistan, Bahrain, Canada, France, Germany, Iraq, Maldives, Nigeria & Qatar. Carriers of India & these countries will operate.List of countries:1. US2. UK3. Canada4. Qatar5. France6. Germany7. Afghanistan8. UAE9. Maldives10. Iraq11. Nigeria12. Bahrain13. JapanAlso Read | Suspension on Air India Express flights to Dubai withdrawnAir bubbles are bilateral agreements through which a specific number of airlines, from both the countries, can fly. However, the agreement doesn’t permit an airline to fly passengers from somewhere else before or after the journey between the two countries, which have signed the agreement.After all countries put an embargo on international flights for months to stop ‘importing’ Covid-19 cases, air bubbles are the only through which international travel has resumed since August. Countries were only allowing repatriating flights during lockdowns.India entered into air bubbles with the US, the UK, Germany and France earlier. The rest of the countries have been added recently. More destinations will be added soon, the minister has said.While repatriating flights are one way and the passengers have to register themselves with the embassy to board such flights, air bubble flights are both ways. Passengers can book tickets directly from the airlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-air-bubbles-with-13-countries-finalised/story-FikpuUhj5ykrlHJZARchbM.html
