21-09-2020||India||13 die in building collapse||Thirteen people, including six children, were killed, while 22 were injured and 27 still trapped under the debris after a portion of a 36-year-old ground-plus-three storey residential building collapsed in Bhiwandi, around 35km from Mumbai, at around 3.30am on Monday, officials said.Though the cause of the accident was immediately not clear, however, Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) commissioner Pankaj Ashiya said the Jilani building in Dhamankar Naka was illegal and notices had been sent to residents to vacate.At the time of going to press, rescue operations were still going on.According to the BNCMC, 24 of the total 48 flats of the building collapsed, while the portion that did not collapse had a power loom on the ground floor. The injured were rushed to the Indira Gandhi Memorial (IGM) hospital. A seven-year- old boy, Ayaan Shaikh Ibrahim, who was trapped for nine hours along with his family of five, escaped with no injuries.Teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) regional disaster management cell, the fire brigade and the disaster cell of BNCMC were part of the rescue operations, along with locals.“As soon as the incident took place, residents living near the area rushed to the spot and started pulling people from under the rubble. It was painful to hear people calling out for help. My relatives lived in this building,” said Khalid Abdullah Khan, 28, who lived in the building one year ago but has now shifted to another building nearby.Before the NDRF team reached the spot, 21 people were rescued by locals and the Bhiwandi and Thane rescue teams. Ashish Kumar, deputy commandant of NDRF, said, “Since the incident took place at a time when most residents were asleep, we emphasised on searching bedrooms and living rooms. There was also a fear that the remaining portion of the building might collapse as it was also tilting. We focused on canine search operations as we could not use equipment, fearing vibrations that could lead to collapse of the remaining portion.” As a precautionary measure, power supply to the area has been snapped.“As soon as the incident took place, I received a call and alerted the fire brigade team to reach the spot. Around 5.30am, the NDRF team took over rescue operations and managed to pull out residents from under the debris,” said Ashiya.Ashiya claimed that the building was built in 1984 during the Gram Panchayat rule and hence it is an illegal structure. “The building is illegal and also very old and we have served notices to the residents and owner to vacate it. If any sort of negligence has led to the incident, legal action will be taken,” he added.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray postponed e-opening of the Mankoli flyover in suburban Mumbai on Monday after receiving the news of the incident.Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as President Ram Nath Kovind offered their condolences to the bereaved families.“Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected,” PM Modi tweeted.In a statement issued by the Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde, a compensation of Rs5 lakhs will be given to the victim’s kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-die-in-building-collapse/story-QKHc3v3Ak65yo42W2mEZ7J.html
21-09-2020||India||As rift appears between top echelon, army chief appoints a mediator||Differences between a top army commander and his second-in-command came to light on Monday, with army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane nominating a senior lieutenant general to iron out the rift between the two senior officers, people familiar with the developments said on the condition of anonymity. The differences --- rare in the army’s top echelons --- between the head of the Jaipur-based South Western Command and his chief of staff relate to roles and responsibilities of various offices in the command headquarters, the officials said, without elaborating on the exact nature of the ongoing tussle between the two lieutenant generals. There was no official word from the army on the development. The South Western Command is headed by Lieutenant General Alok Kler, an armoured corps officer, and his second-in-command is Lieutenant General KK Repswal, who is from the Corps of Engineers. After receiving representations from both the three-star officers, Naravane nominated the army’s vice chief Lieutenant General SK Saini to look into the matter and submit a detailed report with measures to streamline the functioning of the command headquarters, the officials said. “Differences of opinion at that level can hinder day-to-day functioning and decision making. The fact-finding mission will hopefully resolve the matter,” the officials said. The South Western Command has around 130,000 soldiers and is responsible for guarding India’s border with Pakistan in Rajasthan and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-rift-appears-between-top-echelon-army-chief-appoints-a-mediator/story-skDVoiGII5bl2bWIuBkxpN.html
21-09-2020||India||In new tender for Vande Bharat trains, Centre wants more local parts||The Indian Railways has floated a revised tender for procuring 44 semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains sets mandating 75% domestic component making it a domestic tender, the railway ministry announced on Monday.The government has previously scrapped three previous global tenders for the ambitious project. To be clear, as per the new tender only companies registered in India can apply.Railways had last month cancelled its global tender issued for manufacturing 44 sets of semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains, after a Chinese joint venture company CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited emerged as the only foreign bidder. According to officials aware of development, the tender is estimated to cost around Rs 2,000 crore.“The revised tender is In line with Government of India’s preference for Make In India policy, the minimum local content percentage has been revised to 75%. It is the first big tender under revised DPIIT norms of Atma Nirbhar Bharat. Having atleast 75 % domestic components. This tender is now a domestic tender. It shall be local (indigenous) tender in which a two stage, reverse auction shall take place,” the ministry spokesperson said.The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) had revised public procurement order issued on June 4 to encourage domestic manufacturing. The tender is scheduled to open on November 17. A pre-bidding conference for the tender will take place on September 29, the ministry said.The ambitious ‘Make in India’ project involves the manufacturing of 44 train sets comprising 16 coaches each for Vande Bharat.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flagged off the maiden run of a Vande Bharat train on the New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train service between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by home minister Amit Shah on October 3, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-new-tender-for-vande-bharat-trains-centre-wants-more-local-parts/story-drG5psLlNS5vNoexNUIutJ.html
21-09-2020||India||New form of globalisation a must post-Covid: Shringla||India believes multilateralism must be rules-based and reformed to accommodate current realities even as it works on a new form of globalisation based on fairness and equality in the post-Covid-19 world, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Monday. The pandemic has disrupted the world order that has been in existence for long, and shaping and reforming this system has been a major foreign policy priority, he said in his virtual address at the inaugural session of a course on “India and the reshaping of the world order” at his alma mater, St Stephen’s College. “Multilateral diplomacy has to be based on rules. We are committed to an international order based on rules,” he said. “We also believe that the content of globalisation needs to change. We believe that multilateralism must be reformed to accommodate current trends and realities.” Referring to the prime minister’s call for human-centric globalisation that transcends a purely economic agenda, he added: “We would like a new form of globalization, based on fairness, equality and humanity in the post-Covid world.” One of India’s priorities in the post-pandemic era is to make the country the nerve centre of global supply chains in line with the prime minister’s vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India), Shringla said. “We are actively engaged in promoting India as an alternative manufacturing hub and an innovation destination,” he added. Though crises such as the pandemic alter geopolitics, the fundamental orientation of India’s policy remains “neighbourhood first” and initiatives such as Bimstec link this policy to another fundamental pillar, “Act East”, he said. Bimstec is short for the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic CooperationThink West, India’s outreach to the Gulf and West Asian countries, has also become an increasingly important pillar of foreign policy, and India has outlined a vision for a free, open and inclusive order in the Indo-Pacific based on respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, peaceful resolution of disputes and international rules, he said. All decision-making is done in a highly complex multi-layered and multi-dimensional operating environment and the “business of statecraft is not one of binaries”, Shringla said. Amid the pandemic, India tried to act as a “pharmacy of the world” and provided medicines and essential medical supplies to more than 150 countries and sent rapid response medical teams to Kuwait, the Maldives, Mauritius and Comoros. India also “went out of its way to be a net provider of security”, Shringla said. Looking to the future, which he described as uncertain, Shringla said India needs to be “prepared to continuously adapt and innovate”, build resilience and capacity, and be agile and flexible in international diplomacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-form-of-globalisation-a-must-post-covid-shringla/story-44a5Cejpsa5gOUh74u8iXP.html
21-09-2020||India||SC fixes Oct 31 deadline for Amrapali defaulters to pay up or lose allotment||The Supreme Court on Monday fixed a deadline of October 31 for all dubious flat owners in Amrapali housing projects to clear their outstanding dues or face cancellation of allotment. These defaulters were identified during the forensic audit exercise carried out at the instance of the apex court prior to its judgment of July 23, 2019 which cancelled Amrapali’s registration under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act.The bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ashok Bhushan said, “All defaulting homebuyers as identified by the forensic auditors must pay their outstanding dues before October 31, failing which the Court Receiver shall be entitled to take steps for cancellation of allotment.”The order came on a note submitted by the Receiver, senior advocate R Venkatramani who gave a slew of recommendations as part of efforts to implement the July 23 order and expedite completion of the Amrapali housing projects.Advocate ML Lahoty appearing for the group of homebuyers told HT, “These are not the genuine homebuyers who have defaulted on payments of installments to Amrapali. The forensic auditors had identified 5,856 flats that were undervalued and sold by Amrapali directors at unusually low prices. The auditors had demanded recovery of Rs 321.31 crore from these flat owners based on the prevailing market rates.”Venkatramani in his note further indicated to the Court that an action plan is being worked out with MSTC Limited on the auction of Amrapali properties. “Five properties have been identified which could fetch close to Rs 12 crore,” Venkatramani said, adding that all luxury cars out of the 85 cars recovered from Amrapali Group and its Directors have already been sold.As regards SBI Capital Market Ventures (SBI CAP) which had agreed to finance six Amrapali projects, the Receiver informed the Court that talks were on with SBI CAP on formalizing the modalities of disbursing the fund through a special purpose vehicle. In addition, Venkatramani pointed out that he was in talks with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on getting a consortium of banks to agree on putting in funds into the Amrapali projects against the security of unsold flats inventory of Amrapali. The SC judgment of July 23 recorded the total unsold inventory to be worth Rs 1,958 crore spread over 5,229 flats.“There is no impediment from our part.” RBI counsel Ramesh Babu informed the Court, Venkatramani informed the Court that he had written twice to the RBI but is yet to hear this statement which has held up talks with individual banks, which have claimed that unless RBI gives a go-ahead, it will be difficult for banks to step in. The bench asked RBI to file an affidavit in this regard by October 5, the next date of hearing.The Receiver in his note also pointed out that certain distressed homebuyers who wish to sell or dispose their property prior to registration of flat should be allowed to do so as this was permissible under the arrangement with their erstwhile builder Amrapali. The Noida and Greater Noida authority opposed this request on the ground that prior to registration, there is no title that can be transferred. But the bench went with the Receiver’s suggestion and allowed “pre-registration transfer”.The Court further asked the Receiver to go through a note prepared by advocate ML Lahoty appearing for homebuyers on pending recovery of money from persons who directly or indirectly siphoned homebuyers’ money from Amrapali group.The note by Lahoty said, “The project consultant NBCC requires an amount of Rs 8,016.88 crores to complete the 46,459 units, out of which Rs 3,870.38 crore is only the dues of the homebuyers. The remaining amount of Rs 4,146.5 crore is to be recovered from various other sources.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-fixes-oct-31-deadline-for-amrapali-defaulters-to-pay-up-or-lose-allotment/story-Vtw2yZhWRwxlcgyZhhPRCP.html
21-09-2020||India||Trinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan’s photo circulated on dating app, complaint lodged||Actor turned Trinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan Ruhi lodged a complaint with the Kolkata Police after her photo was used in a dating app allegedly without her consent. The lawmaker wrote in her complaint that an advertisement was being circulated on a social networking site in the form of a sponsored post by a company named “FancyU – Video Chat App” using her pictures in an unauthorized manner without her consent. “Upon preliminary searching, I have been given to understand that this is a dating app, available on Google Play Store. The advertisement is malicious and erring in nature. It is completely unacceptable on my behalf,” Jahan wrote in her complaint. Sleuths of the Kolkata Police’s cyber-crime cell swung into action soon after receiving the complaint on Monday from the lawmaker. “We have received a complaint. Necessary actions are being taken,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. Earlier in the day the MP tweeted, tagging the police commissioner: “This is totally unacceptable - using pictures without consent. Would request the Cyber Cell of @KolkataPolice to kindly look into the same. I am ready to take this up legally. @CPKolkata.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-mp-nusrat-jahan-s-photo-circulated-on-dating-app-complaint-lodged/story-JDOa2Mty8fUZrxzbHV7UvK.html
21-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty’s judicial custody ends on Tuesday: What we know so far||Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 8, was remanded to 14-day judicial custody till September 22 for her alleged involvement in a drugs case linked to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.NCB has charged for procuring drugs for Rajput. She was arrested on the basis of statements from other arrested accused in the case. As Chakraborty’s judicial custody ends on Tuesday, here’s everything we know so far.* Sushant’s former talent manager Jaya Saha quizzed by NCBThe NCB questioned Rajput’s former talent manager Jaya Saha for about four hours at the Bombay Port Trust (BPT) guest house in south Mumbai on Monday. She reached the guest house around 2 pm and left around at 6:15 pm in the evening, NCB deputy director KPS Malhotra said.*NCB summons Jaya Saha, ex-manager Shruti Modi tomorrowThe agency has summoned Saha and Rajput’s ex-manager Shruti Modi for joining the drug probe on Tuesday. They were earlier summoned on September 16 but were sent after a member of the investigation team tested Covid-19 positive. *Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and designer Simone Khambatta to be questionedAfter Chakraborty, who is currently lodged in the Byculla jail in Mumbai, named them in her statement, NCB is set to question actors Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and designer Simone Khambatta sometime this week about the alleged drug link in Rajput’s death on June 14. “Their roles can’t be given right now,” NCB deputy director KPS Malhotra said. Chakraborty, however, had later retracted her statement.*18 people arrested by NCBThe agency has so far arrested 18 people, including Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and drug peddlers from Mumbai and Goa.*NCB probe leads to Pak; Bollywood A-listers under scannerInvestigations into the drug angle in film actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death has led the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to large drug organisations and entities in Amritsar and Pakistan supplying cocaine and other hard drugs to Mumbai, and to Bollywood.The agency’s probe has brought past and present Bollywood A-listers and others on its radar.*Hearing on bail plea of Samuel Miranda, Dipesh Sawant and Bashit Parihar adjourned till Sept 29Hearing on the bail plea of Samuel Miranda, Dipesh Sawant and Bashit Parihar — all arrested in the drug case related to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death — was adjourned by the Bombay high court on Friday. The next hearing will be on September 29.Their bail pleas were rejected by a special court in Mumbai along with Chakraborty and her brother Showik. However, Rhea and her brother have not moved a bail plea in the high court yet.*Why court dismissed Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea on September 11A special court that denied bail to Chakraborty in connection with the NCB probe into the drug-related angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case held that if she was released on bail she might alert others and they might destroy evidence.Rhea, in her plea, had stated that she was innocent and falsely implicated. The siblings have been booked under section 27A of the NDPS Act, which provides for punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders.*Rhea Chakraborty revealed names of 15 Bollywood celebs Rhea Chakraborty has allegedly named 15 Bollywood celebrities including those producing and consuming drugs, news agency ANI reported quoting sources. The NCB investigation also revealed that there is some circle also which procures and supplies drugs to celebrities, it added.*Rhea Chakraborty being kept in jail cell without bed, pillow or fanActor Rhea Chakraborty was put in a jail cell without a bed or a ceiling fan, according to reports. Her cell in Byculla jail is adjacent to the one occupied by Indrani Mukerjea, who was accused of murdering her daughter, Sheena Bora.*Chakraborty arrested on September 8 NCB arrested the 28-year-old actor on September 8 after questioning her for three consecutive days beginning September 6. If found guilty, she faces up to ten years in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-s-judicial-custody-ends-on-tuesday-what-we-know-so-far/story-A4C8xIV45CHU5GQzfln9NK.html
21-09-2020||India||24-yr-old temple employee in Kerala wins Rs 12-cr Onam lottery jackpot||A 24-year-old man from a poor family in Idukki district, hit the jackpot as he won the first prize of the Kerala Government’s Onam bumper lottery worth Rs 12 crore.Ananthu Vijayan, who is employed as a clerk in a temple in Ernakulam, brought the ticket TB 173964 from a lottery agent last month when the going was getting tough. The draw was held on Sunday evening and he came to know about it in the night.“When I got a call I thought somebody was playing a prank with me. But when I checked the news I couldn’t believe it. On Sunday morning I had shared a joke with my friends saying the Onam bumper will change my fate. It proved right,” he said. Living with his parents and sister in a remote area in Idukki district he said he hit the jackpot at the right time. His sister, who was working as an accounting assistant, had lost her job during the Covid-19 pandemic and his father who is a painter, was also without any work for the last few months.“My first priority is to shift from the present area and buy a small house somewhere near Ernakulam. I will start some small-time business with my father,” said Vijayan. He said he used to buy lottery tickets regularly and he once won Rs 5,000. One ticket of the Onam bumper was priced at Rs 300. The second prize of Rs one crore, was pocketed by six women, who pooled in Rs 100 each to buy two tickets. All are workers of a self-help group. Lottery and liquor are the main revenue earners of the state. Almost every day there is a lottery (usual price is Rs 40) and there are 35,000 agents and 1.5 lakh retail sellers in the state. The annual revenue from the sale of tickets is between Rs 10,000 core to 12,000 crore. The lottery sale was suspended for three months due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-yr-old-temple-employee-in-kerala-wins-rs-12-cr-onam-lottery-jackpot/story-JrofZTin9PFewDMHvFbLjI.html
21-09-2020||India||Bengaluru drug probe: Court postpones bail plea of actors to September 24||A special NDPS court which was hearing the bail plea of actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani has postponed the hearing to Thursday, September 24. Both of them had been arrested in the ongoing investigations into the Bengaluru drug racket after their residences were raided.While Ragini was arrested on September 4, Sanjjanaa was detained on September 8. Both of them are currently in the Parpanna Agrahara jail on the outskirts of Bengaluru. Even as the lawyers of the accused argued that no drugs and no evidence have been found by the police till now, the prosecution said that investigations were ongoing and they should not be given bail as it could lead to destruction of evidence. Accordingly, the court postponed their bail plea to Thursday.The actors have been arrested along with seven others following a FIR registered in the Cottonpet police station under various sections of CrPC and NDPS acts dealing with illegal drug possession, consumption and dealing. Several other well known Kannada movie personalities, including star couple Diganth Manchale and Aindrita Ray, anchor Akul Balaji and actor Arryan Santosh have been called in for questioning till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-drug-probe-court-postpones-bail-plea-of-actors-to-september-24/story-B99cZnd11PIEcv4fxoG31I.html
21-09-2020||India||1,000-acre land identified for film city near Noida, proposal sent to UP govt||The Yamuna Expressway authority has sent a proposal to the Uttar Pradesh government for setting up a film city in Gautam Buddh Nagar, officials said on Monday.Land has been identified for the proposed film city, which would be spread over an area of 1,000 acres, officials of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) said.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had on September 18 announced setting up the country’s “biggest” and “most beautiful” film city in the district bordering Delhi and instructed officials to search for land in or around Noida and Greater Noida.“The Yamuna Expressway authority on Sunday sent the proposal to the state government for a film city in an area of 1,000 acre land in Sector 21,” YEIDA’s Officer on Special Duty Shailendra Bhatia told PTI.He said the identified land stands out for the project as it would be close to the upcoming international airport in Jewar and has good road connectivity as well.The proposed site in Sector 21, which falls along the Yamuna Expressway (Delhi-Agra), is just six kilometres from the upcoming airport in Jewar and 12 kilometres from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, according to the officials.The site is around 70 km from Delhi and 150 km from Agra, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-000-acre-land-identified-for-film-city-near-noida-proposal-sent-to-up-govt/story-NvgRS3SITaZAbEsVx2jmbK.html
21-09-2020||India||India will need 9,488 pilots in next five years: Hardeep Singh Puri||An estimated 9,488 pilots will be required in India in the next five years, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said Monday.“The total number of pilots employed in the country with scheduled airlines at present is 9,073,” Puri said in a written reply in Rajya Sabha.He said 700-800 commercial pilot licences (CPLs) are issued by the aviation regulator DGCA in a year. Of these, 30 per cent CPLs are given to those who have undergone training in a foreign organisation, Puri added.The aviation sector has been hit hugely by the coronavirus pandemic.Therefore, all domestic carriers have instituted various cost-cutting measures like pay cuts, layoffs or leave without pay in the past few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-need-9-488-pilots-in-next-five-years-hardeep-singh-puri/story-dZ9FNpwTVSj5zQPNSs0rRI.html
21-09-2020||India||India’s imports from China dip 27.63 per cent during April-August: Piyush Goyal||India’s imports from China declined by 27.63 per cent during April-August this fiscal to USD 21.58 billion over the same period previous year, Parliament was informed on Monday.Value of imports from China stood at USD 4.98 billion in August and USD 5.58 in July, according to the data provided by Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal in his written reply to the Lok Sabha.“India’s imports from China have declined by 27.63 per cent during April-August, 2020-21 over the corresponding period of the previous year,” he said.In a separate reply, the minister said there is no proposal under consideration on withdrawal of Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status to China.“No such proposal is under consideration at this time,” he said while replying to a question whether the government is planning for the withdrawal of MFN status to China to reduce the export-import business with that country.Later in a media briefing, the minister informed that the country’s export is reviving.During the first half of September, exports have recorded a growth of 10 per cent over the same period last year, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-imports-from-china-dip-27-63-per-cent-during-april-august-piyush-goyal/story-ppkIuHvm93FuvGgFMqNelM.html
21-09-2020||India||Indian, Chinese generals meet in eastern Ladakh to break logjam in border talks||Senior military commanders from India and China on Monday met in the eastern Ladakh sector in their latest attempt to break the logjam in talks to reduce tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), with a joint secretary from the Indian external affairs ministry taking part in the military dialogue for the first time, officials familiar with the developments said. The military dialogue started at 9 am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC in the Chushul sector and was on when this report was filed. The outcome of the talks was not immediately known. Two Indian lieutenant generals were among the officers who took part in the talks --- Harinder Singh, who heads the Leh-based 14 Corps and his soon-to-be successor PGK Menon, the officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Menon is tipped to replace Singh in Leh after the latter completes his one-year term as corps commander next month. Menon attended Monday’s talks --- the sixth between corps commander-ranked officers since June 6 --- as a representative of the army headquarters, the officials said. A joint secretary-ranked diplomat was roped in for the dialogue as a step to ensure that the talks yield some headway, as reported by Hindustan Times on Monday. The Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs --- the diplomatic dialogue between the two countries --- involves a representative of the Indian defence ministry. Military tensions are high in the eastern Ladakh theatre where both armies have made arrangements for holding positions through the winter. Monday’s meeting between the Indian and Chinese corps commander-ranked officers was their first after the Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied a series of key heights to prevent the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the positions scattered across Rezang La, Reqin pass, Gurung Hill and Magar heights. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other, as reported by Hindustan Times on September 10. The recent developments on both banks of Pangong Tso have increased India’s bargaining power as there will definitely be an element of quid pro quo in the talks, the officials said. A high-powered panel on China reviewed the latest developments in the Ladakh sector last week, focussing on charting the course of future negotiations to restore status quo ante of mid-April on the disputed border. The agenda for Monday’s talks was discussed at the high-level meeting, even as the situation in Ladakh remains tense after a series of recent manoeuvres by the two armies in the Pangong Tso area. Last week, defence minister Rajnath Singh told lawmakers in Parliament that no force in the world can stop the Indian Army from patrolling the country’s borders in the Ladakh sector, signalling a strong resolve to regain access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along the LAC. In tensions that began in early May, Indian and Chinese troops have come face-to-face at multiple points along the LAC. In some of these areas, particularly the Finger Area and Depsang, Indian forces have been cut off from reaching forward areas they could previously patrol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-generals-meet-in-eastern-ladakh-to-break-logjam-in-border-talks/story-fOycKeaZElxPcms8qEQGrN.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Exciting, thrilling’: Women Navy officers who will be the first combat aviators||One of the two women officers from Indian Navy, who have been selected to join as ‘Observers’ (Airborne Tacticians) in the helicopter stream, have said they are thrilled by the new profile.“It feels great to be a part of Indian Navy’s history today,” said Sub Lieutenant Kumudini Tyagi. “Being combat-ready platforms of navy, through the helicopters, we will be capable of carrying out combat roles including control of weapons and onboard sensors. This profile is exciting and thrilling at the same time,” she added.This will be the first time that women will be posted in frontline warships.Apart from Sub Lieutenant Tyagi, the other woman officer is Sub Lieutenant Riti Singh.Earlier, entry of women was restricted to the fixed wing aircraft that took off and landed ashore.The two are a part of a group of 17 officers of the Navy, including four women officers and three officers of the Indian Coast Guard, who were awarded ‘Wings’ on graduating as ‘Observers’ at a ceremony held today at INS Garuda, in Kerala’s Kochi, a government statement said.The ceremony was presided over by Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief Staff Officer (Training) who presented the awards and coveted wings to the graduating officers.The officers of the 91st Regular course and 22nd SSC Observer course were trained in air navigation, flying procedures, tactics employed in air warfare, anti- submarine warfare and exploitation of airborne avionic systems.These officers would serve on-board Maritime Reconnaissance and Anti-Submarine Warfare aircraft of the Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exciting-thrilling-women-navy-officers-who-will-be-the-first-combat-aviators/story-sCYGvsddpiT54Fl8BM2WLI.html
21-09-2020||India||UAE arms maker offers to make assault rifles in India||UAE-based weapons manufacturer Caracal, chosen in 2018 to supply nearly 95,000 assault rifles to the Indian Army under a deal that has since stalled, on Monday offered to make the weapons in the country under the ‘Make in India’ initiative. Caracal was chosen by the Indian government to supply 93,895 CAR 816 assault rifles to the army but the deal, described at the time as a “fast track” contract, has stalled after authorities decided to opt for indigenous production of the weapons, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. A statement issued by Caracal on Monday stressed the small arms manufacturer’s “commitment to the ‘Make in India’ initiative and offered transfer of technology to India. “Caracal has already identified the required land, facility and local partners to be able to commence production immediately. Over 20% of the components fitted on the CAR 816 are already made in India, with Caracal now making commitment to fully manufacture the rifles in-country, in alignment with the ‘Make in India’ initiative,” the statement said. “The initiative will also see Caracal oversee technology transfer,” it said, adding that the firm is committed to shift to fully manufacturing in India from the start of the contract, as “opposed to the initial phased approach”. There was no official response from Indian officials to the statement. The people cited above said the matter had been raised by Caracal in a letter sent to India’s defence ministry last month, while the embassy of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) had also taken up the issue with Indian authorities. Under its Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative aimed at greater self-reliance, the government had also insisted on the local production of a wide range of weapon and defence equipment. Caranal noted in its statement that it had “surpassed global competitors in terms of performance and technicalities to win the bid two years ago”, and was prepared to “service the fast track order from India within 12 months”. The firm’s CEO, Hamad Al Ameri, said, “Having agreed to fast track the supply, and with the formalities still under discussion, we would like to reiterate our commitment to our bid and to the ‘Make in India’ initiative. “With strong bilateral ties between our two nations, and with India being a key market for Caracal, we remain on standby to supply the product to the customer upon instruction.” The CAR 816 carbines were intended to replace the Indian Army’s ageing 9mm Sterling carbines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-arms-maker-offers-to-make-assault-rifles-in-india/story-h9J6Rgw4TUKalllVn7BJ4J.html
21-09-2020||India||Phase 3 human clinical trial of Oxford vaccine begins in Pune||The phase-III human clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Oxford University, and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), began at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital here in Maharashtra on Monday, a senior official said.“We have started the phase-III trials of the vaccine (candidate Covishield). We will administer dose to 150 to 200 volunteers,” said Dr Muralidhar Tambe, Dean, Sassoon General Hospital.Under phase-II, trials had been conducted at the Bharti Vidyapeeth Medical College and also KEM Hospital in the city.The SII has partnered with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine candidate, being developed by the University of Oxford.Earlier this month, the SII had paused the clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had on September 11 directed the SII to suspend any new recruitment in the phase-II and III clinical trial of the vaccine till further orders after AstraZeneca paused the trials in other countries because of “an unexplained illness” in a participant in the study.However, on September 15, the DCGI gave permission to the SII to resume clinical trial of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-human-clinical-trial-of-oxford-vaccine-begins-in-pune/story-mpfvHoWiH4lh3I452On7UP.html
21-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha passes amendment in Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code for firms under stress due to Covid-19||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020 that prohibits initiation of fresh insolvency proceedings against companies under stress due to the spread of Covid-19 pandemic since March 25.The Rajya Sabha passed the bill on Saturday. The bill seeks to replace an ordinance promulgated to provide relief to pandemic-hit firms in June this year.The ordinance, promulgated on June 5, prohibited initiation of insolvency proceedings against companies for their defaults for six months starting from March 25. The protection period is, however, extendable up to one year.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the house that the ordinance was issued to provide “immediate relief” to companies as the government had to prevent companies, stressed due to Covid-19, from being pushed into insolvency.“This Bill is successor to the ordinance issued on June 5. The object of the Bill is for temporary suspension of any CIRP [Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process] for a period not exceeding one year due to unusual circumstances caused by the pandemic,” Abir Lal Dey, partner at law firm L&L Partners said.“It will be interesting to see how the willful defaulters will be dealt with during the suspension period. Also upon expiry of the suspension period, which is not very far, there may be an increase in filing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-passes-amendment-in-insolvency-and-bankruptcy-code-for-firms-under-stress-due-to-covid-19/story-9r7BOTf9PgVullpxb00KdI.html
21-09-2020||India||13 dead in building collapse in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi, 20 rescued||Thirteen persons, including seven children, died and 20 others, including a four-year-old boy, were rescued after a three-storeyed building collapsed in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi town on Monday, police said.The 43-year-old Jhilani building caved in at 3.40 am, police said, adding a two-year-old boy is among the dead.Two civic officials have been suspended in connection with the collapse and an offence has been registered against the building owner, an official said.Personnel of the Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF) pulled out the four-year-old boy, Ubed Quraishi, from the debris and fed him water.The building at Bhiwandi, a powerloom town around 10 km from Thane, had 40 flats and around 150 persons lived there, an official said.A civic official told PTI that the building, located at Narpoli’s Patel Compound near Dhamankar Naka, collapsed while the residents were asleep.Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are at the spot. NDRF DG S N Pradhan said they used a canine squad to search persons trapped in the debris.A portion of the building collapsed and many occupants were trapped in the debris, a Thane Municipal Corporation official said.The building was not in the list of dilapidated structures of the Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC), he said.An eyewitness said local residents rushed to the spot immediately after the collapse and helped pull out some persons from the debris.The power supply to the locality was snapped as a precautionary measure, the official said, adding the injured have been admitted to local hospitals.Bhiwandi DCP Rajkumar Shinde said offences under sections 337,338,304 (2)of the IPC were registered against the owner of building Sayyed Ahmed Jilani following a complaint by the civic officials after the collapse.The police officer ruled out any possibility of finding more people/bodies in the debris.Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde said the collapse would be probed. He visited the site and announced a compensation of Rs five lakh to the kin of each victim.He said 102 “dangerous buildings” in the powerloom town have already been evacuated.The BNMC has suspended two senior officials in connection withthe building collapse.An official release said the then Assistant Municipal Commissioner Sudam Jadhav and an engineer and Verification Officer Dudhnath Yadav have been suspended.An inquiry committee has also been set up and will include the assistant town planner, the release said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed anguish at the loss of lives in the building collapse.“Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected,” Modi tweeted.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed pain over the collapse and instructed the administration to ensure proper rescue operation and treatment to the injured, his office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-dead-in-building-collapse-in-maharashtra-s-bhiwandi-20-rescued/story-KDFYFB3EFbqeFvTAmNtKCM.html
21-09-2020||India||BJP used force to push through farm bills, alleges Mamata Banerjee||The farm bills passed by Parliament on Sunday will trigger a food pandemic in the country and wipe off small and marginal farmers, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged at the state secretariat on Monday afternoon. She accused the ruling BJP at the Centre of using force to push the bills through.“The Centre has bulldozed democracy and the federal structure of the country. Voting was not allowed on the farmers’ bill although the Constitution says that it has to be allowed if someone demands so. But they bulldozed the rights of farmers and passed the bill through voice vote. This must be condemned,” said Banerjee.While the government blamed the Opposition for not seeking a division of votes, a few opposition MPs said they had put forth the demand, but it was not accepted.Amid pandemonium in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday, Parliament passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. While addressing the media at the secretariat, Banerjee did not specify which of these bills she was referring to but called it “black Sunday.”“A fascist government is controlling our lives,” she quipped. “All powers over land and agricultural produce have been given to landlords and middlemen. In whose interest have so many agricultural products, including onion, been taken out of the list of essential commodities? Farmers will no longer be able to fix the price of their crop. The states can no longer control the price of crops or monitor their supply,” said the chief minister. “A conspiracy is on to take land away from farmers. There is a conspiracy to pass on these lands to landlords. Being in majority does not mean the entire country can be sold. I call all parties to unitedly oppose this. We will stay behind them and support the movement,” said the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) countered Banerjee by calling her “anti-national and anti-farmer.”“The chief minister is a proponent of double standards as far as farmers are concerned. She is opposed to their empowerment. She did not allow the Prime Minister’s Kishan Nidhi Yojna scheme to be implemented in Bengal. It would have benefited farmers,” said Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-used-violence-to-push-through-farm-bills-alleges-mamata-banerjee/story-uTQyhWNqj2b1CMOcIPI1UN.html
21-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rift in top army ranks comes to light, Gen Naravane steps in and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Rift in top army ranks comes to light, Gen Naravane steps inDifferences between a top army commander and his second-in-command came to light on Monday, with army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane nominating a senior lieutenant general to iron out the rift between the two senior officers, people familiar with the developments said, on condition of anonymity.Read more. ‘Crores of farmers will benefit’, tweets PM Modi as govt hikes MSP of wheat, five other rabi cropsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated the farmers over the government’s decision to hike the Minimum Support Price of wheat and five other rabi crops.Read more. Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB probe leads to Pak and drug cartels; Bollywood A-listers under scannerInvestigations into the drug angle in film actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death has led the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to large drug organisations and entities in Amritsar and Pakistan supplying cocaine and other hard drugs to Mumbai, and to Bollywood.Read more. Lok Sabha passes amendments to FCRA that seek to make Aadhaar mandatory for NGOs to receive foreign fundsThe Lok Sabha on Monday passed the amendments to Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 that seek to make Aadhaar mandatory for NGOs to receive foreign funds.Read more. Harsh Goenka tweets mantras for being happy. Tweeple agree, add suggestionsThis tweet by business tycoon Harsh Goenka will not only remind one of those crucial things that need one’s focus but also act as advice that may help one feel better.Read more.Tata Sky Binge+ set-top-box price in India drops to ₹2,999 for new customersTata Sky on Monday announced it is offering its latest Tata Sky Binge+ for ₹2,999 to new customers. Existing customers opting for an upgrade or secondary multi-TV connection can get the smart set-top-box for ₹2,499. The device was earlier available for ₹3,999. The new prices have already come into effect.Read more. Richa Chadha gives update on legal notice, Payal Ghosh says ‘go and ask Anurag Kashyap why did he take her name’Richa Chadha has sent a legal notice to Payal Ghosh for ‘falsely (dragging)’ her name into her allegations of sexual assault against Anurag Kashyap. Richa said that she sent Payal a soft copy of the notice, after an attempt to deliver a hard copy to her residence failed.Read more. Sukhbir Badal: Voice vote shows govt unwilling to listen, inside or outside ParliamentOn Sept 20, Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had urged the President not to sign the farm Bills and also requested him that they be returned to Parliament for reconsideration. Ahead of his meeting with the President, Badal spoke to Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury on the latest episode of On The Record. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rift-in-top-army-ranks-comes-to-light-gen-naravane-steps-in-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Zlk1BNhRNP51OL4QBQBqTN.html
21-09-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 surge, Section 144 imposed in various cities | Read details||As the spread of the coronavirus disease continues unabated across the country, many states have imposed restrictions by putting in place prohibitory orders is various districts.The prohibitory orders are issued under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code or CrPC. It is invoked to stop people from gathering at a place; during Covid-19 it can help in checking the spread of the disease.Here is the list of states which have imposed Section 144 as a preventive measure against Covid-19:Rajasthan: The state government has imposed prohibitory orders in 11 districts - Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Udaipur, Sikar, Pali and Nagaur. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the decision has been taken in public interest.Gehlot also said that while the already announced Unlock guidelines and restrictions will continue, the same has been extended till October 31.Uttar Pradesh: The Yogi Adityanath government has put in place Section 144 in Noida (Gautam Buddha Nagar district), which bars the assembly of over four people at a place. Officials said this has been done keeping in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Maharashtra: The state is already worst-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Its capital Mumbai has already been under prohibitory orders to check the spread of the disease. The authorities have extended the curbs in the city till September 30. Meawhile, the police in Pune said that Section 144 was not in force in the city, but few crowd-control provisions of Maharashtra Police Act were in place in the district.Odisha: The authorities in Berhampur city in Ganjam district have imposed Section 144 to prevent harm to public health during the ‘Maa Kalua Yatra’ festival being held amid Covid-19 pandemic. The 46-day festival of the Goddess Kalua started on September 16 and will conclude on October 31. The authorities said that Section 144 will remain in place till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-surge-section-144-imposed-in-various-cities-read-details/story-veffZfMvCyAPp3djAS3EIJ.html
21-09-2020||India||Arrested al Qaeda operatives spill more names to NIA investigators||Sleuths of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) have learnt a few more names after interrogating the six alleged al Qaeda operatives for two consecutive days in Kolkata, officials have said. On Monday evening officials of the central agency flew to Delhi with the six accused, who were arrested from West Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Saturday. Senior police officials aware of the development said that the NIA sleuths had got to know about a messaging platform on which the alleged operatives used to interact. There were more than a dozen members in that group. “We have learnt a few more names. Raids are going on to nab them,” said a senior police officer, associated with the developments. Officials also said that most of the members of the messaging platform had come back from Kerala during the Covid-19 pandemic and were residents of Malda and Murshidabad. The six arrested men used to work with them in Kerala. NIA had on Saturday arrested three more men from Kerala. One of the men whose name has cropped up during interrogation was found to be absconding. He was identified as Munna Ansari, a resident of Jalangi in Murshidabad. “After they arrested my brother and he was being taken away I saw the police thrashing him and asking the whereabouts of Munna. My brother kept on telling them that he doesn’t know where Munna stays,” said Isab Ali, brother of Atitur Rehman, one of the arrested men. Jia-ul Mondol, a friend of Ansari, told the media that police may be mistaken as Ansari was known to be a ‘good man’. “I know him (Ansari) very well. He can’t have terrorist links. The police may be mistaken. He has fled because I think he is too frightened after some of his friends were arrested,” said Mondol. The six arrested men are likely to be produced at the Patiala Court in Delhi. Before being taken to Delhi they were all tested for Covid-19. They have all tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrested-al-qaeda-operatives-spill-more-names-to-nia-investigators/story-JtV72AQP9Y0xL7zEZioxpM.html
21-09-2020||India||Noida will be biggest business hub of northern India: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday announced to develop Noida as the biggest hub of northern India and called upon industrialists, entrepreneurs, and investors to come to the state for investment, proclaiming that “UP is the idea whose time has come”.“Uttar Pradesh has secured second position in the country in ‘Ease of Doing Business’ due to sustained efforts of the state government during the last three years,” said the CM while presiding over an online high-level meeting ‘Invest UP’ in which representatives of industries were also present. The state government has already announced a plan to set up country’s biggest film city in Noida. “Out of the MoUs of Rs 4.28 lakh crore signed during the UP Investors’ Summit in 2018, MoUs worth Rs 2 lakh crore have already been rolled out,” said the CM.“In addition to this, the UP government has received over 50 investment proposals worth over Rs 7,000 crore from investors of 10 countries, including Japan, United States, UK, Canada, Germany and South Korea. They want to shift their units from China to Uttar Pradesh,” he added. Adityanath pointed out that defence and aerospace, warehousing, data centres, electrical vehicles and pharma were some of the emerging investment sectors in UP. “The proposed Jewar International Airport in Noida will be the biggest in North India. The Kushinagar airport is also coming up, which will cater to eastern UP. Besides, Noida will be developed as the biggest hub of Northern India,” said the CM. He also pointed out that the state has a land bank of 20,000 acre, on which industries can be set up. Informing about the ambitious Defence Corridor project, the CM said: “The state government’s ambitious Defence Corridor project has promised an investment of Rs 50,000 crore in the next two years.”He said traditional areas like electronics, IT, food processing, dairy, textiles, tourism and films were still favoured investment sectors with solar power, bio-fuel and civil aviation joining these as potential investment sectors. The CM also pointed out that UP, which contributes 8% of the country’s GDP, is a big market with a population of around 24 crore.About infrastructure development, Adityanath said: “UP is going to have a huge network of expressways, which will criss-cross the entire country.”A 340-km Purvanchal Expressway from Lucknow to Ghazipur, 290-km Bundelkhand Expressway linking Chitrakoot and Lucknow-Agra Expressway, 90-km Gorakhpur link expressway and 170-km Prayagraj link expressway are major e-way projects of the state government.“The state government has also decided to construct a 600-km Ganga Expressway from Prayagraj to the National Capital Region through Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Kannauj and Meerut. This is going to be the longest expressway of the country,” said the CM. The CM informed that Nivesh Mitra, which provides 146 services, has been successful with a track record of 98% redressal of problems of investors and entrepreneurs. State MSME minister Siddharth Nath Singh, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon, additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal, among others, were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-will-be-biggest-business-hub-of-northern-india-yogi-adityanath/story-wcKVxssiHqPZRoHL1bJ0lL.html
21-09-2020||India||Rift in top army ranks comes to light, Gen Naravane steps in||Differences between a top army commander and his second-in-command came to light on Monday, with army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane nominating a senior lieutenant general to iron out the rift between the two senior officers, people familiar with the developments said, on condition of anonymity. The differences --- rare in the army’s top echelons --- between the head of the Jaipur-based South Western Command and his chief of staff relate to roles and responsibilities of various offices in the command headquarters, the officials said, without elaborating on the exact nature of the ongoing tussle between the two lieutenant generals. There was no official word from the army on the development. The South Western Command is headed by Lieutenant General Alok Kler, an armoured corps officer, and his second-in-command is Lieutenant General KK Repswal, who is from the Corps of Engineers. After receiving representations from both the three-star officers, Naravane nominated the army’s vice chief Lieutenant General SK Saini to look into the matter and submit a detailed report with measures to streamline the functioning of the command headquarters, the officials said. “Differences of opinion at that level can hinder day-to-day functioning and decision making. The fact-finding mission will hopefully resolve the matter,” the officials said. The South Western Command has around 130,000 soldiers and is responsible for guarding India’s border with Pakistan in Rajasthan and Punjab. On December 31, 2019, Kler wrote a letter to commanders under him asking them to shun military pageantry, ensure offices shut by 2 pm (the time they are meant to be shut), and encourage professional dissent (as different from insubordination) as they focus on their primary task --- constant readiness for battle. In directions issued to 265 commanders on New Year’s Eve to improve the operational readiness of the South Western Command, he asked them to adopt a nuts-and-bolts approach to soldiering as “it’s not a question of if but when we go to war.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rift-in-top-army-ranks-comes-to-light-gen-naravane-steps-in/story-nUZVp84X2a2Ccw3WZuN7VI.html
21-09-2020||India||Railways issues fresh ‘domestic’ tender for manufacturing 44 Vande Bharat trains||The Indian Railways has floated a revised tender for procuring 44 semi-high speed 44 Vande Bharat trains mandating 75% domestic component making it a domestic tender, the railways ministry announced on Monday.The government had earlier scrapped three global tenders for the ambitious project. According to the new tender, only companies registered in India can apply.Railways had last month cancelled its global tender issued for manufacturing 44 sets of semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains after a Chinese joint venture company CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited emerged as the only foreign bidder for the tender that was floated in July.According to officials aware of development the tender is estimated to cost around Rs 2,000 crore.“The revised tender is in line with Government of India’s preference for Make In India policy, the minimum local content percentage has been revised to 75%. It is the first big tender under revised DPIIT norms of Atma Nirbhar Bharat having at least 75 % domestic components. This tender is now a domestic tender. It shall be local (indigenous) tender in which a two stage reverse auction shall take place,” the ministry spokesperson said. The tender is for three phases of the project; propulsion, control and other equipment along with bogies for the train sets.The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) had revised public procurement order issued on June 4 to encourage domestic manufacturing. The bids are scheduled to be opened on November 17. A pre-bidding conference for the tender will take place on September 29, the ministry said.The train sets will be manufactured across three railways’ coach manufacturing units: Integral Coach Factory, Chennai; Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala and Modern Coach Factory, Raebareli.Indian Railways’ Integral Coach Factory, Chennai had floated a tender for manufacturing 44 rakes or train sets of semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains on July 10.The other five bidders included state-owned Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Bharat Industries, Sangrur, Electrowaves Electronics (P) Ltd, MEDHA Servo Drives Private Limited, Powernetics Equipment India Private Limited, according to the railways ministry.The ambitious ‘Make in India’ project involves the manufacturing of 44 train sets comprising 16 coaches each for Vande Bharat.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flagged off the maiden run of a Vande Bharat train on the New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train service between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by home minister Amit Shah on October 3, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-issues-fresh-domestic-tender-for-manufacturing-44-vande-bharat-trains/story-ZnYSro7lFCUUoJ3tunUKbI.html
21-09-2020||India||8 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs’ protest stretches into the night||The eight members of Parliament (MPs), who were suspended by Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, have been protesting near the Gandhi statue in the premises.Their protest has been going on since the time Naidu ordered their suspension for unruly behaviour in the House during the passage of two farm bills on Sunday.These MPs - Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) - are sitting with placards which read ‘we will fight for farmers’.They were suspended for a week under Rule 256(2).West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee said that she is in touch with the MPs and the protest will continue through the night. “In Delhi also, the protest is going on under Gandhi Murti and it will continue the entire night, I am in touch with them,” Banerjee said in Howrah.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Monday that the conduct of Opposition leaders on Sunday was “shameful” and “irresponsible”.Stating rule 256, Prasad said a member is expected to leave the House immediately if suspended by the Chairman but the Opposition leaders did not pay heed to Naidu’s words.The Congress has, meanwhile, announced it will take to the streets, launching a mass movement across the country from September 24 to demand withdrawal of the agricultural bills.“The decision was taken at a meeting of members of the auxiliary committee, the general secretaries and the state in-charges,” former Union Minister AK Antony said in a press conference.The party has set a target of collecting signatures of 2 crore farmers and handing them over to the President on November 14.It has termed the suspesion of the MPs, including three of its own, as “undemocratic” and “one-sided”.Rajya Sabha witnessed unruly scenes on Sunday as Opposition members stormed the well and reached the deputy chairman’s seat to protest against the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. These legislations were passed through voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps-protest-stretches-into-the-night/story-fuJe59rM8gxwtxXQFdMLuK.html
21-09-2020||India||Amid protests over farm bills, Delhi civic body clarifies social and political gatherings are banned in national capital till Sept 30||The DDMA on Monday clarified that all social, cultural and political functions along with large gatherings and congregations in Delhi are prohibited till September 30.In view of several protests against farm bills in the city, the Delhi Police also said demonstrations cannot be allowed till September 30, citing an earlier order of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) which prohibits such activities.In a communication to Delhi government’s Deputy home secretary, DDMA additional CEO Rajesh Goyal on Monday said the order of the Authority, dated June 6, will continue till September 30.As per the DDMA order on June 6, all social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions as well other gatherings and congregations were prohibited throughout NCT of Delhi.Also, the order restricted marriage related gatherings to 50 persons and funeral and last rites gatherings to 20 persons.“The said position has been continued till September 30, vide DDMA order dated September 3, 2020,” Goyal stated.“It is therefore quite clear that at present, all social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions, other gatherings and congregations are prohibited throughout NCT of Delhi,” he said.The Delhi Police also said in a tweet that all political, cultural and social gatherings in NCT of Delhi will remain suspended till September 30.  On Monday, the police also detained over 40 Delhi Congress workers, including state president Anil Kumar, who were marching towards Parliament to protest the farm bills. PTI VIT TDS TDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-protests-over-farm-bills-delhi-civic-body-clarifies-social-and-political-gatherings-are-banned-in-national-capital-till-sept-30/story-ow2FXFXsut7Ael3dX9IlKM.html
21-09-2020||India||10 bills passed without debate during Tripura assembly’s 1-day session||The one-day session of the Tripura Assembly on Monday passed 10 bills, including the industrial disputes and salaries, allowances and pension benefits of the ministers and legislators, without any provision for discussion, forcing the opposition legislators to raise slogans and forced to walk out of the House in protest.The Assembly’s monsoon session was reduced to just one day due to Covid-19 pandemic. There was no provision for question-answer session.“We were not allowed to speak on political violence, the crisis of employment, food in the state, including the health crisis in Covid-19 situation. There was no provision of discussion regarding these issues and also the bills in the House and we walked out,” leader of opposition Manik Sarkar later told the press.Total 22,032 Covid cases were recorded in the state, out of whom 245 patients died. Two other patients died by suicide.Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, in his speech in the assembly, highlighted government initiatives, including health equipment, Covid tests, medicines to tackle the Covid-19 situation.“The Covid-19 patients are dying due to co-morbidities like, heart, kidney ailments, etc. So, Covid deaths are very negligible here,” said Deb.During the pandemic, the state launched different schemes to provide loans to traders, new social security pension benefits, inland waterways transport route and laid the foundation stone of the first Special Economic Zone, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-bills-passed-without-debate-during-tripura-assembly-s-1-day-session/story-mdJhOpSrtZCYeb1MsU7lQL.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Crores of farmers will benefit’, tweets PM Modi as govt hikes MSP of wheat, five other rabi crops||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated the farmers over the government’s decision to hike the Minimum Support Price of wheat and five other rabi crops.“It is our great privilege to work for the welfare of our farmers. In line with our ethos of taking farmer-friendly measures, the Cabinet has taken another historic decision to raise MSP. Crores of farmers will benefit from this,” PM Modi said in a tweet.  PM Modi said that the higher MSP will empower farmers and contribute to doubling their income. “Increased MSP, along with the series of agriculture reforms passed by Parliament will ensure dignity and prosperity of farmers. Jai Kisan!” PM Modi said. The prime minister’s tweet comes after the government hiked the minimum support price of wheat by Rs 50 per quintal to Rs 1,975 per quintal to encourage farmers to increase cultivation of the crop.According to the revised price card, lentil has seen the highest increase in MSP at Rs 300 per quintal, followed by gram, rapeseed and mustard at Rs 225 per quintal each, safflower at Rs 112 per quintal. The minimum support price for barley and wheat has been fixed at Rs 75 per quintal and Rs 50 per quintal. The hike in MSP comes a day after Parliament approved two agriculture sector-reform bills which have been bitterly opposed by the opposition parties like Congress and TMC as well as from within ruling NDA alliance over apprehension that the new legislations might virtually end MSP-based procurement by the government.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crores-of-farmers-will-benefit-tweets-pm-modi-as-govt-hikes-msp-of-wheat-five-other-rabi-crops/story-tXaAypCHPBIsMlSVPmU9DO.html
21-09-2020||India||Restaurants, bars pin on IPL to bring some cheer!||The commencement of Indian Premium League (IPL), not only brought cheers to cricket fans but added a dash of excitement among restaurants, bars and clubs in the city. Reeling under corona virus fear, cricket lovers and partyholics are taking this as an opportunity for a safe outing. With restaurants now allowed to operate till 11pm and with no weekend lockdown, some food joints and bars are providing IPL offers at their outlets while others are waiting and watching for the season to set in to announce their offers. Club Momentz has placed a big screen on the pool side and is offering discounts on food items and beverages. “IPL viewing on big screen is our biggest attraction. Since opening day of the tournament we have started getting 10-15 table bookings. Our offers on food, drinks, cocktails and mocktail is working well. Besides, we launched ‘sign-your-bottle’ wherein the customer can own a bottle and use it during their next visits,” says Jugal Sachdeva. Food aggregators are also using this opportunity on their apps. By using ‘Cricket’ code people can order dishes on Zomato and ‘Howzzat!’ on Swiggy to get discounts on selected restaurants. At Royal Sky they have already started getting a good footfall during the matches, said the young restaurateur Jatin Ahuja. “As we are slowly recovering from the pandemic crisis, we are very upbeat about IPL this year. Like last year, we have come up with a screen display along with a range of 24x7offers for our clientele like 1-on-1, a free drink and more,” he said. For software professional Abul Hasan it’s a win win situation as a customer, “I love cricket especially 20-20 format. As a ritual I do a watch a match or two at my favourite restaurant on big screen with my friends so this year too we are all game for it. Also offers at the outlets are a bonus for us.” For the ongoing IPL season, The Beer Café Biggie is offering a 20% discount on their food and beverages, informed its operation manager Rishikesh Mishra. RK Jaiswal, owner of Klub Bigg Boss and Suravi Restaurant said, “We are offering buy two and get one on food and drinks. It’s too early to say how it’s shaping up but we hope as the season progresses people may start visiting more. Covid fear is restricting people and if cases go down, I am sure it will pick up,” he said. Traditional clubs are a disappointed lot as they have restricted operation till 9 pm. “Though the bars are allowed to open till 11 pm we have not been allowed to open restaurant beyond 9 pm. So, it’s not feasible to have IPL screening on big screen as it starts at 7.30 pm,” shared Ashok Agarwal, secretary Oudh Gymkhana Club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/restaurants-bars-pin-on-ipl-to-bring-some-cheer/story-c4HqnPy3py5iVyITKUIIII.html
21-09-2020||India||11,616 Indian nationals abroad infected by Coronavirus, 373 died of Covid-19||More than 11,600 Indian nationals living abroad were infected by the Coronavirus and 373 of them died of Covid-19, the government informed the Parliament on Monday. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said information collected by Indian missions showed the total number of Indian citizens abroad infected by the Coronavirus was 11,616, as on September 10. “Of these, 373 Indians lost their lives due to Covid-19,” he said, adding that the highest number of deaths – 284 – was recorded in Saudi Arabia, followed by Bahrain (30) and the US (13). The highest number of infections was reported from Singapore (4,618) followed by Bahrain (2,639), Kuwait (1,769), Oman (907), Qatar (420), Iran (308), the United Arab Emirates (238), Italy (192) and Malaysia (60). Indian missions arranged for the welfare of Indian nationals, including through community associations. In some countries, arrangements were made for board and lodging and emergency medical assistance. The total expenditure incurred by the missions in assisting Indian nationals in distress from the Indian Community Welfare Fund was close to Rs 22.5 crore, Muraleedharan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-616-indian-nationals-abroad-infected-by-coronavirus-373-died-of-covid-19/story-FjfyofX3NfaGHjlhjYj1cJ.html
21-09-2020||India||PDP senior leaders meet for first time at Srinagar party office in over a year||Senior leaders and office bearers of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) met for the first time on Monday at its party headquarters since August 5, 2019, as the leaders were allowed to step out of their residences.The meeting was presided by former minister and PDP’s senior vice president Abdul Rehman Veeri and attended by 21 senior leaders including former ministers and legislators. Party spokesman Suhail Bukhari said that in the meeting it was observed that while on one hand, the internal situation of the state is very precarious, the situation along the Line of Control (LOC) and the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is also on the boil. “It was resolved that the party would continue to fight for resolution of the basic issue and advocate dialogue and reconciliation with all the stakeholders, as envisaged in the roadmap of our party which has become even more relevant today than ever before,” the PDP said in a statement.At the meeting, the party observed that post August 5, 2019, a false semblance of normalcy is being created which in fact “resembles the peace of the graveyard”. “People are still shell shocked and unable to come to terms with what has happened. The situation has created a kind of a stalemate where nothing except all kinds of anti-Kashmiri steps like domicile laws etc are being pushed in a hurry,” the statement said.The spokesman said that party leaders demanded the immediate release of all political detainees irrespective of their political ideology, whether lodged in Kashmir or outside.In the meeting leaders also expressed deep anguish over the recent spree of the killing of innocent people from Shopian, Sopore and Battamalloo and demanded that perpetrators be brought to book and families be given justice. On September 16 for the first time after revocation of Article 370, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) youth leaders had met to deliberate on several issues at party headquarters in Srinagar. Senior PDP leaders were earlier not allowed to hold meetings at the party office and were not allowed by the police to leave their homes. Currently almost all the PDP leaders other than party president Mehbooba Mufti have been set free. Mufti is still detained under the Public Safety Act. The meetings of the PDP and its youth wing indicate that the government has allowed the party to resume its political activities. The National Conference (NC) has already held a series of meetings in Srinagar and Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-senior-leaders-meet-for-first-time-at-srinagar-party-office-in-over-a-year/story-nS2UvH6OKgcfPDoPkgj5LM.html
21-09-2020||India||Amid Covid scare, Rajasthan high court to hear only urgent cases||For effective control and containment of coronavirus, functioning of the Rajasthan High Court has been restricted only to cases involving extreme urgency - to be taken up only through video conferencing from Monday. The high court administration has issued directions in this regard, which shall remain in force till October 1 or further orders.The notification issued by the registrar general came into effect from today. As per notification, such number of division and single benches at Jodhpur and Jaipur bench shall be constituted as directed by the chief justice for hearing of the extremely urgent matters.These benches would function on all working days between 10.30 am to 1.00 pm. Only those Judges are required to come to court who have been assigned roster for extremely urgent work.“It is made clear that on consideration of written mentioning and written submissions, if any, the relief as prayed for in extremely urgent matters will be considered and/or the matter shall be suitably adjourned without passing any adverse orders. This clause shall not be applicable if effective hearing has been made,” the registrar general said.“Only bare essential staff of courts, judicial sections, administrative sections and computer cells required to manage the urgent work would be called on a rotational basis. Sitting arrangement of the staff shall be in such a manner so as to maintain required physical distance between them. OnIy such staff members are required to come to office who have been specifically directed to do so till October 1. Remaining staff would not be required to attend the office but remain available at home during office timings and would not leave headquarters without permission,” the notification stated.It has also been notified that personal presence of accused persons in appeals/revisions shall stand exempted till October 3. Entry of law students and interns would remain prohibited in court premises. Adverse orders would be avoided for non presence of the counsel of parties. In aII the court rooms and offices, toilets, door handles, chairs, tables, gates, railings and other things shall be disinfected regularly at least twice a day by mopping through 1% hypochlorite and benzoic acid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-scare-rajasthan-high-court-to-hear-only-urgent-cases/story-sy4Or3uer4LcwEhg8H7ejP.html
21-09-2020||India||Lucknow plays the fulcrum in my career, says Anud Singh Dhaka||Actor Anud Singh Dhaka, last seen in OTT series ‘Taj Mahal 1989’, says he is born in Durg, brought up in Bhopal but ‘made in Lucknow’. “Career-wise, all the good things that have happened in life, Lucknow has been the centre-point,” said the actor who is currently shooting for series ‘Jackson’ in the state capital. “In my debut series ‘Taj Mahal’, directed by Pushpendra Nath Misra, I played a Lucknow University student. Then I shot KBC advertisement with the Amitabh Bachchan that was directed by Nitesh Tewari here as he (Big B) was shooting for ‘Gulabo Sitabo’. And now, Saurabh (Tewari, director) sir has cast me for the title role in ‘Jackson’. It feels like a second home,” said Anud feeling nostalgic shooting at LU again.The actor featured in ‘Super 30’ and ‘Chhichhore’. “They were blink and miss roles but the shoot experience taught me a lot. I got a chance to work with such wonderful actors and makers. It was because of ‘Chhichhore’ I got the KBC ad — after the audition of course. I may have a few seconds’ shot but that shoot experience of 25 days with such a wonderful team will be with me forever.” Earlier, his journey started after he got admission in St Xavier’s College, Mumbai. “To learn acting, I started assisting. I was one of the assistant directors in ‘Qarib Qarib Single’. At its premier, Irfaan sir called me and said ‘Meri jaan, tum na idhar ho na udhar ho, tum bas beech main sahi jagah ho…tum bas acting karo’. I was probably waiting for such a push and I started auditioning thereafter.”He also did a small role in the YouTube show ‘Adulting’. “Since I come from an ordinary family, I know that I can’t afford to go wrong. I have to be perfect in auditions, reading and in front of the camera. I know that if I don’t perform or God-forbid my show does not work then no one will give me a second chance,” he said.Anud’s roots are in Uttar Pradesh. “My grandfather’s village is Dhikoli near Meerut and my mother too belongs to Meerut. Basically, we are Western UP ke Jaats but since I grew up in Bhopal, my Hindi is good which gave me an advantage. Thankfully, I got work in Lucknow which helped me further with good scripts and language.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow-plays-the-fulcrum-in-my-career-says-anud-singh-dhaka/story-Czl1sYwOaXtxEIvTqIMZgK.html
21-09-2020||India||Stone pelting, terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir reduced significantly after Article 370 abrogation: Home ministry||Terrorist activities, as well as stone pelting cases, have reduced significantly in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said on Monday. It also said that killing of civilians in terror-related incidents and deaths of security personnel have also gone down in the same period.In reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy said that the government has shown a zero tolerance policy towards terrorism and resorted to strengthening security apparatus. Reddy said that the government has ensured “strict enforcement of law against anti-national elements, and increased cordon and search operations to combat challenges from terrorist organisations”.According to the data shared by the minister, the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir saw 206 incidents of terrorism from August 5 last year (when Article 370 was abrogated) to August 31 this year - in contrast with 443 such incidents recorded from July 2018 to August 2019.During the same period in the last one year, the MHA said 310 stone pelting incidents were recorded, as opposed to 703 such incidents between 2018 and 2019.While civilians killed in terror-related incidents have not seen a significant reduction, the ministry also shared data showing slump in casualties among security forces in terrorist incidents.It said that 49 security personnel were killed in 2019-2020 as opposed to 125 security personnel a year before.Also, in the 2018-2019 period, 54 civilians were killed in Jammu and Kashmir in terrorist incidents. The number came down to 45 in 2019-2020, said the Union minister.Reddy also listed measures taken by the government to bring down incidents of terrorism. “While keeping a close watch on persons who attempt to provide support to terrorists and initiating action against them, other steps by Law enforcing agencies include enhanced interaction between police and public at various levels, sharing of intelligence inputs on real time basis amongst all security forces operating in Jammu and Kashmir, intensified area domination of militancy affected areas by deployment of additional Nakas and patrolling by security forces etc,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stone-pelting-terror-activities-in-jammu-and-kashmir-reduced-significantly-after-article-370-abrogation-home-ministry/story-venz93dliYYbXG4HLBFuRL.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Committed to global order based on rules in post-Covid-19 world’:Harsh Shringla on foreign policy priorities||India believes multilateralism must be rules-based and reformed to accommodate current realities even as it works on a new form of globalisation based on fairness and equality in the post-Covid-19 world, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Monday. The pandemic has disrupted the world order that has been in existence for long, and shaping and reforming this system has been a major foreign policy priority, he said in his virtual address at the inaugural session of a course on “India and the reshaping of the world order” at his alma mater, St Stephen’s College. “Multilateral diplomacy has to be based on rules. We are committed to an international order based on rules,” he said. “We also believe that the content of globalisation needs to change. We believe that multilateralism must be reformed to accommodate current trends and realities.” Referring to the prime minister’s call for human-centric globalisation that transcends a purely economic agenda, he added: “We would like a new form of globalization, based on fairness, equality and humanity in the post-Covid world.” One of India’s priorities in the post-pandemic era is to make the country the nerve centre of global supply chains in line with the prime minister’s vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, Shringla said. “We are actively engaged in promoting India as an alternative manufacturing hub and an innovation destination,” he added. Though crises such as the pandemic alter geopolitics, the fundamental orientation of India’s policy remains “neighbourhood first” and initiatives such as Bimstec link this policy to another fundamental pillar, “Act East”, he said. Think West, India’s outreach to the Gulf and West Asian countries, has also become an increasingly important pillar of foreign policy, and India has outlined a vision for a free, open and inclusive order in the Indo-Pacific based on respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, peaceful resolution of disputes and international rules, he said. All decision-making is done in a highly complex multi-layered and multi-dimensional operating environment and the “business of statecraft is not one of binaries”, Shringla said. Amid the pandemic, India tried to act as a “pharmacy of the world” and provided medicines and essential medical supplies to more than 150 countries and sent rapid response medical teams to Kuwait, the Maldives, Mauritius and Comoros. India also “went out of its way to be a net provider of security”, Shringla said. Looking to the future, which he described as uncertain, Shringla said India needs to be “prepared to continuously adapt and innovate”, build resilience and capacity, and be agile and flexible in international diplomacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-global-order-based-on-rules-in-post-covid-19-world-harsh-shringla-on-foreign-policy-priorities/story-zC7ohdSW5Qy9S5XDRc6RwJ.html
21-09-2020||India||All-India protest against farm bills from September 24, says Congress||The Congress on Monday decided to launch a nationwide agitation from September 24 against the government for passing farm bills in Parliament.The two agricultural reform bills — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 — were cleared by voice vote in Parliament even as the Opposition protested and stormed the well of the House seeking that they be sent to a select committee.The authorities called in marshals to form a double-layered barricade to protect Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh and remove an MP, muted live telecast of the proceedings, and refused to accept the Opposition’s demand for a division (voting through paper ballots) on the legislation.The agitation will continue till the government repeals the “anti-farmer, anti-poor and anti-people laws”, said senior Congress leader AK Antony, addressing the reporters after a meeting of general secretaries and in-charge of states at the party headquarters in Delhi.“From September 24 onwards, Congress will launch an all-India agitation asking the government to repeal the black laws,” said Antony.Senior leader Ahmed Patel told reporters that the Congress will take this issue to the people of the country. “The meeting was held under the directions of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi,” he added. The six-member special committee formed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to help her in organisational and operational matters chaired the meeting in her absence. Accompanied by her son and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi had last week left for the United States for a routine health check-up.Giving details of the agitation, Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal said the party will have a series of nationwide programmes in support of the farmers.Apart from a chain of press conferences across the country, Venugopal said state unit chiefs and legislature party leaders along with former ministers, MPs and MLAs will walk to the respective Raj Bhavans and submit a memorandum to Governors to be passed on to President Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-india-protest-against-farm-bills-from-september-24-says-congress/story-KtE1j8qVdl4jnWcwTrIR6N.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Shameful day in Parliament history’: Ravi Shankar Prasad slams Opposition leaders for creating ruckus over farm bills||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday slammed the Opposition leaders for their unruly conduct in the Parliament during the passage of two key farm bills on Sunday and their refusal to leave the Rajya Sabha despite the Chairman’s order to suspend them this morning. On the Opposition’s claim that the bills were passed without voting on Sunday, Prasad said deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh had asked the members of Parliament (MPs), who went to the well of the house, to return to their seats 13 times.“How can voting take place when you won’t go to your seats,” he said. Pointing to the possibility of the Chairman being physically attacked, the Union minister said, “Yesterday was a shameful day in Parliament’s history. Mic was broken, a leader of a party tore a rule book while some leaders stood on chairs.”He also told reporters about the dismay among the people of Bihar over the treatment Singh faced in the house. “Harivansh ji is an eminent writer, we have all felt very bad at the treatment meted out to him. An eminent Indian who hails from Bihar was humiliated, the people of Bihar will give a response. Harivansh ji remained dignified. The Opposition parties will have to answer in Bihar. We will not make it a political issue but people are hurt,” he said. Earlier in the day, the upper house Chairman M Venkaih Naidu suspended eight MPs over their misconduct on Sunday. TMC’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) were suspended for a week under Rule 256(2).The suspended MPs, however, refused to leave the house which Prasad said is a violation of rules and patently illegal.Referring to the MPs’ conduct on both days, the Union minister said, “they know the rules, propriety but behaved like this. The conduct of leaders is shameful and shows utter disregard for norms.”Stating rule 256, Prasad said a member is expected to leave the House immediately if suspended by the Chairman but the Opposition leaders did not pay heed to the Chairman’s word. “They stayed and shouted in the house. What does this mean? You flouted norms yesterday and again today. And then you talk of democracy,” he added. He also accused the Congress and RJD of encouraging the bad behaviour against the deputy Chairman.The minister dismissed Opposition claims that the bills were passed “forcefully” or “without voting” saying that the Centre had a clear majority with 110 members in favour while 72 opposed. He said the Opposition’s agenda was to not to let the bill pass and took a swipe at them saying, “If you had gone to your place there would have been voting.”The BJP leader also invoked Arun Jaitely who he said had spoken of tyranny of minority. “You will not follow rules, break mics, attack deputy Chairman and then talk of democracy, this won’t do.”He also said the government’s Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farmers this year is ready and those who are claiming that it will end don’t know what to say. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured MSP will go on and we have implemented it from today itself. On Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation over farm bills, Prasad said she had been a a distinguished colleague. She had asked if it was legally possible. As the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 have been cleared by both houses, the Union minister said, “This is in the interest of farmers. The President will act in his wisdom.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shameful-day-in-parliament-history-ravi-shankar-prasad-slams-opposition-leaders-for-creating-ruckus-over-farm-bills/story-4edDp1b39HtPUb84dTBW6N.html
21-09-2020||India||Kerala Police SIT to book caretaker in mysterious deaths of 7 members of single family||A special investigation team (SIT) of the Kerala Police probing seven mysterious deaths in a single family and alleged seizure of their property in Thiruvananthapuram decided on Monday to file a charge-sheet against the family caretaker, said an official involved in the probe. The SIT said caretaker Raveendran Nair will be booked for forging the will of Gopinathan Nair, the family head, and usurping property and a separate case will be registered against him later in connection with the mysterious death of the last family member Jayamadhavan Nair in 2017. The incident came to light after one of the relatives Prasanna Kumari (79), a retired under secretary with the state government, filed a complaint with the state police chief Loknath Behra last year. She alleged that her late husband’s cousins Jayaprakash Nair and Jayamadhavan Nair, died under mysterious circumstances and close relatives were not informed about their deaths and family properties were grabbed by their caretaker after fudging the will. In her complaint she also said deaths of many family members were shrouded in mystery. Seven deaths took place between 1991 and 2017 in their family home named ‘Uma Mandiram,’ situated in the heart of Thiruvananthapuram. “After a year’s investigation we found that explanation given by caretaker Raveendran Nair was far from satisfactory. The will of the family was fudged and their properties seized. In the last death also there are many discrepancies in his claims,” said an officer who is part of the investigating team. The eerie similarities in most of the deaths made family members and local residents suspicious. Their suspicion grew stronger after the death of the last heir in the family Jayamadhavan Nair (60) in 2017. “When he collapsed Raveendran was present at the house. He took him to the hospital in an auto-rickshaw and never informed other relatives. Some witnesses said some injuries were there on his forehead. Though the post-mortem report said it was an unnatural death he used his influence to hush it up,” said Kumari adding she will get justice soon. According to relatives, the first to die in the Nair family was Jayashree Nair, family head Gopinathan Nair’s daughter in 1991. The woman who was 20, collapsed suddenly in the house and died. It was suspected to be a suicide but no post-mortem was done. Some local people said she developed an affair with a local youth but the family opposed it strongly. It was suspected that she died after consuming pesticide. Next year Gopinathan Nair’s son Balakrishnan Nair died after collapsing. In 1993 their cousin Unnikrishnan Nair also collapsed and died in the house. In 1998 Gopinathan Nair died and after 10 years his widow Sumuki Amma died in 2008. Relatives said the last two might be natural deaths because both were in their 70s when they died. In 2012 Jayaprakash Nair, another son of Gopinathan Nair collapsed and died and in 2017 the last heir in the family Jayamadhavan, another cousin, also died under similar circumstances. Kumari said the unraveling of the Kozhikkode cyanide killings prompted her to take up the case. A 47-year woman Jolly Joseph was arrested two years ago for allegedly killing six of her family members by giving cyanide-laced food to usurp their property. The case is on trial stage now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-police-sit-to-book-caretaker-in-mysterious-deaths-of-7-members-of-single-family/story-TQITDz0GaE1l0GWBvHBWyO.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Tablighi event led to Covid spread among many’: Govt to Parliament||The union home ministry informed Parliament that a gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in March in Delhi, despite orders issued by various authorities after the outbreak of coronavirus, also led to the spread of the virus among many persons.To a question on whether the gathering was a “major reason” for the spread of coronavirus in Delhi and other states, minister of state for home, G Kishan Reddy informed the Rajya Sabha through a written reply that the spread was also because of the gathering.“As reported by Delhi Police, despite guidelines/orders issued by various authorities in pursuance of the outbreak of Covid-19 a huge gathering assembled inside a closed premise over a protracted period of time, without any semblance of social distancing or provision of masks and sanitisers. This also caused the spread of Coronavirus infection amongst many persons,” the reply said.Many foreigners and Indian nationals tested positive for the virus after they had either attended the religious gathering organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin or come in contact with those who were present at the gathering.The ministry also said that as many 2,361 persons of Tablighi Jamaat were evacuated by the Delhi Police on March 29 and 233 persons were arrested. It said an investigation against Jamaat chief Maulana Mohd. Saad is underway.In August, the Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench struck down criminal cases registered against 34 people, including 28 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district, saying foreign nationals were virtually persecuted.“A political Government tries to find scapegoat when there is pandemic or calamity, and the circumstances show that there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them scapegoats,” said a bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar. “The material of the present matter shows that the propaganda against the so-called religious activity was unwarranted.”The Jamaat, which has followers in over 80 countries, maintained many visitors at its headquarters were stranded after the government declared a lockdown to check the pandemic spread. The Centre blacklisted around 1,500 foreign Tablighi members for violating their visa norms and multiple cases were registered against them across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-event-led-to-covid-spread-among-many-govt-to-parliament/story-IEaQ05G7RfXHEzx08TnBXM.html
21-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB probe leads to Pak and drug cartels; Bollywood A-listers under scanner||Investigations into the drug angle in film actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death has led the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to large drug organisations and entities in Amritsar and Pakistan supplying cocaine and other hard drugs to Mumbai, and to Bollywood. While the NCB is working on tracing the backtrail from consumer to peddler to supplier to those controlling the trade, the emerging picture is one that threatens to roil Bollywood with past and present A-listers and others showing up on the radar of the agency.“We have a fair idea as to who is involved in the Bollywood drug scene and (who the) Mumbai suppliers (are). The evidence is being collected before the consumers of hard drugs including heroin, cocaine and methamphetamine and their suppliers are charged,” said a senior NCB official who is familiar with the investigations in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. The official spoke on the conduct that he is not named.While a key Amritsar link who is central to the investigation is expected to be summoned this week by NCB, the agency has sought the help of the US, UK, Canada and Australian drug enforcement agencies to unearth suppliers of cocaine to Mumbai. According to information shared by associate agencies, at least 1,200 kilograms of cocaine landed in India in 2018, with 300 kilograms landing in Mumbai alone. The number was discovered by a detailed investigation into a seizure of 55 kg of cocaine in Australia in June 2019; the same organization was behind both. NCB has already registered a case on the basis of the Australian report.ALSO WATCH | ‘Sushant case not suicide’: BJP’s Rupa Ganguly protests against Bollywood According to NCB officials, the majority of cocaine lands in India through the Columbia-Brazil-Mozambique route, while other African destinations and the Dubai area are sometimes used as an alternative route. Given that India is the largest producer of potassium permanganate, which is used in processing cocaine, there were even plans by some organizations to set up a cocaine processing unit in the country, these officials added.With India consuming nearly one ton of heroin every day, associate agencies have also alerted NCB to the possibility of a processing unit in India for Afghan heroin coming through Punjab (from Pakistan) or through the sea route from Gujarat. Pakistan’s deep state has always used drug money for terrorist funding.While NCB is conducting an intensive investigation into the drug angle of the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the matter needs to be handled carefully, the NCB official cited in the first instance said, with names of drug dealers linked with Maharashtra politicians and companies managing film actors and actresses also coming under the scanner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-probe-in-sushant-singh-case-leads-to-amritsar-pak-and-drug-mafia-cartels/story-y5G6Stj1WD8yJBATkOflFK.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Anti-farmer’: SAD team meets President Kovind, requests him not to sign farm bills passed by Parliament||A delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) met President Ram Nath Kovid on Monday requesting him to not give his nod to the farm bills passed by the Rajya Sabha (or Upper House of Parliament) on Sunday.These bills have already been passed by the Lok Sabha and await President’s nod before becoming law.Speaking to reporters after meeting Kovind, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said the party’s delegation requested the President to not sign on the “anti-farmer” bills that were “forcefully” passed in the Rajya Sabha. “We requested him to send back the bills to Parliament,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Badal had on Saturday said that there can be no talks with the Centre until the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 are taken back.On Sunday, he said that the passage of bills marked a “sad day” for democracy and millions in the country.“Urging President of India not to sign the Bills on farm issues and return them to #Parliament for reconsideration. Please intervene on behalf of farmers, labourers, arhtiyas, mandi labour and Dalits, or they will never forgive us,” the SAD leader had said in a statement on Twitter shortly after Rajya Sabha passed two of the three bills.“Democracy means consensus, not majority oppression,” he added.Also, in line with her party’s dissent over the bills, SAD leader and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from her post on Thursday following the passage of bills in the Lok Sabha.Apart from SAD, which is part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led NDA government, 12 Opposition parties have also sought time to meet Kovind over the agri bills cleared by the Rajya Sabha.According to news agency PTI, leaders of various political parties including the Congress, the Left parties, NCP, DMK, SP, Trinamool Congress and the RJD have in a memorandum to the President sought his intervention in the matter and asked him not to sign the bills, which will become a law after the President grants his assent to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-farmer-sad-team-meets-president-kovind-requests-him-not-to-sign-farm-bills-passed-by-parliament/story-QyjyYpGebxAtVwd5Rpv2IL.html
21-09-2020||India||Jagan Reddy’s 3-capital plan for Andhra put on hold till October 5||The YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s plan of creating three capitals for the state continues to hang in balance with the Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday extending the status quo on continuing Amaravati as the state capital. A division bench of the high court comprising chief justice JK Maheshwari and judges M Satyanarayana Murthy and AV Sesha Sai was acting on a batch of nearly 93 petitions including that of Amaravati Rythu Parirakshana Vedika (Amaravat farmers’ protection forum) and former Telugu Desam Party MLA Sravan Kumar. The bench said it would take up hearing of the petitions from October 5. “Till such time, the status quo on Amaravati capital issue will continue,” the high court bench said. Advocates for petitioners requested that the petitions be heard in person, rather than through video conferencing mode. The high court said it would take a call on October 5. The petitioners were opposing the formation of three capitals – executive capital at Visakhapatnam, judicial capital at Kurnool and legislative capital at Amaravati. They moved the high court challenging the acts passed by the state legislature to this effect in June, besides the legal sanctity of the GN Rao committee and high power committee based on which the state government decided on three capitals. The petitioners questioned the violation of agreement made by AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) with the farmers, deviation of master plan in the state capital region and lack of creation of infrastructure facilities in the region. The Union home ministry, which was made a respondent in the case, had already submitted an affidavit in the court that there was no provision in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, that prevents the Jagan government to go ahead with the three capitals plan. The MHA refused to intervene in the matter, as location or relocation of the state capital is the sole prerogative of the state government. The high court also took objection to the construction of a state guest house in 30 acres of land at Kapuluppada in Visakhapatnam despite the status quo order on the capital shift. The petitioners argued that it amounted to contempt of court. The state government, however, claimed that the construction of the guest house had nothing to do with the capital shift. The high court ordered that the government submit its counter within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-s-3-capital-plan-for-andhra-put-on-hold-till-october-5/story-wAus8i6r4OOL3vU1X01HCJ.html
21-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha passes amendments to FCRA that seek to make Aadhaar mandatory for NGOs to receive foreign funds||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed the amendments to Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 that seek to make Aadhaar mandatory for NGOs to receive foreign funds.The amendments seek to streamline the provisions of the FCRA by strengthening the compliance mechanism, enhancing transparency and accountability in the receipt and utilisation of foreign contribution worth thousands of crores of rupees every year, the government had said on Sunday. Once the bill is cleared by the upper house and gets assent from President Ram Nath Kovind, public servants will be barred from receiving foreign funding.Also, Aadhaar card will be mandatory for all office bearers of NGOs and other organisations which are seeking funds from foreign sources.The amendments will limit the use of foreign funds received under FCRA for administrative purposes from the current limit of 50% to 20%.“The annual inflow of foreign contribution has almost doubled between the years 2010 and 2019, but many recipients of foreign contribution have not utilised the same for the purpose for which they were registered or granted prior permission under the said Act. Many of them were also found wanting in ensuring basic statutory compliances such as submission of annual returns and maintenance of proper accounts,” the proposed amendment states.“This has led to a situation where the central government had to cancel certificates of registration of more than 19,000 recipient organisations, including non-governmental organisations, during the period between 2011 and 2019,” it added.On getting clearance from the Rajya Sabha and the President, the amended act will empower the government to ask a violator to not use the funds by holding a “summary inquiry”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-passes-amendments-to-fcra-that-seek-to-make-aadhaar-mandatory-for-ngos-to-receive-foreign-funds/story-ulRQ8jV3RemLWNKchtCeYP.html
21-09-2020||India||In MP’s Sagar district, govt orders regulation of ‘radium cutter’ sale after crime spikes||The administration in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh has invoked prohibitory orders to regulate the sale of ‘radium cutter’, a kind of knife, following a spate of crime. A person will now need to have an identity card and appropriate reason for purchasing and carrying a radium cutter otherwise he will be booked for violation of prohibitory orders issued on Sunday. The district administration said the prohibitory orderwas issued under section 144 of CrPC as criminals were using the cutter frequently to terrorise people and commit crimes. In a two-page order, Sagar collector Deepak Kumar Singh said, “There is a sudden increase in a number of crimes in which criminals are using radium cutters to hurt and terrorise people during loot and theft. To check these incidents, prohibitory order under section 144 of Cr PC is being imposed on sale, purchase, use and carrying of radium cutter. If any person violates the order, he will be booked under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC.” Section 188 of IPC states, “..if such disobedience causes or trends to cause danger to human life, health or safety, or causes or tends to cause a riot or affray, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.” According to the order, every shopkeeper who sells a radium cutter, has to inform the nearest police station about the stock of the same. “They have to maintain a register in which they will have to make an entry of the ID card number, address, contact number and name of the customer in detail and also the purpose behind the purchase. The details will be shared with the nearest police station every week. Similarly, a person can’t carry it in public places and can’t hand it over to any other person,” reads the order. “Section 144 of CrPC has been imposed for the next six months on the request of the superintendent of police to put a check on crime and criminals,” collector Kumar said. Sagar’s superintendent of police, Atul Singh said, “In a review of crime cases reported from January 2020 to August 2020, as many as 90 cases were reported in Sagar in which criminals used radium cutters to attack or terrorise people.” “The reason behind this increase of use is if criminals carry any sharp-edged weapon including knives and swords or they attack anyone with these weapons, they can be booked under Arms Act, 1959 and section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC but there is no offence in carrying radium cutter and the attack with this will not fall under the category of a lethal attack. The use of radium cutters by criminals is a ploy to save themselves from serious police action,” said the SP. Now, police teams will check at radium and sticker pasting shops, flower decoration and stationary shops, where there is an availability of radium cutters, to know when and from where they purchased them and the police team will check whether the shopkeeper maintained the stock or not. Similarly police can take action against any one if he is found carrying it, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mp-s-sagar-district-govt-orders-regulation-of-radium-cutter-sale-after-crime-spikes/story-hBRZf4sZJB8LCnwRlMGAZO.html
21-09-2020||India||CBI files Rs 1400 crore fraud case against dairy product manufacturing firm Kwality Ltd for cheating banks; raids underway||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday filed a fraud case against Kwality Ltd, which makes dairy products, for cheating a consortium of banks led by Bank of India.The company is accused of Rs 1,400 crore fraud.The agency registered the case after complaint from Bank of India. The investigating agency is conducting searches at eight locations, including Delhi, Bulandshahr, Saharanpur, Ajmer and Palwal.The company’s directors Sanjay Dhingra, Siddhant Gupta and Arun Srivastava have also been named in the CBI case, apart from other unknown people.The banks said in their complaint that Kwality Ltd cheated them by ways of diversion of bank funds, sham transactions with related parties, fabricated documents/receipts, falsified books of accounts and creation of false assets and liabilities.Other than Bank of India, the consortium includes Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, Andhra Bank, Corporation Bank, IDBI, Central Bank of India, Dhanlaxmi Bank and Syndicate Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-rs1400-crore-fraud-case-against-ice-cream-manufacturing-firm-kwality-ltd-for-cheating-bank-of-india-led-consortium-raids-underway/story-2DOksWMqmQCWN5hhAtxSnL.html
21-09-2020||India||Youth Congress protests farm bills in Jammu, threatens mass agitation in J-K||The Youth Congress unit of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday staged a protest against the farm bills passed in the Parliament on Sunday, stating that the bills were against the farmers of the country. Dozens of Youth Congress leaders and activists assembled at the Jammu Press Club while holding anti-BJP posters and raised slogans against the BJP-led Central government. The protest was led by Uday Bhanu Chib, president J&K Youth Congress. The protesters said that these laws were ill- conceived and the central government should take back the twin farm bills passed on Sunday since these are against the land owners of the nation. “Farm bills are against the federal cooperative spirit,” the protesters said and questioned the need to bring these bills during the Covid-19 pandemic. Chib said that the bills have been brought with an intention to end the Minimum Support Price (MSP) operations and were against the economic interests of the farming sector. The Youth Congress demanded the immediate roll back of the farm bills and threatened mass agitation across the union territory if the rollback demand is not met.The Indian Youth Congress is also going to stage a “Parliament Gherao” for the rights of unemployed youth and farmers of the country on Tuesday under the leadership of IYC in-charge Krishna Allavaru and IYC president Srinivas BV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-congress-protests-farm-bills-in-jammu-threatens-mass-agitation-in-j-k/story-De1cDxEABauDgSo0Z6kGDK.html
21-09-2020||India||Since 1st lockdown, 3 lakh booked for going mask-free in Uttarakhand||From the time lockdown was first imposed on March 24 till September 20, over 3.03 lakh people have been booked for not wearing facemasks and 49, 852 people violated social distancing rules in public places, according to the data shared by the Uttarakhand police department on Monday. The data revealed that among the total people booked and challaned for not wearing masks, maximum 1.15 lakh were from Dehradun district. In cases booked against those not following social distancing, the maximum cases were registered in Haridwar - 16,825. According to the data, 4,779 people were booked for violation of lockdown norms. Similarly, 942 people were also booked for violation of quarantine apart from 212 who were booked for allegedly spreading rumours on social media. Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order), Uttarakhand police, said, “During the action taken to enforce the Covid-19 norms, a total of about Rs 15 crore was also collected as fine from the violators.”“With the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the state police is strictly implementing the Covid-19 norms in the state and will continue to take strict action against the violators to ensure the health safety,” said Kumar. Uttarakhand has so far reported 40,963 Covid-19 cases and death of 491 such patients. Dehradun district has reported the maximum 10,685 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (8263), US Nagar (7351) and Nainital (5081). So far the state has tested over 6.05 lakh samples of which results of over 11,000 are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/since-1st-lockdown-3-lakh-booked-for-going-mask-free-in-uttarakhand/story-qDFEtZOes1OmLdg5gkBDpL.html
21-09-2020||India||In Tripura, Congress observes 12-hour strike, over 800 party workers detained||The police detained nearly 836 Congress activists on Monday for picketing in different parts of Tripura during a dawn-to-dusk strike called by the party. No violence and injuries were reported during the strike barring one woman police officer who received minor injuries, officials said.The strike partially paralysed normal life with shops and markets being half closed. But government offices had almost full attendance. Educational institutions are closed since end of March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “As many as 836 Congress picketers were detained from different parts of the state under Section 151. So far, there has been no report of violence and no injury has been reported. Only officer in-charge of West Agartala Women’s Police Station received minor injuries during detention of the picketers,” said an on-duty police officer at Police Headquarters in Agartala. The party called the strike in support of the twelve point charter of demands that included proper health services at the Govind Ballabh Panth (GBP) hospital, the state’s lone dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Agartala and other Covid Care Centres, giving Rs 10 lakh to the kin of Covid-19 victims and withdrawal of chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s anti-media remark.They also protested against alleged attacks on Congress workers by the ruling party cadres. Employment opportunities for youth, security of women, compensation to people who were defrauded by Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), strengthening of indigenous people in the Autonomous District Council areas, stopping harassment of people living along Indo-Bangla border areas etc. were also on their list of demands. Congress sources said that their activists were attacked in different parts of the state mainly in Kailasahar in Unakoti district, Udaipur in Gomati district and Agartala. Congress president Pijush Kanti Biswas said, “Our party activists were attacked in different parts of the state and mainly in Agartala. But people responded to our strike to make it a success. We will lodge a complaint against these attacks with the police.” Reacting to the comments, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said, “The Congress has no base in the state. And the people didn’t support the strike. None of our party activists attacked the Congress workers. Rather, they ransacked one of our party offices in Kailasahar and also vehicles of our activists. They attacked our youth activists in Agartala, where they were distributing fruit juice to people to boost their immunity to combat Covid-19. We are collecting information on the incidents from different parts of the state and will lodge a case with the police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-tripura-congress-observes-12-hour-strike-over-800-party-workers-detained/story-NR82SINPVyZGoHCvGSHtaM.html
21-09-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 outbreak, five-day Gujarat Assembly session begins||The five-day session of the Gujarat Assembly began on Monday amid precautions for the coronavirus outbreak.Staffers, legislators and mediapersons who will cover proceedings have been tested for the infection, while entry for outsiders has been banned.Four MLAs, comprising three from the Congress and one from BJP, have been detected with the infection, and so have some Assembly personnel in tests conducted over the past couple of days.Speaker Rajendra Trivedi ordered seating changes to stop any chances of the virus spreading, with one MLA occupying one bench, while several legislators have been given seats in the visitors’ galleries.Coronavirus tests for reporters covering the House proceedings have been made free of cost by the state government.There will be no question hour as top officials in the administration are on tour statewide to contain the coronavirus outbreak.Legislators can, however, raise “short notice questions” to seek answers from the government.The Vijay Rupani government had earlier announced that some 20 bills will be tabled during the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-outbreak-five-day-gujarat-assembly-session-begins/story-1TOKpJKb3f0h6N2UnjMj6L.html
21-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India, Maldives launch cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin and Cochin with Male and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.India, Maldives launch cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin and Cochin with MaleIndia and the Maldives on Monday launched a cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin and Cochin ports in India with Male that is aimed at cutting costs and time taken to transport goods between the two countries. Read more Some people losing control’: PM Modi takes swipe at Opposition on farm billsAddressing a virtual ceremony to lay foundation stones of nine highway projects in Bihar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a dig at the Opposition saying some people are trying to mislead the farmers because they are losing the control of the agricultural sector. Read more ‘The farm bills are just creating procedural clearances’, says BJP’s Bhupender YadavBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Bhupender Yadav has blamed the Opposition for the disruption in Rajya Sabha during the discussion and passage of the two of the contentious farm bills on Sunday. Read more Parliament being run at the behest of PMO, alleges Adhir ChowdhuryThe Congress on Monday alleged that Rajya Sabha (RS) deputy chairman Harivansh tried to “muzzle and throttle the voices of the opposition parties at the behest of” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Read more Anurag Kashyap’s ex-wife Kalki Koechlin slams sexual assault claims against him: ‘You stood up for my integrity even after divorce’Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap’s ex-wife, Kalki Koechlin, has spoken in his defence, after he was accused of sexual misconduct by an actor named Payal Ghosh. Kalki, in her social media statement, hailed Anurag as a champion of women, both on the screen and in real life. Read more Athlete slows down so competitor can win. Reason behind gesture is winning praiseAn athlete’s display of sportsmanship has gone viral all over the Internet. A video shows him slowing down just before the finish line so his competitor could win the race. His reason for doing this has struck a chord with thousands winning him tremendous praise. Read more Tata Nexon EV out on limited-period subscription offer. But there’s a catchTata Nexon EV is now available for a drive on a subscription-based model which promises to make the experience of getting behind the wheel more affordable. The subscription offer, however, is only valid till November 30 and for the first 100 customers. Read more Poco X3 to Moto E7 Plus, smartphones launching in India this weekPoco X3 that launched recently will make its way to India on September 22. Then there’s the Moto E7 Plus smartphone which was recently launched in Europe. This phone will launch in India on September 23. Read more How Rafale jets will impact India-China LAC tussle: Lt Gen DS Hooda explainsIndia and China will hold Corps Commander level talks for the 6th time since June 2020. The talks are aimed at resolving the simmering situation at the LAC in Ladakh. The first five Corps Commander level talks have not been able to make much headway. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-maldives-launch-cargo-ferry-service-connecting-tuticorin-and-cochin-with-male-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kmaxXfflMTZU80oguwfcrJ.html
21-09-2020||India||Dehradun administration to probe difference in Covid-19 positivity rate in pvt and govt labs||The Dehradun district administration has formed a committee to investigate a 10% difference in positivity rate in the city in Covid-19 tests done through private and government laboratories, the district magistrate said.The positivity rate reported from private labs is 36% while it is 26% for government labs.As per the records of the state health bulletin, the positivity rate has a difference of 10% in Dehradun for tests done from September 13-19 by private and government labs. A total of 10,686 tests were done in the district with 3,315 cases reported for the said week. The positivity rate reported from private labs is 36% whereas for government labs it is 26%. This as, almost equal test took place in both the laboratories but 60% of the Covid-19 cases reported are from private labs and 40% are from government labs. Along with the difference in positivity rate, the Dehradun district administration has also received complaints that they tested positive in one private lab, but tested negative in the second test done from either a government or private lab. Ashish Kumar Srivastava, district magistrate of Dehradun said that a committee has been formed to investigate the matter. “We have formed a committee for all private labs, which has officials from the district administration and two experts, an epidemiologist and microbiologist, to investigate the difference. The committee will study everything and submit its report within one week. It is not just the difference of the positivity rate, but we will be looking into why different test results are being reported from different labs,” said the district magistrate. The district magistrate added that the committee will take details of why there is a difference in positivity rate, the procedure of collecting samples by private labs, precautions taken during collection of samples, testing, how addresses and contact numbers are noted, how much time is taken to give reports to patients. Srivastava further said that the district administration has temporarily stopped testing at only one private lab in Dehradun as “they had taken down wrong addresses and contact details of the patients making it difficult for us to trace the patients. A show cause notice has been sent to them and till they give us a reply, testing has been suspended.” Dehradun district has around 15 private labs for testing Covid-19 samples, the district magistrate said. On Saturday, during a review meeting with all district magistrates, the chief secretary instructed officials that action should be taken against private laboratories if false positive reports are being given. Pankaj Pandey, secretary in-charge for medical health and family welfare department said, “We have learnt from the media and personally also about the difference in positivity rate. All the districts have been asked to check the reason behind the difference in the positivity rate at the earliest as it is becoming a serious issue now. If at all wrong reports are being given, then it can spread panic amongst people and hamper our management process also.” Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities that has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the hill state said, “To understand the difference in the positivity rate between private and government labs we should start getting detailed numbers of RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen tests separately for both government as well as private labs. Only then will we be able to compare apple to apple.” He further said, “A third party or external audit of each and every lab that is doing Covid tests in Uttarakhand also should be done. This includes both private and government labs as well.” Private lab operators, however, say that the positivity rate could be high given that they collect samples from high suspect patients from private hospitals who are already admitted in isolation. Dr. Alok Ahuja, lab director of Dr. Ahujas Pathology and Imaging Centre, one of biggest private labs in Dehradun which collects samples from 14 private hospitals said that as per their records of all samples collected from September 1-14, the positivity rate from private hospitals has been 34.2% and for walk-in samples it stands at 20.9%. “Our incidence is a little higher as we collect samples from major private hospitals in Dehradun, which include symptomatic patients who are already admitted in isolation. Around one-third of the total samples (200-250 daily) are from these hospitals. From these hospitals, we get a positivity rate of 70-80%, but for the general population (walk-in sampling) we get 18-20%,” Dr Ahuja said. He added, “The district magistrate has spoken to me and asked me to review my process. A team from the state health department which included a microbiologist also visited my lab last week and checked all the process. They found everything satisfactory and I welcome further checking also as panic should not be spread amongst common people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dehradun-administration-to-probe-difference-in-covid-19-positivity-rate-in-pvt-and-govt-labs/story-DIOM4cIb4bvIXEXIjI2LxJ.html
21-09-2020||India||Bombay HC dismisses BJP petition, INC’s Ravi Raja to continue as Opposition leader in BMC||Ravi Raja of the Indian National Congress (INC) will continue to be the leader of the opposition in the Shiv Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday dismissed a petition filed by Prabhakar Shinde, the group leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the BMC, seeking an order to mayor Kishori Pednekar to recognise him as the opposition leader in the civic body.A two-member HC bench, comprising Justices SJ Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar, dismissed Shinde’s petition observing that such important posts as the leader of the opposition cannot be allowed to be occupied on the whims and fancies of individuals or political parties.Also Read: ‘Some IPS officers worked to stop Thackeray govt’s march to power’: Shiv Sena“In our opinion, the law does not contemplate an important post such as that of the leader of the opposition to be occupied temporarily on the whims of any person or party,” the bench observed.The observation came in view of the fact that after the 2017 civic elections, the then mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar had offered the post of opposition leader to Manoj Kotak, the then group leader of the party in the BMC. The BJP is the second-largest party in the civic body and has 82 seats after the Sena’s 84. However, Kotak had refused the post and after deliberations on April 11, 2017, Raja was recognised as the BMC’s opposition leader. The INC has 31 seats -- the third-highest numerical strength in the BMC.Also Read: Mumbai civic body increases RT-PCR tests as doubts raised over accuracy of antigen testsMangal Prabhat Lodha, the president of the BJP’s Mumbai unit , wrote a letter to mayor Pednekar on February 28, seeking an order to recognise Shinde as the new group leader of the party in the BMC and also as the opposition leader. Shinde moved HC on June 10 after Pednekar refused to recognise him as such.He said that the BJP had earlier decided not to be active in opposition in the BMC. But because of the changed political equations – it is no longer in alliance with the Sena – the BJP decided to discharge the role of an effective and active opposition party. Shinde sought a directive from HC to be recognised as the opposition leader in the civic body.However, the bench was not impressed with the contention. HC dismissed the petition observing that the party, which expressly refused to accept the post three years ago, cannot seek to be appointed as the leader of the opposition, “merely on the ground that it has changed its mind and its earlier decision”.HC also rejected the argument put forth on Shinde’s behalf that Section 371A of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, which requires the post of the opposition leader to be given to the second-largest party, is a dynamic provision and allows such changes.The bench agreed that Section 371A is a dynamic provision, but stated that the reliance placed by the petitioner on the words “for the time being” in the section was unfounded.The court said the words did not support the petitioner’s case to the extent that he sought to stretch their meaning.HC said the words referred to the possibility of a legal change or a change in the party in opposition or in its numerical strength. “Those words cannot and do not cover a change of mind/volition / decision of the party in opposition, which had earlier expressly refused to accept the post,” said the bench.The bench said a change of mind or volition cannot be covered by the words in Section 371A(1). “If we allow such change of mind or volition, it will lead to absurd results in as much as the leader of the opposition will have to be changed every time a party changes its mind.”The bench clarified that while the section called for attention to the state of affairs prevailing at a given time, a change in mindset or volition would not be sufficient to overturn a previous appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-dismisses-bjp-petition-inc-s-ravi-raja-to-continue-as-opposition-leader-in-bmc/story-JlIJh2cSj4y30qbYD8H6XO.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Pakistan targeting Indians working in Afghanistan’: Govt to Parliament||Pakistan has been targeting Indian professionals working in Afghanistan in a variety of ways, and several Indians working on development projects have been attacked and kidnapped over the past 12 years, the government informed Parliament on Monday. Since September last year, Pakistan has also attempted to designate four Indian nationals, who had previously worked in Afghanistan, as terrorists under the UN Security Council Resolution 1267, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha. “However, the 1267 Sanctions Committee, based on its internal procedures, has not approved the request,” the minister said.In his response to the same question, Muraleedharan said: “Pakistan has been targeting Indian professionals working in Afghanistan through a variety of ways. Several Indians working in Afghanistan on various development projects have been attacked and kidnapped over the past 12 years. “With the assistance of [the] government of Afghanistan, India has been able to secure [the] release of many Indians from captivity. In addition, [the] Indian embassy and its consulates have also been attacked.”The last of seven Indian engineers who were kidnapped in Afghanistan in May 2018 were recently released before the Afghan government and the Taliban launched intra-Afghan negotiations in Qatar this month.Muraleedharan said as a result of the Indian government’s efforts, there is “enhanced concern in the international community at terrorism emanating from Pakistan, including the continuing activities of internationally designated terrorist entities and individuals such as Jamaat-ud Dawa (JuD), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad [and] Hizbul Mujahideen”.The world community strongly condemned the cross-border terror attack in Pulwama in February 2019 and several countries have called on Pakistan to “not allow its territory to be used for terrorism in any manner”, he said.“Many terrorist entities and individuals who find shelter in Pakistan and are also engaged in terrorism against India have been proscribed by the United Nations (UN), the European Union and other countries,” he said, adding that JeM founder Masood Azhar was sanctioned by the UN 1267 Sanctions Committee in May last year. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF), at its plenary in June 2018, notified Pakistan in the “grey list” due to “continuing terror financing-related concerns, including with respect to the UN proscribed terrorist entities like LeT, JuD and Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation”, he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-targeting-indians-working-in-afghanistan-govt-to-parliament/story-02MorbQPMFAN94TfNFMk7H.html
21-09-2020||India||‘The farm bills are just creating procedural clearances’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Bhupender Yadav has blamed the Opposition for the disruption in Rajya Sabha during the discussion and passage of the two of the contentious farm Bills on Sunday. In an interview with Smriti Kak Ramachandran, Yadav said the government is open to addressing all concerns about the Bills, which he insisted are aimed at protecting the rights of the farmers. Edited excerpts:The Opposition is alleging the government bulldozes its way through in Parliament. It prefers to take the ordinance route. In the case of the farm Bills, they felt more scrutiny was needed, which was denied. How will you counter that?To bring an ordinance is the right of the government and to get it passed within six months from the date from which it was issued is the government’s mandate. The government is seriously taking care to ensure that all procedures are followed. These Bills have been discussed at the government as well as non-government level.As far as issues like contract farming are concerned, they are already being implemented in states like Punjab, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, and Odisha. There are not issues that have never been implemented before or are completely new.Also Read: ‘Will fight in Parliament and on streets’: Mamata Banerjee on suspension of 8 Rajya Sabha MPsAs far as concerns about the sale of crops go, this [legislation]...does not put an end to the system of selling grains in Mandis. We are only creating an alternative for the farmers.These Bills are just creating procedural clearances. There has been a long debate on these issues in the country. What these bills will do is streamline what is already being implemented.The Bills talk about procedures, about giving the farmers a new and additional way [to sell their produce]. Today, we have proposals to open 10,000 new FPOs [farmer producer organisations] and 1,000 new Agro start-ups. A digital revolution is happening. So, in such a situation to deprive the farmers of the benefits of digital transactions is not right. How can we stop farmers and their children from accessing the benefits of the digital revolution? The Opposition is looking to stall the Bills using excuses.Why did the government turn down the demand for sending the Bills to the select committee?These Bills only created procedural ways to benefit farmers. These are not Bills that needed to be sent to the committee. These have been discussed in Parliament and the due process that has to be followed for the passage of a bill was adhered to. ...we stuck to the democratic system. It was the Opposition that disrupted the process and insulted the process.Also Read: Endless arrogance of BJP govt has brought economic disaster: Rahul GandhiThe responsibility of running the House rests with the government. There is a sense that if the Opposition was seeking more discussion or division of votes, then the demand should be met, but it was not done on Sunday and on many occasions in the past...When these Bills were taken up for discussion at the business advisory committee [meeting] to decide how much time should be allocated for discussion, both the Opposition as well as the government agreed that there will be four hours allocated for these two Bills. It was the Opposition that said that both Bills should be taken up together for discussion and passage. The BJP cut short the time of its own MPs [members of Parliament] to allow the Opposition members to speak... The government was ready to seek a division of votes, but that can happen only when the members are on their seats. The Opposition came into the Well of the House. They climbed on the tables of the secretariat staff, tore papers. They broke the chairperson’s mike so that his voice could not be heard. All this shows that they did not want a division. And as for the...[complaints] that these bills were tabled on a Sunday, it was already decided that both Houses will function for four hours each day including on Saturday and Sunday...The Opposition has also alleged that on Sunday when the Bills were passed by a voice vote, voices of the opposition MPs sitting in the Lok Sabha were not taken into account...This is again baseless. All voices were being recorded and carried forth between the Houses. When the speeches they made while sitting in the Lok Sabha could be heard and recorded, how is it that the secretariat could not hear their voices while the voice vote was being counted. Again, before seeking a division of votes, the Opposition started the ruckus and the blame for what happened in Parliament rests on them. The government was ready for a division of votes.Also Read: Farm bills: PM Modi says farmers to get better prices because of reformsYour ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is against the Bills. The affiliates of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh have concerns too. How is it that the government has failed to convince its own allies and friends?The government is ready to address the concerns of everybody including the SAD. ...when the Manmohan Singh government was in power, there was a committee that was formed under the chairmanship of the then Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, which also had Prakash Singh Badal [of SAD] as a member. In chapter 5 of the report that was prepared by them, there is a mention of these laws and about the need to repeal the Essential Commodities Act. If they [SAD] are objecting to the Bills now, it can only be [for] political [reasons].The government has never said no to an open debate on these Bills, which are entirely based on the protection of the farmers’ interests. As far as the merits of the Bills are concerned, the government has never shied away from discussing the concerns that people have.The Opposition is complaining about the suspension of MPs and planning an all-night protest...If a decision... has been taken in the House, then it is the responsibility of the Opposition to adhere to it. Parliament is run in accordance with rules and regulations. There is a certain decorum that has to be maintained. Rajya Sabha is the House of the elders. You cannot have hooliganism on the floor of the House; pushing and jostling. You cannot refuse to abide by the ruling. It is an unfortunate situation. And if nothing else, the Opposition should listen to their inner voice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-farm-bills-are-just-creating-procedural-clearances/story-3KDj3xdggcGO8FfSYG2KYJ.html
21-09-2020||India||IAF’s Rafale fleet to have first woman pilot soon, to join Golden Arrows squadron||A woman fighter pilot of the Indian Air Force will soon join the Golden Arrows squadron operating the newly-inducted Rafale fighter jets, official sources said on Monday.The woman pilot is undergoing training to fly Rafale aircraft, they said.She has been flying MiG-21 fighters and was selected for the Rafale fleet following an internal process, the sources said.At present, the IAF has 10 women fighter pilots and 18 women navigators. The total strength of women officers serving in the IAF is 1,875.Last week, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik told Parliament that women fighter pilots are inducted and deployed in IAF as per strategic needs and operational requirements.The Golden Arrows squadron of the IAF was resurrected on September 10 last year. The squadron was originally raised at Air Force station, Ambala on Oct 1 1951. The squadron has many firsts to its credit; in 1955 it was equipped with the first jet fighter, the legendary De Havilland Vampire.Five French-made multirole Rafale fighter jets were inducted into the Indian Air Force on September 10 at the Ambala air force base.Ten Rafale jets have been delivered to India so far and five of them stayed back in France for imparting training to IAF pilots. The delivery of all 36 aircraft is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2021.A second batch of four to five Rafale jets are likely to arrive in India by November.The Rafale jets are India’s first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia.The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-s-rafale-fleet-to-have-first-woman-pilot-soon-to-join-golden-arrows-squadron/story-R1gsoBJ3dFY3SvNhg8jotL.html
21-09-2020||India||India, Maldives launch cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin and Cochin with Male||India and the Maldives on Monday launched a cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin and Cochin ports with Male with the aim of cutting costs and time taken to transport goods between the two countries. The launch of the ferry service came a day after India provided a 10-year soft loan of $250 million to the government of the Maldives as budgetary support to mitigate the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. India will subsidise the ferry service in its initial stage with $3 million, officials said. The maiden voyage of the ferry service was launched during a virtual ceremony by India’s minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya and the Maldives’ minister of transport and civil aviation Aishath Nahula. The ceremony was joined by representatives of Tuticorin and Cochin ports and officials of the Maldives Ports Limited and the foreign ministry of the Maldives. The cargo vessel MCP Linz, operated by the Shipping Corporation of India (SCI), will travel from Tuticorin to Cochin and then to Kulhudhuhfushi port in the north of the Indian Ocean archipelago on September 26 before making its way to Male on September 28. The vessel can carry 380 TEUs and 3,000 metric tonnes on bulk cargo. The turnaround time for voyages will be 10 to 12 days and the service will operate twice a month. “This vessel provides direct cargo connectivity between India and the Maldives on a predictable and affordable basis for the first time, and will lower costs and times for traders in both countries,” the Indian mission in Male said in a statement. Officials said the ferry service is aimed at upgrading the trade partnership and improving logistics on both sides. Though the two sides have traded for centuries, India is currently only the fourth largest trading partner of the Maldives, after the UAE, China and Singapore. “Alongside the expansion of Hanimaadhoo airport through an Indian line of credit, connectivity to the northern port of Kulhudhuhfushi through the cargo ferry service will underpin the economic development of northern Maldives and facilitate investments in tourism and other sectors,” said an official who declined to be named. Besides expanding the markets of medium and small-sized enterprises in India, the ferry service will give an opportunity to Maldivian exporters of tuna and other marine products to enter the Indian market and explore the possibility of sending their goods to Europe via Cochin and Tuticorin ports, officials said. The two sides had signed a memorandum of understanding on the ferry service during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the Maldives in June 2019. In his address to the Majlis or Parliament during that visit, Modi had announced India’s commitment to start the ferry service. A team from SCI visited the Maldives in July last year for preliminary studies and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) carried out a feasibility study on the cargo ferry service during March-April, which found India’s share of the 27 principal items imported by the Maldives was well below the potential. The decision to launch the cargo ferry service between the two sides was announced during a virtual meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign minister Abdulla Shahid on August 13 The cargo ferry service also reflects the synergies between the “neighbourhood first” policy of the Indian government and the “India first” policy of the Maldives under the leadership of President Ibrahim Solih, the officials said. Addressing the launch ceremony, Mandaviya said the ferry service will boost bilateral trade, provide a cost-effective alternate means for transporting goods, and help in ensuring food security in the Maldives. Nahula said the ferry service will decentralise economy activity and open a new corridor for commerce, development and tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-maldives-launch-cargo-ferry-service-connecting-tuticorin-and-cochin-with-male/story-lhmEH8p5XFGdpd7WYQ575K.html
21-09-2020||India||Parliament being run at the behest of PMO, alleges Adhir Chowdhury||The Congress on Monday alleged that Rajya Sabha (RS) deputy chairman Harivansh tried to “muzzle and throttle the voices of the opposition parties at the behest of” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Addressing reporters outside the Parliament House Complex after Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu suspended eight opposition lawmakers for creating ruckus in the Upper House on Sunday, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the move was against the procedures and rules of the parliamentary system. “We have some entitlements. We are entitled to ask for division according to the rules and procedures enshrined in the parliamentary system. But at the behest of the PMO, the House is being run,” he alleged. Also Read: Farm bills: PM Modi says farmers to get better prices because of reformsChowdhury alleged that the newly-elected Harivansh had certain obligations towards the government. “That is why at the behest of the PMO, he tried to muzzle and throttle the voices of the opposition parties. This is the reason that triggered the commotion inside the RS,” he alleged. On Sunday, Harivansh had rejected the opposition’s demand for a division on the two farm bills, which were later passed by a voice vote. He had argued that a division could not take place because of the ruckus. “Now, in order to divert the attention from the poor plight of farmers, the government has been projecting the commotion inside the RS as if that we do not know how to run Parliament and participate in the parliamentary system,” Chowdhury said. Also Read: ‘Will fight in Parliament and on streets’: Mamata Banerjee on suspension of 8 Rajya Sabha MPs“I would like to remind them (government) that before you came to Parliament, the Congress has been very much accustomed, acclimatised and adapted to the practices of the House. We sought a division following that practices. It is our entitlement,” he added. “We are also entitled to move a no-confidence motion against the RS deputy chairman if it is found and perceived that he has been playing a partisan role. The onus is on us to check the deputy chairman also by applying the instruments that are available to us and we have done so. It is within the ambit of our democratic right and parliamentary system,” the Congress leader said. Chowdhury said the Congress would continue to protest until the decision of suspension of the opposition members of Parliament (MPs) in “such a brazen and undemocratic manner” is not revoked. The suspended members have been protesting Naidu’s decision, first inside the House and later outside the Parliament building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-being-run-at-the-behest-of-pmo-alleges-adhir-chowdhury/story-TSm46aaCTbiWzqATW5nBZN.html
21-09-2020||India||There can’t be universal policy on right to protest: Supreme Court in anti-CAA blockade case||There cannot be a “universal policy” on right to protest and possible curbs as also balancing it with acts like blocking of roads are needed because the situation may “vary” from case-to-case, the Supreme Court said on Monday.The top court’s observation came while reserving the verdict on a batch of pleas against the anti-CAA protests which had led to blocking of a road in Shaheen Bagh in the national capital last December.The situation normalized later due to Covid-19 pandemic fear and subsequent observance of protocol. “There were some supervening circumstances which came into play and it was no one’s hand. God almighty itself intervened,” said a bench comprising Justices S K Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari. Taking note of the submissions of lawyers including Shashank Deo Sudhi, the bench said: “We have to balance right to protest and the blocking of roads. We have to deal with the issue. Their cannot be universal policy as the situation may vary on case to case basis.“In parliamentary democracy protest can happen in Parliament and on roads but on road it has to be peaceful”.Amit Sahni, one of the lawyers who had filed the plea in the case, said that this kind of protests should not have been allowed in the larger public interest.“This was allowed to have continued for more than 100 days and people faced difficulty. This kind of incident should not have happened. Yesterday in Haryana there was ‘Chakka Jam’ in Haryana. They have also called Bharat Bandh on September 24-25,” he said. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for an intervenor, said that there was a right to peaceful protest and “some people from a political party went and their created riots”.“We have the right to protest. State machinery is not sacrosanct. Members of a political party went there with the police and created the situation,” he said.Reserving the verdict, the bench said that it had appointed “interlocutors” as an experiment and they had suggested some measures which can be looked into.It said that the experiment of sending interlocutors may or may not have succeeded and the have been Covid-19 situation may also have an effect on the situation.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said that the Right to protest cannot be absolute and their are some judgements to this affect.The top court had earlier heard the pleas, filed by Sahni, former BJP MLA Nand Kishore Garg and Ashutosh Dubey, against the anti-CAA protests at Shaheen Bagh after the February 8 Delhi assembly elections. Sahni had approached the high court seeking directions to Delhi Police to ensure smooth traffic flow on the Kalindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch, which was blocked by anti-CAA protesters on December 15 The high court had urged local authorities to deal with the situation keeping in mind law and order.Sahni has filed a special leave petition in the apex court against the high court’s order.The plea has sought directions to the police to ensure smooth traffic flow on Kalindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch.It has sought supervision of the situation in Shaheen Bagh, where several women are sitting on protest, by a retired Supreme Court judge or a sitting judge of the Delhi High Court in order to circumvent any violence.Separately, Garg, through his counsel Shashank Deo Sudhi, had filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking directions to authorities to remove the protestors from Shaheen Bagh.Restrictions had been imposed on the Kaindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch and the Okhla underpass, which were closed on December 15 last year due to the protests against the CAA and the National Register of Citizens (NRC).The plea of Gaeg has said that various other arterial roads of Delhi have been facing traffic congestion due the protest at Shaheen Bagh.Saying that the law enforcement machinery has been “held hostage to the whims and fancies of the protesters,” the plea has sought laying down of guidelines for protests leading to obstruction of public place.“It is disappointing that the state machinery is muted and a silent spectator to hooliganism and vandalism of the protesters who are threatening the existential efficacy of the democracy and the rule of law and had already taken the law and order situation in their own hand,” the plea said.It said the Shaheen Bagh protest is “undoubtedly within the constitutional parameter” but it has lost its legality as constitutional protection were being “blatantly and brazenly flouted and violated”.The state has a duty to protect the fundamental rights of its citizens, who have been facing trouble due to the road blockade, it said.“Hence, it is urgently required that the public places must not be allowed to be abused and misused for ulterior and mala fide purposes such as staging protest against the constitution amendment in the heart of the capital city and thereby causing incalculable hardships and difficulties to the common people,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-can-t-be-universal-policy-on-right-to-protest-supreme-court-in-anti-caa-blockade-case/story-kIFgsNzCfJ4vNY7wn5XQHN.html
21-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand pulls up fish farmers for cultivating banned Thai Mangur||Despite the ban by the Central government on the carnivorous Thai Mangur fish, many fish farmers are still cultivating it in Kumaon’s US Nagar, officials said Monday. “We have identified 17 fish farmers who are cultivating Thai Mangur in Kashipur and Jaspur areas of the district. Since it is illegal to rear or sell such a variety of fish, we are sending notices to them to destroy their fish ponds or we will be forced to do it ourselves,” said Ravindra Kumar, senior inspector, fisheries department, US Nagar. Around 280 fish farmers are engaged in fish farming in US Nagar. Officials said some of them have been identified for cultivating Thailand catfish commonly known as Thai Mangur. Its cultivation is considered bad for biodiversity, especially other local fish species.Kumar said, “Basically it is African cat fish but it is commonly known as Thai Mangur. At the beginning of 2019, the Central government had banned its cultivation and NGT has also issued instructions for the elimination of such a variety of fish in 2000 and for forming a task force at block level to restrict such fish farming.” Kumar said this particular fish was imported in the late 1980s. Later studies showed its disadvantages and negative impact on the indigenous fish and aquatic life. Finally, the Central government issued an order to ban Thai Mangur in 2019, said Kumar. “Since this fish is carnivorous and feeds on meat, it also pollutes the water bodies. This fish is carnivorous and also eats other fish and thus affects the local fish populations,” said Kumar. The official from the fisheries department also revealed that Thai Mangur grows faster and gains weight of 3 to 4 kilograms in just 2 to 3 months. “Many farmers cultivate this fish despite the ban as it gives high returns on low investment. Apart from this, it has good sale value as it is a poor man’s delicacy as it is available between Rs 80 to 100 per kg,” he said. The official added that reports from other areas of the district have also been sought. Last year also complaints of Thai Mangur cultivation were received and notices were issued to fish farmers, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-pulls-up-fish-farmers-for-cultivating-banned-thai-mangur/story-tBy5MbkDBEIFY1lhbGj9iN.html
21-09-2020||India||MT New Diamond: Jaishankar, Pradhan, review crude vessel’s condition||Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and S Jaishankar on Monday reviewed the condition of Motor Tanker (MT) New Diamond and discussed ways to expedite arrangements for the discharge of cargo crude from the vessel. “Min. P&NG Shri @dpradhanbjp along with EAM Shri @DrSJaishankar and MoS(IC) Shipping Shri @mansukhmandviya chaired a meeting to review the condition of the crude vessel MT New Diamond which is chartered by @IndianOilcl and currently located off the coast of Sri Lanka,” Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas wrote on Twitter.“They discussed ways to expedite arrangements for discharge of cargo crude from it. Collective efforts are underway by Ministries and agencies concerned including DG Shipping and DG @IndiaCoastGuardto complete the task in a safe and secure manner,” the Ministry wrote in another tweet.Last week, the Indian Navy had informed that MT New Diamond was “safe and stable” after sailors undertook deballasting measures on the ship.“MT New Diamond (Sri Lankan vessel) safe and stable. Sailors undertook deballasting from Engine Room to Ballast Tanks. All leaks on the hull sealed. Tug Boka Expedition took over 2 pm, 13 Sep. MT New Diamond assessed pollution-free and ready to be towed,” Indian Navy had tweeted.MT New Diamond which caught fire after a major explosion in its engine room on September 3, is stable and safe 95 kilometers from Sri Lanka coast, the Navy had said.A joint team of Indian Navy, Sri Lanka Navy, and a diving team had completed underwater inspection.The large 333-metre long crude carrier was carrying over three lakh metric tons of crude oil for the Indian Oil Corporation from Kuwait to Paradip. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mt-new-diamond-jaishankar-pradhan-crude-vessel-s-condition/story-ht8QHCUvJprZSPahgTQKWK.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Some people losing control’: PM Modi takes swipe at Opposition on farm bills||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that the farm sector reform bills passed by Parliament were the need of 21st century India.Addressing a virtual ceremony to lay foundation stones of nine highway projects in Bihar, the prime minister also took a dig at the Opposition saying some people are trying to mislead the farmers because they are losing the control of the agricultural sector.“After these historical changes in the agricultural sector, some people are losing their control of it. So now these people are trying to mislead farmers on MSP (minimum support price). They are the same people who sat for years on the recommendations of the Swaminathan committee on MSP,” PM Modi said.He said a “clique” of people exploited farmers for long as they remained in shackles of rules regulating the sale of their produce and stated that this needed to change, which his government has done.The prime minister described the legislations as “very historic”, and said that if people say that government-regulated agriculture markets will be finished after these reforms, then they are “blatantly lying”.Seeking to dispel concerns among a section of farmers, PM Modi said he wanted to make it clear that the bills are not against ‘mandis’ (agricultural markets) and they will continue like they always have. “No government has done as much to boost MSP and government procurement of farmers’ produce than his dispensation,” the prime minister said.The bills were passed by the Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) amid ruckus. The Opposition members who were against the legislations wanted them to be sent to a parliamentary panel for greater scrutiny.The bills were passed through voice vote, after which the Opposition called it a “black day”.Meawhile, PM Modi inaugurated nine infrastructure development projects worth Rs 14,000 crores for Bihar through video conferencing on Monday.He also inaugurated the ‘Ghar Tak Fibre’ Project under which all 45,945 villages of Bihar will be connected through optical fibre internet service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-people-losing-control-pm-modi-takes-swipe-at-opposition-on-farm-bills/story-NDy9ibfaAF43f1iFM79DhO.html
21-09-2020||India||Over 100 Covid-19 patients rescued as fire breaks out at Odisha hospital||At least 127 Covid patients in a hospital of Odisha’s Cuttack city had a narrow escape when a fire broke out in the ICU on the fourth floor this morning.Fire officials said a short circuit in the ICU on the ground floor of Sadguru Covid hospital in Jagatpur area of Cuttack triggered a fire this morning. As smoke enveloped the ICU and other rooms, alert hospital staff members started evacuating the patients, some of whom reportedly became unconscious.Chief fire officer Sukanta Sethi said no casualties have been reported and all the patients are being shifted to another Covid hospital by ambulances and buses.“Though the exact cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, it seems an electrical short circuit in the ICU was the trigger. Two fire tenders have brought the fire under control,” he said.No fire safety licence was issued to the hospital, said the chief fire officer. “Due to certain shortcomings, notice was issued to the hospital authorities and they were asked to comply. However, no fire safety certificate has been issued to Sadguru hospital till date,” he said. Sethi, however, said the existing fire sprinklers and fire detection system installed in the hospital worked which controlled the fire. The Sadguru Covid hospital started operating a month ago with the provision of 150 general beds and 24 ICU beds. The fire is likely to make the availability of beds for Covid patients difficult in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack where ICU beds are almost exhausted due to a spike in Covid cases. Today, 4,242 new cases were recorded in the state. On August 6, at least 8 Covid patients, including 3 women, in the ICU ward of a Covid hospital in Ahmedabad had died after a major fire broke out.On August 9, ten people were killed in a major fire caused by a short circuit at a hotel which was being used as a coronavirus facility in Vijayawada city of Andhra Pradesh.After the fire in Vijayawada and Ahmedabad, Odisha fire service officials had done a fire safety audit of all the Covid hospitals.Fire safety in Odisha hospital has been a source of a major concern for the state government after a blaze in a leading private hospital in Bhubaneswar in October 2016 killed 26 people and injured over 100 people.In SUM hospital of Bhubaneswar, a short circuit the dialysis unit spread to its ICU leading to carbon monoxide smoke spreading to ICU and other wards through ducts of air conditioning. All the deaths were due to asphyxiation, an inquiry report later found out. The state health minister had to resign following the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-covid-19-patients-rescued-as-fire-breaks-out-at-odisha-hospital/story-eNHDqvSpi5rDeL7G049HJL.html
21-09-2020||India||76% of India’s new Covid-19 cases come from 10 states and Union territories||The health ministry said on Monday 76 per cent of India’s new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been reported by 10 states and Union territories. India on Monday recorded 86,961 fresh infections of Covid-19 and 1,130 casualties in the last 24 hours.The 10 hotspots in the country include Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu as the top five contributors of the caseload. Maharashtra remains the worst-hit state in the country in terms of infections and deaths and has reported 20,627 cases in the last 24 hours. The four southern states have contributed majorly to India’s caseload. Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala account for 26,161 cases collectively out of the total cases 86,961 reported on Monday.Also read | Covid-19: What we need to know today Uttar Pradesh, India’s fourth worst-hit state, has reported 5,758 cases in the last 24 hours. The list also includes Odisha (4,330), Delhi (3,812), West Bengal (3,177) and Madhya Pradesh (2,579) among the highest contributors of the viral infection cases.Additionally, 86 per cent of Covid-19 deaths in India trace their origin to 10 states and Union territories. These states include Maharashtra, which is reporting more than four times the number of deaths than the second worst-hit state Karnataka. In the last 24 hours, Maharashtra reported 455 deaths and Karnataka reported 101 deaths.Also read | Local tourists queue up as Taj Mahal opens with all Covid-19 norms in placeDeaths reported in Maharashtra reflect the virulency of the strain in the state as it singularly accounted for deaths collectively more than seen in Karnataka (101), Uttar Pradesh (94), West Bengal (61), Tamil Nadu (60), Andhra Pradesh (57) and Punjab (56) in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/76-of-india-s-new-covid-19-cases-come-from-10-states-and-union-territories/story-fudwrs38mivlJgvgBMDkpN.html
21-09-2020||India||Over 1 lakh posts vacant in CAPFs: All you need to know||The government on Monday informed the Rajya Sabha there are more than 100,000 vacancies across different Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs). In a written reply to the Upper House, minister of state (home), Nityanand Rai said majority of these vacancies are in the grade of constable.Here’s all you need to know:• The Border Security Force (BSF) has the highest number of vacancies at 28,926, followed by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), which has 26,506 vacancies, Rai said. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), meanwhile, has 23,906 vacancies, he added.• The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have 18,643 and 5,784 vacancies respectively, Rai further informed. • The Assam Rifles, which is controlled by both the home and defence ministries, meanwhile, has 7,328 vacancies. It is also the oldest paramilitary force of India.• Rai attributed vacancies in the CAPFs and Assam Rifles to resignations, retirements, deaths, new raising, creation of new posts, cadre reviews etc. He further said the government has taken expeditious steps to fill up the said vacancies.• BSF, CRPF, CISF, ITBP, SSB, Assam Rifles and the elite National Security Guard (NSG) together constitute the CAPF. The nomenclature ‘CAPF,’ however, is generally used for the BSF, CRPF, CISF, ITBP and SSB only.• Of these, BSF, ITBP and SSB are border guarding organisations. While CRPF is deployed for anti-terrorist and anti-Maoist operations, CISF guards airports and other sensitive installations.• The CAPFs are also frequently called upon to assist the police in maintenance of law and order. Also, while each of these forces is headed by a director general (DG), their overall in-charge is the Union home minister.• Recruitment to these forces takes place through exams organised by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), or the respective service headquarters.• Of these, the most well-known exam is the CAPF (Assistant Commandants) exam conducted by the UPSC. It takes place just once a year.• At present, recruitment for 60,210 constables, 2,534 sub-inspectors and 330 assistant commandants is underway, Rai informed the Rajya Sabha.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-lakh-posts-vacant-in-capfs-all-you-need-to-know/story-rs1EK6hM6ihfBgabldFDsK.html
21-09-2020||India||In a first, 2 women officers to operate helicopters from Indian Navy warships||In a first,two women officers have been selected to join as ‘Observers’ (Airborne Tacticians) in the Indian Navy’s helicopter stream that would ultimately pave the way for women being posted in frontline warships.Sub Lieutenant (SLt) Kumudini Tyagi and SLt Riti Singh would, in effect, be the first set of women airborne tacticians in India who would operate from the deck of warships.Earlier, entry of women was restricted to the fixed wing aircraft that took off and landed ashore.The two are a part of a group of 17 officers of the Navy, including four women officers and three officers of the Indian Coast Guard, who were awarded ‘Wings’ on graduating as ‘Observers’ at a ceremony held today at INS Garuda, here, a Defence statement said.The group comprised 13 officers of Regular batch and four woman officers of Short Service Commission batch.The ceremony was presided over by Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief Staff Officer (Training) who presented the awards and coveted wings to the graduating officers.In addition, the chief guest also awarded the Instructor Badge to six other officers, (five from the Indian Navy including a woman and another from Indian Coast Guard) who had successfully graduated as Qualified Navigation Instructors (QNI).The Rear Admiral Antony highlighted the fact that it was a landmark occasion wherein for the first-time women are going to be trained in helicopter operations which would ultimately pave way for the deployment of women in frontline warships of Indian Navy.The officers of the 91st Regular course and 22nd SSC Observer course were trained in air navigation, flying procedures, tactics employed in air warfare, anti- submarine warfare and exploitation of airborne avionic systems.These officers would serve on-board Maritime Reconnaissance and Anti-Submarine Warfare aircraft of the Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-2-women-officers-to-operate-helicopters-from-indian-navy-warships/story-CLvAIV1N3h8ufbPuBqjSjP.html
21-09-2020||India||Maximum good for farmers, says PM Modi on agri bills. Ally Nitish Kumar agrees||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday reiterated that the system of minimum support price (MSP) and procurement of foodgrains would continue under the latest farm sector reforms that seek to liberalise agricultural markets. NDA alliance partner and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar backed the reforms amid opposition protest.“I want to assure farmers that minimum support price, government procurement of their produce will continue,” said PM Modi.The PM’s assertion followed launching of work on nine national highway (NH) projects in Bihar and the ambitious project to link up villages with optical fibre network to ensure high-speed internet facility through video conferencing from Delhi.Accusing the opposition of misleading the farmers about new agricultural reforms, PM Modi said that some people were creating a hue and cry over it as they saw their interests getting hampered in the Centre’s move to empower the farmers.“Agricultural mandis will not be closed. Instead the new reform would allow farmers to reap maximum benefits by selling their products at whichever market they find the best for their produce,” underlined the PM.Dismissing the opposition’s claim that the farmers’ interest would be compromised in the wake of reforms, PM Modi clarified that ownership of land would not be impacted due to their direct access to big players in the farm sector. Rather, those engaged in contract farming would be accountable for protection of ownership to farmers, arrange modern technological intervention and cater to other needs of the farmers, he said. The opposition parties have been protesting over the new reforms initiated by the passage of two farm sector legislation in Rajya Sabha on Sunday. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in a series of tweets, alleged that the Centre was working under a design to enslave farmers to capitalists.The PM laid the foundation stone of three four-lane bridges, two on Ganga and one on Kosi, and widening of six stretches of the national highway (NH) being executed at the cost of Rs 14,258 crore. As many 45,945 villages of the state will be connected through optical fibre internet service under the project that was launched today.In a string of events earlier this month, the PM had laid foundation stone or inaugurated schemes worth more than Rs 1,700 crore in Bihar ahead of the assembly election. Chief minister Nitish Kumar lauded the PM for introducing the farm sector reforms, saying that he had in 2006 abolished the agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) Act, which was in no way in favour of the farmers.“People of Bihar are unfazed by the campaign launched by the opposition. Rather, they are happy to see the developments being executed in Bihar under the leadership of PM Modi,” said the CM, adding that people of the state would give a befitting reply to the undignified acts resorted to by the opposition in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maximum-good-for-farmers-says-pm-modi-on-agri-bills-ally-nitish-kumar-agrees/story-OJJN5G9yFaWGDhEiyR9KsL.html
21-09-2020||India||Massive protests over advocate’s murder in Buxar, 5th lawyer killed in Bihar in 8 months||Thirty-five-year-old lawyer, Kishore Kunal Pandey, was shot dead by unidentified motorcycle-borne gunmen near a petrol pump located on Itadhi road under Muffasil police station area of Buxar district on Monday morning. The reason behind the murder is said to be a land dispute and old enmity with someone. The murder led to protests by his colleagues on the premises of Buxar district civil court. This is the fifth murder of a lawyer in the state in eight months. According to the cousin of the deceased, Vishwas Pandey, the incident occurred when Kunal was on his way to the court from his Gurdas-Mathia house. As soon as he reached near a petrol pump, a person riding a motorcycle intercepted him and fired from point-blank range. The bullet hit the advocate in the head and he fell on the road. Locals and passerby rushed him to Buxar Sadar hospital where he was declared dead. On getting information, Superintendent of police (Buxar) Neeraj Kumar Singh and other police officials rushed to the spot and inquired about the incident. Police recovered two empty cartridges from the spot. “Criminals had fired on Kunal from very a close range as a bullet had pierced through his head,” a police officer said. As the news of the murder reached the court, the lawyers started shouting slogans against the police and boycotted work resulting in disruption of court proceedings. The protesting lawyers demanded immediate arrest of the criminals involved in the case. Also read: 8 MPs suspended for Rajya Sabha chaos over farm bills, they stage protestLater, a group of lawyers blocked the road and disrupted vehicular traffic for two hours. Buxar SP rushed to spot and heard their grievances. The roadblock was lifted after the SP’s assurances. “The SP has given an assurance that the culprits will be brought to book at the earliest. We have agreed not to launch any agitation on his assurance,” said general secretary of District Lawyer’ Association Ganesh Thakur. Many advocate associations in the state capital condemned the murder. “We demand the arrest of culprits within 24 hours, completion of investigation within a fortnight and completion of trial within 24 hours,” said lawyer Shashi Kant, adding that the incident reflects poor law and order situation in the state. Earlier, sales tax advocate Satyendra Kumar was murdered near his house at Sheetal Tola under town police station of Ara in Bhojpur district on February 22. On February 16, a 35-year-old lawyer, Tuntun Akela, was shot dead by unidentified motorcycle-borne gunmen near Dahibhatta village in Gopalganj district. Bihar State Bar Council’s former vice-chairman Kameshwar Pandey, along with his domestic help, was found murdered inside at his residence at Nawab Baghin in Bhagalpur in March. Earlier this month, on September 8, civil court lawyer Harendra Singh was shot dead at Sarari locality of Naubatpur police station area in rural Patna. (With inputs from Prashant Ranjan, Bhojpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-protests-over-advocate-s-murder-in-buxar-5th-lawyer-killed-in-bihar-in-8-months/story-tlm0vieo0Hf9KrALeEe4cM.html
21-09-2020||India||Farm bills: PM Modi says farmers to get better prices because of reforms||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday called the two farm bills passed by Parliament on Sunday “historic”, addressed key concerns around each of the three bills that seek to liberalise agricultural trade in the country and criticised opponents for “misleading” farmers even as Opposition parties slammed the government for hurriedly passing the legislations. Modi spoke on how each of the three bills bought by his government would help farmers in multiple ways, seeking to dispel “misinformation” being spread around them while unveiling new projects in poll-bound Bihar through a video address. Also read: Congress MP says 12 parties have sought time to meet president over passage of farm bills, request him to not give his ascentThe Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, passed on Sunday, aims to ease all restrictions on trade of agriculture produce. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, also passed on Sunday, lays down a new architecture for contract farming in the country to ensure farmers can engage with one another more confidently, enable modern supply chains and investments by agribusinesses. In a speech aimed at putting a lid on concerns of farmers’ groups, Modi said the existing agricultural state-regulated mandis -- also known as agricultural produce market committees or APMCs -- would continue to function. He also said the government would continue to buy farm produce at minimum support prices (MSPs). Also Read: On agricultural reforms, it’s important to tread with caution“APMCs will not shut down. The new laws are not against mandis and I also want to assure the country that the government will continue to buy farm produce at MSPs in every (farm marketing) season,” Modi said. The PM said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had strengthened the APMC system. “Every market has been computerised,” he said. To allay fears over an alleged weakening of the MSP mechanism, Modi said: “MSPs will continue like before. The proof for our commitment to MSP will come from a comparison of prices paid by our government with that of previous regimes.” MSPs are federally fixed statutory prices, mainly for rice and wheat, at which the government buys from farmers. Also Read: Endless arrogance of BJP govt has brought economic disaster: Rahul Gandhi“Our government has purchased 24% more oilseeds and pulses at MSPs. Even when the country was under the lockdown because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, there was record wheat procurement. The procurement of wheat, oilseeds and pulses was 30% more and farmers were paid a total of Rs 1,13,000 crore in MSPs,” Modi said. The new set of laws brought by the government allows direct purchase of produce from farmers outside APMCs. APMCs have enjoyed a monopoly in farm produce trade so far and there is evidence that trader cartels have often manipulated wholesale prices to the disadvantage of farmers and consumers. In December 2010, when onion prices peaked, a probe by the country’s statutory anti-monopoly body, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), had revealed that one firm accounted for nearly a fifth of the total onion trade for that month at Lasalgaon APMC, Asia’s largest onion market in Maharashtra’s Nashik. Modi said farm produce would travel freely across states and farmers were already reaping benefits of open markets to get higher prices. “Ground reports tell us how the reforms have benefited farmers,” Modi said. In Bihar, traders bought potatoes directly from farmers for storage in cold chains at higher prices, the PM said. In Madhya Pradesh (MP), oil processing mills bought oilseeds from farmers paying between 20% and 30% more in June and July, he said. Modi said growers of pulses would get better prices in states such as Uttar Pradesh (UP), Chhattisgarh and West Bengal because of the freedom to directly sell to traders. Farmer organisations, such as the umbrella outfit, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, said they would continue to protest these reforms, as the government passed them without adequate consultations, farm leader VM Singh said. The bills were passed amid stiff opposition in the Upper House and an ensuing chaos during a voice vote, which opposition parties said was unfair and unsound. The opposition said the deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha, Harivansh, did not allow detailed voting on the bills, called “division”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-pm-modi-says-farmers-to-get-better-prices-because-of-reforms/story-bsfDEu6UKP0ALU9YXBWL3I.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Some IPS officers worked to stop Thackeray govt’s march to power’: Shiv Sena||A day after Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh dismissed reports of him having made any claims that a group of IPS officers in the state had attempted to overthrow the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that an attempt was made to keep Devendra Fadnavis’ 80-hour government alive but it was foiled.An editorial in Saamana on Monday said that some IPS officers were working as if it was their responsibility to prove majority on the floor of the House.Deshmukh, in an interview with a vernacular media outlet in Maharashtra, was asked about a group of IPS officers working to prevent the Uddhav Thackeray-led government from coming to power. “I do not wish to say anything publicly on this. All officers work diligently but there are some officers who can have different ideologies,” the minister said. Following the interview, there were reports that Deshmukh had claimed that a plan to topple the government, hatched by some senior IPS officers, had been thwarted. Later, he issued a clarification stating, “This news is completely false... erroneous statements have been put into my mouth. Please see the video clip of the interview and you will realise that I had not said any such thing when I was asked to comment on whether there had been such a move planned by some IPS officers... I had only said that I cannot comment on such things openly.”The Sena mouthpiece said that several officers thought that the Fadnavis government will return to power after the 2019 assembly polls. “It was difficult for them to accept that despite having 105 legislators the BJP could not form the government... Some officers were involved in the early morning swearing in [of Devendra Fadnavis] before the President’s rule was imposed... In a bid to remain in the CM’s good books, some police officials even tried to net legislators of smaller parties and some Independents. It is even true that the State Intelligence Department also played a role. Some officers were working as if they had taken up the responsibility of proving the majority,” the editorial said.The editorial added that the state administration is “professional” and the “best”. “They do not have the power to make or break any government. It is not the culture of Maharashtra. If some minister thinks so that some officers are toppling the government then it sends a wrong message to people that the government is on a weak footing,” it said.It also indirectly slammed the BJP for thinking that officers’ lobby can help them topple the MVA government. It added that keeping an eye on elements who can pass on information to the opposition and work against the government is the job of the home department.“Some officers [who were involved] are still occupying high posts. They roam with confidence despite openly working to prevent Thackeray government from||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-ips-officers-worked-to-stop-thackeray-govt-s-march-to-power-shiv-sena/story-MIZ7AMk8UqooHCvGgd0hyO.html
21-09-2020||India||Bhiwandi building collapse: What we know so far||A three-storey building collapsed in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi city early on Monday killing at least 10 people and injuring several. Nineteen others, including a four-year-old boy, have been pulled out of the debris by rescuers.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his condolence to the families of the victims of Bhiwandi building collapse and assured that all necessary help was being given to the affected.“Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected,” PM Modi tweeted.The state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray postponed the e-opening of the Mankoli flyover following the building collapse. Thackeray along with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar were to inaugurate the flyover at 1.30pm today.Here is what we know so far about the tragedy:* Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), police and fire brigade are carrying out rescue operations in the Patel Compound area of the city.* As per the NDRF rescue team, 29 people have been pulled out from the debris -- 10 dead and 19 alive. Seven men and three women have died, it added.* The 43-year-old Jhilani building collapsed at around 3:40am. It had 40 flats and housed around 150 people.* So far, there is no report on the cause of the collapse. Pankaj Ashiya, Bhiwandi’s commissioner, said that the building was in need of repair.* “The building was over 30 years old and needed repairs, which couldn’t be carried out due to the coronavirus lockdown,” he said.* NDRF teams were using a canine squad to search trapped people. A team of 30 NDRF rescuers is still at the spot for rescue work.* Power supply to the area has been snapped as a precautionary measure, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhiwandi-building-collapse-what-we-know-so-far/story-3e3Qxm4cDt0wLgsKdXneTN.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Never before’: Minister slams behaviour of 8 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs, they stage protest||The eight members of Parliament (MPs), who were suspended by the Rajya Sabha Chairman, have refused to leave the premises and started a protest.These MPs - TMC’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) - are holding placards and pamphlets which say ‘we will fight for farmers’.Some MPs of Opposition parties also held protest in front of Gandhi statue in Parliament premises against the suspension of the eight members.“I condemn this kind of expulsion of the members of Rajya Sabha in such a brazen and undemocratic manner. We will protest to restore the status quo ante of our members in Rajya Sabha,” Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said.These eight MPs were suspended a day after ruckus in the upper house of Parliament during the passage of the farm bills. The behaviour of these parliamentarians were criticised by the ruling party leaders and the government.Chairman of the House, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, had termed the behaviour of members “unfortunate, unacceptable and condemnable” and one that has “tarnished” the image of Parliament, particularly the House of Elders.Two key farm bills were on Sunday passed by Rajya Sabha with voice vote amid unprecedented unruly scenes by protesting Opposition members who were demanding that the proposed legislation be referred to a House panel for greater scrutiny.After the bills were passed, the Opposition called it a “black day”, while the ruling party members sought action against the MPs responsible for the ruckus. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, at a press conference on Sunday evening, said the behavious has tarnished the image of Parliament.On Monday, when the proceedings began, the government moved a motion seeking suspension of eight MPs.Amid opposition, the motion was adopted by voice vote and Chairman Naidu asked them to leave the House but they remained present and protested against the ruling.“When the Chairman names a member then that member has to leave the House. Never before a member defied the orders of the Chair. Eight suspended MPs had misbehaved, it was a type of goondaism. They’ve proved that they have no trust in democracy,” Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said.As the protests continued, Naidu adjourned the proceedings for 20 minutes. The House saw three more adjournments as the suspended members remained present in the House and Opposition parties protested against the decision before the proceedings werre adjourned for the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-before-minister-slams-behaviour-of-8-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps-they-stage-protest/story-3qjB697r4CaX4qCPpdLaCL.html
21-09-2020||India||Congress MP says 12 parties have sought time to meet president over passage of farm bills, request him to not give his assent||Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil on Monday said that 12 parties have sought time to meet President Ram Nath Kovind over the passage of farm bills in the Rajya Sabha.The parties have requested the President to not give his assent to the bills that were passed by the upper house of Parliament on Sunday “without voting”, news agency ANI quoted Gohil as saying. The bills were cleared in the Rajya Sabha by voice vote amid unruly conduct by Opposition members who protested against the passage of the bills and demanded that the proposed legislation be referred to a House panel for greater scrutiny.Also read: Farm bills will empower farmers, says PM Modi amid opposition protestsFollowing the passage of the bills, Opposition called it a “black day” while the ruling party members sought action against those who created ruckus in the Rajya Sabha premises. On Monday, eight members of Parliament (MPs) - TMC’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) - were suspended by the upper house chairman M Venkaiah Naidu for a week under Rule 256(2).These MPs, however, refused to leave the House and remained present protesting against the ruling. They are now staging a protest in Parliament premises. They were seen holding placards and pamphlets that read ‘we will fight for farmers’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-says-12-parties-have-sought-time-to-meet-president-over-passage-of-farm-bills-request-him-to-not-give-his-ascent/story-eLIulWKXM8ByVD0WC2ds3L.html
21-09-2020||India||UP assembly bypolls: CM Yogi holds meeting as party mulls names, high voltage campaign||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership is busy considering names of possible candidates for the eight assembly seats in the state, bypolls to which are likely to be held soon. The party is also planning a ‘high voltage’ campaign in these by-poll seats with chief minister Yogi Adityanath expected to be the lead campaigner along with other ministers and BJP functionaries, party leaders said.On Sunday, CM Yogi held a meeting with state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh at the former’s residence after which ministers were tasked with responsibility for seats due for by-polls.“As soon as the by-polls are announced, the chief minister would be canvassing for party in all 8 seats,” a BJP leader said, adding that several ministers would also campaign for the party.“It would be a high voltage campaign,” the party leader said, adding that no decision had yet been taken on conceding ally Nishad Party’s demand to let it contest the Jaunpur seat as part of an alliance.Also read: ‘Autocratic mindset’ - Mamata Banerjee fumes at suspension of 8 MPsMoreover, in a departure from its usual policy of not contesting by-polls, the Bahujan Samaj Party has decided to field candidates this time.The Congress too is holding meetings to finalise candidates as this would be the first electoral exercise in Uttar Pradesh after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had been given full-fledged responsibility of the state.The main opposition Samajwadi Party, which held two of the eight by-poll seats – Malhani in Jaunpur and Suar in Rampur - is also desperate to make an impression in these mini-polls.Of the two seats, the BJP is eyeing Suar seat which is considered a bastion of Samajwadi Party’s Rampur MP Azam Khan. The seat was won by Azam’s son Abdullah in 2017 UP polls but his subsequent disqualification paved the way for by-poll.Azam, who has a string of cases filed against him since 2017, is currently in jail along with his lawmaker wife Tazeen Fatima and Abdullah Azam.The BJP has decided to task state’s law minister Brajesh Pathak and party lawmaker Vijay Kashyap with the responsibility of Suar seat while it has given its backward classes welfare minister Anil Rajbhar the responsibility of Malhani seat in Jaunpur. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya has been made in-charge of Ghatampur assembly seat while the other deputy CM Dinesh Sharma has been asked to look after Firozabad’s Tundla seat.Adityanath, after assessing the party strengths, said at the meeting with BJP leaders that the opposition was divided and desperate.“The CM laid stress on continuing the public outreach initiatives that the BJP has rolled out to help the poor and the needy during the pandemic. He specifically said the environment was favourable for the BJP though he also warned against getting complacent,” a party leader said.For the 6 bypoll-due seats held by the BJP, the party has named ministers Laxminarayan Chaudhary and Baldev Aulakh for Amroha; Ashok Kataria, Suresh Rana and Kapil Dev Agarwal for Bulandshahr. Surya Pratap Shahi and Satish Dwivedi would look after Deoria while Mahendra Singh and Suresh Pasi would look after Bangarmau seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-assembly-bypolls-cm-yogi-holds-meeting-as-party-mulls-names-high-voltage-campaign/story-110qAAljIa2IQujMhmU6OK.html
21-09-2020||India||People prefer WFH, fear using public transport due to Covid-19: Survey||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is still dissuading people from venturing out and travelling in public transport, as 74% workers are inclined to work from home (WFH), according to a joint survey of eight cities conducted by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) and consulting firm Primus Partners.About three-fourth of the respondents are inclined to WFH or want their companies to adopt other policy measures such as flexible working hours and staggered office schedule, the survey report said.“Our survey shows that 79% of the respondents in these eight cities or metropolitan regions were able to work from home during the pandemic. After the 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions were lifted, we found that 74% of the respondents favoured WFH,” the report said. The eight cities that the survey covered were Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Pune.Also Read: India records 86,961 Covid-19 cases, lowest since Sept 16, as recovery rate rises over 80%While 18% of the respondents were in favour of a 100% WFH policy after the lockdown, 56% of them favoured a partial WFH. The report stated that 26% of the respondents preferred to do their jobs at workplaces.During the lockdown period 79% of these respondents did WFH, while 11% were on leave and 10% travelled to their respective offices, it said.“Companies have also seen the benefits of WFH, as it becomes location agnostic, allow them to cut down cost on expensive real estate (which can be redeployed for employee benefits, training, research & development etc.) and hire fresh talents across the country without having to focus on relocation,” it said.The report cited the example of a leading information technology (IT) firm based in Pune. The company recently made 112 new hires from Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Vijayawada, Chandigarh, Patna and Nashik and asked them to do WFH on a permanent basis. “This will allow employees to have a better work-life balance and not congest any of the bigger cities. Such initiatives will also lead to the growth of tier-2, 3 and 4 cities and towns in India,” it said.Also Read: Final analysis of second round of national Covid-19 sero survey underway: ICMRThe report stated that while public transport has largely been opened, 73% of the respondents would still prefer to use their own vehicles because of fear of contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. “As a majority of office- goers prefer to work from home or inclined towards flexible working hours and staggered office schedules, public transportation in cities will undergo a radical shift,” said Nilaya Varma, chief executive officer (CEO) and co-founder, Primus Partners.“To revive passengers’ sentiment and contribute towards building a safe ecosystem for commuters and drivers, transport operators need to adopt stringent hygiene guidelines and leverage technological solutions. These measures are essential, even as transport operators struggle with reduced footfall and lower capacity owing to social distancing guidelines,” he added.Companies must also revise policies to incorporate a decentralised working structure in a bid to guard against pandemics in the near future. Professionals surveyed exuded hope that companies would review and incorporate remote working, staggered working hours that would help ensure everyone did not report to work at the same point of time. This would also help lessen congestion in cities, he said. Devroop Dhar, managing director (MD) and co-founder, Primus Partners, said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has led to significant transformation across industries, pushing them to embrace technological solutions across their value chain ...”Corporate entities would also need to look at critical aspects such as information and data security, effective use of business collaboration and meeting tools and bringing in impactful employee engagement initiatives to prevent feelings of loneliness and social isolation, he said.He said WFH also provides the opportunity to public transport authorities and governments to facilitate the adoption of contactless ticketing and digital payments to boost passengers’ confidence in the short term and realise the vision of digital India in the long run. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-prefer-wfh-fear-using-public-transport-due-to-covid-19-survey/story-RtOPL0FUVWhp0wbSuD2pvL.html
21-09-2020||India||‘If they stop being obsessed with me’: Kangana Ranaut’s jibe at Maharashtra govt||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, who has been in a tussle with the Shiv Sena, on Monday criticised the Maharashtra government after at least 10 people were killed in a building collapse in the western state’s Bhiwandi city.Ranaut’s latest comments against the state government came after a Twitter user shared an article about the collapse of a three-storey building in Bhiwandi tagging the actor’s team. “Meanwhile Maharashtra government k-k-k-k-kNgnaa ..... if they stop being obsessed with me they will know how the entire state is collapsing,” Ranaut responded on Twitter.“Painful scenes! Happens when Maharashtra govt has only the time to dismantle @KanganaTeam’s office! #Maharashtra #Bhiwandi,” the user had tweeted. Meanwhile Maharashtra government क-क-क-क-कंगना ..... if they stop being obsessed with me they will know how the entire state is collapsing. https://t.co/qSUBGApLLAAt least 10 people were killed after a three-storey building collapsed in the Patel Compound area in Bhiwandi. The building collapsed at around 3:40am.Ranaut’s tweet also came days after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished her office in the city. Her office in Pali Hill, Bandra was partially demolished by the civic body on September 10. She had moved the Bombay High Court against the demolition of what BMC termed as “illegal alterations” at her office.The civic body had earlier filed an affidavit in the high court, saying Ranaut had made substantial alterations and additions to the property unlawfully and that her allegations against it were “baseless”.Ranaut has been at loggerheads with the Maharashtra government since she criticised Mumbai Police’s handling of the investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. She referred to Mumbai as “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir” and “Pakistan” and triggered a political controversy. The state’s ruling alliance has accused her of carrying forward the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s political agenda. Ranaut got security from the BJP-ruled Centre amid her spat with Sena leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-they-stop-being-obsessed-with-me-kangana-ranaut-s-jibe-at-maharashtra-govt/story-tPjUpaf74OSUqwvB6KT5AJ.html
21-09-2020||India||Farm bills will empower farmers, says PM Modi amid opposition protests||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hailed the passage of the two contentious farm bills in the Rajya Sabha and congratulated all farmers. He was speaking at a virtual event after inaugurating ‘Ghar Tak Fibre’ scheme and other development projects in Bihar.Also read: PM Modi calls passage of farm bills ‘watershed moment’ for agricultural sectorHe said that the bills were the need of the 21st century and will help increase the farmers’ income.“These bills will empower farmers to freely trade their produce anywhere. I want to make it clear that these bills are not against the agriculture mandis. They were the need of the present hour and our government has brought this reform for the farmers. Farmers can sell their produce wherever they see more profit,” said PM Modi.The Prime Minister reiterated his assurance regarding the system of minimum selling price (MSP) and said that it will continue unhindered. “I want to assure every farmer that the Minimum Support Price system will continue as before,” he said.Also read: ‘Step towards making India’s villages self-reliant’: PM Modi inaugurates highway projects, fibre scheme in BiharEight opposition MPs -- Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien, the AAP’s Sanjay Singh, Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah, CPI(M)’s KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem and Trinamool’s Dola Sen -- were suspended from the Rajya Sabha for a week under Rule 256(2) on Monday for their “unruly behaviour” a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-will-empower-farmers-says-pm-modi-amid-opposition-protests/story-wGv5rUhGgmlispPJUImNFM.html
21-09-2020||India||Endless arrogance of BJP govt has brought economic disaster: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre for continuing “muting” of democratic India, “turning a blind eye to farmers’ concerns” over the contentious farm bills and bringing “economic disaster” for the country.“Muting of Democratic India continues: by initially silencing and later, suspending MPs in the Parliament & turning a blind eye to farmers’ concerns on the black agriculture laws. This ‘omniscient’ Govt’s endless arrogance has brought economic disaster for the entire country,” tweeted Gandhi, who is away in the US accompanying his mother and Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, for a health check-up.’Muting Of Democratic India’ continues: by initially silencing and later, suspending MPs in the Parliament & turning a blind eye to farmers’ concerns on the black agriculture laws.This ‘omniscient’ Govt’s endless arrogance has brought economic disaster for the entire country.The tweet came after Rajya Sabha chairperson, M Venkaiah Naidu, suspended eight opposition lawmakers over protests on Sunday against the government’s move to rush through the contentious farm reform bills.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill were cleared by voice vote in Rajya Sabha even as the Opposition members protested. The members stormed the Well of the House demanding that the bills be sent to a select committee for a review. Opposition leaders charged towards Rajya Sabha’s deputy chairman Harivansh’s seat as he was presiding over the proceedings. They jumped onto tables and shot videos of the ruckus.Also Read: Rajya Sabha: 8 Opposition MPs suspended for a week after protests over farm billsThe bills seek to allow farmers more flexibility in selling their produce. Many experts have hailed the reforms as significant, but some farmer bodies and opposition parties have insisted the new laws would only benefit corporate entities and traders and not the farmers.The minimum support price (MSP) regime has not been mentioned in the legislation. It has triggered fears the new laws will weaken the existing regime set by the government to purchase produce directly from farmers.In a series of tweets related to the legislation, Congress leader P Chidambaram separately questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government how will they guarantee the MSP to the farmers.Also Read: Democracy is ashamed of govt’s ‘death warrant’ against farmers: Rahul Gandhi on farm bills“The PM [Modi] and other ministers have promised that MSP will be guaranteed to the farmer. Pray tell us HOW? How will the government know which farmer sold what produce to which trader?” he asked. “There will be millions of private transactions every day in thousands of villages all over India. How will the government guarantee MSP is paid in these transactions? Under which law is a private purchaser obliged to pay MSP to the farmer in a private transaction?”Chidambaram said the Modi government should stop lying to the farmers and making false promises. “The promise of guaranteeing MSP in private transactions is like the promise to deposit Rs 15 lakh in the bank account of every Indian,” he said.Chidambaram was referring to a speech Modi gave in 2014 election as the prime ministerial candidate in which he promised to bring back black money stashed in foreign banks within 100 days of coming to power. He had said that if all the black money was brought back, it would be enough to deposit Rs 15 lakh in every poor person’s bank account.The Congress has separately called a meeting of its general secretaries and in-charges of states to discuss the future course of action on the farm bills and give a final shape to its proposed nationwide agitation on the farm reforms issue. The meeting will be held in the absence of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi at the party headquarters in Delhi. Six members of the party’s special committee--AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik, and Randeep Singh Surjewala--will attend the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/endless-arrogance-of-bjp-govt-has-brought-economic-disaster-rahul-gandhi/story-19rOJtoGIk36GyDikNbzNL.html
21-09-2020||India||Pilot killed after trainer aircraft crashes in Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh||A pilot was killed when his trainer aircraft crashed near Kushwapurawa village under Saraimeer police station area of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday at around 11am, police said. A senior police officer said people in Kushapurwa village told the police that the aircraft appeared to have lost height all of a sudden. It broke into several pieces when it crashed on the ground, he said. The police reached the spot soon after receiving information from the locals, said the officer. With their help, debris was removed and a body was taken out of it.More information about the incident is being gathered, said the officer.Sub divisional magistrate Vagish Shukla said that the village head informed about the crashing of the aircraft and death of one person in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-killed-after-trainer-aircraft-crashes-in-uttar-pradesh-s-azamgarh/story-s0TjvveDHJFcrg2HrIBEUL.html
21-09-2020||India||Over 1 lakh vacancies lying vacant in CAPFs, govt tells Rajya Sabha||Over one lakh posts are lying vacant in Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) like the BSF and the CRPF and the vacancies have occurred mostly due to retirement, resignation and deaths, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Monday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said the BSF has the highest number of vacancies (28,926), followed by the CRPF (26,506), the CISF (23906), the SSB (18,643), the ITBP (5,784) and the Assam Rifles (7,328). “Vacancies in CAPFs and Assam Rifles arise due to retirement, resignation, death, new raising, creation of new posts, cadre reviews, etc. Majority of these vacancies are in the grade of constable,” he said replying to a written question. Rai said there exists a well-established procedure to fill up these vacancies like through direct recruitment, promotion and by deputation, as per the extant provisions of Recruitment Rules. The minister said the government has taken expeditious steps to fill up the vacancies in CAPFs, which is an ongoing continuous process. At present, the process of recruitment for 60,210 posts of constables, 2,534 posts of sub-inspectors through the Staff Selection Commission and 330 posts of assistant commandants through the Union Public Service Commission is underway, he said. PTI ACB AQS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-lakh-vacancies-lying-vacant-in-capfs-govt-tells-rajya-sabha/story-hn5GuwWZhhiZMFDiGWuSnJ.html
21-09-2020||India||Schools re-open in J-K with 50% staff, students remain elusive||Though government schools for senior students re-opened across Jammu and Kashmir after a gap of nearly six months on Monday, students, by and large, were conspicuous by their absence in at least two prominent schools of Jammu city. Similar reports also poured in from government schools in border areas of RS Pura sector.Principal of the oldest school in the Union territory, Government SRML Higher Secondary School, Anjali Gupta said, “as per protocol, 50 percent faculty had come but not even a single student turned up today”. She, however, added, “It was the first day and it may take parents some time to motivate themselves and their children”.“Probably after a day or two the students desirous of clearing their doubts may start coming to the school,” she added.Also read: Unlock 4 - Schools at several places across India reopen partiallyGupta informed that the entire school was fumigated and all other protocols of sanitisers, thermal screening, masks and social distancing were being followed.Principal of Government Boys’ Higher Secondary School in Gandhi Nagar, Shafqat Chib said that no student turned up today in her school as well. Similar reports poured in from border areas of RS Pura and Arnia in Jammu district and adjoining Samba district.“Fifty percent school staff had come as per the directions but students remained elusive,” said a teacher posted in a government school in Arnia belt. She also said that there were no proper arrangements in place.“Cannabis of four feet height has not been cleared. There was none at the school gate for thermal screening. Three students of class 8 had come but they were not carrying any sanitisers. Further, they were not carrying the indemnity bond which has to be given by the parents,” she added. Another teacher from RS Pura sector also echoed similar views.Sonia Gupta, a parent, said, “the decision is not only idiotic but will prove extremely dangerous. The government should restore the 4G network for hassle-free online studies rather than reopening schools that could be disastrous for our children.”Prem Kumar, another parent, said, “Given the rise in Covid-19 cases and spiralling death toll, there is a fear among the parents. Tell me which right-thinking parent would like to send his children to the school in such a situation”.“The government is ready to put children into grave danger but it won’t restore 4G network on the grounds that terrorists use it to their advantage. Terrorists had been using satellite phones in the 90s. So, this argument serves no purpose. The government should better restore 4G network rather than putting children into danger.”He also expressed dismay over a demand for an indemnity bond from the parents that they won’t blame school authorities if anything untoward happens of the virus infects their children. “How could be they so insensitive?” he added.Principal secretary, school education, Dr Asgar Hassan Samoon said, “Centre has issued certain guidelines and therefore schools are being re-opened only for senior students of classes 9 to 12, that too, for consultation with teachers. Only 50 percent of the teachers have been mobilised.”Dr Samoon informed that everything was being done in strict accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union home and health ministries, adding, “It is a voluntary exercise. Students who feel they need in-person lessons from teachers can visit their schools. Online education will continue as before.”Jammu and Kashmir has already recorded more than 1,000 deaths and nearly 64,000 Covid-19 cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-re-open-in-j-k-with-50-staff-students-remain-elusive/story-j6HanlezEVZGmTGdDEaeHI.html
21-09-2020||India||Karnataka legislature session begins, farmers on protest march in Bengaluru||The monsoon session of the Karnataka assembly began on Monday amid protests by farmer organisations and the state government reaching out to opposition to cut short the session as some 50-60 MLAs are Covid-19 positive or in home isolation. The Congress, however, is in no mood to relent. A number of farmer organisations are staging a protest march in Bengaluru against what they say are anti-farmer bills passed by the Centre and the state. Karnataka had passed a law to allow non-agriculturists to buy farmland which they could not do so till recently. In May, the state amended the APMC act which allows farmers to directly sell to private players circumventing the 160 APMCs in the state. This had attracted the ire of some farmer organisations.Large parts of the state are also undergoing heavy rains and the farmer organisations want adequate compensation to be given to those who have suffered due to the recent floods.The state government wants the session, which is currently scheduled for 10 days - till September 30, to be shortened to three days. Nearly 10 members of the BS Yediyurappa cabinet - deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan, home minister Basvaraj Bommai, among others - have tested Covid-19 positive or are under isolation. Several opposition leaders too, including former minister and Congress leader Priyank Kharge, have tested positive for coronavirus and are in isolation.Chief minister Yediyurappa tried to reach out to Congress leader Siddaramiah and JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy to see whether the Business Advisory Committee could agree to shorten the session. However, till now the opposition has not agreed to cut short the session. CM Yediyurappa said he would want the opposition parties’ cooperation to shorten the session given the ongoing pandemic as nearly 55-60 MLAs are unable to attend the session.While administration officials said that extraordinary precaution has been taken to ensure safety measures are in place, KPCC president DK Shivakumar, speaking to the media on Monday, said that there were more than 78 bills that the government was trying to pass which required detailed discussion. “We want answers for the more than 1,600 questions we have submitted in both Houses. We want to highlight the corruption in the government while purchasing Covid care equipment. There is no question of us agreeing to shorten the session.”On the Karnataka cabinet expansion, CM Yediyurapa had said that he is awaiting directions from the party high command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-legislature-session-begins-farmers-on-protest-march-in-bengaluru/story-qpMKVsBuvHI10jOGXDsNpO.html
21-09-2020||India||Multi-pronged approach adopted to strengthen protection along border with Pakistan, MHA tells Rajya Sabha||A multi-pronged approach has been adopted by the government to strengthen border protection along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan, according to Union Minister Nityanand Rai on Monday.The Minister of State (MoS) Home Affairs, in a written reply in the Upper House, said, “Government has adopted a multi-pronged approach to strengthen border protection, which inter-alia includes strengthening of border infrastructure, multi-tiered deployment of border guarding forces along International Border/Line of Control, construction of border fencing.”The reply to a question posed by MP Jyotiraditya Scindia further adds that improved technological surveillance, weapons and equipment for security forces, improved intelligence and operational coordination are also being carried out.Apart from these, the forces are also conducting special operations based on vulnerability mapping, anti-tunnelling exercise and are also taking pro-active action against intruders. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/multi-pronged-approach-adopted-to-strengthen-protection-along-border-with-pakistan-mha-tells-rajya-sabha/story-H44qsMPUEVsyiZHpSUU2XI.html
21-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Schools open partially as part of Unlock 4 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Unlock 4: Schools at several places across India reopen partiallySchools reopened partially at several places across India on a voluntarily basis for the first time since they were shut as part of sweeping measures taken in March to enforce social distancing to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic that has claimed around 88,000 lives in the country. Read more‘Suspension of Rajya Sabha MPs reflects Centre’s autocratic mindset’: Mamata BanerjeeSuspension of eight Rajya Sabha members reflects the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government’s autocratic mindset, West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Monday. Read moreIn India-China military talks, 2 Indian lieutenant generals to hold fortTwo Indian lieutenant generals are among the military commanders taking part in the corps commander-level talks between India and China on Monday, officials familiar with the developments said. Apart from Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, the second three-star officer will be Lieutenant General PGK Menon, who will be a representative of the army headquarters, the officials said. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Umpire should have been man of the match’: Virender Sehwag and Preity Zinta fuming after an umpiring howler in DC vs KXIP matchThe second match of the 13th season of the Indian Premier League was a riveting affair. Delhi Capitals and Kings XI Punjab battled hard to outperform each other at the Dubai International Stadium on Sunday. The margin of error was such that even a single run counted a lot. Read moreAnurag Kashyap’s ex-wife Kalki Koechlin slams sexual assault claims against him: ‘You stood up for my integrity even after divorce’Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap’s ex-wife, Kalki Koechlin, has spoken in his defence, after he was accused of sexual misconduct by an actor named Payal Ghosh. Kalki, in her social media statement, hailed Anurag as a champion of women, both on the screen and in real life. They were married from 2011 to 2015. Read moreHappy Birthday Kareena Kapoor: 10 times the Bollywood diva proved style is eternalKareena Kapoor Khan or Begum of Pataudi as we all know her, has always been a trailblazer. The actor, who is prepping for baby number two, after Taimur Ali Khan, with husband Saif, is known for her fun personality, brutal honesty and sharp wit. Kareena is a very versatile actor, and this is evident from her choice of roles. Read moreKia rolls out ‘KiaMobility’ in global markets to bolster rented cars’ prospectsKia Motors Corporation on Monday announced the launch of ‘KiaMobility’ service in select international markets which would enable users to rent cars from a period between just a day to an entire year. Read moreHarmonica meets beatboxing: Woman’s music has left netizens tapping their feetThe Internet is full of talented people who come up with different kinds of experiments when it comes to music. Be it mixing different genres or instruments, the results can often be quite out of the box. Adding to all those peppy tracks is this one shared on Instagram reels by Akanksha Shetty from Bangalore. Read moreCovid-19: Why ICMR didn’t disclose Sero Survey data from May?Hindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; why ICMR didn’t disclose Sero Survey data from May; positivity rate rises across India; Taj Mahal to open today after 6 months. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-schools-open-partially-as-part-of-unlock-4-and-all-the-latest-news/story-P2b5cB3QrzxDsCsBdbt4wL.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Will fight in Parliament and on streets’: Mamata Banerjee on suspension of 8 Rajya Sabha MPs||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Mamata Banerjee on Monday called suspension of eight Rajya Sabha MPs, including ywo from her party, over Sunday’s chaos in the House ‘unfortunate.’Banerjee further vowed to fight the ‘fascist’ Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Parliament and on the streets. “Suspension of the eight MPs who fought to protect farmers’ interests is unfortunate and reflective of this autocratic government’s mindset that doesn’t respect democratic norms and principles. We won’t bow down and we’ll fight this fascist government in Parliament and on the streets,” Banerjee tweeted.TMC’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen were among eight opposition MPs suspended for a week by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Monday for ‘unruly behaviour’ with deputy chairperson Harivansh Narayan Singh a day ago. Congress’ Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Sanjay Singh, and CPI(M) leaders KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem are six other members of the House who have been suspended for a week.The suspensions came after the dramatic scenes in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday, as opposition leaders, with TMC’s O’Brien at the forefront, stormed the well of the House to protest against the passage of the two of the three contentious farm bills introduced by the Narendra Modi government.Farmers in both Punjab and Haryana have taken to streets against the bills, alleging that these would lead to dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system. However, the government, including Prime Minister Modi, has repeatedly assured the farmers the MSP system will not be withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-fight-in-parliament-and-on-streets-mamata-banerjee-on-suspension-of-8-rajya-sabha-mps/story-nk49F2vY482EreNQA7bimM.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Autocratic mindset’: Mamata Banerjee fumes at suspension of 8 MPs||Suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members reflects the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government’s autocratic mindset, West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Monday. “Suspension of the 8 MPs who fought to protect farmers interests is unfortunate & reflective of this autocratic Govt’s mindset that doesn’t respect democratic norms & principles. We won’t bow down & we’ll fight this fascist Govt in Parliament & on the streets,” Banerjee tweeted. Also read: 8 Rajya Sabha Opposition MPs suspended for a week after protests over farm bills Suspension of the 8 MPs who fought to protect farmers interests is unfortunate & reflective of this autocratic Govt’s mindset that doesn’t respect democratic norms & principles. We won't bow down & we'll fight this fascist Govt in Parliament & on the streets.#BJPKilledDemocracyTMC MP and the chief minister’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee also condemned the suspension. “What happened in Rajya Sabha is an absolute contempt of Parliamentary proceedings. “Pro-farmer” ordinances by @narendramodi Ji’s Govt are not just fundamentally flawed, but now the Centre is taking away the right to even vote upon them! All one can say is #BJPKilledDemocracy,” he tweeted.Eight members, including two Trinamool Congress lawmakers - Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen - were suspended on Monday for a week over Sunday’s chaos in the House during the passage of the two farm bills. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, were passed by the upper house. Opposition members, including those from the TMC, Congress and Left, created a ruckus after deputy chairperson Harivansh did not consider their demand for a division of votes on a resolution to send the two bills to a select committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-of-rajya-sabha-mps-reflects-centre-s-autocratic-mindset-mamata-banerjee/story-pnKP0sFQtnwXbMpOsvPCBM.html
21-09-2020||India||Lockdown effect: Domestic tea prices rise even as global prices at multi-year low||The Wholesale Price Index (WPI) for tea rose by 79% on an annual basis in the month of August. This is the highest rise in tea prices under the current WPI series. Wholesale prices for tea have has risen by over 130% since March this year. To be sure, the rise in retail prices has been much lower. However, a future rally cannot be ruled out, given the massive hike in wholesale prices. According to tea producers, the hike in tea prices is mainly due to the drop in production for nearly a month (from March end to early May) during the Covid -19-induced national lockdown apart from extended rainfall this year. They stated that the imposition of lockdown caused a disruption in the tea supply chain which has affected tea auctions as well. “This year, from April-end till now, we have sold around 49 million kg whereas last year we had sold nearly 63 million kg during the same period,” said Priyanuz Dutta, secretary of Guwahati Tea Auction Centre (GTAC). Tea producers see the recent increase in prices in the domestic market as a positive development for the industry. “The current rise in prices have come as a boost to the tea industry as the industry was in dire straits due to lower prices in the last few years,” said Kamal Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Siliguri Tea Auction Committee. SK Saria, Managing Director of Songachi Tea Estate, said that the current rise in prices will help tea planters recover some of the losses that they incurred on account of lower production this year. The domestic price rally in tea comes even as tea prices in the global markets are at a multi-year low. Data from International Monetary Fund (IMF) commodity portal shows that tea prices in the international markets are at a six-year low. The World Bank, in its latest report in April 2020, had predicted tea prices to drop by 10% in 2020 due to weak demand. Will high prices lead to an import surge? Tea leaf has a weight of 0.96 in the CPI basket which is almost the same as potatoes (0.98). If growing wholesale prices percolate into retail markets, they will add to the already worsening inflationary pressures in the economy. Retail inflation has been above 6%, the upper limit of Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) comfort level, for five consecutive months now. Food inflation has been even higher. It grew to 9% in August. If tea prices continue to increase sharply, the demand for imports as a counter-cyclical measure could grow. Data from the commerce ministry shows that India is a net exporter of tea. The exports which had fallen in the month of March and April were at 11 months high in the month of July. The data also shows that tea imports have increased in the last two months. Imports worth 11.2 million USD were made in July 2020 which is the highest in the last five years. Tea imports in India have a 100% duty at present; while it is nil for re-exports. In mid-August, the Consultative Committee of Plantation Associations (CCPA), the apex body of tea associations in India, had urged the Union commerce minister not to reduce import duty on tea, as such a move would lead to the erosion of domestic prices and subsequently affect the economic viability of the tea gardens and the livelihood of lakhs of people, as per a PTI report. Viren Shah ,Chairman of Federation of All India Tea Traders Association (FAITTA), said that tea imports have increased in recent months mainly for re-exports. “If the prices stay this high, the imports in domestic market could increase even after import duty,” he added. With inputs from Utpal Parashar and Tanmay Chatterjee||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-effect-domestic-tea-prices-rise-even-as-global-prices-at-multi-year-low/story-UcLOdB7i56hdep1GZ4m9yL.html
21-09-2020||India||South Korea, Sri Lanka to participate in EC’s webinar on elections during Covid-19||The Election Commission of India (ECI) will organise an international webinar with delegates from 45 countries on ‘‘Issues, Challenges and Protocols for Conducting Elections during Covid-19” on Monday.  This is the first webinar being held by the India’s Association of World Election Bodies (A-WEB) Centre. Over 120 delegates from 45 countries, including Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Republic of Korea, Russia, South Africa, Sri Lanka and Turkey, will be participating in the webinar. Korea and Sri Lanka are two countries to have held national elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The webinar is being held on the completion of the EC’s one-year-long chairmanship of the Association of World Election Bodies (A-WEB). A-WEB is the largest association of Election Management Bodies (EMBs) worldwide. At present, A-WEB has 115 EMBs as Members and 16 regional associations and organisations as associate members. The ECI has been very closely associated with the process of formation of A-WEB since 2011-12.      Also read: In India-China military talks, 2 Indian lieutenant generals to hold fortParticipating EMBs and organisations, with the first session being chaired by election commissioner Sushil Chandra, will make presentations. The first session will include presentations by Fiji, Republic of Korea, Mongolia and Taiwan as well as International IDEA and A-WEB where these EMBs and organisations will share the challenges faced as well as their experiences and perspectives for holding elections during the pandemic. The second session will be chaired by newly-appointed election commissioner Rajiv Kumar with presentations from South Africa, Indonesia, Bangladesh, India, Malawi and IFES.“It is hoped that interactions and discussions at the International Webinar on 21 September will provide a good opportunity to all the participants to exchange ideas and learn from each other’s experience of holding and managing elections in challenging times of Covid-19 pandemic to ensure free, fair, transparent as well as safe elections,” the ECI said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-korea-sri-lanka-to-participate-in-ec-s-webinar-on-elections-during-covid-19/story-3orBACGPqovejIUFxSfUDI.html
21-09-2020||India||In India-China military talks, 2 Indian lieutenant generals to hold fort||Two Indian lieutenant generals are among the military commanders taking part in the corps commander-level talks between India and China on Monday, officials familiar with the developments said. Apart from Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, the second three-star officer will be Lieutenant General PGK Menon, who will be a representative of the army headquarters, the officials said.Menon is set to replace Singh as the commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps soon as the latter will be completing his term next month. Singh has been leading the military talks with China to reduce border tensions. He took charge of the corps in October 2019.The military dialogue at Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) across the Chushul sector will also, for the first time, involve the participation of a joint secretary-ranked officer from the ministry of external affairs as a step to ensure that the talks yield a positive outcome, the officials said, requesting anonymity. The Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the diplomatic dialogue between the two countries, involves a representative of the Indian defence ministry.Also read | PLA mobilises theatre commandsCorps commander-ranked officers from the two armies have so far met five times but failed to break the deadlock in the Ladakh sector, which has seen a significant military build-up by both sides.The Indian Air Force (IAF) is operating its Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on its highest state of alert amid heightened border tensions with China. IAF’s current fleet of five Rafale fighters is fully operational and ready to undertake any mission, the officials cited above said. A high-powered panel on China reviewed the latest developments in the Ladakh sector last week, with a focus on charting the course of future negotiations to restore status quo ante of mid-April along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). The agenda for Monday’s military talks between Indian and Chinese corps commander-ranked officers was discussed at the high-level meeting, even as the situation in Ladakh remains tense after a series of recent manoeuvres by the two armies in the Pangong Tso area.Also read | Altitude begins to take a toll in LadakhThe meeting of Indian and Chinese corps commander-ranked officers will be their first after the Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied a series of key heights to prevent the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.The ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso is now controlled by the Indian Army and that allows it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the positions scattered across Rezang La, Reqin pass, Gurung Hill and Magar heights.The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other, as reported by Hindustan Times on September 10.Indian and Chinese troops have come face-to-face at multiple points along the LAC since the tensions began in early May. In some of these areas, particularly the Finger Area and Depsang, Indian forces have been cut off from reaching forward areas they could previously patrol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-india-and-china-military-talks-2-indian-lieutenant-generals-to-hold-fort/story-BPDvlRvmfwmSDkE8NGCElK.html
21-09-2020||India||BJP worker asks for vote in name of Ram temple, video goes viral||A viral video has stirred controversy as it shows a BJP worker from Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district asking a woman to vote for BJP in the name of Ram temple in ensuing bypoll to Surkhi assembly seat in the district.In the video, that went viral on Sunday, a local BJP worker Narendra Athiya, a resident of Jaisingh Nagar of Sagar district, is seen showing a calendar having picture of Lord Ram to the woman and saying that “Modiji is constructing temple of Lord Ram. You will cast a vote on the symbol of lotus here and one brick will be fitted in the temple. With the vote, you will earn ‘punya’ also.” According to locals, the video was shot when Athiya was campaigning for his party in a village in support of transport minister Govind Singh Rajput, who is likely to contest the by-election from Surkhi assembly constituency in Sagar district. The by-election is going to be held in Madhya Pradesh on 28 seats of assembly constituency by November end as announced by the Election Commission. However, HT couldn’t verify the authenticity of the video clip. Govind Singh Rajput is among 22 MLAs who resigned in March to join BJP. He was inducted in the state cabinet of Shivraj Singh Chouhan on April 21 without being a member of the state assembly. Also read: Madhya Pradesh HC asks state functionaries, parties to abide by Covid-19 protocol  After the video went viral, Athiya refused to talk to the media. Govind Singh Rajput said he won’t comment as he had not seen any such video. BJP state spokesperson Dhairyavardhan Singh said, “Lord Ram is a matter of faith. The BJP worker might get emotional while talking with people. But we are not sure about the authenticity of the video so we will also check the credentials of the video.” Congress said the BJP was trying to get votes in the name of Lord Ram as they failed to do any development work. MP Congress committee spokesperson Ajay Singh Yadav said, “BJP leaders realized that they are going to lose by-elections so they are using the name of Lord Ram. The Election Commission should take action against them because they are politicizing the matter of faith of people and misleading them while playing with their religious sentiments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-asks-for-vote-in-name-of-ram-temple-video-goes-viral/story-tRcQ9eMcBIvMfdHMREMLPP.html
21-09-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh HC asks state functionaries, parties to abide by Covid-19 protocol||Talking a serious note of huge gatherings during political parties’ meetings in the state as highlighted in a petition, Madhya Pradesh High Court’s Gwalior bench, in its interim order, asked political parties and functionaries to strictly abide by Covid-19 protocol, as per the order. The court’s order was passed on a petition on Friday filed by one Ashish Pratap Singh who brought to the attention of the court huge gatherings in meetings held by political parties in various constituencies which are to witness bypolls by November end. The petitioner urged the court to direct authorities to take action against political parties. A copy of the order came to light on Sunday night. The double bench of the court comprising of Justice Sheel Nagu and Justice Rajeev Kumar Shrivastava said, “It is undisputed that Covid-19 pandemic situation is on the rise. Various instructions and precautionary guidelines have been issued from time to time by the central government/state government to contain the aftermath. In the present petition, allegations are made against the political functionaries, who are supposed to be a role model for persons they represent. It is urged that a leader ought to lead by example.” Also read: 8 Opposition Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for a week after protests over farm billsThe court said, “Though learned counsel for the petitioner has filed various photographs showing gatherings of a lot of people at a place, at this stage the said photographs cannot be connected to any incident as alleged without sufficient evidence. However, if the photographs filed are taken to be of recent congregations as alleged, then the political functionaries/administrative authorities appear to be acting irresponsibly. Law, whether statutory or in shape of executive instructions, deserves respect and obedience, as much from a common man as from a leader, a political functionary and even the head of State. This court is reminded of the maxim “Be you ever so high, the Law is above you””. The court further said, “Therefore, as an interim measure, in the interest of public at large, rather in the interest of the nation, we trust and expect that till next date of hearing political functionaries and the functionaries of the state shall strictly abide by the ‘Covid-19 protocol’ prescribed by the central government, state government and the district magistrate of the concerned district from time to time for regulating the congregation of any nature.” The court appointed advocates Sanjay Dwivedi, Raju Sharma and VD Sharma as amicus curiae ‘to assist this court for rendering justice’. The next date of hearing is fixed on September 28, 2020. State BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Congress party leaders have been violating and ignoring Covid-19 related protocol right from day one. When Congress was in power it didn’t implement the central government’s advisory on the disease and now when it’s in the opposition, its leaders are hardly seen wearing masks. The BJP is for strict compliance of all Covid-19 related orders and advisory.” State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “The way huge gatherings are being organised in BJP’s rallies and by their own admission is really shocking. The BJP government is not taking any action in this regard for obvious reasons. There should be FIRs against organisers of such rallies and events of the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-hc-asks-state-functionaries-parties-to-abide-by-covid-19-protocol/story-vu8ppAXsQpaC0Oe66j36wO.html
21-09-2020||India||India records 86,961 Covid-19 cases, lowest since Sept 16, as recovery rate rises over 80%||India recorded 86,961 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), lowest in six days, and 1,130 deaths between Sunday and Monday morning, according to the Union health ministry on Monday. The country’s tally to rose to 5,487,580 and the death toll to 87,882, data showed at 8am.There are 1,003,299 active cases of the coronavirus disease and 4,396,399 recoveries after 93,356 patients were cured and discharged across the country in the last 24 hours. This takes India’s recovery rate to 80.11%.The health ministry has said India, the second worst-hit country, has the highest number of recovered Covid-19 patients globally, constituting 19% of the total recoveries across the world. “India occupies the top position in the world in terms of total recoveries. More than 43 lakh have recovered. India’s recoveries constitute 19% of the total global recoveries,” the ministry said.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is actively exploring saliva-based test for detection of Covid-19 and asserted that no significant or drastic mutation in strains of Sars-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, has been found in India till now.Vardhan said during an interaction with his social media followers that ICMR has been conducting large-scale sequencing of nationally representative strains of Sars-CoV-2 virus collected for several months over different time-points. He added that detailed results on mutations and evolution of the virus will be available in early October.Also read | Taj Mahal reopens for visitors with strict Covid-19 protocol: Everything you need to knowICMR has successfully completed the second round of serosurvey, to know the prevalence of coronavirus disease in the country, and the final phase of results is currently being analysed. “The final phase analysis of the survey is now underway and will offer a comparison with the results of the first survey,” it said in a statement.The serosurvey is done by analysing blood samples of selected individuals for antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It determines a past infection, considering a majority of patients do not exhibit symptoms and not everyone is getting tested for the viral infection.The health minister, during his interaction, also sought to dispel fears caused by the suspension of trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, saying vaccine development is a complex process and trials have restarted only after an independent investigative expert committee permitted them to proceed.He explained the difference between various vaccines under clinical trial in India and that since formulations, doses, route of administration are different for the vaccines, their mechanisms of action are also different.Vardhan also spoke on the role of traditional medicine in the present context and said that the AYUSH ministry has developed research protocols for validating claims of various Ayush practitioners for Covid-19 solutions although no formulation has been validated as a specific drug.Globally, there are more than and 959,332 people have died, according to the coronavirus tracker of Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-86-961-covid-19-cases-lowest-since-sept-16-as-recovery-rate-rises-over-80/story-xPjzAbHwJsv8wcTO7zUPgK.html
21-09-2020||India||Bihar launches pilot project for community cultivation of biofortified wheat, first in country||As part of the state agriculture department’s initiative to encourage farming of crops of high nutrition value and thereby tackle rampant malnutrition, about 1,800 farmers of Kukribigha village, located in the outskirt of Patna, would start cultivation of biofortified wheat in the upcoming rabi season. Agriculture minister Prem Kumar launched the much talked about project at Kurkribigha, which has been selected as the first model village by the Rural Development Council (RDC) in the country to grow biofortified wheat, which contains a high proportion of zinc and other micronutrients. The minister said that cultivation of biofortified wheat would also be launched at another village in Gaya, the minister’s home town, and formalities for community farming would complete soon. “Production of biofortified grains would ensure highest value-for-money investments for economic prosperity of farmers,” he added. Also read: At 4.3 million, India has highest recovered Covid-19 cases in the world, says health ministryPrevalence of Covid-19 pandemic has exposed the vulnerability of the state to food and nutritional insecurity. The state has a 72.7 percent death rate, generally attributed to malnutrition in children ageing less than five years, as compared to the national average of 69.2 percent. This state-wide data on malnutrition was presented by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), and the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) last year. Kumar said that farmers would get free of cost seeds, along with other farm input such as organic manure and mechanical tools to prepare the fields for farming and harvesting the crop. “Farming of biofortified wheat, maize and other cereals like paddy would be extended to other parts of the state upon successful completion of the pilot project in the two villages,” said the minister. Citing a national-level study, the minister said children who ate high-zinc wheat, as chapatti or puri flatbread, or as porridge, experienced 17 percent fewer days with pneumonia and 39 percent fewer days vomiting, compared to children who consumed a lower zinc variety typical of conventional wheat. “Mothers who ate high-zinc wheat spent 9 percent fewer days with fever,” said Kumar. Bihar agriculture management extension training institute (Bameti), a state government institute, would provide necessary skill training to farmers for cultivation of biofortified wheat with technical support from Mahindra and Mahindra and other multinational organisation engaged in health and nutritional programmes. An agricultural scientist of RDC said that zinc was an essential micronutrient, required for healthy growth and development. “Inadequate zinc intake can weaken the immune system, making children more vulnerable to infections and respiratory illnesses like pneumonia, which are the two principal killers of children of this age around the world,” he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-launches-pilot-project-for-community-cultivation-of-biofortified-wheat-first-in-country/story-jwMvrtp9gvykVdgYfsnMMN.html
21-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha: 8 Opposition MPs suspended for a week after protests over farm bills||Eight opposition MPs, including Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and AAP’s Sanjay Singh, were suspended from Rajya Sabha for a week under Rule 256(2) on Monday for their “unruly behaviour” during the fierce protests over the farm bills on Sunday. The government moved a motion for their suspension for “bringing disrepute” to the House. The motion was approved by the House amid protests from Opposition leaders. However, the no-confidence motion against deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh filed by the Opposition was not accepted by the chair.Also Read: Stormy Sunday in House as 2 farm bills go throughApart from O’Brien and Singh, Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah, CPIM’s KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem and Trinamool’s Dola Sen were suspended. The suspended MPs initially refused to leave and shouted slogans, prompting Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu to adjourn the House till 10am. When the House resumed, the suspended MPs continued their protests and the House was adjourned for another half an hour.Naidu, visibly upset over Sunday’s development, made an observation at 9.30am, at the end of the zero hour, listing all “unruly offences” committed by the Opposition MPs in the House. He said that apart from shouting slogans and “dancing on the table”, some MPs even tried to “physically harm the deputy chairman”. During his speech, O’Brien and others started protesting. Also Read: Parliament monsoon session: Naidu rejects no-confidence motion against HarivanshNaidu named O’Brien and asked him to leave the House. Minutes later, the government moved a resolution seeking the suspension of eight MPs who led the protests on Sunday. The resolution was adopted through a voice vote. The suspended MPs didn’t leave the House and instead started a new round of protests. The chair has the option of calling the marshals to forcibly evict the MPs but so far, Naidu has not opted for that extreme step. Rajya Sabha was then adjourned till Tuesday after Members who were suspended refused to leave the House. The chair insisted that business could be taken up only after the members leave the house. Bhuwaneswar Kalita, who was in the chair, said a statement by Congress MP and Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad could only be allowed once the MPs leave the house.This is not the first time a number of MPs have been suspended in the House. During the Telangana issue, a large number of MPs were suspended in Lok Sabha. During the debate on the women’s reservation bill during the UPA 1 regime, MPs were suspended in the Rajya Sabah for unruly behaviour.On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha turned into a battlefield. Senior leaders charged towards the deputy chairman, gheraoed him, uprooted microphones, jumped up on tables, flouted rules to shoot videos of the ruckus and shouted slogans. Authorities called marshals to form a double-layered barricade to protect the Chair, remove an MP from the table, muted live proceedings and refused to accept the Opposition’s demand for a division—voting through paper ballots—on the bills. The high-pitched protests were also the most aggressive in recent years and continued even after the House was adjourned at 1pm. Opposition parties sat in Rajya Sabha for the next two hours and drafted a no-confidence motion against newly re-elected Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh before firing salvoes against the government on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-8-opposition-mps-suspended-for-a-week-after-protests-over-farm-bills/story-ImR5VMKW92ONwgKZ7txaNJ.html
21-09-2020||India||‘Saddened’: PM Modi tweets condolences to families of Bhiwandi building collapse victims||Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his condolences to the families of the victims of Bhiwandi building collapse on Monday and gave assurance that all necessary assistance was being provided to the affected.“Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected,” the PM tweeted.Ten people died when a multi-storey building collapsed in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi. As per initial information, 20 people were rescued by locals and 11 have been pulled out of the rubble by a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) after the building collapsed in the Patel compound area of the city. The building was over 30 year old and had 24 flats, according to Pankaj Ashiya, commissioner of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC).“There is no confirmation on how many of the flats were occupied. Around 50-100 residents are fear trapped under the debris. The team has managed to pull out 11 residents alive while ten died. The building is more than 30 year old and we had served notice to the owner and residents recently,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-pm-modi-tweets-condolences-to-families-of-bhiwandi-building-collapse-victims/story-4GDQZ6InP43UajjkSEY8gI.html
21-09-2020||India||8 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended over chaos on 2 farm bills: 10 points||Eight opposition lawmakers in the Rajya Sabha, including Trinamool Congress’ Derek O’Brien, were on Monday suspended for a week for “unruly behavior” that took place as the House passed two controversial agriculture sector related bills on Sunday.The government moved a motion for their suspension for “bringing disrepute” to the House for the rest of the monsoon session of Parliament.The motion was approved by the House through a voice vote amid protests from opposition leaders. TMC’s Dola Sen, Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) were among those who were suspended.Also read: Parliament monsoon session: Naidu rejects no-confidence motion against HarivanshThe Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed the two contentious farm bills by voice vote as the House witnessed chaotic scenes after some slogan-shouting opposition members lead by the Trinamool Congress climbed on to the chairperson’s podium demanding a discussion.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, was passed by the upper house. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, part of the broader farm liberalisation plan, could not be taken up.Click here for LIVE updates on Parliament proceedingsHere are 10 points as the Upper House was adjourned for the day:* The Rajya Sabha was adjourned till Tuesday after the suspended members refused to leave the House. The chair insisted that business could be taken up only after the 8 members suspended for a week under Rule 256(2) leave the House. It was adjourned several times before as well amid continuous protest by opposition members over the suspension of the eight MPs.* During the third time, the proceedings of the Upper House was adjourned by deputy chairman Harivansh till 11:07am. Bhubaneshwar Kalita was in the chair during the resumption of proceedings amid the sloganeering by opposition MPs. Kalita asked suspended members to leave the House as Opposition leaders continued sloganeering. “LoP (Leader of the Opposition) will speak but suspended members should be out of this House. House has to be in order. Also, request MPs to follow COVID protocol,” Kalita said.* Earlier, the House was adjourned till 10:36am and by chairman M Venkaiah Naidu till 10:30am after announcing the one-week suspensions unruly behaviour with the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman on Sunday. Naidu had also rejected the no-confidence motion moved by the Opposition against Deputy Chairman Harivansh saying that it is “not admissible under the rules”.* On Sunday, as many as 100 members from 12 opposition parties had submitted a no-confidence motion against Harivansh after he overruled opposition pleas for postponing agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s reply to the debate on the two farm bills till Monday since the sitting time scheduled of the House was over.* Chief minister of West Bengal and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Monday that the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members reflects the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government’s “autocratic mindset”. “Suspension of the 8 MPs who fought to protect farmers interests is unfortunate & reflective of this autocratic Govt’s mindset that doesn’t respect democratic norms & principles. We won’t bow down & we’ll fight this fascist Govt in Parliament & on the streets,” Banerjee tweeted. * Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, the Trinamool’s chief whip of Trinamool Congress in the Upper House, said the role of the chair in the suspension of the opposition MPs was “ex facie partisan, unprecedented and unlawful”.* “Amendments of several members for referring the matter to Select Committee were not taken up for disposal before passing of the bill by so-called voice vote. The role of the Chair in this context was ex facie partisan, unprecedented and unlawful. Without considering this illegality committed yesterday giving birth to strong protests from the Opposition, their voices have further been throttled when some of them have been suspended today for the remaining period of the current session,” Ray said in a statement.* “This way the Upper House is not run. If Constitutional Authorities, in this case, the Deputy Chairman of the Upper House of the Parliament, act as per their whims and fancies in blatant violation of rules and in detriment to the laid down procedures of the parliamentary democratic system, the country is destined to fall prey to majoritarianism, if not fascism,” he added. Ray said such developments must be condemned by all.* The suspended MPs later sat outside Parliament to protest, carrying placards with “We Will Fight For Farmers” and “Parliament Assassination” written in English, Hindi and Bengali.* Rajya Sabha witnessed unruly scenes on Sunday as opposition members stormed the well and reached the deputy chairman’s seat to protest against the farm bills debated and passed by the Upper House through voice vote.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-mps-suspended-from-rajya-sabha-for-a-week-after-chaos-over-2-farm-bills/story-p9AdsZqQ9sQJ5tWZf4ivgI.html
21-09-2020||India||Eyeing 2022 assembly polls, re-energised Samajwadi Party to begin battle from streets||Having reactivated and revamped most of its district units and frontal organizations, the Samajwadi Party (SP) is now set to do what it does best when out of power - taking to the streets, with an eye on the 2022 UP assembly polls. Most of the district units and frontal organisations were lying dormant since party president Akhilesh Yadav dissolved them after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls debacle. “In the last three weeks, the party has appointed presidents, vice presidents and, in some cases, more office-bearers of the district and mahanagar units and frontal organisations. Whichever districts are left will soon get their office-bearers,” said SP MLC Sunil Singh ‘Sajan’. He said the party has had made hundreds of appointments in Yuvjan Sabha, Mulayam Singh Youth Brigade, Chatra Sabha (students wing), Mahila Sabha (women’s wing), Adhikvakta Sabha (lawyers wing) and Vyapaar Prakostha (traders wing) et cetera. Also read: Parliament monsoon session - What to expect today“The party is fully reactivated and re-energised. We took to the streets earlier also during the past several months. First, we have a major statewide protest - as called by party chief Akhilesh Yadav - on Monday and the effect of the party’s reactivation would be visible then,” said a newly appointed district president. The Samajwadi Party has given a call to all its units - up to the tehsil level - to protest on September 21 against the state government over unemployment, farmers’ issues, collapsed law and order and corruption in health services in these Covid-19 times, he said. The party has also issued instructions to the units to submit memorandums (addressed to the governor) to the district officers at tehsils and district headquarters during the protest, he further said. Also read: At 4.3 million, India’s Coid-19 recoveries highest in world, says govtMeanwhile, the party’s state president has also started conducting video conference meetings with district units since Friday. Till now, only Akhilesh had been holding video conferencing with party leaders in districts. Akhilesh, as a customary practice, had dissolved all district and frontal organisations and state units (barring the state president’s post) after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which, despite an alliance with Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the SP could win only five seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eyeing-2022-assembly-polls-re-energised-samajwadi-party-to-begin-battle-from-streets/story-n4vVEGIw9ZQM8OEI4QeIsO.html
21-09-2020||India||Monsoon session: Congress, TDP, BJD MPs give zero hour notices in Rajya Sabha||Three Rajya Sabha MPs--one from the Congress, one from Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and one from Biju Janata Dal (BJD)--have given zero hour notices in the Upper House to raise different issues.Congress MP KC Venugopal has given a zero hour notice over “refusal of banks to give loans”.While TDP MP K Ravindra Kumar has given notice over the “need for stringent punishment for atrocities against Dalits”.BJD MP Prasanna Acharya has given a zero hour notice in Rajya Sabha and has demanded to rename Paradip Port after former Odisha Chief Minister Biju Patnaik.Zero hour is the time when MPs can raise issues of urgent public importance. For raising matters during the zero hour, MPs must give the notice before 10 am to the Speaker or the Chairman on the day of the sitting. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-congress-tdp-bjd-mps-give-zero-hour-notices-in-rajya-sabha/story-93UhHNCeCJK9Ocy9kCd6IJ.html
21-09-2020||India||MP assembly to hold one-day session, several MLAs to take part via video conference||Madhya Pradesh state assembly’s one-day monsoon session will be held on Monday. There are fifty-seven selected members including the chief minister, his ministerial colleagues and the leader of opposition in the state assembly who will attend the session, as per assembly secretariat.The remaining members can take part in the proceedings through video conferencing, the first such arrangement made in the history of the state assembly given the Covid-19 situation, as per the secretariat.At present, there are 202 MLAs in the house in the 230-member state assembly, twenty-eight assembly seats are lying vacant. Several MLAs are hospitalised having been infected with Covid-19, said an official of the secretariat.Apart from the state budget, as many as six amendment bills will be tabled in the state assembly for a discussion in the House, as per the business list of the assembly. Also read: Parliament monsoon session - What to expect todayIn the beginning of the proceedings at 11 am, obituary references will be made to the passing away of former President Pranab Mukherjee, former governor of Madhya Pradesh Lalji Tandon, Manohar Untwal and Govardhan Dangi who were members during the present term of the state assembly, 15 former members of the assembly, former chief minister of Chhattisgarh Ajit Jogi and former union minister Hansraj Bhardwaj.There will also be obituary references to soldiers who lost their lives in a clash with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley in June this year and soldiers who were killed in a terrorist attack in Baramula apart from those who died of Covid-19 in the country. State assembly principal secretary AP Singh said, “The 57 members to take part in the proceedings in the House in person include chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, 16 of 33 ministers, 15 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs, leader of opposition in the state assembly Kamal Nath, 21 MLAs of Congress, one of two Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs, lone Samajwadi party MLA and one from among 4 independent MLAs will participate in the session. The names of MLAs were selected after an all-party meeting on Wednesday.” “Others will participate through video conferencing for which arrangements have been made by the state assembly staff,” he added. Pro-tem speaker Rameshwar Sharma said, “In the one-day session, budgets, ordinances and important bills will be tabled. However, there will be no question hour, calling attention motion or zero-hour during the one-day proceedings. The MLAs will get written answers to their questions.” “The sanitisation work of the assembly premises has been completed. The gunmen with MLAs, personal secretaries and other staff members of ministers will not be allowed inside the assembly premises. The MLAs have been asked to come alone with drivers in their vehicles,” said AP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-assembly-to-hold-one-day-session-several-mlas-to-take-part-via-video-conference/story-Le3AautmNsQDrTZVYCOe1M.html
21-09-2020||India||Taj Mahal reopens for visitors with strict Covid-19 protocol: Everything you need to know||Amid tight measures in place to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Taj Mahal reopened for tourists in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra on Monday. The monument has been shut since March 17 due to the coronavirus pandemic.During the visit, a strict Covid-19 protocol will be followed for checking tourists. All visitors will go through thermal checking at the gate. They will also be provided with sanitisers at the entry point.Here are the new set of rules that need to be followed:- A maximum of 5,000 visitors will be allowed in the monument in two shifts per day. In each shift, maximum 2,500 visitors can visit the monument. - There will be no window ticket sale. Visitors can purchase the ticket by scanning the QR code at the entry gates. It can also be booked through the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) website or the mobile app.- Indian visitors will have to pay Rs 50 per ticket for visiting the Taj Mahal. To visit the main mausoleum, they will have to pay Rs 200 more. - At a time, only five people will be allowed in the main mausoleum area.- The tourists will be provided with shoe covers before visiting the main dome area. After visiting the site, the shoe covers are required to be dumped in the dustbins.- The government locker room has been closed. The visitors can keep their luggage in a private shop.- An ambulance would be ready at the gates in case of any medical emergency.- Visitors are also advised to not take any group photos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-reopens-for-visitors-with-strict-covid-19-protocol-everything-you-need-to-know/story-3cSQsL8y8M3g1hGIWy66cO.html
21-09-2020||India||Final analysis of second round of national Covid-19 sero survey underway: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has completed the second round of sero survey, to determine the prevalence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, and is analysing the final phase of results, the council announced on Sunday.“The second round of countrywide sero survey led by ICMR has been successfully completed. The final phase analysis of the survey is now underway and will offer a comparison with the results of the first survey,” it said in a statement.Sero survey is done by analysing blood samples of selected individuals for antibodies against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It determines if a person has already been infected and recovered, considering a majority of patients do not exhibit symptoms and not everyone is getting tested for the viral infection.Also Read: As criticism pours in, ICMR denies it hid dataAccording to sources at ICMR, the final result of the sero survey is expected to be made public by the end of the month.The sero survey also aims to determine how the disease prevalence has changed since the first sero survey in May, when the nationwide lockdown was in force, to now, post-lockdown with fewer restrictions on public movement.Close to 24,000 samples have been tested across the same 69 districts in 21 states that were covered in the first round of the national sero survey.Also Read: Uneven spread in Delhi’s active Covid-19 casesICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai (Tamil Nadu) is the nodal agency supervising the survey and analysing results.Director general ICMR, Dr Balram Bhargava, had also confirmed recently that the sero survey was already complete and the results were likely going to be out by the end of September.Like the previous survey, this survey was also designed as a cross-sectional survey of adults aged 18 years or above from 21 states, wherein the districts were categorised into four strata according to the reported Covid-19 cases per million population (zero, low: 0.1-4.7, medium: 4.8-10 and high: >10).The first sero survey, which was conducted by ICMR along with National Centre for Disease Control, state health departments and World Health Organization (WHO), had shown the pan-India prevalence of Sars-Cov-2 to be 0.73%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-analysis-of-second-round-of-national-covid-19-sero-survey-underway-icmr/story-AeVIt1uePI10bKJuOe3WwO.html
21-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Taj Mahal re-opens for public after six months and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Taj Mahal re-opens for public after six months, visitors to be divided into two slots Taj Mahal, the 17th-century architectural marvel, shut since March 17 due to Covid-19 pandemic, opened for public on Monday. About 160 tickets were booked online but first to enter was a tourist from Taiwan staying in India, officials said. Read moreIndia, China to hold sixth round of military talks at 9am; IAF Rafales flying in LadakhThe Indian Air Force (IAF) is operating its Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on its highest state of alert amid heightened border tensions with China even as corps commander-ranked officers from both armies are set to meet for the sixth round of military talks on Monday, officials familiar with the developments said on Sunday. Read moreEmmy Awards 2020 complete winners list: From Watchmen to Schitt’s Creek here’s who bagged the trophiesThe annual Emmy Awards, celebrating the best in television, will be handed out on Monday in a virtual ceremony hosted by Jimmy Kimmel from Los Angeles. Read more‘Ask any Indian cricketer who is the next star, they will take his name’: Sunil Gavaskar predicts big things for young India batsmanFormer India captain Sunil Gavaskar believes that Kolkata Knight Riders’ batsman Shubman Gill could be a big star for India in the future. Gavaskar’s remarks came just a few days before KKR play their first game of the ongoing season of the Indian Premier League against Mumbai Indians in Abu Dhabi. Read moreRealme Narzo 20 Pro, Narzo 20 and Narzo 20A to launch in India todayRealme will debut its Narzo 20 series in India later today. This is the second offering from Realme for its Narzo lineup with three new phones - Narzo 20 Pro, Narzo 20 and Narzo 20A. Read moreIPL 2020: Delhi Capitals trump Kings XI Punjab in Super OverDelhi Capitals beat Kings XI Punjab in the super over after the match ended in a tie. Both teams were locked at the score of 157/8. Read moreAnand Mahindra shares the Thar Playlist tweeple helped him create. Heard it yet?Not too long ago, the Chairman of the Mahindra Group, Anand Mahindra, asked his Twitter followers for road trip song recommendations. Read moreEmmy Awards 2020: Jennifer Aniston, Zendaya, Jameela Jamil serve looks virtually at Emmy’s amid Covid-19Award shows seem like a thing of the past ever since the coronavirus pandemic took over the world, so it was clearly a big moment when the 72nd Emmy Awards, the first major Covid-era award show opened with host Jimmy Kimmel greeting an empty Los Angeles theatre, filled only with cardboard cutouts of celebrities. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-taj-mahal-re-opens-for-public-after-six-months-and-all-the-latest-news/story-buCyvUImvYfTid4I2A1ZYL.html
21-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: What to expect today||A day after fierce protests erupted in Rajya Sabha against the government bulldozing over the Opposition and passing two farm bills, Opposition parties have called a meeting to discuss their joint strategy for Monday, leaders said. The meeting started at 8.40 am. The government, on the other hand, is contemplating a move to seek action against some Opposition MPs who were aggressively involved in the ruckus on Sunday. Senior leaders had charged towards the deputy chairman, gheraoed him, uprooted microphones, jumped up on tables, flouted rules to shoot videos of the ruckus and shouted slogans. The protests were also the most aggressive in recent years and continued even after the House was adjourned at 1pm. Opposition parties sat in the Rajya Sabha over the next two hours and drafted a no-confidence motion against newly re-elected Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh. According to a top functionary, for any action against an MP, a resolution has to be brought by the government. An MP can be barred from coming to House for a few days as punishment. Also Read: No-trust motion moved against RS dy chairmanOn Monday, Rajya Sabha is set to discuss an Opposition-sponsored debate—calling attention to “the situation arising out of non-payment of GST compensation to States”.The legislations to be discussed and passed include The Indian Institutes of Information Technology Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020, amendments to the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and the Company Act. While these legislations might pass smoothly, the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill could cause friction. The Congress and some other Opposition parties are fiercely opposed to the bill. Also Read: Stormy Sunday in House as 2 farm bills go throughThe Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill is set for passing in the Lok Sabha. The lower House has also listed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020 and the Epidemic Diseases (amendment) bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-what-to-expect-today/story-Cnd829VkoY26NfjHWtmc9L.html
21-09-2020||India||Gangotri priests end agitation against Char Dham Board after talks with state govt||Priests from Gangotri shrine in Uttarakhand - one of the Char Dhams - ended their agitation against the formation of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board on Sunday after holding talks with the district administration and a delegation from the board. The priests will be submitting a list of their demands/suggestions to the state government within a week. Mayur Dixit, district magistrate Uttarkashi said, “The priests have agreed to end their protest. We have asked the priest community to give their suggestions and problems with the Char Dham Board in writing within a week. This will further be sent to the officials of the Board.” On June 21, The Uttarakhand High Court had dismissed the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy against the state government’s takeover of the Char Dhams and fifty-one other shrines through the formation of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board. The court ruled that the ownership of the temple properties would vest in Char Dham shrines and power of the Board would be confined only to the administration and management of the properties. Last December, the Uttarakhand assembly had passed the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Bill. In January, Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya gave her assent for the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, 2019. Also read: PM to lay foundation of 9 highway projects, optical fibre network in Bihar todayAggrieved priests had threatened to move the high court against the Act as they claimed to have been kept in the dark about the new law. They had alleged that the government took the step to ensure its control over shrine-related issues, bypassing the powerful priest community. Deepak Semwal, secretary of Gangotri Dham Committee said that priests from the shrine had a meeting with the district administration after which they have been assured that their suggestions and demands for the Board will be noted. “The Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board was, in a way, imposed upon us with the government not holding any talks with us. Now, the officials from the Board want to set up their office near Gangotri shrine. We do not know what work will be done from that office and have asked the district administration to make that clear to us. After talks with the administration, we have also stopped our protests as we have been assured that our suggestions and demands would be considered,” said Semwal. He added that the priests will be submitting a list of suggestions/demands to the district administration after which further talks will be held with the representatives of the Board but till then they will not allow the setting up of an office near the shrine. Priests from Gangotri had started their protest around the last week of June, alleging that the state government was forcing the rules of the Board on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangotri-priests-end-agitation-against-char-dham-board-after-talks-with-state-govt/story-LIeZMRy7InEwfTqUeTCCzI.html
21-09-2020||India||Covid-19: At 4.3 million, India has highest recovered cases in the world, says health ministry||The Union health ministry said on Monday India has the highest number of recovered Covid-19 patients globally, constituting 19% of the total recoveries across the world, even as the country continues to be the second-worst-hit nation.“India occupies the top position in the world in terms of total recoveries. More than 43 lakh have recovered. India’s recoveries constitute 19% of the total global recoveries,” the ministry said.India’s Covid-19 caseload currently stands at 5,400,619, as per the health ministry’s data. Of these, there are 4,303,043 recovered cases, giving India a recovery rate of 79.67%. Over 22 million patients have recovered globally, as per worldometers, out of over 31 million cases, which means India constitutes 18.85% of the total recovered cases.It is followed by the United States (4.2 million recoveries), Brazil (3.8 million), Russia (909,357) and South Africa (589,434). The US, India and Brazil, in that order, are also the world’s three worst-affected countries.Active cases and deaths, meanwhile, contribute 18.71% and 1.6% of India’s total Covid-19 cases, respectively. While there are 1,010,824 active cases, the death toll stands at 86,752.India is currently in the fourth stage of ‘Unlock,’ which began on September 1 and will end on September 30. The country started reopening from June 1, after four stages of strict nationwide lockdown from March 25 to May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-at-4-3-million-india-has-highest-recovered-cases-in-the-world-says-health-ministry/story-vinqFz6K41bxt98qPrEeEI.html
21-09-2020||India||IRS official’s son held in Lucknow for marijuana seizure in Delhi||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday said it seized 2.7 kilogram of curated (refined quality) marijuana, which was sourced from the US, from Delhi and arrested a 21-year-old son of a senior Indian Revenue Service (IRS) official from his residence in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar area in this connection on September 18.NCB officials in Lucknow, who are privy to the matter, said the marijuana was concealed in an air compressor. They said it was to be collected by Cherish Gidwani, son of the senior IRS official, who was arrested.A senior NCB official said the consignee made the payment through bitcoins and came in contact with the US-based consignor through an Instagram account.He said the agency claimed that the man admitted that he used to import such parcels on a regular basis for the last one-and-a-half years for himself and his friends.Also read: Taj Mahal re-opens for public after six months, visitors to be divided into two slots He said the accused, an engineering graduate, had been trying for jobs for the past few months but failed in his attempt due to sudden recession following Covid-19 outbreak.The official further said the accused used to order drugs from the US through Instagram or Wickr (an instant messenger application of an American software company of the same name) and the payments were made through bitcoins.He said a total of 2.7 kilograms of bud was seized and the best quality of this marijuana was sold at the rate of about Rs 5,000 per gram. He said the accused also revealed that he used to get ‘charas’ and marijuana from Delhi and Bengaluru-based suppliers.He said the recent seizures of curated marijuana show that the THC (tetrahydrocannabinol), the chemical responsible for most of marijuana’s psychological effects, content in these contrabands is higher than those seized (Indian grown weeds) earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irs-official-s-son-held-in-lucknow-for-marijuana-seizure-in-delhi/story-3496uY4rMs8IxX1o09qW3I.html
21-09-2020||India||Local tourists queue up as Taj Mahal opens with all Covid-19 norms in place||After being shut for tourists for around six months, one of the seven wonders of the world, Taj Mahal reopened from Monday.It was closed on March 17 after all heritage monuments protected under the Archeological Survey of India, after discussion with the union ministry of culture, were asked to close for the visitors following the rapid outbreak of SARS-CoV-2.Also read: Taj Mahal re-opens for public after six months, visitors to be divided into two slots One of the first few visitors to step inside the Taj Mahal’s premises Debargha Sengupta, 25 arrived in Prayagraj on September 19 for SSB exam and later took a train to Agra to visit the monument for the first time ever.“The government locker room was closed for which I had to keep my luggage in a private shop but as I took entry and saw Taj Mahal for the first time ever I remained speechless. It is mesmeric. Moreover, less crowd had added more essence of its majestic presence,” he said.Another visitor Nishant Vasisht told ANI, “It’s incredible and historical at the same time. This is the first time ever that Taj was shut for six months. We are here to witness the change. The new normal has to be expected and adopted for our good. I have come with my family, stood in the queue, got digital tickets, and all set to see Taj.”Shefali a guide by profession said, “We were allowed inside only after the guards checked our body temperature. Shoe sanitizers are there at the entry point. It feels great. There is not much crowd at this time (around 6:30 am) so the scene will be different.”To keep up with the Covid guidelines, the site has imprinted norms saying not more than five thousand visitors are allowed in a day. Also, group photographs are not at all encouraged.Also read: Taj Mahal to reopen from tomorrow, 5,000 tourists allowed per day | Check guidelinesGuards are keeping strict vigil so that tourists do not touch the railing and walls of the monument and used tissue paper, mask, gloves shoe covers are dumped in the dustbin.Although most of the historical sites under ASI were opened, Agra Fort and Taj Mahal remained closed as it fell under the containment zone.Among 3691 monuments across India under the ASI, many were opened for the public since July 6. The Taj Mahal was built by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan in the 17th Century as a mausoleum for his wife Mumtaz Mahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-tourists-queue-up-as-taj-mahal-opens-with-all-covid-19-norms-in-place/story-6hyPoK1yfvYcKlKNbPscAO.html
21-09-2020||India||Moisture incursion delays monsoon withdrawal, season will end in 9 days||The monsoon season will officially come to an end on September 30 but with the development of a fresh low-pressure area over the north-east Bay of Bengal, there are no signs yet of its commencement of withdrawal from north-west India, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.“The low-pressure area will become more marked in the next 24 hours. The system is likely to move west-northwest wards leading to easterly winds at lower levels, which is likely to bring in a lot of moisture even to the north-western region. We are not seeing any parametres of monsoon withdrawal being met in the next two days. Rainfall should stop completely but it rained in western Rajasthan on Saturday and there is water vapour in the region; anti-cyclonic wind pattern is also not established yet. We have to monitor if conditions are becoming favourable for withdrawal after the low-pressure area weakens. But the monsoon season will end on September 30. There are no changes to the season,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC).Also Read: Delhi’s AQI hits 148 as pollution begins to riseThe normal date for commencement of monsoon withdrawal from north-west India is September 17 and for complete withdrawal from the country is October 15 as per the new onset and withdrawal dates of the season issued by IMD in April. Until last year the normal date for commencement of withdrawal was September 1 and the process was complete by October 15. IMD’s new onset dates are based on an analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based on data from 1971 to 2019.Last year monsoon started withdrawing on October 9 against the normal date of September 1 and prolonged rains led to deluge in parts of Maharashtra, Kerala and Bihar in August. Monsoon withdrew completely in eight days by October 17.Because of the development of the low-pressure area, there is an increase in rains across peninsular India. Also Read: Very heavy rain warning for Tuesday in Mumbai, Thane; IMD upgrades alert to orangeAccording to IMD’s Sunday bulletin, Brahmavar in Karnataka recorded 39 centimetres (cm) of rainfall; Vadakara (21 cm); Karkala (28 cm); Mulki (27 cm); Agumbe in Mangalore (22 cm); Valprai (12 cm)in Tamil Nadu. The rainfall in these places were in extremely heavy to very heavy rain categories.The low-pressure area over north-east Bay of Bengal is very likely to move west-northwestwards during the next two-three days and become more marked over northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours.Under the influence of this low-pressure area widespread and extremely heavy rain is very likely over Odisha on Monday; over Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar on Monday and Tuesday; Very heavy rain is likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh (AP), Yanam in Puducherry, Rayalaseema and Telangana on Monday.An east-west shear zone is running across peninsular India in the middle and upper troposphere. Strengthening of lower level winds and its convergence along the west coast is very likely during the next three days, according to the IMD bulletin.Due to convergence of strong moist winds from the Bay of Bengal, widespread rainfall with heavy to very heavy falls also likely over sub-Himalayan West Bengal and north-eastern states from Monday to Wednesday.There is 12.5% deficiency in rainfall over the country in September. It is 53.9% deficient over northwest India, central India (32.4%), east and northeast India (4.4%). Peninsular India has reported 77.4% of excess rainfall. During the monsoon season since June 1, there is 6.6% excess rainfall over the country, including 5.5% deficiency over northwest India.Rainfall is 13.5% and 1.5% excess over central India and east and north-east India, respectively.Peninsular India has reported 28.4% of excess rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moisture-incursion-delays-monsoon-withdrawal-but-season-will-officially-end-in-9-days/story-UY9EtI6043tyxWFcJL4gXM.html
21-09-2020||India||Central team reviews Covid-19 control measures in 6 districts of Jammu region||A central team of experts from the Union health ministry on Sunday reviewed Covid-19 control measures along with the financial commissioner health and medical education department Atal Dullo in six districts of Jammu region.“Review was held through a video conference meeting with the district administration and health teams of six districts - Samba, Ramban, Kishtwar, Kathua, Rajouri and Doda. Focus was on the testing, surveillance of containment zones through of door-to-door survey,” said an official statement.The central team headed, by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) director Dr SK Singh, and comprising joint director NCDC Dr Kinnzin, associate professor medicine (Pulmonologist), AIIMS, Dr Vijay Handa and Dr Mahesh Waghmare, IDSP, New Delhi, discussed various steps to be taken for containment and control of the spread of Covid-19. They urged to focus on influenza-like Illness (ILI) /Severe Acute Respiratory infection (SARI) cases, 100 percent house-to-house survey, contact tracing and increasing the number of testing, especially with RAT. The team said the focus should be on data analysis and stepping up testing, contact tracing and surveillance of areas from where more cases are detected so that the chain of virus spread could be broken.Also read: 4 coronavirus vaccines in advanced stages of pre-clinical trial - Harsh VardhanThe team suggested various measures that could be implemented in the containment zones and asked to involve ASHA and field Health staff to identify influenza-like illness (ILI) cases so that testing of all can be done. Door-to-door survey was suggested for identifying high-risk people like pregnant women, the elderly and those with co-morbidities.The working of the new Government Medical College (GMC) Kathua, GMC Rajouri, GMC Doda was also reviewed.Dr Vijay Handa, associate professor, AIIMS, asked principals to focus on hospital infection control measures, donning/doffing and biomedical waste management. Further, he called for following SOPs by all the staff members, besides preparing and following the treatment protocols. They were urged to increase the isolation and ventilator beds so that referral is reduced to Jammu, also to follow referral protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-reviews-covid-19-control-measures-in-6-districts-of-jammu-region/story-jQOWyz0Erai6CYYng4TCWK.html
21-09-2020||India||4 coronavirus vaccines in advanced stages of pre-clinical trial: Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said more than four vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has claimed the lives of nearly 87,000 people in India, are in advanced stages of pre-clinical trial in the country.Harsh Vardhan said in Parliament on Sunday that the government is giving all necessary support for the development of a vaccine against the coronavirus disease in the country and that three vaccine candidates are in different phases of clinical trial.“One hundred and forty-five vaccine candidates across the world are under pre-clinical evaluation, around 35 under clinical trials. In India, we gave all support to 30 vaccine candidates - three of these are in advanced trials of phases 1, 2, and 3. Over four in advanced stages of the pre-clinical trial,” Harsh Vardhan said in the Lok Sabha during the discussion on the coronavirus pandemic.The government is closely tracking the progress of candidates being tested by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited and Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is one of the frontrunners in the race for a Covid-19 vaccine in India. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has struck a production and clinical trials deal with AstraZeneca for the UK’s Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which has till now been tested in the most number of people among the close to 200 options across the world.He also listed out a series of steps taken to contain the spread of the viral infection and combat the pandemic in the country.“On January 30, the World Health Organization (WHO) warned the world about such disease. But we had started work from January 8. By January 17, we had issued a detailed health advisory and started point of entry surveillance and community surveillance. On January 30, when the first case in India was reported, authorities did 162 contact tracing,” he said.The health minister said so far 63.7 million tests have been conducted in the country which is “probably the highest in the world”.Also read | Covid-19: What we need to know today“Even today, 40 lakh people were kept under community surveillance. Contract tracing of more than 1 crore people was done. Fifteen lakh people were screened at airports. When the first case in Nepal was reported, 16 lakh people were screened on the border. From March 16 to March 23, more than half of the states have imposed partial or complete lockdown,” he added.Harsh Vardhan said that the ministry of health and family welfare has received Rs 893.93 crore from PM-CARES Fund for 50,000 made in India ventilators. The National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) under the National Disaster Relief Fund made the provision of Rs 11,000 crore to all state governments wherein the State Disaster Management Funds could be used.He said there are 17,000 Covid-19 facilities in the country which have nearly 1.8 million beds, 13,000 quarantine centres have 600,000 beds. To handle pandemic like this in the future, Harsh Vardhan said that work has started under Atmanirbhar Swasthya Bharat in which Rs 65,000 crore package has been allocated.India’s tally of the coronavirus disease went past the 5.4 million mark and the death toll rose to 86,752, according to the health ministry’s data till Sunday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-coronavirus-vaccines-in-advanced-stages-of-pre-clinical-trial-harsh-vardhan/story-c6enGgf3ts0wXIZsT0QHgJ.html
21-09-2020||India||Taj Mahal re-opens for public after six months, visitors to be divided into two slots||Taj Mahal, the 17th-century architectural marvel, shut since March 17 due to Covid-19 pandemic, opened for public on Monday. About 160 tickets were booked online but first to enter was a tourist from Taiwan staying in India, officials said. A maximum of 5,000 visitors will be allowed in two shifts per day into the monument which will be a sight for sore eyes with its well-manicured lawns. Officials at the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) said they had not neglected the monument despite its gates having remained closed for so long. Tight Covid-19 protocol will be followed for checking tourists. There will be no window ticket sale, visitors can scan the code to purchase tickets or book online through the ASI website or the mobile app.Not many paid Rs 200 to visit the main mausoleum but appeared more content taking photos of the monument and clicking themselves on the ‘Diana seat’.  Also read: Covid-19 - What we need to know today“Lawns were maintained all through these six months and we are all set for the Taj re-opening from September 21 – from sunrise to sunset. All would go through thermal check and they would be provided with sanitizer,” said AN Gupta, conservation assistant, ASI at Taj Mahal.  Gupta said not more than five visitors will be allowed at a time within the main mausoleum which houses the graves of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan and his wife Mumtaz Mahal. Taj Mahal will remain closed on Fridays,” said Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh.   Vasant Swarnkar, superintending archaeologist for ASI’s Agra circle, said, “The Taj Mahal will have visitors in two slots — pre-lunch and post-lunch. In each slot, there would be a maximum of 2,500 visitors. Once tickets for the first slot are sold, tickets will be issued for the second slot. In a day, a maximum of 5,000 visitors can visit Taj Mahal.”  Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawans will remain at a distance and check visitors with hand-held metal detectors. While no goods are to be carried inside Taj Mahal, an ambulance would be ready at the gates, Gupta said.  Taj reopening has excited all those who make a living in and around the monument. For instance, Munawwar Ali, 50, began cleaning items at his marble goods shop on Sunday for the first time since March 16.  “We have called the staff on Monday after six months. We expect business to be slow but at least we will see tourists going to the Taj,” said Ali who has a shop adjoining the western gate of the monument.  ‘Yes, we are excited about the reopening of the Taj after such a long duration. A day will come when international flights will resume. In the beginning, domestic tourists from nearby regions would come,” said Rajiv Tiwari, president of the Federation of Travel Association of Agra. “ASI needs to follow the Covid-19 protocol so that all goes smoothly. The government should begin thinking about restarting international flights as European nations have resumed tourism. We have to live with the coronavirus,” Tiwari added.  Indians will have to pay Rs 50 per ticket for visiting Taj Mahal and shell out Rs 200 more for entering the main mausoleum. During routine days, it was mostly foreign tourists who used to pay extra to enter the main mausoleum. Tourism trade experts recollect that the Taj Mahal had never remained closed for such a long period before. The decision to close monuments all over the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic was taken on March 17, before the lockdown.  “It is perhaps for the first time that the ‘monument of love’, which attracts a large number of tourists to India, had been closed for such a long time,” said Arun Dang, former president of Tourism Guild.   “This is unprecedented. Though the monument was closed during the Second World War and also during two wars with Pakistan in 1965 and 1971, the closure had not been so long,” said Dang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-re-opens-for-public-after-six-months-visitors-to-be-divided-into-two-slots/story-bivVQbNEfcWvE0yySmrNmK.html
21-09-2020||India||Manipur govt issues SoP for returning air passengers||Manipur government has issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) for those who are returning by flight services and those who come to drop or pick up at the airport.Chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar, in an office memorandum on Saturday, said, “All passengers arriving at Imphal should apply to Deputy Commissioner of their home district for an e-pass by indicating their personal and flight details at least two days in advance.”Directing the deputy commissioners to notify and publicise the web portal, e-mail address, among other details, where the applicants can submit their information, the office memorandum said, “They should also prescribe a format to include the details required and issue the e-pass well before their arrival and maintain proper record to monitor the arrivals, quarantine and testing”.Also read: Covid-19 - What we need to know todayIt informed that the passengers arriving without the e-pass shall however continue to be ferried by the Manipur State Transport buses for reporting to the HRD Academy or any other centre designated by the deputy commissioner (Imphal West) for further dispersal to the districts.For those coming by vehicles to drop or pick up passengers, it also informed that the private vehicles including taxies are allowed to enter the airport and park at designated parking areas.“Vehicles transporting passengers with pre-issued e-pass shall be allowed to leave with the passenger(s),” it said. “Other vehicles bringing in security forces personnel or construction materials are also allowed to enter but shall not park in the parking areas. Trucks shall not be parked inside the airport.”It further informed that all drivers/passengers should maintain social distancing norms and also park the vehicles with adequate gap between each other.Meanwhile, with the death of two males, the Covid-19 fatality toll due in Manipur rose to 57 on Sunday, officials said.The State reported its first death due to Covid-19 on July 29 while the first positive case surfaced on March 24.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of positive cases reached 8,894 while the number of recovered cases stood at 6,767 after authorities detected 170 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The number of active cases stands at 2,070, officials added while the recovery rate is at 76.08 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-govt-issues-sop-for-returning-air-passengers/story-lJiqSd1UEkBhwnyV3IrG5I.html
21-09-2020||India||10 killed, 19 rescued as building collapses in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi||At least 10 people were killed and several injured after a decades-old three-storey residential building collapsed in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi early on Monday even as 19 people were rescued from the rubble.A four-year-old boy was pulled alive by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), which is carrying out rescue efforts. Officials of NDRF said 29 people were pulled out from the debris and that 10 among them were dead and 19 alive. The building collapsed in the Patel Compound area of the city. The injured have been rushed to the hospital for treatment.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his condolence to the families of the victims of Bhiwandi building collapse and assured that all necessary help was being given to the affected.“Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected,” PM Modi tweeted.The President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed grief over incident.“The loss of lives in the building collapse at Bhiwandi, Maharashtra is quite distressing. In this hour of grief, my thoughts and prayers are with the accident victims. I wish speedy recovery of the injured. Local authorities are coordinating rescue and relief efforts,” said the President on Twitter.Meanwhile, the Director-General (DG), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said that one more individual, a 19-year-old youth, has been rescued alive from the site of the collapse and that the operations will continue as it is likely that more people are still trapped in the debris.The 43-year-old Jhilani Building collapsed at around 3:40am on Monday. It had 40 flats and housed around 150 people.The teams were using a canine squad to search persons trapped in the debris, PTI reported NDRF director general SN Pradhan as saying.A team of fire brigade and police are also working at the spot.As a precautionary measure, power supply to the area has been snapped, PTI reported quoting an official.Union Home Minister Amit Shah has expressed his anguish and offered condolences to families bereaved in Monday’s building collapse incident in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi. “Anguished to learn about the tragic collapse of a building in Bhiwandi, Thane (Maharashtra). @NDRFHQ is already on the ground and is assisting with the rescue operations. My deepest condolences are with the bereaved families, praying for the speedy recovery of those injured,” Amit Shah said in a tweet today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-25-people-feared-to-be-trapped-as-building-collapses-in-maharashtra-s-bhiwandi/story-TkxftaYyVFBV7hD803youL.html
21-09-2020||India||How households in India bank on Chinese imports||The rise in tensions between the armies of India and China along the eastern Ladakh border in recent months has led to calls for a complete boycott of Chinese goods in India.There has also been an increase in calls for using India-made products to reduce the dependence on Chinese imports. In order to increase pressure on China to resolve the border impasse peacefully, the Indian government has banned 224 Chinese mobile apps in the last three months, including popular ones like Tik-Tok, UC Browser and WeChat.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();An analysis of imports of Chinese items shows that a complete boycott of Chinese everyday goods is easier said than done. Data from commerce ministry shows imports from China have only fallen by 14.5 % in the past two years to $65.26 billion in 2019-20 after reaching a high of $76.8 billion in 2017-18. Even after such a reduction in imports, a majority of daily household items are still largely brought in from China. Over 50% of items like footwear, knitted fabrics and furniture products, among others, are imported from China.A further breakup of yearly import data shows that electrical machinery and equipment is the largest category of products imported from China, comprising around 30% of Chinese imports in 2019-20. While calls for a reduction in Chinese imports in last few years has caused their imports to fall in the last two years, certain items like lithium ion that is used in batteries in mobile phones and other portable electronic devices has seen an increase of over 100% in imports in the last two years. The import data also shows that India purchases over 80 % of its lithium ion requirements from China. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Given the increasing use of mobile devices and portable equipment in Indian households in the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis, the imports of such products from China are going to increase unless Indian manufacturers find an alternative source. The data indicates that the call for a complete ban on Chinese imports would cause a disruption of supplies and increase in their cost in the local market .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-households-in-india-bank-on-chinese-imports/story-ysxqIEtvPaYIA1dPFxYFZM.html
21-09-2020||India||Little bits of China all around us||Bhagirath Palace, India’s biggest wholesale lights market, is a long row of shopfronts festooned with strings of LED lights for sale — green, blue, red, yellow, white; all flickering brightly to evoke the Diwali spirit on a sultry afternoon two months ahead of the festival of lights.Ashok Malhotra’s first-floor shop is a fascinating jewel in this crown. Almost all of the lights on display in his flickering shop, Malhotra informs us, are imported from the Guzhen, famous as China’s (and slowly the world’s) lighting capital.Malhotra’s shop showcases the Chinese city’s mastery in light-making – from a variety of “fancy” fittings on the wall, to designer lamps on the floor, to chandeliers hanging from the ceiling. “They are all Chinese,” says the affable Malhotra, sitting behind his desk. “We have about 400 designs of chandeliers, but only about 10 of them are Indian.”In fact, not just his shop, 90% of the lights in this market (from small LED bulbs to expansive and expensive chandeliers) are Chinese.Malhotra casts his eyes to the ceiling to find some Indian chandeliers, and finally spots two in a nondescript corner. “Most people want to but only Chinese lights — they are fancier and cheaper. We are all patriotic, but the idea of dealing in only Indian goods is not practical at the moment. For two decades, we have allowed China to make inroads into all aspects of life; the march towards self-reliance is going to be a long and painful process.” Most traders in Bhagirath Palace, and in Sadar Bazar, which is India’s biggest wholesale market for household goods, and in Teliwara, the largest toy hub, are wondering what the future holds for them as the Union government pushes the Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self- Reliant India ) initiative. The steps include raising import duties and making Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) certification mandatory for several items, including LED lights imported from China and other countries, in the wake of the pandemic and rising border tensions in eastern Ladakh. These traders talk about the “implausibility” of the sudden curbs on Chinese imports, and how they be thrown out of businessIn one corner of Bhagirath Palace, Harsh Jain, a dealer of electrical switches and LED lights, has started selling Diwali decorations — mostly rope lights imported from Guzhen. But this year, for the first time, he has created a special portion inside his shop for Indian lights to try and respond to the government’s call. So far, the Indian lights – a dozen sample strings flickering on a shelf -- have few takers. “My customers, mostly retailers from north India, face no nationalistic dilemmas. Most of them are buy only Chinese lights because they are more attractive in terms of price and quality. Guzhen boasts of thousands of light-making factories, and India’s small-scale manufacturers do not have the wherewithal to match them in quality, variety, and cost,” Jain said.According to Bharat Ahuja, president of the Bhagirath Palace Electrical Market Association, traders are so heavily dependent on Chinese imports that stopping them will paralyse the market. “Before curbing imports, the government has to promote manufacturing in a big way through the right policy initiatives. The fact is that setting up and running a factory in India continues to be a difficult proposition,” said Ahuja, who manufactures electrical switch gears and MCBs (miniature circuit breakers). Barely three kilometres away, Sadar Bazar illustrates the true scale of the problem. Here, China’s dominance in the Indian household goods market, and the difficulty in adhering to a boycott call, is even more apparent.Rakesh Kumar Yadav, president of the Sadar Bazar Traders’ Association, says 70% of all goods sold in the market are from China. Thousands of shops in the market’s narrow, labyrinthine gallis sell wall clocks, cosmetics, toys, plastic goods, artificial jewellery, food choppers, coffee makers, blenders and hairdryers… “You name it, we sell it,” says Yadav, “and most of it, let’s face it, comes from China.”“Traders don’t have a choice. Indian manufacturers can’t meet the demand. While curbing Chinese imports, the government should also stop Indian and multinational companies from getting their products manufactured in China,” said Yadav, who is a cello tape dealer.People should conduct a simple experiment, says Pawan Kumar, national organising general secretary of Bhartiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal, just walk around their houses, look at different objects, and check where they come from. “Almost everything is likely to have been made in China.”Kumar, an importer, says that before the Covid-19 pandemic, roughly 500 to 600 containers carrying a variety of goods came to Sadar Bazaar every month, mostly from Yiwu, an international trading hub in China’s Zhejiang province.“Forget small household items, not many people know that a lot of furniture in the market such as Kirti Nagar is also imported from China,” he added. Kumar used to manufacture home appliances until 2010, when he became an importer. “I had eight BIS {Bureau of Indian Standards} licenses. While I sold a simple dry iron for ₹300, a Chinese steam iron would cost just ₹250. How could I match that?”He reads out the list of items in his container, weighing 20 tons, which is due to arrive in Mumbai from Yiwu -- mobile phone screen guards, flip covers, charging cables, woodcutters, woollen scarves, mixer-grinders, colour spray guns… the list goes on. Kumar, however, is supportive of the government’s recent moves to reduce the import dependence on China. “Eventually, we should limit our imports only to essentials,” he said. One of the biggest toy dealers in Sadar Bazar’s Teliwara, Sumit Matta, is a worried man. He says the call to make India a toy hub in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat address last month did not go down well with toy traders. “All of us listened to it with great interest, and it was widely shared on our WhatsApp groups. But it did not seem to take into account many concerns of domestic toy manufacturers and traders,” said Matta, who like most others in Teliwara, exited his family’s hardware business to get into the toy business 15 years ago. Teliwara used to be hardware hub before it turned into a wholesale market for toys over the last two decades. Today, it has about 300 shops, most of them selling toys imported from the coastal city of Shantou in China’s Guangdong province. “Until July, 95% of the toys in my shop were imported from China; now I have brought down their share to 80%” said Matta. The few Indian toys on his shelves include dolls and doctor sets, which he says were recently manufactured in Rajkot. “We closely worked with the manufacturer to ensure the quality is as good as that of Chinese ones. These days, we are getting a lot of calls from toy manufacturers wanting to know what they can manufacture for us. But there are very few who make battery-operated toys.” Rajendra Sharma, president of the Teliwada Toy Market Association and a soft-toy dealer, says it is difficult to convince his customers to buy Indian toys as they do not match the quality of Chinese goods. “The government seems to be making imports of toys difficult without ramping up manufacturing,” said Sharma.“At this rate, Teliwara will revert to being a hardware market. In fact, many of us are already thinking of reviving our old business of agricultural tools.”At least they are mostly made-in-India, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/little-bits-of-china-all-around-us/story-ID11Ylf9O0DcX5IlXeiReP.html
21-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What we need to know today||The annual flu season has begun in Delhi, north-west India, and the northern plains. Several in the HT newsroom have come down with flu in the past week — not the coronavirus disease (Covid-19; they tested negative), but the seasonal flu that makes its presence felt around this time of the year. Some of its symptoms are similar to that of the coronavirus disease, adding to the confusion, and the fear — but it is just the flu.Temperatures in the north and northwestern parts of the country are expected to start falling significantly by the end of September, and while no one in India seems particularly worried about it right now, health administrators in much of the northern hemisphere are wondering what the onset of cooler weather will mean for the Sars-CoV2 virus (which is anyway winter’s child). Will it mean a further spike in cases, which are already surging in parts of Europe as a direct result of countries opening up?Not too long ago, in spring, many of us (including this writer) were hoping that warm weather would prove unfavourable for the spread of the virus. We were wrong. It even thrived in the Indian summer. Now, based on what is known of the Spanish Flu of 1918-19, researchers and health administrators are worried about fall and winter — the second wave of the Spanish Flu, which started in the fall of 1918, was far more virulent and fatal than the first (or the third).It is likely that India and the rest of the world will see a fall (fine, India doesn’t really have the season but you know what I mean) and winter with more cases of Covid-19, but fewer deaths. Several medicines have been approved for emergency use by drug regulators, including in India, and this writer’s own sense is that the use of antivirals such as remdesivir, steroids, monoclonal antibodies, and interferons to manage infections serious enough to require hospitalisation may end up saving lives. India’s health administrators can’t be faulted at least in this aspect. Still, the increase in cases, which will mean a consequent increase in hospitalisations, will stretch health systems again.India’s daily numbers — the country ended Sunday with 5,485,390 new cases — have seen that rare thing, a dip, in the past few days, with its seven-day average actually dipping between Wednesday and Saturday (I remember this happening only once before in recent months). The trailing seven-day averages for each of the six days between Monday and Saturday were: 93,180, 93,334, 93,617, 93,278, 92,589, and 92,308. The only thing that can explain this is a dip in testing. India tested 1.16 million people on September 10, a day when it recorded 99,181 cases. It tested fewer than that on the eight days that followed. Only on Saturday, September 19, did it test more — 1.2 million people, which is also a record in terms of number of tests. As I’ve pointed out previously, there isn’t a direct daily correspondence between tests and cases, although anyone looking at numbers around the world assumes there is (and it is easier from the analytical perspective to do so; all analysis by the HT newsroom also assumes this; otherwise calculating key metrics such as positivity rates will become difficult). The 99,181 cases number on September 10 came on the back of 1.13 million tests on September 9 and 1.15 million tests on September 8.The drop in testing after September 10 wasn’t sharp —the difference exceeded 100,000 only on three days (of which it exceeded 200,000 on one day) — but it still seems to have been enough to prevent the number of new cases in India exceeding six-digits. That reprieve may be temporary. If India continues to test with the same intensity it did on September 19, it will cross the 100,000 number for new daily cases very soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-we-need-to-know-today/story-cXap86raMvCdSTGMF3XstI.html
21-09-2020||India||Political economy of the opposition to agri reforms||That it has been undoing historical wrongs to boost the Indian economy is a key narrative of the current Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led NDA government. When such moves are criticised, it is quick to portray its opponents as representing a group of vested interests. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is the bulwark of the BJP’s current popularity, leads such attacks from the front. This was seen in a big way during demonetisation and the roll-out of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). The same script is being replayed in the case of agricultural reforms. They were announced by the government in May, and are now facing protests not just from the Opposition but also partners within the National Democratic Alliance. Yes and no. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana, the richest agricultural states, which also account for the highest share of government procurement in India, are at the forefront of these protests. Both states are infamous for levying a large commission on sale of produce in Agricultural Product Market Committee (APMC) markets. If APMCs lose a large part of their business, this will lead to loss in what are essentially assured rents. So, why are farmers unhappy about the move? First, the logic of seeing farmers and local traders as mutually opposed to each other could be misleading. It is entirely possible that the traders who make a commission from APMC sales come from the same socio-economic group as large farmers. Second, the rent income from APMCs (it was around Rs 6,300 crore in Punjab last year), both to the government and private traders, is ultimately spent locally and therefore a source of income and employment. There is no such guarantee when it comes to profits of large corporations. Any loss in these incomes will adversely affect the local economy. Othering the local elite, both in urban and rural areas, has been an important ingredient of the BJP’s politics since 2014. Policies such as demonetisation and GST hurt local businesses the most. This othering has been accompanied by a stellar rise in the BJP’s funding from the corporate sector. The BJP’s corporate donations increased from Rs 437.4 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 743 crore in 2018-19. The short point is, the BJP does not need the financial backing of the local elite anymore, something which was the defining feature of political finance in India. The careful strategy of putting non-dominant caste chief ministers in BJP ruled states is another crucial component of this strategy. A non-Maratha Brahmin (Devendra Fadnavis) in Maharashtra, a non-Jat Punjabi Khatri (Manohar Khattar) in Haryana, a non-Ahom scheduled tribe (Sarbananda Sonowal) in Assam, and last but not the least, Narendra Modi’s own political rise as a non-dominant OBC leader at the cost of Patidars in Gujarat, are some such examples. A weakened local elite, and hence weakened regional parties, only make the BJP’s onward march easier. The proposed agricultural reforms are aimed at hitting the agricultural elite. The rent-seekers in APMCs will lose their assured incomes and the landed elite will face a far more powerful buyer when it sells its produce. This is also the class which does not stand to gain from the government’s welfare policies and might have been vocal against the growing squeeze on farm incomes.Earlier this week, the government announced a ban on exports of onions. It also plans to offload buffer stocks in the next two months. Both these moves are aimed at bringing down prices (which will hurt farm incomes). Inflation data until August shows that both retail and wholesale prices for onions were losing momentum for the past few months. Wholesale prices, had in fact been declining, that too at a growing rate. It was only in September that prices picked up again, and the farmers could have made up for some of these losses, but the government’s action will make sure it does not happen. It is worried about rising inflation. Headline retail inflation has been above 6%, the upper limit of RBI’s comfort level, for five consecutive months now. Food items have a share of 39% in the Consumer Price Index basket. This share is likely to be much higher for poor people. In a democracy, where majority of the population spends half its income on food, it makes eminent political sense to intervene when food prices are rising, even if this hurts farm incomes. That the government banned onion exports within a few months of announcing market-friendly reforms, is a clear reminder that it will continue to intervene and bring down prices. Farmers have long complained that there is no similar intervention when farm prices crash and farmers suffer losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-economy-of-the-opposition-to-agri-reforms/story-uwwWNX3ppgPTgitnZDqnVI.html
21-09-2020||India||Pak says India’s choice for mission post ‘too senior’||Pakistan on Sunday said the diplomat proposed by India as the next acting head of the Indian mission in Islamabad is too senior for the post even as it sought to link bilateral relations to the resolution of the Kashmir issue. The name of Jayant Khobragade was proposed to the Pakistani side in June, days before New Delhi asked Islamabad to reduce the strength of its high commission by 50%. The move had triggered a reciprocal decision by the Pakistani side. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Pakistani side felt the diplomat was too senior to function as the charge d’affaires. One of the people said Khobragade’s current assignment – he has been serving on deputation with the Department of Atomic Energy since 2017 – could have been a factor in Pakistan’s decision. The Indian and Pakistani high commissions in the two national capitals have been headed by the deputy chiefs of mission since August 2019, when Pakistan asked India to withdraw then high commissioner Ajay Bisaria as part of a slew of retaliatory actions in response to India’s decision to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status. Pakistan also opted at that time not to go ahead with the posting of the diplomat who had been chosen as its next envoy to India. A statement from Pakistan’s Foreign Office spokesperson said: “Pakistan believes that by proposing a senior diplomat, who has already served as ambassador in another post, India is trying to circumvent the effect of downgrading of diplomatic relations, which is obviously not in line with Pakistan’s decision.” Khobragade, who served as a counsellor in the Indian mission in Islamabad some years ago, has also held assignments in Russia, Kazakhstan and Spain, and was ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic during 2013-17. “However, keeping in view the diplomatic norms, Pakistan has counselled India to nominate an officer with seniority commensurate with Pakistan’s decision of downgrading the diplomatic relations,” the statement added. The Pakistani spokesperson referred to “veiled threats” in sections of the Indian media that the visa issue would “further destabilise” bilateral ties and said that “it must be clear that the relations between India and Pakistan are inextricably linked to the resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council Resolutions”. There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the Pakistani spokesperson’s comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-says-india-s-choice-for-mission-post-too-senior/story-umPkJ29NE3iO5XpTFKgAdI.html
21-09-2020||India||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally close to 70,000-mark, over 20% caseload in Ranchi||There seems to be no respite in sight for Jharkhand as the surge in daily detection of Covid-19 cases continues unabated pushing the tally close to the 70,000-mark.The state capital Ranchi, which is hardest hit by the pandemic and placed at the top of the list of Covid-19 cases, crossed the 15,000-mark on Saturday.According to the health department’s bulletin of September 20 , the state has reported 1,222 new cases and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours pushing the tally to 69,860 cases including 13,534 active cases, 55,709 recoveries and 617 deaths.Ranchi reported a maximum of 284 new cases taking the district’s tally to 15,239 cases, which accounts for nearly 22% of the state’s total caseload.The district’s positivity rate--the number of cases reported among the total samples tested--stood at 10.47%, meaning thereby that of the 100 samples tested; anaverage 10.47 people were found infected.Comparing to the state’s positivity rate, which is around 4.14%, Ranchi’s positivity rate is more than double indicating greater spread of the disease.East Singhbhum with its headquarters in Jamshedpur is placed second in the list of Covid-19 cases with 12,123 cases. It reported the highest number of deaths as 268 out of 617 fatalities occurred in Jamshedpur alone.Ranchi and East Singhbhum together totalled 27,162 cases and 368 deaths, which account for over 39% of the total count and 59% of the overall casualties.Among the 12 deaths that occurred in the state in the last 24 hours, East Singhbhum reported four, Ranchi and West Singhbhum registered two each and Dhanbad, Ramgarh, Latehar and Chatra reported one each.The only good news for Jharkhand is its high recovery rate of 79.72%, which is better than the national average of 78.60%.Jharkhand has been reporting a steady surge in Covid-19 cases since early July, when the pandemic gripped almost every section of the society and the state ramped up testing.Since August 25, the state has been detecting more than 1,000 cases everyday with the lone exception of September 11 when 961 cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-close-to-70-000-mark-over-20-caseload-in-ranchi/story-A3hTpMF7aRj6ZJ2TSTTWBM.html
21-09-2020||India||No restriction on accessing any website in Jammu and Kashmir: Centre||There is no restriction on accessing any website, including social media sites, in Jammu and Kashmir, the Lok Sabha was informed on Sunday.Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the mobile data services are presently restricted to 2G speed in all but two districts of the Union territory. “There is no restriction on accessing any sites, including the social media sites,” he said in a written reply. Reddy said the internet services are already available in Kashmir on fixed line (without any speed-related restrictions) as well as mobile data services (at 2G speed) since January 24, 2020.He said restrictions on accessing social media sites were also lifted on March 4, 2020. Further, high speed mobile data services too have been commenced in the districts of Ganderbal (Kashmir Division) and Udhampur (Jammu Division) with effect from August 16, 2020. The minister said fixed line internet connectivity is available without any speed-related restrictions, with Mac-binding.He said the businesses have had access to internet through fixed line connectivity and internet kiosks opened in large numbers across the Valley without any speed restrictions.Reddy also informed the Lower House that 2G mobile internet speed is not an impediment in Covid control measures, including dissemination of information to the general public as well as health workers.Also, he said, e-learning apps and education/e-learning websites of the Government of India, Government of J&K are accessible over 2G internet for downloading e-books and other study material.“Further, the restriction on high speed mobile internet services has not been an impediment in the administration of justice and the courts have taken special measures to conduct their proceedings during the pandemic by providing video links/URLs to lawyers and the litigants,” the minister said.“Considering the overall security scenario and in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the Government of Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir issues orders from time to time regulating telecom and internet services in terms of the applicable rules and the principles laid down and directions contained in the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India..,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-restriction-on-accessing-any-website-in-jammu-and-kashmir-centre/story-a8d7PbdiF6JHtmCuUpkj0K.html
21-09-2020||India||New laws spark protest by angry farmers in Punjab and Haryana||Thousands of farmers staged protests across Haryana and Punjab on Sunday against the three contentious farm sector bills even as the Rajya Sabha passed two of these amid uproar by opposition members. In Haryana, the farmers poured out of the hinterlands and marched towards the urban belts on foot, two-wheelers, tractors and cars, and staged sit-ins at various state and national highways, blocking the traffic for about three hours. The protest began around 12 noon and passed off peacefully. Though there were no reports of violence, the sit-ins caused major inconvenience to commuters. The police had been on their toes since Saturday night and elaborate arrangements had been made to deal with the demonstrations and divert vehicular traffic in advance. Sunday’s demonstration was held 10 days after the lathicharge on farmers in Pipli of Kurukshetra. The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) that has been spearheading this agitation in Haryana with the support of 17 other unions received an impressive response from the farmers for the statewide protest. BKU’s state chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said the protest was peaceful and 17 farmer organisations had extended their support to the Chakka Jam (road block). He said the next decision will be taken after a discussion with the leaders of other farmer organisations. “The protests remained peaceful... traffic was restored after the farmers lifted the blockade around 3 pm,” Kurukshetra ‘s superintendent of police Astha Modi said.In a last ditch effort to persuade the farmers to call off the stir, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday urged farmers to defer their agitation and invited the farmers for talks. RAIL ROKO IN PUNJAB FROM SEPT 24 TO 26 Farmers also staged demonstrations in most districts of Punjab. Farmers’ organisations also announced a three-day ‘Rail Roko Andolan’ and gave a call to farmers to boycott all politicians supporting the new laws. Addressing protesters at Badal village in Muktsar BKU (Ekta-Ugrahana) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said that railway services will be disrupted in the state from September 24 to 26. He termed the new central legislations as a “direct attack on the rights of farmers, traders and farm labourers”. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, a key member of another BKU faction, said all 31 farmers’ unions have extended support to the three-day ‘Rail Roko’ call.Similar protests were held in Bathinda, Mansa, Moga, Ludhiana, Faridkot, and Sangrur districts. In Amritsar, farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) started a protest march from the deputy commissioner’s office and blocked Amritsar-Ajnala road for around one hour, disrupting traffic movement. KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher appealed to farmers to take part in the ‘Rail Roko Andolan’. The Punjab Youth Congress also took out a ‘tractor rally’. Led by Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and PYC chief Barinder Singh Dhillon, hundreds of party workers on tractors converged from Dera Bassi town and were headed towards Delhi to protest against the passage of the three farm bills but were stopped by the Haryana police at the Haryana-Punjab border near Ambala. When the protesters insisted on heading to the national capital to ‘gherao’ the Parliament and tried to knock down the barricade, the Haryana police used water cannons to disperse them. The protesters also allegedly set one of the tractors on fire. Earlier, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh also spoke for farmers, stating they are the country’s backbone and the Central government’s move to harm their interests is unfortunate.“The economy of India is based on agriculture. If we want to save the economy and uplift the standards of living of people, farmers must be saved,” he said in a video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-laws-spark-protest-by-angry-farmers-in-punjab-and-haryana/story-8z2UCPgyG2gY5fS76IkcRP.html
21-09-2020||India||Aggressive, violent acts tarnish House: Rajnath||The government on Sunday said it strongly condemned the “aggressive and violent behaviour” by opposition members towards the Rajya Sabha vice-chairman during the debate to pass the two farm bills in the Rajya Sabha. Addressing a press conference along with several of his colleagues, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “Whatever happened was against parliamentary dignity. It has delivered a big blow. Rule books were torn, other important papers were torn. Mikes were snatched. Opposition members were in the well and attempts were made to climb on the vice-chairman’s chair.” He was joined by his colleagues Prakash Javadekar, Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal, Thawar Chand Gehlot and Mukhtar Abbas Naqwi. “I would go to the extent of saying that it was extremely shameful,” Singh added.Parliament witnessed chaos during the voice vote to pass the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. Opposition members, claiming that their demand for a division of votes were being ignored, attempted to stall the proceedings and raised slogans in the well of the house, leading to an adjournment for 10 minutes. “Such an incident has never happened in the history of Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha. It is all the more unfortunate that this happened in Rajya Sabha, which is known as the house of elders,” Singh said. At a press conference in the evening, Singh said the opposition was trying to mislead farmers. “Neither minimum support prices (MSPs) nor agricultural produce market committees are going to be ended. Our government has increased MSPs and they will never be ended under any circumstances,” Singh said. On the issue of a no-confidence motion planned by the opposition against deputy chairman Harivansh, Singh said: “Notice has gone. Chairman will decide. It is his prerogative.” On the resignation of Shiromani Akali Dal minister in the Narendra Modi Cabinet, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Singh said there were political reasons behind it and he would not like to comment on it. “There was full discussion from 9.30 am to 1.30 pm. Even if one were to assume that the opposition was being ignored, is there are right to get violent and attack the deputy chairman?” On the question of opposition MPs seeking a division of votes and being ignored, minister of minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the deputy chairman kept urging opposition MPs to go to their seats and demand a division vote.The Congress party condemned Singh’s statement. “It is unfortunate that the defence minister justified the actions of the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman and the procedure adopted during the debate on bills,” said Congress general secretary KC Venugopal. He said the Congress and other opposition parties will not accept this and take this issue to the people. Trinamool Congress’s Derek O’Brien, who was seen on camera flashing the rule book at the chair later, said the MPs were forced to record the bedlam as the live coverage of the House was disrupted. He also denied ripping apart the rule book and said, “ Many opposition members wanted the bill to go for further examination. These bills were brought in as an ordinance. There hasn’t been any scrutiny of these bills.”In a video message, O’Brien said, “Yes, some MPs broke the microphone, what do you want them to do sit on the seat and have a lollipop? This was a protest and I was part of it.” He said the MPs were forced to tape the proceedings on their phones since the Rajya Sabha television was being “censored”. Referring to the commotion inside the House, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh tweeted that all the parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had agreed to a four hour discussion on the two bills. “…This was unilaterally cut short by the government’s floor managers by almost 45 minutes. This was the starting point for the chaos in the Parliament this afternoon.” “The dictatorial attitude of the Chair in not wanting to get a sense of the House, which is the convention to extend the session beyond the scheduled 1 pm, led to bedlam & chaos. The anti-farmer Bills were passed in the din without voting. Why the tearing urgency? On whose orders?” the Congress MP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggressive-violent-acts-tarnish-house-rajnath/story-eh61IhHW4buWwoUBoaZcaJ.html
21-09-2020||India||No-trust motion moved against RS dy chairman||As many as 100 members from 12 opposition parties moved a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh on Sunday, shortly after the House passed two key bills aimed at ushering in agricultural reforms. Harivansh was re-elected as the deputy chairperson on September 14, when the House convened after a six-month break following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. While the two farm bills were passed through a voice vote, the opposition claimed that the due process of allowing a detailed discussion on the bills was not followed. A ruckus erupted in the Upper House soon after the deputy chairman, who was presiding over the proceedings, took the decision to put the bills to vote even as opposition members demanded more time to discuss the legislation, which they wanted to be scrutinised by a select committee.The signatories to the no-confidence motion included MPs from the Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) , Trinamool Congress (TMC), Janata Dal (Secular), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Samajwadi Party (SP), Communist Party of India,Communist Part of India (Marxist), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).“This day will go down in history as a black day. The way these bills have been passed goes against democratic processes and amounts to killing democracy,” senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel told reporters outside Parliament. “The deputy chairman should safeguard the democratic traditions but instead he harmed the democratic traditions and processes. So, we have decided to move a no-confidence motion against him,” he added. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi claimed that no bill was passed by the Rajya Sabha. “The government is claiming that the bills were passed by the Rajya Sabha. It’s black day for democracy. Whoever was present in the House knows that no such bill was passed. This is death and murder of democracy,” he added. Singhvi said the minister started replying to the debate at 12.45 pm, 15 minutes before the House was scheduled to be adjourned for the day. “It is not possible to end the debate within 15 minutes without division and pass the bill by 1.15 pm. Not one but at least 10 members demanded division. Why was no division allowed? Many members had also moved amendments. Not one was allowed to speak. So, how did this bill get passed? Was there any magic wand,” he said. The opposition is also planning to move the court against the legislation. “These are unconstitutional bills. These are against the Constitutional provisions. I am sure that these unconstitutional legislation will not only be challenged but will be quashed by the Supreme Court,” Singhvi said. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for its part, said the opposition was trying to stall business and created the ruckus because it was not confident about the numbers. “They could have pressed for division, but they lacked confidence. It was shameful conduct and they should apologise for their behaviour in the House,” BJP MP Bhupender Yadav said. Addressing the media, defence minister Rajnath Singh said it is the prerogative of the chairman of the RajyaSabha to look into the no-confidence motion against the deputy chairperson.“The farmers grow gold from land, but the arrogance of the Modi government is making farmers shed tears of blood. Democracy has been shamed by the manner in which the government passed death warrants against farmers in the form of two farm bills in Rajya Sabha,” tweeted former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. PDT Acharya, a former Lok Sabha secretary general, said there is no precedent of a motion of no-confidence against the deputy chair. “As far as I know, there has been no such motion against the deputy chair in the Rajya Sabha. As per the constitutional provision, the notice period for such a motion is 14 days; which means if it is submitted today, it can be taken up after 14 days. Now if the house adjourns before that, we don’t know if the notice can be kept alive till the House reconvenes,” he said,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-trust-motion-moved-against-rs-dy-chairman/story-8QCDFzEl2aL7iDhfId3zhM.html
21-09-2020||India||As criticism pours in, ICMR denies it hid data||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) defended on Sunday its decision to not disclose disease prevalence data from the 10 cities hit hardest by Covid-19 earlier this summer, a move that was questioned by the scientists involved in the process and members of the country’s task force on the pandemic.The findings relate to the first round of surveys to detect antibodies to the Sars-Cov2 virus, which would indicate that the disease silently spread without people being symptomatic or recorded in disease testing. Known as a serological survey or a sero survey, the study was conducted between May 11 and June 4. “The first serosurvey had two parts: first was to determine the status of the country, and the second part was to check the disease status in high transmission zones which were called containment zones or hot spots. The first part was published but the second part has not been formally released, and we don’t really know why,” said one of the 70-plus researchers who was part of the survey, requesting not to be identified.That the agency suppressed the findings was first reported by The Telegraph newspaper on Sunday. In a series of tweets on Sunday evening, the ICMR responded to the report, saying: “Containment zones, that refer to a specific geographical area where positive cases of coronavirus are found, are dynamic in nature. They do not fit into nationally representative sampling. ICMR has been continuously communicating with the respective state authorities. The findings of the previous survey from the dynamic containment zones were communicated to the states for further action…”The agency added: “To further aid in developing state intervention plans, following the ICMR survey, states have also conducted their zone/city-specific surveys…”A member of the national task force on Covid-19 said the agency was being reluctant in sharing full data with the panel. “They shared the rural data but did not give out details of the urban data; initially it was said that they were awaiting results from certain cities that hadn’t been received. Then it just kept getting delayed and finally people actually forgot about it. Some parts of the survey were released during a press briefing, but that’s about it,” said this person, asking not to be named. Samples were picked up from hot spot areas in 10 cities: Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Kolkata, Delhi, Hyderabad, Indore, Jaipur, Mumbai, Pune and Surat. According to the Telegraph report, the prevalence in these ranged from 15 to 48%. Some of the researchers who were involved in the study said the cities in Gujarat were among those with the highest disease prevalence, particularly Ahmedabad. “What we know is that exposure in Ahmedabad and Surat was higher even though the entire data set has not been shared with us so far. Whether it has been done for political reasons as they didn’t want certain cities to be seen in a poor light or for administrative reasons so that there is no panic, we do not know,” said the task force member quoted above.Dr Dileep Mavlankar, head of Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar, said: “It’s high time that we stop being afraid of the disease, as the mortality is low. We know how to manage the disease effectively. The disease pattern tells us that in low transmission areas cases have gone up and cases are more or less stable in areas where high transmission was seen earlier. A situation like in Italy hasn’t arisen here, so we can afford to take calculated risks.” Dr DCS Reddy, one of the authors of the paper based on first sero survey published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, said, “The committee I chair is an advisory committee and our job has been to design the study. Why wasn’t the data published or when will it be published can only be answered by the implementing agencies such as ICMR or the individual states. It’s not our job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-criticism-pours-in-icmr-denies-it-hid-data/story-u50QdtqLIzBeciNBgW3BGK.html
21-09-2020||India||One in five bills sent to panels during NDA’s 2nd term: Data||Just one in five proposed laws during the second term of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government have been routed through Parliamentary committees for in-depth reviews, according to the data available with the PRS Legislative Research, echoing concerns of the Opposition over the bypassing of an important check-and-balance method in the Indian parliamentary system.The government has so far introduced 82 bills in Parliament since it won the general elections in 2019. Only 17 of them have been referred to various standing committees for in-depth reviews, the data says.To be sure, older version of some bills — such as Protection of Transgender Rights bill or the Wage Code was referred to standing committees during the previous Lok Sabha. But for many such bills, that came with heavy changes, the review route was not opted for.On Friday, the demand for review rocked the Rajya Sabha when the government tried to push two farm bills to replace related ordinances ignoring demand to send them to Select Committees. As the government pressed for a quick passage, fierce protests erupted in the House.The PRS data also shows that in the first term of the Narendra Modi government, 25% of the bills introduced were referred to committees. “The figure, however, is much lower than 71% and 60% in the 15th and 14th Lok Sabha respectively,” said a PRS note. The Manmohan Singh-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was in power in the 15th and 14th Lok Sabha. In the past, the Modi government had cleared the J&K reorganisation bill or the Triple Talaq bill directly without seeking reviews. In the budget session of 2019, the first one after the NDA won the national polls in 2019-- 38 Bills were introduced in Parliament (excluding the Finance and Appropriation Bills). Twenty-eight of these bills were passed, setting record for the highest for any session in the last 10 years. Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi didn’t respond to the specific question of this larger trend, but refuted the impression that the government avoided scrutiny with the passage of the farm bills. ‘They [Opposition] didn’t even discuss the select committee properly. They just created a din. The question of division comes if they sit in their seats and ask,” he said.While standing committees have been formed to review work and bills of different ministries, there is no violation of rules if a bill is not sent to a House panel. The government can always seek the Speaker or the Chairman’s permission to pass the bills quickly if any urgent need arises. There are also instances such as the 2016 surrogacy bill, in which the government agreed for further scrutiny by the select committee even after the standing committee had reviewed it. While the UPA has sent more bills for review, it also holds the infamous record of pushing as many as eight bills without debate in 17 minutes in the winter session of 2008. It was the last full session before next year’s general elections and despite protests by the BJP (then the principal Opposition party), Speaker Somnath Chatterjee allowed bypassing the debates and hurriedly passed the bills.P Sreedharan, former secretary general of the Lok Sabha, said, “The departmentally related standing committee system, established since 1993, is now an integral part of our parliamentary procedure. There is a qualitative difference in the deliberations on bills in the House and within the committees. In the past, those committees have generally made substantial contributions in refining the bills. The standing committees should be got involved in the legislation process, as far as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-five-bills-sent-to-panels-during-nda-s-2nd-term-data/story-HtXilveLrWAfzWEAkk8nnI.html
21-09-2020||India||Stormy Sunday in House as 2 farm bills go through||New Delhi The government rushing through two contentious farm bills, and fierce protests from the Opposition — senior leaders charged towards the seat of deputy chairman Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings; jumped onto tables; and shot videos of the ruckus — turned the Rajya Sabha into a battleground on Sunday.The authorities called in marshals to form a double-layered barricade to protect Harivansh and remove an MP, muted live telecast of the proceedings, and refused to accept the Opposition’s demand for a division (voting through paper ballots) on the legislation.The two agricultural reform bills — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 — were cleared by voice vote in Parliament even as the Opposition protested and stormed the well of the House seeking that they be sent to a select committee. The high-pitch protests were the most aggressive in recent years, and continued even after the House was adjourned at 1pm. Opposition parties sat in the Rajya Sabha after the House was adjourned and drafted a no-confidence motion against Harivansh, who was elected deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha on September 14, the opening day of the curtailed monsoon session, before posting comments and releasing videos on Twitter.Among the leaders who were seen on camera protesting near the chairperson’s desk were DMK leader T Siva, TMC MP Derek O’Brien, the Congress’s KC Venugopal and the AAP’s Sanjay Singh. Some other Opposition members were seen tearing pages, and rushing to the chairman’s desk to protest.“If Babasaheb Ambedkar was alive, he would have hung his head in shame seeing what tactics BJP used today, in an Independent India, to forcefully pass bills pertaining to farmers. Only a heartless and anti-farmer government like the colonial British can do this,” said senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel outside Parliament.The BJP hit back and slammed the “intolerance” of opposition parties. “The Opposition has showed height of intolerance in Parliament today. They think of themselves as baadshah (kings). We condemn the unruly behaviour of the Opposition and we will never budge to such threats,” said parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi.The Narendra Modi government had brought amendments to three farm bills through ordinances in June to unleash reforms in agriculture and allow farmers more flexibility in selling their produce. Many experts had hailed the reforms as significant, but some farmer bodies and opposition parties alleged that the new laws would only benefit corporate entities and traders but not the farmers.Prime Minister Modi later described the passage of the bills — they now need to be signed by the President to be ratified as laws — a “watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture”.“Congratulations to our hardworking farmers on the passage of key bills in Parliament, which will ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector as well as empower crores of farmers,” the PM tweeted.In the House on Sunday morning, the trouble started when the allotted time to discuss the two bills was reduced from four hours to three-and-a-half hours. Opposition leaders including the TMC’s O’Brien and DMK’s Siva gave notices to send the bills to a select committee of Parliament, but the government rejected the demand.Their second demand — for a division on the bills — too was rejected as the government was in a hurry to clear the bills amid indications that the monsoon session may be cut short because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ruckus began when agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was replying in the House and the chair announced that the voting will be conducted the same day. The government side said the Opposition disrupted the House. It also said as per rules, division can’t take place amid ruckus. Trinamool floor leader O’ Brien, quoting the rulebook, later said, “This was clear breach of parliamentary procedure. You can’t brazenly break the rule and expect us to sit in our seats as you murder democracy.”Before the commotion erupted, several opposition parties including the Biju Janata Dal, which is considered friendly to the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), urged the government to consider the option of sending the bills to a select committee. The government’s ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, has already put on record its opposition to the bills; and the only minister from the party in the cabinet, Harsimrat Kaur, resigned in protest last week. Outside of the NDA, the YSR Congress Party that has six MPs in the House and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), which has nine MPs, supported the government. As the government tried to push the bills through, the Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh, Trinamool’s Dola Sen and other MPs started raising slogans. Soon, other parties joined them and surrounded the Chair.Four motions to send the two bills to a House panel for greater scrutiny were negated by voice vote, but the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam members sought a division of votes on the issue. The chair pointed out that the division can only be done once the House is in order and the MPs in their respective seats.The Opposition alleged that Rajya Sabha TV chose to show only the floor of the Lok Sabha, where some Upper House members were present in line with new seating arrangements. Audio of the channel, too, was muted, they alleged.Quickly realising that their protests would not be recorded on the channel, Opposition MPs started taking videos of the action, which is not allowed on the floor of the House. While the government blamed the Opposition for not seeking a division of votes; a few opposition MPs said they had put forth the demand, but it was not accepted. “The government had the numbers, we were sure of getting about 120 votes in favour. If the Opposition was confident of the numbers, it should have sought a division,” said a BJP MP on condition of anonymity. The MP added that over 20 bills have to be taken up for discussion during the ongoing session of Parliament, which leaves little time for discussion.Outside Parliament, the Congress’s Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the bills should not have been passed, as the voice of the members seated in the Lok Sabha could not be heard in the Rajya Sabha because of the din. The ruckus that ensued in the House brought back memories of the pandemonium that erupted when the Women’s Reservation Bill was tabled in Parliament. In May 2008, when the Bill was introduced in the Rajya Sabha, there were scuffles and pushing and jostling by members. Samajwadi party MPs tore up the bill, after snatching it from the then law minister HR Bhardwaj. During HD Deve Gowda’s regime, when then law minister M Thambidurai introduced the bill in July 1998, RJD MPs who went to the well of the House, snatched it from speaker GMC Balayogi and tore it to bits. In 2013, five Congress MPs from Andhra Pradesh announced they would sit in for a 48-hour-long protest at the main entrance of Parliament to push for the creation of a separate state of Telangana. A year later, the Lok Sabha was disrupted when pepper spray was used in the House following a ruckus over the introduction of the Telangana bill. Congress member L Rajagopal, who was protesting against the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, had carried the spray into the House, which led to several MPs needing treatment. In 2015, the Lok Sabha against saw scenes of disruption play out when Congress members tore papers and threw them towards then deputy speaker M Thambi Durai. The Congress was protesting over the issue of Lalit Modi, the fugitive Indian businessman and cricket administrator, and alleged irregularities in the conduct of an examination and MP government recruitment. P Sreedharan, former secretary general, Lok Sabha, said, “Expression of protest in a proper manner is legitimate in a Parliamentary democracy. But it should not degenerate to unruly demonstrations.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stormy-sunday-in-house-as-2-farm-bills-go-through/story-Xfs0yTd8O0aTAxURSDaUQO.html
21-09-2020||India||India, China to hold sixth round of military talks today; IAF Rafales flying in Ladakh||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is operating its Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on its highest state of alert amid heightened border tensions with China even as corps commander-ranked officers from both armies are set to meet for the sixth round of military talks on Monday, officials familiar with the developments said on Sunday. The military dialogue -- which is likely to start at 9am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) across the Chushul sector -- will, for the first time, involve the participation of a joint secretary-ranked officer from the ministry of external affairs as a step to ensure that the talks yield a positive outcome, the officials said, requesting anonymity. The Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs --- the diplomatic dialogue between the two countries --- involves a representative of the Indian defence ministry. Corps commander-ranked officers from the two armies have so far met five times, but failed to break the deadlock in the Ladakh sector, which has seen a significant military buildup by both sides. The IAF’s current fleet of five Rafale fighters is fully operational and ready to undertake any mission, the officials cited above said. India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016. The air force formally inducted the planes at the Ambala air base on September 10 though they landed at their home base on July 29. At the induction, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria made it clear that the warplanes were mission-ready and the ceremony marked their “full operational induction” into the air force. The Rafale jets are part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, which is also known as the Golden Arrows. The IAF chief said at the ceremony that after the Rafales arrived at Ambala on July 29, the squadron had been “really busy and in an overdrive to operationalise” the new fighters. “Within this time (after the jets arrived), they have already flown and familiarised in our operational environment and have undergone intense integrated training with other combat fleets including firing of advanced weapons. They are good to go and deliver,” Bhadauria said in Ambala, adding that the warplanes couldn’t have joined the air force’s combat fleet at a more opportune time considering the current security scenario. India-specific enhancements on the jets include cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases. The Rafale weaponry includes Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles --- weapons that allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges. “The stalemate in talks is giving time for consolidation of forces. The Rafale too would have been put through its paces and integrated with the existing IAF network, augmenting the air force’s capabilities,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. The next batch of three to four Rafale jets is expected to reach Ambala from France in October followed by a third batch in December. All deliveries will be completed by the end of 2021. A high-powered panel on China reviewed the latest developments in the Ladakh sector last week, with a focus on charting the course of future negotiations to restore status quo ante of mid-April along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). The agenda for the upcoming military talks between Indian and Chinese corps commander-ranked officers was discussed at the high-level meeting, even as the situation in Ladakh remains tense after a series of recent manoeuvres by the two armies in the Pangong Tso area. The officials said Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, who heads the Leh-based 14 Corps and has been leading the military talks with China to reduce border tensions, will finish his term next month and is expected to be replaced by Lieutenant General PGK Menon. Singh took charge of the corps in October 2019.The upcoming meeting of Indian and Chinese corps commander-ranked officers will be their first after the Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied a series of key heights to prevent the People’s Liberation Army from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the positions scattered across Rezang La, Reqin pass, Gurung Hill and Magar heights. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other, as reported by Hindustan Times on September 10. Last week, defence minister Rajnath Singh told lawmakers in Parliament that no force in the world can stop the Indian Army from patrolling borders, signalling a resolve to regain access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along the LAC. In tensions that began in early May, Indian and Chinese troops have come face-to-face at multiple points along the LAC. In some of these areas, particularly the Finger Area and Depsang, Indian forces have been cut off from reaching forward areas they could previously patrol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-rafales-flying-in-ladakh-india-china-military-talks-today/story-aRD1uijVgvEd2M5PZRqfIP.html
21-09-2020||India||PLA mobilises theatre commands||After the military flare-up in Galwan Valley, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has mobilised four out of five of its military theatre commands, with reports suggesting that live firing drills and military exercises from the East China Sea and Yellow Sea to the South China Sea were intended to be a distraction for its calculated aggression in the Ladakh sector.While the next India and China military commanders’ meeting is due to be held on Monday, the PLA is continuing its build-up along the 1,597km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the western sector. After the India-China foreign ministers meeting on September 10 in Moscow, a decision was taken to ask the military commanders to implement a total disengagement and de-escalation agreement on the ground. It is understood that the meetings at the Corps Commanders level will restrict itself to disengagement of forces post-April, and the Depsang Bulge issue will be taken up at a separate Divisional Commanders level meeting.According to a report in Nikkei Asian Review, the PLA has mobilised its Southern Theatre Command, which oversees the South China Sea; Northern Theatre Command, which overseas the Korean Peninsula; and the Eastern Theatre Command, which oversees arch-rivals Japan and Taiwan. The paper said that just like the Chinese annexed Tibet in the 1950s against the backdrop of its intervention in the Korean war, the present mobilisation was a distraction for a real stand-off in the Karakoram-Zanskar ranges of the Himalayas. For the Ladakh operations, PLA’s Western Theatre Command has been fully mobilised with the military districts of Xinjiang and Tibet fully involved in the aggression.The Korean war in the 1950s also turned out to be distraction for the Jawaharlal Nehru government and Indian diplomacy as they got involved in sorting out the North Korea issue, leaving their own flanks in the western and eastern sectors open to the Chinese military in 1962. The PLA chose to attack India in 1962 when the entire world was diverted towards the Cuban missile crisis.While India is engaging China through both military and diplomatic channels for resolve the current stalemate, the military commanders are prepared for the worst on all the borders and the sea. They know that distraction, diversion and deception are part of Chinese information warfare with psychological operations playing the lead role before the flag goes up.By deploying three military commands against the US from South China to East China Sea and test firing both the DF-26 also, called the Chinese Guam Killer, and DF-21 D, also called the Carrier Killer intermediate range ballistic missiles, in the last week of August, the PLA is sending a message that it capable of taking on both the US on its eastern and India on its western flank. The missile firing was to showcase the Chinese capability to taken on the exercising USS Navy’s super carrier Ronald Reagan and Nimitz around the Chinese nuclear submarine base at Hainan Islands in the South China Sea. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-mobilises-theatre-commands/story-Fc3C941GFahd1aW3MPAOIP.html
21-09-2020||India||Racist machines? Twitter’s photo preview problem reignites AI bias concern||Social media users stumbled upon discrepancies on Sunday in how Twitter displays people with different skin tones, reopening a debate over whether computer programmes – particularly algorithms that “learn” – manifest or amplify real-world biases such as racism and sexism.The problem was first discovered when education tech researcher Colin Madland posted about how video-calling software Zoom cropped the head out of a black person on the other side of a call, seemingly unable to detect it as a human face. When Madland posted a second photo combination showing the acquaintance visible, Twitter’s image display algorithm appeared to show his face in the preview. Madland appeared to be a Caucasian with white skin. Soon, several users replicated Twitter’s seemingly discriminatory manner of prioritising faces. In one of the most shared tweets, posted by cryptography engineer Tony Arcieri, Twitter only showed the face of Republican senator Mitch McConnell – a Caucasian -- as the preview of a combo photo that also involved former US President Barack Obama, who is of partly African descent. A Twitter spokesperson acknowledged the problem and said the company was looking into it. “Our team did test for bias before shipping the model and did not find evidence of racial or gender bias in our testing. But it’s clear from these examples that we’ve got more analysis to do. We’re looking into this and will continue to share what we learn and what actions we take,” this person told HT.Twitter’s chief design officer Dantley Davis responded to some of the tweets, detecting variations in how the system responded based on further manipulations of the image. Davis also linked to an older blog by Twitter engineers that detailed how the auto-cropping feature worked. The feature uses neural network algorithms, a type of a machine learning approach that attempts to mimic how the human brain processes data.Multiple groups of researchers have found that such technologies, which usually rely on artificial intelligence are prone to reflecting sociological biases, in addition to flaws in design.“Automated systems are not inherently neutral. They reflect the priorities, preferences, and prejudices - the coded gaze - of those who have the power to mould artificial intelligence,” said the authors of the Gender Shades project, which analysed 1,270 images to create a benchmark for how accurately three popular AI programmes classified gender. The researchers used images of lawmakers from three African and three European countries, and found that all three popular software most accurately classified white and male faces, followed by white women. Black women were most prone to be incorrectly classified, found the research led by authors from MIT in their 2018 paper. “Whatever biases exist in humans enter our systems and even worse, they are amplified due to the complex sociotechnical systems, such as the Web. As a result, algorithms may reproduce (or even increase) existing inequalities or discriminations,” said a research review note by Leibniz University Hannover’s Eirini Ntoutsi and colleagues from multiple other European universities. This, they added, could have implications for applications such as where AI-based tech such as facial recognition is used for law enforcement and health care.An American crime risk-profiling software, Correctional Offender Management Profiling for Alternative Sanctions (COMPAS), was found to have a bias against African-Americans, the authors noted as an example. “COMPAS is more likely to assign a higher risk score to African-American offenders than to Caucasians with the same profile. Similar findings have been made in other areas, such as an AI system that judges beauty pageant winners but was biased against darker-skinned contestants, or facial recognition software in digital cameras that overpredicts Asians as blinking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/racist-machines-twitter-s-photo-preview-problem-reignites-ai-bias-concern/story-kYWMvpx1WaV77NiVOx8KDP.html
21-09-2020||India||Most states choose Rs 97k crore borrowing to plug GST deficit||A majority of state governments have chosen to borrow Rs.97,000 crore to plug a shortfall in revenue from the Goods and Services Tax (GST) rather than borrow the entire deficit of Rs.2.35 lakh crore, which may leave no choice to dissenting states but to fall in line, finance ministry officials said.Otherwise, states that have opposed the proposal risk would have to wait 19 months to get the money, the officials said.The Centre has already received approval of 21 states for the first option of borrowing Rs 97,000 crore to plug the shortfall accruing because of implementation bottlenecks; the states wouldn’t have to pay either the principal or interest. Even Manipur, which had initially opted for the second option of borrowing the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall, accruing as a result of both implementation issues and the Covid-19 pandemic, has now revised its decision in favour of the first option, the officials {two} with direct knowledge of the matter said, requesting anonymity. The larger borrowing comes with significant interest costsThe officials said the Centre is confident that the first option will be approved by the GST Council, which is headed by the Union finance minister and comprises state finance minister, as it needs only 20 states to pass any resolution if some members insist on voting.Opposition-administered states such as Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and West Bengal have not yet communicated their choices to the government as yet, the officials said.States and Union territories that are in favour of the first option are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, the officials said.The two options were put to the states at the 41st meeting of the GST Council on August 27. Some states, where opposition parties are in power such as Delhi, Kerala, Punjab, West Bengal (WB), Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh,, have opposing the Centre’s proposals, insisting that the central government borrow the money and reimburse them, instead..“If the rest of the states do not submit their options before the due GST Council meet on 5th October 2020, then they will have to wait till June 2022 to get their compensation dues, subject to the condition that the GST Council extends the cess collection period beyond 2022,” one of the officials said. As per the GST law, the cess collected on sin goods and luxury products such as liquor, cigarettes, other tobacco products, aerated water, automobiles and coal will cease to exist after June 30, 2022, unless the council extends it further. At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime in July 2017, the GST law assured states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years (up to June 30, 2022); any revenue shortfall should be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury and sin goods.“Manipur, the only state which had earlier opted for the option 2, later preferred to change it to option-1,” one of the officials said. Some states are expected to give their borrowing options in a day or two, he added.The 41st meeting of the GST Council was held against the backdrop of the opinion of the attorney general (AG) expressing the opinion that there was no obligation on the Centre under the GST laws to compensate state governments for the loss of revenue, a second official said.“It is the GST Council and not the Central government which has to find ways, according to the attorney general, to meet the compensation shortfall,” he added.It is expected that the GST Council’s meeting on October 5 would be stormy as the Opposition states would not relent easily on the subject. Addressing a press conference on August 30, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said huge debt was being thrust on states in the name of “act of God” — a reference to the phrase used by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to describe the Covid-19 pandemic. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia termed the Centre’s move a “betrayal” of federalism.Kerala finance minister (FM) Thomas Isaac had tweeted on August 31, “FMs of Punjab, Delhi, WB, Chhattisgarh,Telengana and Kerala agreed to reject the Centre’s options on GST compensation .Our option: the central government to borrow the entire compensation due regardless of the acts of God, humans or nature , to be paid back by extending the period of cess.” Isaac had tweeted on September 9, “I welcome the new stance of the Centre that it was never its idea to deny full GST compensation. Glad to be corrected. But deferring half the compensation for better times, ipso facto, is deferring public expenditures to better times. It is the surest way of deferring future good days.”States and union territories (UTs) require Rs 3 lakh crore GST compensation in the current financial year, an 82% jump from 2019-20 because of a sharp fall in the tax revenue, as the economy has been severely hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant 68-day nationwide lockdown, the officials said.According to an official statement released on July 27, the total amount of compensation paid to states and UTs in 2019-20 was Rs 1,65,302 crore, while the total amount of cess collected in that year was Rs 95,444 crore. The lower revenue collection was primarily due to subdued economic growth. India’s gross domestic product (GDP) growth had slowed to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, the lowest in 11 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-states-choose-97k-crore-borrowing-to-plug-gst-deficit/story-BQIfiostPbyZptCNQzmh2O.html
21-09-2020||India||Supreme Court to hear petition against Sudarshan TV’s controversial show today||The Supreme Court will on Monday hear the case related to aring of a programme by Sudarshan News channel which has been in controversy. The programme “Bindas Bol” is related to Muslims entering civil services which the channel had likened to “infiltration” and “Jihad”.During the last hearing, the top court had said that the claims made by the channel were “insidious” and it also cast aspersions on the credibility of the UPSC exams and was a great disservice to the nation.“Here is one anchor who says one particular community is trying to infiltrate UPSC. Can anything be more insidious (than such claims). Such allegations affect the stability of the country and also cast aspersions on the credibility of the UPSC exam,” Justice DY Chandrachud, who heads the three-judge bench, had remarked on September 15, restraining the channel from telecasting the remaining episodes of the programme.The bench will on Monday take up the petition filed by an advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan.The channel, meanwhile, filed an additional affidavit before the Supreme Court on Sunday saying that it will strictly comply with all the laws while airing the remaining episodes of the UPSC series in “Bindas Bol”.Sudarshan TV further stated in the affidavit that it will abide and comply by the programming code and directions of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting strictly.Sudarshan TV has broadcast four episodes in the programme series “Bindas Bol” at 8:00 pm on September 11, 12, 13 and 14, 2020, and there are around six more episodes remaining to be broadcast in the programme series, the additional affidavit stated.The channel urged the Supreme Court to lift the stay on the telecast of remaining episodes of the controversial programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-petition-against-sudarshan-tv-s-controversial-show-on-monday/story-UfWAwTW8OdZDlNOdBUf49M.html
21-09-2020||India||PM Modi to lay foundation of 9 highway projects of over Rs 14,000 crore in Bihar today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of nine highway projects in Bihar through video conference on Monday and also inaugurate optical fibre internet services through which the state’s all 45,945 villages will be connected. The information was released by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Saturday. These nine highway projects involve a road length of about 350 kilometres at a cost of Rs 14,258 crore. Modi has recently inaugurated or laid the foundation of a number of development projects, including those related to railways, infrastructure, bridges, drinking water and sanitation, in the state which is set to go to the assembly polls in October-November. The Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement that the proposed highways will pave the way for the state’s development as they will enhance better connectivity, convenience and economic growth in and around it. Movement of people and goods will also improve substantially, especially with the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, it added. Modi had declared a special package for significant infrastructure development of Bihar in the year 2015. The package included 75 projects worth Rs 54,700 crore, of which 13 projects have been completed, and work is undergoing at 38 and others are in the process to be launched, the PMO said. With the completion of these projects, all rivers in Bihar will have bridges conforming to 21st century specifications and all major national highways will stand widened and strengthened. Giving details of the optical fibre internet services programme, the PMO described it as a prestigious project covering all 45,945 villages of Bihar which will enable a “digital revolution” to reach the state’s remotest corner. This project will be executed by the combined efforts of Department of Telecom, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology and Common Service Centres (CSC). The PMO said the CSC has 34,821 centres throughout the length and breadth of Bihar, and it will utilise this workforce to not only implement this project but also make it professionally run to provide optical fibre internet services for common citizens at every village. The project would also entail implementation of one Wi-Fi and five free of cost connections to government institutions like primary schools and anganwadi centres among others, it said. This will lead to digital services like e-education, e-agriculture, tele-medicine, tele-law and other social security schemes to be easily available to all citizens of Bihar at the click of the button, the PMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-9-highway-projects-of-over-rs-14-000-crore-in-bihar/story-GTx7Rbr90cEMhEHkp7nPFI.html
21-09-2020||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stone of 9 highway projects in Bihar on Sept 21||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of nine highway projects in Bihar via video-conferencing on Monday. These projects involve a road length of about 350 kilometres and will be completed at a cost of Rs 14,258 crore.Also read: PM dedicates Kosi rail mega bridge to nation, inaugurates several rail projects in BiharThe proposed highways will help in the state’s development as better connectivity, especially with the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, will encourage economic growth in the area, a government release said.PM Modi will also inaugurate optical fibre internet services in state. Under these, all the 45,945 villages of Bihar will be connected through optical fibre internet service, according to a PMO release issued on Saturday.The PMO described the fibre internet services programme as a “prestigious project” covering all 45,945 villages of Bihar which will enable a “digital revolution” to reach the state’s remotest corner. The Department of Telecom, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology and Common Service Centres (CSC) will execute the project.Also read: At launch, PM Modi hails optical fibre project“The project would also entail implementation of one wi-fi and five free-of-cost connections to government Institutions like primary schools, anganwadi centres, Aasha workers and Jeevika Didi,” the release said.“This project will lead to digital services like e-education, e-agriculture, tele-medicine, tele-law and other social security schemes to be easily available to all citizens of Bihar at the click of the button,” it added.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-9-highway-projects-in-bihar-on-sept-21/story-IMJZFVKu8SxxSMaP0fsgNM.html
21-09-2020||India||HT E-Tourism Conclave: Redefining the future of tourism in India in the new normal||This World Tourism Day (September 27), Hindustan Times will shine a light on new-age travel experiences in India through a special virtual platform that showcases the country’s leading efforts in reviving its most beloved sector. After a successful first season in 2019, HT Tourism Conclave is raring to go live this year between September 24 and 25, centered on the theme: Indian Tourism – Road to Recovery ‘Refocus, Reboot, Revive’.Taking the model of discussions and conversations with top industrialists, politicos and film personalities online due to the pandemic, the e-conclave will have a total of eight sessions spread over two days. With the Indian tourism industry taking a serious blow since the pandemic, there is a need to redefine and revisit the way we think tourism, and this has been taken as the focal point for Hindustan Times E-Tourism Conclave. Read: ‘We stayed at post offices and collector’s offices during Gangs of Wasseypur shoot’, says Richa Chadha at HT Tourism ConclaveMinister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism Prahlad Singh Patel and CEO NITI Aayog Amitabh Kant would be the keynote speakers this year. With the series of web sessions, the conclave promises to engage and enlighten the audience on the consistent efforts of Central and State tourism boards to support the affected sector. It will also highlight the current situation of the tourism industry and the immediate future with the new normal. The event is in partnership with Bihar Tourism, Chhattisgarh Tourism, Delhi Tourism, Gujarat Tourism, IRCTC, Tamil Nadu Tourism. Airline partner: Spicejet. Experiential holidays partner: Club Mahindra.Read: HT Tourism Conclave 2019: ​Increase in demand for women-only trips, says Deep Kalra ​Catch all the action live on September 24 and 25, 11am onwards on Hindustan Times’ Facebook Page.Follow @htTweets for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-e-tourism-conclave-redefining-the-future-of-tourism-in-india-in-the-new-normal/story-MRPTwk9fkPjx7kU4lSD0cJ.html
21-09-2020||India||China invokes 1962 war to put India on a defensive. It won’t work | Analysis||For the past 58 years, the Chinese propaganda machine, or psychological warfare machine, has used the 1962 border conflict to put the Indian Army on the defensive and convey to nation at large that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is vastly superior to its Indian counterpart on the battlefield.It is the same mindset that made PLA transgress the Finger 4 mountainous spur on the north banks of Pangong Tso as well as breach the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan. The Chinese hubris, however, took a hit at both Galwan as well as on both banks of the lake, with the Indian Army occupying dominant positions and in fact threatening the PLA garrison at Moldo across the Spanggur Gap in Chushul sector.Caught unawares by the Indian Army August 29-30 manoeuvres, a miffed PLA decided to place an anti-aircraft gun on Black Top, south of Pangang Tso, and rolled out main battle tanks to scare the Indians. The PLA propaganda machine is screaming war with India, without realizing that the tools of present-day war are standoff weapons and not World War II machines like tanks. Also Watch | China defends Pakistan after India & US call for action against terrorAlso read: India needs a refined toolkit to manage ChinaWhile both India and China, through their foreign ministers have decided to disengage from Ladakh, the exercise is very complicated and will take time despite best efforts of both the Corps Commanders. The disengagement has to be done in such a fashion that it gives mutual security and not a chance to the incorrigible PLA to occupy positions vacated by the Indian Army due to better border infrastructure and logistics. The best option available is status quo ante as existed in early April and anything less than that is an exercise in obfuscation.While the Chinese harp about India’s 1962 loss, the fact is that the present Indian Army does not fight with .303 Lee Enfield bolt action rifles, light machine guns, three inch mortars and light tanks. A transparent battlefield in Ladakh will surely tell the Chinese ruler in Beijing that the Indian troop deployment north and south of Pangong Tso is more than the total deployed during the 1962 war.Top Indian diplomats and military commanders are clear that the war, if forced by the PLA, will lead to more casualties on both sides in the first 15 minutes than the entire 1962 war due to standoff weapons, laser-guided bombs and beyond visual range missiles deployed by both sides. They understand that tanks and troops on the ground will have little role to play except to hold and capture territory as the big weapons and rockets will take over the theatre of war.Also read: Chinese PLA’s new expansion plans on BhutanEven though the Chinese ruler and his western theatre commander are blinded with ambition to prove to the world that a new global power has arrived, India has enough standoff weapons and deterrence to ensure that PLA takes a huge hit in already sensitive Tibet and Xinjiang province. A strong response from India can unravel the One China policy, but the opposite also could be true and erode the equity of New Delhi. It is time that Beijing woke up to stark reality on the ground as it is dealing with an Army that has been fighting on heights up to 24,000 feet since 1984 and insurgency in both Kashmir and the northeast since Independence. The 1962 war no longer puts the Indian Army on the defensive, it incentivises the force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-still-using-62-war-to-put-india-on-defensive/story-J3xWiaXWvpmuuyifH8UakL.html
