22-09-2020||India||2 more ministers of Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet test Covid-19 positive||Two more ministers of Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. The ministers tweeted about contracting the viral infection.With these two ministers, at least 12 ministers of Chouhan’s cabinet including health minister Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary besides the Madhya Pradesh CM himself have tested positive for coronavirus so far since July 22. There are 34 ministers in the cabinet including the chief minister. Most of the ministers have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals. On Tuesday, minister for rural development and panchayat Mahendra Singh Sisodia and minister for new and renewable energy Hardip Singh Dang tweeted about their being infected with the disease and being admitted to Chirayu Hospital in Bhopal. Both the ministers will face by-elections to retain their position as ministers as they are not members of the legislative assembly. The two along with 20 other Congress MLAs had resigned from the state assembly and Congress to later join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in March this year in an act of rebellion against then chief minister Kamal Nath. Sisodia tweeted, “During a test there were symptoms of Covid-19 in me and I am getting treatment at Chirayu Hospital. Those who came in contact with me should go for a Covid-19 test. The ensuing by-election is the election of the party workers and I have belief that we will definitely succeed.” Hardeep Singh Dang posted a video on his Twitter page in which he is seen on oxygen support. Addressing party workers and others in the video clip he said, “My Covid-19 test conducted in Chirayu Hospital came positive today and I am hospitalised for treatment. I am under observation of doctors and you all please take care of yourself. For the next few days I would not be able to meet you. My mobile phone too will remain switched off.” As per the health department’s bulletin released on Tuesday night the Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 1,10,711 with 2,544 new cases identified in the past 24 hours. So far, 2,035 Covid-19 patients have died including 28 who died during the past 24 hours. Till date, 86,030 patients have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals across the state. There were 22,646 active cases as on Tuesday. With 17,698 Covid-19 tests conducted in the past 24 hours the number of such tests conducted so far stands at 1861778, as per the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-ministers-of-shivraj-singh-chouhan-s-cabinet-test-covid-19-positive/story-NLfla309juNBj0B4ytujvN.html
22-09-2020||India||Govt drafts 5-point plan to check oxygen shortage||The Centre has drafted a five-point agenda to address reports of shortage of medical oxygen — used in the treatment of moderate and severe Covid-19 patients — including setting up a 24x7 hindrance-free corridor for transport, and creating a control room to monitor demand and supply on a real-time basis.Rajesh Bhushan, secretary at the Union health ministry, said in a briefing on Tuesday that while there is “sufficient” supply of medical oxygen at the moment, “we are thinking ahead”.The five measures are: a 24x7 green corridor for movement of liquid medical oxygen tankers within and outside a state; scrapping time restrictions for trucks carrying oxygen cylinders to enter city limits; creation of an interministerial control group to monitor oxygen supply and demand in real-time; creation of a micro-level management system to monitor the upkeep of oxygen pipelines, cryogenic tanks etc; and stricter checks in states on hoarding and black marketing of oxygen.The measures come in the background of reports on a shortage of medical oxygen in some parts of the country.“States have also been asked to create a mini-control room for monitoring oxygen demand and supply similar to what Centre is doing... Even though there is sufficient headroom at the moment, we are thinking ahead,” Bhushan said.Some states, such as Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and Assam, earlier this month reported the shortage of oxygen supply to hospitals. On September 11, the Union health ministry has issue an advisory asking states not to impose restrictions on interstate transport of oxygen and on its production. The Union health ministry the following week asked states to press more tankers into action, re-purpose vehicles to carry oxygen, and take steps to reduce their turnaround time.India has the capacity to manufacture 6,900 metric tonnes of medical oxygen on a daily basis, and around 2,800 metric tonnes of oxygen is required for both Covid-19 and non-Covid health use.“Around 2,200 metric tonnes is consumed for industrial purposes; therefore, at the national level there is no shortage of oxygen. In fact, there is generally a surplus of about 1,500-1,900 metric tonnes of oxygen,” health ministry officials had said during last week’s Covid-19 press briefing.About 6% of Covid-19 patients require oxygen support at any given time across the country. “Even though there is no overall shortage in oxygen supply, the problem arises when there is no oxygen inventory management and when there is lack of alert generation mechanism at the hospital levels,” Bhushan said on Tuesday, adding that inventory planning is crucial to dealing with this localised shortage.An interministerial empowered committee has been set up to ensure there is no shortage, and has held three meetings with the states over the past week.Critical care specialists treating Covid-19 patients in the National Capital Region say while there is no shortage currently, it is crucial to ensure that abundant oxygen supply is maintained. “We haven’t faced any shortages but its unhindered oxygen supply is critical in saving lives. In moderate to severe Covid-19 cases the lung cells don’t participate in normal functioning that results in lungs failing to take up oxygen from the blood and also not being able to remove carbon dioxide from the blood. It leads to oxygen levels dropping in the blood for which oxygen support is given externally to compensate for the impaired lung function,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care department, Medanta Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-drafts-5-pt-plan-to-check-oxygen-shortage/story-drV8tQm80HmaJGfaFj8c9K.html
22-09-2020||India||India conducts successful flight test of ABHYAS from Odisha test range||India on Tuesday successfully conducted the flight test of ABHYAS - High-speed Expendable Aerial Target (HEAT) vehicles from a test range in Odisha, defence sources said.The trial, carried out by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) at Chandipur near here, was tracked by various radars and electro-optic systems, the sources said.Congratulating DRDO on its achievement, defence minister Rajnath Singh said ABHYAS can be used as a target for evaluation of missile systems.“The DRDO achieved a milestone today with the successful flight test of ABHYAS - High Speed Expandable Aerial Target from ITR Balasore. This can be used as a target for evaluation of various Missile systems. Congratulations to @DRDO_India & other stakeholders for this achievement,” he tweeted.During the trial on Tuesday, two demonstrator vehicles were successfully test-flown, DRDO sources said.ABHYAS has been designed and developed by the Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE) of the DRDO.The air vehicle is launched using twin underslung boosters. It is powered by a small gas turbine engine and has an Inertial Navigation System (INS) along with a Flight Control Computer (FCC) for guidance and control.The vehicle has been programmed for fully autonomous flight. The check out of the vehicle is done using laptop- based Ground Control Station (GCS), a defence statement said.During the test campaign, the user requirement of 5 km flying altitude, vehicle speed of 0.5 mach, endurance of 30 minutes and 2g turn capability of the test vehicle were successfully achieved, it said.“It proved its performance in a fully autonomous waypoint navigation mode,” a DRDO source added. PTI COR SKN RMS RMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-successful-flight-test-of-abhyas-from-odisha-test-range/story-wCHOdhkIkkfN6J3VekAkQJ.html
22-09-2020||India||What the FCRA amendments mean||The Lok Sabha passed The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment (FCRA) Bill, 2020 on Sept. 21, amid concerns by voluntary organisations that the new changes will further tighten channels of funding from abroad.Minister of state for home Nityanand Rai, during a discussion in the Lower House, argued that the law needed to be updated further to “prevent the misuse of foreign funds” by those who receive it. The Bill amends the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act 2010 (FCRA 2010) to make several new provisions. The FCRA 2010 has already been amended twice. The first amendment was made by Section 236 of the Finance Act, 2016 and the second by Section 220 of the Finance Act, 2018. Here’s the context of why the new changes are important and the backdrop in which they have been made. The annual inflow of foreign contributions has nearly doubled between 2010 and 2019. According to the government, many recipients of foreign funding have not utilised it for the purpose for which they were registered. Opponents have argued the government has used the provisions to clamp down on political rivals as well as voluntary organisations.The home ministry on July 8 set up an interministerial committee to oversee investigations into three trusts linked to the Gandhi family, for alleged violations, of among other laws, FCRA 2010. These trusts are the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, the Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust, and the Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust. The trust has denied any wrongdoing.In November 2019, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had raided the offices of the human rights organisation, Amnesty International, for alleged violation of FCRA. The organisation denied the charges.The Centre has cancelled certificates of registration of more than 19,000 voluntary organisations between 2011 and 2019, according to home ministry data. FCRA, 2010 was enacted to regulate the acceptance and utilisation of foreign contribution or foreign hospitality for any activities detrimental to “national interest”, according to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the new Bill. Under FRCA, election candidates, editor or publisher of a newspaper, judges, members of any legislature and political parties are prohibited from receiving foreign donations. The Bill adds public servants (as defined under the Indian Penal Code) to this list of prohibited persons. A key amendment proposes to introduce the requirement of Aadhaar, the biometric ID, stating that applicants must now provide Aadhaar details of all its office-bearers as an identification document. The Bill prohibits the transfer of foreign grants received by an entity to a partner organisation or an associated person, which is a usual practice. Under FCRA, a registered person must accept foreign contribution only in a single branch of a scheduled bank but they may open more accounts in other banks to spend the funds. The Bill says foreign contribution can now be received only in an account designated by the bank as “FCRA account” in a branch of the State Bank of India, New Delhi (as notified by the central government). No funds other than the foreign contribution should be received or deposited in this account. Earlier, recipients of foreign grants could use 50% of the contribution for meeting administrative expenses. The Bill reduces this limit to 20%. The Voluntary Action Network India, a representative body of development organisations, has urged the government to refer the Bill to a select or a Standing Committee of Parliament. “The Bill throttles the spirit of cooperation that had been ushered in earlier this year by the positive role played by development organisations in mitigating the lockdown and the Covid-19 pandemic by virtually making it impossible for NGOs to function.” The Bill assumes that all NGOs receiving foreign grants are guilty, unless prove otherwise, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-the-fcra-amendments-mean/story-3kVry4Tx2ml0ObG19dFNvL.html
22-09-2020||India||PM Modi visited 58 countries since 2015||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has visited 58 countries since 2015 and a total expenditure of Rs 517 crore was incurred on them, the government said on Tuesday. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan provided details of the prime minister’s visits abroad since 2015, including their outcome, in a written reply in Rajya Sabha. “The total expenditure on these visits was Rs 517.82 crore,” he said. According to the details provided by Muraleedharan, the prime minister made five visits each to the US, Russia and China, and multiple trips to some other countries like Singapore, Germany, France, Sri Lanka and the United Arab Emirates. Some of the visits the prime minister undertook were multi-nation trips while some were standalone bilateral visits. Modi’s last trip was to Brazil on November 13-14 in 2019 where he attended a summit of influential grouping BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa). Muraleedharan said Modi’s visits to the countries have enhanced their understanding of India’s perspectives on bilateral, regional and global issues. He said the visits helped in strengthening India’s relations with the countries in a wide range of sectors including trade and investment, technology, defence collaboration and people-to-people contact. “These, in turn, have contributed to India’s national development agenda to promote economic growth and well being of our people,” the minister said. “India is now increasingly contributing to shaping the global agenda at the multilateral level including on climate change, trans-national crime and terrorism, cyber security and nuclear non-proliferation, and offering to the world its own unique initiatives for global issues like the International Solar Alliance,” he added. To a separate question on Nepal, Muraleedharan said India’s age-old ties with the neighbouring country are “unique and special”, based on shared history, geography, culture, close people–to–people ties, mutual security and close economic linkages. Asked whether the government is aware that Nepal has signed a number of transit and transportation treaties with China in the past few years to shrug off its dependence on India, he said New Delhi’s ties with Kathmandu stand on their own merit. “Two–thirds of Nepal’s global trade is with India and over 90 per cent of Nepal’s third country import-export transit is through India. India’s ties with Nepal stand on their own merit, and are independent of Nepal’s relations with third countries,” he said. India’s ties with Nepal came under strain after the Himalayan nation came up with a new political map in May showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in Uttarakhand as its territories. India maintains that these areas along the border with Nepal in Uttarakhand belong to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-visited-58-countries-since-2015/story-OXeYFJW2pma9F8hDE8hASP.html
22-09-2020||India||Jagan Mohan Reddy meets Amit Shah, asks for CBI probe into Amaravati land scam||YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday requested the Centre to order a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged irregularities in land transactions in the Amaravati capital region during the previous Telugu Desam Party regime. The chief minister made the request to Union home minister Amit Shah at a brief meeting in New Delhi in the evening. Jagan is expected to have another round of meetings with Shah and later with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday morning. According to a party functionary familiar with the development, Jagan explained to the home minister in detail how several Telugu Desam Party leaders, including family members of then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu made huge purchase of land in and around Amaravati between June and December 2014, before the region was declared as a capital. He pointed out that the cabinet sub-committee which probed into this “insider trading” by the then TDP government had found several irregularities including fraudulent means of grabbing assigned and government land and surrendering it for land pooling to get the benefits announced by the government. Jagan also requested Shah to order a similar CBI probe into the alleged irregularities in the AP State Fibernet Limited (APSFL) to the extent of over Rs 600 crore. There were grave irregularities right from bidding to undue favours granted to the company owned by Naidu’s then IT advisor Vemuri Harikrishna Prasad. Jagan also reportedly asked Shah to approve the AP Disha Criminal Law (AP Amendment) Bill and secure the President of India’s assent for it to become an Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-mohan-reddy-meets-amit-shah-asks-for-cbi-probe-into-amaravati-land-scam/story-Dw6oEeu2scGYQqmrjnD3pO.html
22-09-2020||India||RS approves 7 bills in under 4 hrs as Oppn skips session||In an Opposition-less Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, the government quickly cleared seven bills in roughly three and a half hours, putting its legislative agenda back on track after two days of intense protests and disruptions in the Upper House. The Congress, Trinamool Congress, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Nationalist Congress Party, Aam Aadmi Party and Left outfits announced a boycott of Rajya Sabha proceedings for the remainder of the ongoing session if the government did not meet their demands, including revoking the suspension of eight MPs . After issues related to suspension of MPs and the farm bills were disposed off after a lengthy discussion, legislative agenda took centre-stage around 10 am. By then, the Opposition parties had left the House. And the government managers seized the opportunity to push through several pending bills. It cleared The Indian Institutes of Information Technology Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The National Forensic Sciences University Bill, 2020, The Rashtriya Raksha University Bill, 2020 and The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020. The Upper House worked overtime to clear the day’s legislative package before proceedings ended a little after 2 PM. To be sure, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu repeatedly mentioned that the eight lawmakers expelled during the fracas over the passage of the farm reform bills are welcome to return if they express regret for their action on Sunday. The opposition erupted after the deputy chairman denied a request for a division (or voting) and allowed the passage of the bills through a voice vote. The protests saw MPs rushing to the well of the house, throwing papers, and standing on the table. The BJP has claimed that the lawmakers abused deputy chairman Harivansh . The approval of seven bills in such a short time is a rare instance in the Rajya Sabha and may help the BJP meet its target of clearing 20 bills, including those replacing 11 ordinances promulgated during the past three months. In the Lok Sabha too, the Opposition boycotted the session for a day citing the developments in the other House. The Lower House, which sat beyond midnight to clear bills on both Sunday and Monday, approved three key labour reforms after a debate with no participation from the Opposition. Former parliamentary affairs secretary, Afzal Amanullah said, “What I have heard is that proper procedure was not entirely followed while suspending the 8 MPs. I would have been happy if magnanimity were shown to take back the suspended MPs. The bills might have been passed in a perfectly legal way, but perhaps we have lost sight of essence of our parliamentary democracy. This doesn’t auger well for future.” “Parliamentary democracy is never about majoritarian tyranny. But the capacity to listen, absorb and take others along. It is no use serving tea and simultaneously passing seven bills without the opposition presence. Legislative force is irrelevant without moral force and in many ways this already Covid session have made into a sham session by the government,” said senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi.The three labour bills are: The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, The Industrial Relations Code, 2020 and The Code on Social Security, 2020. The House also cleared The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020.  Lok Sabha Speaker, Om Birla later called Opposition floor leaders for a chat and urged them to return to the House. According to officials, the meeting was attended by Congress floor leader Adhir Chowdhury and Gaurav Gogoi, NCP’s Supriya Sule, DMK’s TR Balu, Trinamool’s Saugata Ray and others. The leaders clarified to Birla that they have no grievances against him and are happy with the way the Lower House is running.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-approves-7-bills-in-under-4-hrs-as-oppn-skips-session/story-Xa1eGIEhPdmywpxxnUoo0K.html
22-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB summons producer Madhu Mantena to join drug-related probe with Jaya Saha, Shruti Modi||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has summoned film producer Madhu Mantena on Wednesday along with Sushant Singh Rajput’s former talent manager Jaya Saha and his ex-manager Shruti Modi for questioning in connection with the drug-related probe in the Bollywood actor’s death case, news agency ANI reported. Saha has been called for the third round of questioning while Modi will be quizzed for the second time on Wednesday. The duo was first summoned on September 16 but the questioning was postponed after one of the members of the investigating team tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Earlier in the day, the central agency, which is probing the drug link in Rajput’s death, had summoned Bollywood talent agency KWAN Agency’s CEO Dhruv Chitgopekar, deputy director of NCB KPS Malhotra confirmed. Chitgopekar reached the Bombay Port Trust (BPT) guesthouse, where NCB officials were questioning people, around 2 pm. Malhotra, however, denied reports of KWAN employee and actor Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash being summoned by the agency. “No summons have been issued to Prakash. But we will summon her later this week,” he said.The agency had earlier confirmed that Bollywood actors Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and designer Simone Khambatta will also be called to join the NCB probe this week. The actors will be summoned under Section 67 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, after they were named by Rhea Chakraborty while she was being interrogated between September 6 and September 8 before being arrested, NCB officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-summons-producer-madhu-mantena-to-join-drug-related-probe-with-jaya-shah-shruti-modi/story-fEkCN8npAVYtKh7EGgULrM.html
22-09-2020||India||Quarantined IAF personnel enhance survival skills, learn rescue ops at Darjeeling’s HMI||Making the most of the mandatory 14-day quarantine period they have to spend in isolation while moving from one base to another, 53 personnel of the Indian Air Force have undergone training in stress control, survival and high-altitude rescue at the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI) in Darjeeling. The 53 men underwent the training in four batches between July 23 and September 18. An organisation under the Union ministry of defence and with the defence minister as its president, HMI is one of the premier mountaineering institutes in the country. Group captain Y K Bajaj from Air Force Station Kurseong in Darjeeling district requested HMI to provide quarantine facilities for two weeks to personnel coming from different parts of the country before they could join duty. Group captain Jai Kishan, the principal HMI, came up with an idea to make the most of the opportunity. When the nationwide lockdown was announced in March, HMI’s 76 trainees and 50 staff members were stranded at the institute’s base camp at an altitude of 14,600 feet at Chowrikhang in the Himalayas in West Sikkim. The trainees were brought back to Darjeeling and kept at the institute for more than two months. To keep them occupied and prevent mental fatigue, the institute came up with physical and mental exercises, said Jai Kishan. Using this experience, Jai Kishan decided to utilize the 14-day quarantine period for the air force personnel. “The training was conducted outside the HMI hostel in Darjeeling,” he told HT on Tuesday. “The trainees started their day with two hours of physical training which included aerobics, muscle strengthening exercises, yoga, meditation etc. The morning session ended with puja and the national anthem,” said Jai Kishan. The air force men were taught about various types of hazards, use of safety ropes, equipment, improvisation for survival, building shelters, improvised first-aid procedures and response during emergency. “It was a judicious utilisation of the quarantine time,” said the HMI principal. There were six instructors, including Jai Kishan. To maintain social distancing, the hostel rooms, each of which are otherwise meant for eight people, were used by two air force men. HMI has so far trained 46,000 people and around 1000 of its students have successfully climbed to the top of Mount Everest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quarantined-iaf-personnel-enhance-survival-skills-learn-rescue-ops-at-darjeeling-s-hmi/story-7e9PJuwjV82drlrnwsAG6M.html
22-09-2020||India||Facebook moves SC challenging Delhi Assembly’s jurisdiction to summon its officials||Facebook India and its vice president and managing director, Ajit Mohan moved the Supreme Court on Tuesday challenging the September 10 and September 18 notices issued by the Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee which sought Mohan’s presence before the panel which is probing the Delhi riots of February 2020 and the role of the social media giant in failing to curb hate speech in connection with the riots. The petition stated that the subject matter under investigation by the Delhi assembly falls within the exclusive domain of the Union government and a state legislative assembly cannot compel witnesses to appear and provide evidence on such subjects.“The Committee seeks to compel petitioner No. 1 (Ajit Mohan) to provide testimony on subjects within the exclusive domain of the Union of India. Specifically, the Committee is seeking to make a “determination of the veracity of allegations levelled against Facebook” in the Delhi riots, which intrudes into subjects exclusively allocated to the Union of India,” the petition said.Regulation of intermediaries like Facebook falls within the Union list of the Constitution under the Entry “Communication” (Entry 31) in the said list. The Parliament, in exercise of that power enacted the Information Technology Act, 2000 to regulate intermediaries. Therefore, any assessment of the veracity of allegations against Facebook as an intermediary is exclusively a Union subject, it was submitted.Besides, it was contended that the summons violates the right of the petitioner to remain silent and right to privacy which are fundamental rights under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution. “By targeting Facebook – a platform that allows users to express themselves – the summons create a chilling effect on the free speech rights of users of the Facebook service,” the plea added.The case will be heard by a 3-judge bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul on Wednesday.Mohan was first summoned by the committee for its meeting of September 15 in connection with the complaints alleging deliberate omissions and inaction by the social media company in removing hateful content and posts. The committee had earlier said that in its meeting of August 31, it had prima facie found Facebook India was allegedly complicit in aggravating the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that left at least 53 people dead and over 400 injured.A notice was issued to Facebook officials on September 10 based on that finding asking them to appear before the panel on September 15 but Facebook officials had failed to appear for that meeting after which a second notice was issued on September 18.In its summons issued on September 18, the committee had said that it is empowered to make suggestions to the central government and it is in line with co-operative federalism which “encompasses a large number of areas including making recommendations to the union government when the same is required.” The committee is investigating the matter based on several complaints received from the public after an article was published in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14.The WSJ report titled ‘Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics’ had alluded to the role allegedly played by top Facebook officials, particularly its public policy head Ankhi Das, by citing business imperatives to refrain from applying hate-speech rules to at least 4 individuals and groups linked to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), though the groups and individuals had been internally flagged for promoting or participating in violence.Meanwhile, Facebook had written a letter to the Delhi assembly’s panel on September 13 stating that the matter was already under consideration by a parliamentary committee and the subject matter relating to content regulation is outside the scope of state assembly.This stance was reiterated by Facebook and Mohan before the top court with the petition stating that a state legislative assembly cannot compel non-members to appear before it for an investigation into a subject matter which is beyond its jurisdiction.“The Constitution of India, in conferring powers upon Parliament and State Legislatures endows them with the power to hold a non-member in breach of privileges, but only if that non-member has impeded or obstructed the body’s legislative functions. The Committee’s powers do not extend to compelling non- members to appear when the non-member has not impeded or obstructed legislative functioning,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-moves-sc-challenging-delhi-assembly-s-jurisdiction-to-summon-its-officials/story-P8pGYAp3UDJCuqpL0bQtCP.html
22-09-2020||India||Weapon firings, flying ops in India-Australia naval drill in Indian Ocean||The Indian and Australian navies will conduct a two-day passage exercise in the east Indian Ocean Region from September 23, an Indian Navy spokesperson said on Tuesday. A passage exercise is normally undertaken whenever an opportunity arises, in contrast to pre-planned maritime drills. “The exercise would involve participation of HMAS Hobart from the Australian side and Indian Naval Ships Sahyadri and Karmuk,” he said. Helicopters from both sides are also taking part in the drills. “The exercise, aimed at enhancing interoperability, improving understanding and imbibing best practices from each other, would involve advanced surface and anti-air exercises, including weapon firings, seamanship exercises, naval manoeuvres and cross-desk flying operations,” the navy said in a statement. In the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, the exercise would be conducted strictly as a non-contact activity and would not involve any physical contact between the participating personnel, it added. The stage is also set for Australia to be part of the next Malabar naval exercise conducted by India with the US and Japan. The next edition of Malabar, already delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic, is set to be held by the end of the year. China has also been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year. The navy has been on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean where scores of warships are ready for any task in the aftermath of the border row with China in the Ladakh sector. It has positioned warships along critical sea lanes of communications and choke points under its mission-based deployment and the vessels could be diverted for any mission. Indian warships are deployed from as far as the Persian Gulf to the Malacca Strait and northern Bay of Bengal to the southeast coast of Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weapon-firings-flying-ops-in-india-australia-naval-drill-in-indian-ocean/story-8sF4v9Mz5aOH7MKyGcj2xI.html
22-09-2020||India||India’s Serum Institute starts manufacturing Codagenix’s potential Covid-19 vaccine||Codagenix Inc said on Tuesday Serum Institute of India has started manufacturing the U.S. biotech firm’s potential Covid-19 vaccine and it expects to begin early-stage human trial of the vaccine by the end of 2020 in the UK.Serum Institute, the world’s largest vaccine maker by number of doses produced, will develop Codagenix’s CDX-005, which is delivered intranasally rather than via an injection.Serum Institute is working on several vaccine candidates for the novel coronavirus - including potentially mass-producing the one from AstraZeneca-Oxford University that has garnered global headlines - as well as developing its own.More than 150 potential vaccines are being developed and tested globally, with 38 in human trials, and candidates from Moderna Inc, Pfizer Inc and AstraZeneca Plc are already in late-stage trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-serum-institute-starts-manufacturing-codagenix-s-potential-covid-19-vaccine/story-zGhIAtCJN1tc9etIC34PDN.html
22-09-2020||India||Refund, credit shell available on air tickets booked before lockdown: Centre tells SC||Domestic carriers will be required to give full refund on air tickets booked prior to lockdown for travel up to May 24 on national and international routes. This was clarified by the Centre in a fresh affidavit filed in Supreme Court on Tuesday. The affidavit came on the eve of a scheduled hearing on a bunch of PILs before the top court where the Centre’s scheme for refund of flights cancelled during lockdown is expected to be taken up for consideration.This is the second affidavit jointly filed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). On September 9, the top court had asked the Centre to file an additional affidavit to clarify whether the credit shell and incentive scheme formulated by Centre extended just to tickets booked during lockdown or the period prior to it. Several passengers had booked their tickets in advance and failed to get refunds from airlines after a travel ban during lockdown led to cancellation of their flights.Clarifying its stand, the latest affidavit by Amit Gupta, Director with DGCA said, “Passengers who have booked tickets prior to lockdown for travel up to May 24, 2020 (as the calibrated domestic operation recommenced from May 25, 2020), refund of fares to the passengers covered under this category shall be governed by the proposed formulation related to credit shell and incentive scheme.Under this proposed formulation, if the airline is not in a financial position to refund within 15 days, a credit shell will be created in the name of the passenger that he/she can avail while flying next with the airline on any route on or before March 31, 2021. This credit shell will be transferrable and if the money is kept idle in the credit shell, the passengers will be entitled to 0.5 per cent interest from the date of cancellation till June 30 and thereafter, 0.75 per cent interest till March 31, 2021. The airline will be liable to return the credit shell amount with interest to the passenger after March 31, 2021.The scheme will apply to all passengers who booked their tickets on domestic airline either individually or through travel agent for travel on domestic and international routes (provided flight originates from India). As regards foreign carriers, the credit shell scheme will not apply and passengers will be entitled to refund of fare within 15 days.For passengers who booked tickets during the lockdown, the DGCA came out with a notification on April 16, 2020 providing for immediate refund. This notification clearly specified that airlines were not supposed to book tickets knowing about the travel ban in place. The latest affidavit also catered to tickets booked for travel after May 24. It said, “Passengers who booked tickets at any period of time but for travel after May 24, 2020, refund of fares to the passengers covered under this category shall be governed by the provisions of Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR).”Advocate Jose Abraham appearing for one of the petitioners before the Court – Pravasi Legal Cell expressed satisfaction with the clarification issued by Centre. Speaking to HT, he said, “We are happy that the Centre has accepted that those who booked tickets prior to the lockdown will get full refund within 15 days or credit shell facility and incentive scheme. Their earlier affidavit of Centre dated September 5 did not state so.”The Centre in its earlier affidavit referred to two categories of passengers – those who booked tickets from March 25 to April 14 (lockdown period) and those falling under “any other cases” without specifying the period of travel.One grey area still remains as the scheme does not extend to international flights (both domestic and foreign carriers) where the flight originated outside India. For international air tickets to avail the proposed refund scheme, the booking must be “ex-India”, states the affidavit. This term is not defined in the Aircraft Act, 1934 or the Aircraft Rules, 1937, but the affidavit states, “In aviation industry, this term denotes the flights which are originating from India.”Pravasi Legal Cell will challenge this aspect as several Indians arriving from foreign destinations could not arrive in the country as their flights stood cancelled during lockdown. “This is a grey area still in the affidavit and we will seek clarification from Centre when the matter comes before the Court,” said advocate Jose Abraham.The scheme has largely found approval from all airline operators and travel agents. Some tour operators had on the previous date of hearing objected to the creation of credit shell in the name of passengers. The tour operators informed the Court that tickets are booked in advance without collecting money from passengers and hence the credit shell should not be in the name of the passenger.The Centre clarified in its latest affidavit that the ticket will remain in the name of the passenger and in case the credit shell is utilized by the passenger, he/she has to pay to the agent and not the airline. But in case if the amount is not utilized, the money will go back to the same account of the agent from which the ticket amount was paid to the airline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refund-credit-shell-available-on-air-tickets-booked-before-lockdown-centre-tells-sc/story-9RqjUvAuLEZgCg5Xi61z5L.html
22-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Don’t want to fight hot or cold war, says China’s Xi Jinping at UNGA and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Don’t want to fight hot or cold war with any country: What Xi Jinping said at UNGAChinese President Xi Jinping during his speech at the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday assured the countries that China has no intention to fight a cold war or a hot one with any country. Read moreHold China accountable for unleashing Covid-19 plague onto world: Trump at UNGAAddressing the UN’s first virtual meeting of world leaders, Trump accused the Chinese government and the World Health Organization (WHO) of making a false declaration that there was no evidence of human to human transmission of Sars-Cov-2. Read moreFacebook India head moves Supreme Court against Delhi Assembly panel’s notice, hearing tomorrowThe Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee has sent a fresh notice asking Mohan, Facebook India vice president and managing director, to present himself for a deposition before the panel on September 23. Read moreIPL 2020, KKR vs MI: ‘He is trying very hard to find rhythm’ - Trent Boult on Jasprit Bumrah’s formIndia star pacer Jasprit Bumrah did not got off to the best of starts in the Indian Premier League in the UAE. In the opening game of the season, Bumrah conceded 43 runs in his four runs and managed to get only one wicket. Mumbai lost the match by five wickets as CSK chased down the total of 163 easily to pick up first win of the season. Read moreHackers are getting better in spear phishing ‘Work From Home’ employees: Avast CEOAvast CEO Ondrej Vlcek believes that tricking remote working employees into clicking malicious links has become easier for cybercriminals. They are likely to face the same kind of security risks as before. Read moreDia Mirza denies ever procuring, consuming drugs, to take legal action: ‘Such frivolous reporting has a direct impact on my reputation’Dia Mirza has vociferously denied having any connection with drug peddlers after it was reported that she might be called in for questioning by the Narcotics Control Bureau. She released a statement and said that she will take legal recourse. Read more‘Outrage marketing’: Gucci gets bashed on Twitter for Rs 1 lakh grass-stained overallsAs part of its new collection, Gucci is selling grass-stained overalls that look pretty well-worn for $1400 (Rs 1,02,878) and passing it off as ‘grunge’, but Twitter would have none of it. Read moreWatch: Trump’s long pause over ‘poisoning’ of Putin rival Navalny; critics slam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-don-t-want-to-fight-hot-or-cold-war-says-china-s-xi-jingping-at-unga-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5P8eFrchjkma02eqz7oudM.html
22-09-2020||India||India, China resolve to stop sending more troops to frontline, refrain from changing situation on LAC||India and China on Tuesday issued a joint statement on the recent talks between the military commanders of the two countries on the border standoff.Both the countries resolved to stop sending more troops to frontline, and refrain from unilaterally changing situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“The two sides had candid and in-depth exchanges of views on stabilizing the situation along the LAC in the India - China border areas. They agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, strengthen communication on the ground, avoid misunderstandings and misjudgments,” the statement further said.It also said that the two sides agreed to hold the next round of military commander-level meeting as soon as possible and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border area.Also read: ‘Crying’ PLA troops on way to India border causes China-Taiwan media warThe talks on September 21 were the sixth round of discussions between India and China (since June 6) to resolve the standoff which has been going on since May.Two Indian lieutenant generals were among the officers who took part in the talks - Harinder Singh, who heads the Leh-based 14 Corps and his soon-to-be successor PGK Menon, officials said.A joint secretary from the Indian external affairs ministry taking part in the military dialogue for the first time, officials familiar with the developments said.Authoritative sources described the nature of talks as “complex” with each side holding its ground but agreeing that India and PLA needed to completely disengage to ensure peace in border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-release-joint-statement-on-military-commanders-meet-resolve-to-stop-sending-more-troops-to-frontline-refrain-from-unilaterally-changing-situation-on-lac/story-rOEZrvQtCLpYcrMny5nj3I.html
22-09-2020||India||Court stays arrest of 3 accused in Rajasthan Palace Hotel Sale||The Rajasthan High court on Tuesday stayed the arrest warrant against former disinvestment secretary Pradip Baijal and two others accused of causing Rs 244 crore loss to the government through the sale of ITDC-owned Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur in 2002.The high court also asked the special CBI court hearing the case to summon the accused through bailable warrants, a counsel for the accused said.Last week, the trial court ordered the registration of an FIR against former union disinvestment minister Arun Shourie, then department’s secretary Pradip Baijal, Lazard India Ltd managing director Ashish Guha, valuer Kantilal Karamsey and Bharat Hotels director Jyotsana Suri for the sale of the hotel.Tuesday’s order by a single-judge bench of the high court was on a plea filed by Baijal, Guha and Suri, challenging the trial court’s directions. “We argued that the accused could not be summoned through an arrest warrant in the first place,” a counsel said.Arun Shourie had also moved the high court for a stay on the arrest warrant but his petition is yet to be listed for hearing.The fifth accused, Kantilal Karamsey, the owner of the valuation firm Kanti Karamsey and Company, has not yet moved the high court.Shourie was the minister in charge of divestment during the Atal Bihari Vajpaye-led NDA government when the Udaipur property, owned by the public sector India Tourism Development Corporation, was sold to Bharat Hotels Ltd, a private company.In last Wednesday’s order, the CBI court rejected the closure report submitted in the case by the Central Bureau of Investigation in August 2019, and asked the agency to reinvestigate it.The hotel was sold for Rs 7.52 crore. During the CBI’s preliminary investigation, it was valued at Rs 252 crore, suggesting a loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer.The CBI registered a case on August 13, 2014, that some unknown officers from the Department of Disinvestment, in connivance with a private hotelier during 1999-2002, renovated and then sold the hotel at a throwaway price.While ordering the reopening of the investigation, the trial court had also directed that the property should be placed under the charge of the Rajasthan government until the matter is disposed of.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-stays-arrest-of-3-accused-in-rajasthan-palace-hotel-sale/story-iLJtqhOPAuWhIB1xhYOibM.html
22-09-2020||India||Jharkhand woman, 55, branded witch, hair chopped off; 9 arrested||Amid protest by the villagers, police on Tuesday arrested nine persons, including six women, who allegedly chopped off a woman’s hair and forced her to parade in the village after branding her a witch in Simdega district’s Kolebira block, around 110-km from capital Ranchi, police said.Simdega superintendent of police (SP), Dr Shams Tabrez, while briefing media persons, said, “The victim lodged a complaint on Monday evening. On the basis of her complaint, we set up a special investigation team (SIT). The team arrested all the nine accused in the case on Tuesday.”The incident took place on Saturday at Kombakera Ganjhutoli village in Kolebira block where villagers held a meeting, led by a village priest, and branded a 55-year-old woman a witch.They alleged that a village boy died a month back due to black magic performed by the woman. The villagers decided to punish her. They publicly chopped off her hair and forced her to parade in the village, police said.Rameshwar Bhagat, the officer in-charge of Kolebira police station, said the woman, fearing villagers, did not approach the police. Upon receiving information, the police visited the village on Monday and asked the victim to file a written complaint in police station.“The woman filed a complaint on Monday evening. On the basis of her complaint, FIR was lodged against nine named persons and 40 unknown,” he said. The accused were booked under various sections of the IPC and under sections 3 and 4 of the Prevention of Witch (DAAIN) Practices Act.Simdega sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Raj Kishore said, “They left for the village on Tuesday morning. A section of the villagers were protesting police action but we arrested all the nine accused in the case.”All the accused underwent Covid test at Kolebira.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-woman-55-branded-witch-hair-chopped-off-9-arrested/story-0oVeK3C37bhm1pXO48iJHI.html
22-09-2020||India||Understanding the onion export ban||Centre’s decision to ban onion exports seems to be a pre-emptive strike on onion prices, that begun to rise after a sustained fall. But that alone may not be the full picture||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understanding-the-onion-export-ban/story-BfVM1DNFqSHlValrxb9k5K.html
22-09-2020||India||Maoist posters resurface in Bengal, third incident since August||Four handwritten posters bearing the name of Communist Party of India (Maoist) were found on Monday at Sarenga in West Bengal’s Bankura district where the Maoists had a stronghold till the Trinamool Congress (TMC) came into power in 2011. This is the third time since August that such posters have been spotted in the western districts of the state.Two of these posters were found inside a compound where an office of the state land and land reforms department is located. Incidentally, Monday was the foundation day of the CPI (Maoist). On September 21, 2004, the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist), People’s War and the Maoist Communist Centre of India (MCCI) merged into one organisation. A significant part of the local population in these areas comprises tribals. On the eve of Independence Day last month, around a dozen posters were recovered from three villages in the Bhulabheda area of Jhargram district, another erstwhile hotbed of Maoist activity.The posters urged the public to observe Independence Day as ‘kala divas’, or a black day. On September 4, some handwritten posters were found in Belpahari, which is also in Jhargram district. “There is no evidence to prove that Maoists had put up the posters on Monday because they have no presence whatsoever in the region. All Maoists surrendered in or after 2011. They have been rehabilitated by the government. Most of them have got government jobs. The rest are waiting for their turn,” Surya Shankar Mondal, officer-in-charge, Sarenga police station, told HT. “To establish a base, the Maoists need the support of local villagers. That is not possible anymore because perception of the local people has changed,” added Mondal. A senior state intelligence branch (IB) officer said on condition of anonymity that the government is not sitting idle because West Midnapore, Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram had virtually become a ‘liberated zone’ of the Maoists between 2009 and 2011.“The problem was tackled efficiently but we still cannot take chances,” the IB officer said.Last month, chief minister Mamata Banerjee directed the police top brass to reactivate the counter intelligence force (CIF) that was created a decade ago to combat Maoists.On September 7, Virendra, the director general of state police, visited Jhargram and West Midnapore districts and reviewed security arrangements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-posters-resurface-in-bengal-third-incident-since-august/story-27whJMxPrR17M2FgYGkLzN.html
22-09-2020||India||PDP may hit streets to seek Mehbooba Mufti’s release, says party leader||The PDP says it may take to streets to secure party chief Mehbooba Mufti’s release - who has been in detention under the Public Safety Act since August last year - if all other means do not yield results. In an interview to HT’s Mir Ehsan, Youth PDP president Waheed ur Rehman Parra conceded that the party definitely took a hit by the desertions, but asserted that it will bounce back with its core philosophy. Reflecting on the new Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, the leader said he is “making efforts”. The PDP recently resumed political activity after they were allowed to hold two big meetings in Srinagar.Q. The PDP organised its first meeting after August 5 last year, what was discussed in the meeting?It was much more than a meeting. It was an attempt to free oneself from unofficial house arrest. We discussed August 5, 2019, and the post-scenario, insecurities and challenges confronting people. We strongly reject unconstitutional, undemocratic treatment meted out to Kashmir.Q. Are all the PDP leaders free?Yes, except Party President Mehbooba Mufti.Q. Do you think, government is trying to stop the PDP from resuming its activities?This sense of unfreedom, absence of democracy and absence of politics is self-created by the BJP. Not just the PDP, the entire Kashmir is being treated similarly. The only difference is that the PDP continues to be on their target and they continue to attack it by using tactics for limiting our space. They want a BJP narrative here and help them gain ground at the cost of local parties, especially the PDP. At a time when we as a population desperately need 4G communication for education and healthcare sectors, the BJP is busy politicising 4G for the sake of their personal agendas of letting no dissenting voices escape this space. Is this what integration looks like? Rest of India studies and heals but Kashmiris are deprived everyday for every little opportunity.Q. After August 5, many leaders, especially former ministers and legislators, left the PDP, do you think it has weakened the party?Yes, many have left, such exits disclose a pattern which reveals that this episode was engineered by the politically macho to thwart PDP efforts and subvert its strength. Those who have exited, have been responsible for eroding party space by all means and when nothing worked finally created factions. The party is definitely affected but it will bounce back with its core philosophy, not by losing individuals.Q. Why is PDP president Mehbooba Mufti still under detention while all other leaders released?Mehbooba Mufti cannot be threatened or coerced into serfdom. They treat her stance and voice as a challenge to their politics. The attempt to install puppets is not what democracy is. The BJP should be ready to accept real political challenges. Just to exercise their own power they are keeping her silenced using extreme laws. If one wants to really see what Kashmiri politics will look like, they can’t understand even the mood of the people until she’s free and hits the ground. It is difficult to control Mehbooba Mufti and BJP knows it very well. They failed to control her while in alliance and that must be their concern and fear.Q. Is the PDP trying to launch an agitation to press the government to release the party president?Yes, we have approached the Supreme Court. If it doesn’t work, we will raise our voice democratically. And if need arises, we will be forced to hit streets to seek her release.Q. Do you have hope from the new Lt Governor?He is definitely making efforts at his level but it is too small an institution to address our anxiety, anger or our problems. People want the PM to respond to Kashmir and his silence is definitely not acceptable here. This is a negative and controlled peace.Q. Being a youth leader what is the feeling of youth in J&K and what should New Delhi do?There is a huge sense of resentment among young people, but they are scared and suffocated. Silence in itself is a statement.It is the level of disappointment among youngsters towards Delhi. The Centre should come out of denial and address the issues, talk politically, initiate dialogue with all stakeholders.Q. Is it true security and government accommodation of many PDP leaders have been withdrawn?All of our leaders are out of government accommodation and without security cover. One or two PSOs have been assigned to protect a few leaders but that is negligible cover. Given the present circumstances or as per SOP followed earlier. Security is not a privilege here but a survival of means to ensure democratic space. It is for the first time, we see the state using security as a tool to undermine us and empower a select group of people at the cost of our life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-may-hit-streets-to-seek-mehbooba-mufti-s-release-says-party-leader/story-ejyXWmv8KhnELCxTaUKzIK.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Success made us more determined...’||Hailing from Lucknow, filmmaker Piiyush Singh is all upbeat about his new projects. “We have interesting line-up in store. The most exciting one being the OTT series tentatively titled ‘Yash’ based on true events from dreaded Dadua and STF encounter under the then SSP Amitabh Yash,” said the producer. They plan to shoot it in rural areas of Uttar Pradesh in the coming months. “Also, our production is all set to launch a bouquet of regional OTT platform including Marathi, Bhojpuri, Bangla and more,” he said during his stay in the city. Talking about evolving from the ongoing crisis, Piiyush said, “We as an industry came out of a very dark phase although its repercussions are here to stay for some time. My partner (Abhayanand Singh) and I tried to keep our team intact with no downsizing at all because they stood by us and now it was time to stand by them.” Two of their projects including ‘JL 50’ and ‘Bhonsle’ were streamed during the phase and garnered good response. “The success made us more determined and energised.” According to Piiyush all their fresh projects will be going on the floor soon. “Our Hollywood film ‘Son’ is all complete but we want a theatrical release for it, a bit of dubbing is left before Pankaj Kapur starrer, ‘Sehar’ will be good to go. Other upcoming projects under Golden Ratio Films are three web series including ‘JL 50-2’ along with another film and a pacey web-thriller that will start in November,” he shared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/success-made-us-more-determined/story-zE5ZQpOJew22u2BXmhz6XM.html
22-09-2020||India||Swiggy delivery executives on strike in Hyderabad; Company says no disruption in service||A section of delivery partners of Swiggy are on strike in the city, claiming that their base payment has been reduced by the aggregator, for the past few days and held a protest in Madhapur here on Tuesday.The food delivery App firm, however, said a large number of its partners have understood the strong earning potential, as a result of which more 3,700 partners out of about 5,000 have logged on to Swiggy in the last three days.The Swiggy partners, under the banner of Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers, alleged that in recent months the management has made frequent and numerous reductions in earnings structure of delivery executives.The firm reduced minimum order earning from the earlier Rs.35 up to 4 km to Rs.15 for 2 km and late night delivery timing has been shifted from previously 11 PM to now midnight, they alleged.The incentive amount has also been reduced, they said adding they have other demands.We demand the Rs.35 up to 4 km system should be in place.This is our main demand, Shaik Salauddin, National General Secretary told PTI. A Swiggy spokesperson in an email reply said over the last couple of days, Swiggy had a constructive dialogue with its partners to explain the revised pay-outs and assuage their concerns and a large number of executives have understood the strong earning potential, as a result of which more 3,700 partners have logged on to Swiggy in the last three days.We are disheartened by the many unfortunate incidents where our delivery partners are being intimidated by a smaller set of people, including external parties who are resorting to instigation and coercion No significant disruption. It is coming back to normal in most parts of the city, the spokesperson told PTI.In fact, in a sentiment survey conducted by Swiggy three days ago, 75 per cent from over a 1,000 delivery partners stated that they would like to resume deliveries, the Bengaluru-based firm claimed, adding it was working with the authorities to ensure that those who want to make an honest living with Swiggy were allowed to do so.With the beginning of the cricketing season and the surge in orders in the city, those who delivered with Swiggy over the past three days made an average of over Rs 85 per order and high performing partners made close to Rs 250 per order, the email claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swiggy-delivery-executives-on-strike-in-hyderabad-company-says-no-disruption-in-service/story-dViMxdUzQ2ead5vBdtHY1N.html
22-09-2020||India||Facebook India head moves Supreme Court against Delhi Assembly panel’s notice, hearing tomorrow||Ajit Mohan, the India head of social media giant Facebook, has moved the Supreme Court against a notice sent to him by the Delhi Assembly.The petition will be heard by a three-judge bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul.The Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee has sent a fresh notice asking Mohan, Facebook India vice president and managing director, to present himself for a deposition before the panel on September 23.The committee, which is headed by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson and legislator Raghav Chadha, had on Tuesday issued a warning to Facebook India after Mohan failed to appear before the panel for its third hearing, despite having been summoned.The committee had earlier said Facebook was in contempt of the Delhi assembly, and gave the social media company a “final warning” to heed the summons and appear before it, dismissing a letter sent by executives of the firm, declining to present themselves before the panel.In a letter, Facebook’s director (trust and safety) Vikram Langer told the peace and harmony committee of the Delhi assembly on Tuesday that the company’s India head, Ajit Mohan, could not appear before the panel because it was already deposing before a parliamentary standing committee, and contended that the firm‘s content regulation was outside the jurisdiction of the state assembly.The assembly’s first notice was issued to Mohan after the committee’s second hearing on September 12, in connection with complaints about the social media company’s alleged “deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content” in the country.The notice was issued after the committee, in its second hearing on August 31, said prima facie it had found that Facebook India was allegedly complicit in aggravating the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that left at least 53 people dead and over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-india-head-moves-supreme-court-against-delhi-assembly-panel-s-notice-hearing-tomorrow/story-f0epKhRjQS8UtgbrMr832I.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Govt has given new definition to NDA’: Shashi Tharoor’s latest dig at Centre||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor attacked the Centre on Tuesday, claiming that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has only one answer to questions raised in Parliament: No Data Available. He used the phrase to give a new definition to National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which is led by the BJP.“No #data on migrant workers, no data on farmer suicides, wrong data on fiscal stimulus, dubious data on #Covid deaths, cloudy data on GDP growth - this Government gives a whole new meaning to the term #NDA!,” Tharoor wrote on Twitter.Lawmakers returned to Parliament after a gap of over five months due to restrictions imposed across the country due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. No #data on migrant workers, no data on farmer suicides, wrong data on fiscal stimulus, dubious data on #Covid deaths, cloudy data on GDP growth — this Government gives a whole new meaning to the term #NDA! pic.twitter.com/SDl0z4HimaBut the resumption of the session has been marred by ruckus and protests over the government’s move to get two farm bills passed in Parliament. Eight lawmakers were suspended for the ruckus during the passage of the bills on Sunday.These lawmakers have been sitting on protest since their suspension, and the Opposition parties have boycotted the session demanding that their suspension should be revoked.The suspended Rajya Sabha parliamentarians spent the night on the lawns near Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in Parliament premises. Many political experts said this was the first overnight protest in Parliament complex.Tharoor and many other leaders such as National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah, Samajwadi Party’s Jaya Bachchan and Congress’ Ahmed Patel and Digvijaya Singh visited these MPs to express their support.The Congress, whose three MPs are among those suspended, has vowed to launch nationwide protest against the bills. The party aims to gather two crore signatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-given-new-definition-to-nda-shashi-tharoor-s-latest-dig-at-centre/story-F5kBJFCLyIblWahRFuLo5N.html
22-09-2020||India||India’s projects in Africa ‘empower rather than extract’: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday held up India as Africa’s most steadfast partner, whose projects would “empower rather than extract from local communities” and ensure sustainable development. Jaishankar didn’t refer to other countries involved in the development of Africa in his remarks, made during a virtual event organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, but it appeared he was comparing India’s track record to that of China. Describing maritime security as the new frontier in cooperation between the two sides, he said India offers Africa “an honest partnership and room to maximise its space under the sun and multiply its options” in all spheres. “Africa is, of course, not without its options and by no stretch does India claim to be the only one. However, what we can promise is to be Africa’s most steadfast partner,” he said in his speech at the CII-Exim Bank digital conclave on the India-Africa project partnership. Pointing to India’s partnership with Africa, Jaishankar said the country has implemented 194 developmental projects in 37 African countries and is working on 77 more in 29 countries with a total outlay $11.6 billion. These projects, which are in sectors such as infrastructure, ICT, power generation, water, roads, railways and agriculture, foster entrepreneurship and “empower rather than extract from local communities”, he said. The projects also marry transparency and technology with imperatives of social and ecological sustainability, he said. “This is the template we offer our African friends,” he added. In recent years, China has faced criticism for bringing in large numbers of its nationals to work on projects in Africa and for “debt trap” financing of projects under its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Against the backdrop of the border standoff in Ladakh, India has stepped up developmental assistance and projects for countries in its immediate neighbourhood. Jaishankar also highlighted the importance of the Indian Ocean in ties between India and Africa, saying it has “acquired even greater salience” and the two sides “need to cooperate to preserve and protect it”. In the field of trade, the minister noted that India is Africa’s third-largest export and Indian investments in the continent total $54 billion. He also welcomed the coming into force of the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement because of the possibility of increased business. India’s oil and gas firms have invested $7 billion in a gas field in Mozambique and $0.5 billion in South Sudan, and these make Africa a “crucial energy partner for India”, he said. Jaishankar also pointed to India’s maintenance of critical supply chains to provide medical supplies to Africa amid the Covid-19 pandemic as another instance of its reliability as a partner. Describing the pandemic as the most debilitating global event of the past 80 years, he said it posed a challenge to the global economy, reliability of supply chains and achievement of Sustainable Development Goals. “For India, Africa’s rise as one of the global system’s poles is not just desirable, it is absolutely necessary. In fact, it is fundamental to our foreign policy thinking. Broader global rebalancing is incomplete without the genuine emergence of Africa. Only then will the world’s strategic diversity come into full play,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-projects-in-africa-empower-rather-than-extract-jaishankar/story-FDBRl2au1GDlDmWO40x1iO.html
22-09-2020||India||India, Israel sign pact to collaborate in tech innovation||India’s International Centre for Entrepreneurship and Technology (iCreate) and Israel’s Start-Up Nation Central on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to work together on a bilateral programme to accelerate innovation and technology cooperation between startups and corporates from both the countries.The programme aims to bring together Israeli and Indian entrepreneurs and startups to collaborate on innovative projects, the embassy of Israel in India said in a statement. The MoU was signed by Professor Eugene Kandel, CEO of Start-Up Nation Central from Jerusalem and Anupam Jalote, CEO of iCreate from Ahmedabad.Dr Ron Malka, Israel’s ambassador to India and Yaakov Finkelstein, Israel’s consul general attended the event in Mumbai while Professor Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government joined through video-conferencing.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani also sent his best wishes for the programme through a video message.According to the statement, iCreate and Start-Up Nation Central will initiate a unique Online Acceleration Program for market penetration to work with relevant technologies that match up to requirements of Indian corporations.The program will define a set of challenges which will then be shortlisted to the most relevant solutions and technology providers. This will be followed by a matchmaking mechanism that will be developed by leveraging both countries’ networks to support the process of adaptation and piloting these solutions in India, it added.The embassy noted that growing Israel-India ties have developed into a strategic partnership in the recent years, and since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, the two countries have collaborated on a number of joint ventures such as Operation Open Skies and integration of Israeli medical equipment and technologies in Indian hospitals. Ambassador of Israel to India, Dr Malka said, “Today we close a circle. A circle that started in 2018 when PM Modi and PM Netanyahu inaugurated this important incubator, iCreate, and now, two years later, we are signing, on the very spot where they stood, an MoU on innovation between Israel’s Start-Up Nation Central and India’s iCreate. This agreement is an important milestone in the growing innovation collaboration between Israel and India and stands in line with the visions of the Prime Ministers. Israel has the most startups per capita worldwide, and India is the top innovation destination in Asia. “Together, both countries continue to form partnerships and collaborations in technology and innovation to solve a range of global issues like Covid 19, renewable energy and more, implementing high end technologies like AI, big data analysis and more,” she added. Prof. Eugene Kandel, CEO of Start-Up Nation Central termed the singing of the MoU an important step in realizing the potential of the India-Israel relations in the field of innovative technologies. “I’m confident this partnership will pave the way for more Israeli startups to collaborate with Indian organizations and firms to develop and implement cutting-edge Israeli technologies that address India’s and the world’s most pressing needs,” Kandel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-israel-sign-pact-to-collaborate-in-tech-innovation/story-N1rDdZ2JBoCCSRYDIymo9O.html
22-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha takes up three labour codes amid boycott by Opposition||The labour reforms that are being undertaken by the government will prove to be a milestone for the welfare of workers, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said in Lok Sabha on Tuesday. Lok Sabha took up bills on the labour codes, which were moved by Gangwar, amid boycott of the House proceedings by several opposition parties, including the Congress, in protest against the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members. While moving the bills for consideration and passage, the minister said the government has come out with the changes in the legislations after extensive consultations with state governments and other stakeholders. He said about three-fourth of the recommendations of the standing committee, which scrutinised the codes, have been incorporated in the bills by the government. On Saturday, Gangwar had introduced the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, the Industrial Relations Code, 2020, and the Code on Social Security, 2020. Over 29 labour laws have been merged into four codes and one (Code on Wages Bill, 2019) of them has already been passed, according to the minister. The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, will consolidate and amend the laws regulating the occupational safety, health and working conditions of persons employed in an establishment and related matters. The Industrial Relations Code, 2020, seeks to consolidate and amend the laws relating to trade unions, conditions of employment in industrial establishments or undertaking, investigation and settlement of industrial disputes. The Code on Social Security, 2020, will amend and consolidate laws relating to social security with the goal to extend social security to all employees and workers either in the organised sector or the unorganised sector. Gangwar said efforts have been made to work out a balance between welfare of workers and ease of doing business for the industry. Starting the debate on the three bills, Pallab Lochan Das of the BJP said that it is for the first time that such extensive labour reforms are being undertaken. Although the country has 44 labour laws for the past several decades, the standard of living of workers has not improved, he said. BJD member Pinaki Misra said there could have been minimum health and safety standards in the code, and also suggested that the government have a relook at the definition of ‘workers’. While supporting the bill, he also said that certain provisions needed to be relooked at.Margani Bharat of the YSR Congress said the codes will push forward ease of doing business in the country as well as help in attracting more foreign direct investments. According to BJP’s Virendra Kumar, the codes will help in ensuring the welfare of labourers and also reduce ‘inspector raj’. Another BJP member Dilip Ghosh said the codes will ensure that all stakeholders work with discipline and also that corruption does not happen in labour unions. Ghosh, who is from West Bengal, also claimed the situation of labourers was bad in the state. TDP’s Jayadev Galla and Dileshwar Kamait (JD-U) also supported the codes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-takes-up-three-labour-codes-amid-boycott-by-opposition/story-5xvLzvKwGFBYTMq0Yb8KkM.html
22-09-2020||India||‘New Parliament building to cost around Rs 970 crore’: Centre in Lok Sabha||The estimated cost of construction of the new Parliament building is Rs 971 crore, union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri informed Parliament on Tuesday. It is an increase of Rs 82 crore from the Centre’s initial estimate.The tender for construction of the new Parliament building is under scrutiny, while architectural plans for other buildings are under planning stage, Puri said in response to a question raised by All India Trinamool Congress(AITC) MP Mala Roy in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday.“The estimated cost for Construction of new Parliament Building is Rs 971 crore. Estimated cost of other buildings and development/ redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue shall be worked out after finalization of plans,” Puri said.Last week, Tata Projects Limited emerged as the lowest of the two bidders for the tender to construct the new Parliament complex by quoting a bid of Rs 861.90 crore. According to the Central Public Works Department’s (CPWD) tender, the estimated cost of construction for the new building is Rs 889 crore.In response to a question from Trinamool MP, seeking “the rationale behind the project in light of the fact that economy is in doldrums,” Puri said that the facilities and amenities of the 93-year-old existing Parliament building “are highly inadequate to meet the current demand of the Parliament.”The Central Vista redevelopment project has come under criticism from different quarters. While the Opposition has called for suspending around Rs 20,000 crore project due to the pandemic, some conservationists have argued that it would change the historic nature of Lutyens’ Delhi.“The existing Parliament House Building was started in 1921 and commissioned in 1927; this “building is already 93 years old and has since been declared heritage grade-I building. Its facilities and amenities are highly inadequate to meet the current demand of the Parliament. There is an acute shortage of office space and there are no individual chambers for Members of Parliament. This building was not meant for bicameral Parliament and has been over-stressed through large scale retrofitting done over the years,” Puri said.“The other buildings on the Central Vista were built after Independence, i.e. Krishi Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan, etc. These buildings are more than 50 years old and there is a shortage of working space, parking, amenities and services in these buildings for an efficient office atmosphere… The Central Vista, which is the main boulevard of New Delhi extending from Rashtrapati Bhawan to India Gate, is one of the most visited tourist places in Delhi. However, it lacks basic public facilities, amenities and parking, etc. The unorganized vending and haphazard parking leads to congestion and gives a poor public perception. Therefore, there is a need for its upgradation of the central vista,” Puri added.Puri said that in the current economic scenario, the project will generate a large number of direct and indirect employment.The new Parliament building with a built-up area of approximately 60,000 metre square, is set to come up on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate, which currently houses a reception, boundary walls and other temporary structures. Work on the new Parliament, a ground plus two-storey triangular-shaped building, is expected to begin after the ongoing monsoon session.According to the tender for its construction, the new building is required to be completed strictly within the prescribed time limit of 21 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parliament-building-to-cost-around-rs-970-crore-centre-in-lok-sabha/story-y7HMlc8M72ApY45XxuHlYN.html
22-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha holds crucial meeting as Opposition boycotts Parliament proceedings||The Rajya Sabha has called its Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting on Tuesday after a day-full of hectic activities, protests and passage of several bills. But the Opposition, which announced to boycott the Upper House for the remainder of the session, will not attend the meeting. TMC’s Derek O’Brien, SP’s Ram Gopal Yadav, Congress’s Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh and RJD’s Manoj Kumar Jha are the five Opposition leaders who will skip 11-member committee meeting. The BAC is a panel led by Rajya Saha chairman Venkaiah Naidu to discuss the weekly agenda of the House. The meeting has been called amid indications that the House might be adjourned in a day or two. The Opposition parties also alleged that they were informed just an hour ago about the BAC meeting, leaving them little time to attend the meeting. Rajya Sabha officials pointed out that the meeting was decided at a short notice and all efforts were made to inform the members of the panel as quickly as possible. On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha passed the two key farm bills - Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, amid fierce protests in the house. While the Opposition claimed that the bills were anti-farmer, the government says that these bills will help boost the farming sector through private investments. On Monday, eight Opposition MPs were suspended for unruly behaviour. On Monday, the opposition demonstrated its disapproval in the Upper House of Parliament against the suspension of MPs and passage of these bills and boycotted the Rajya Sabha for the remaining part of the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-opposition-boycotts-parliament-proceedings-rajya-sabha-business-advisory-committee-meet-called-at-6-pm/story-BLnEc2atHd0kSKWKkb3xRI.html
22-09-2020||India||Drones with high-range cameras help Telangana cops track Maoists deep inside forests||Police personnel in northern Telangana are using drones with sophisticated surveillance cameras to track outlawed Maoists in the forests of Asifabad-Kumaram Bheem district bordering Maharashtra. About a 400-member strong Greyhound forces, the anti-Maoist wing of the Telangana Police have been combing the forests all along the Pranahita river on the Telangana-Maharashtra border for the last three days, looking for a group of Maoists headed by Mailarapu Bhaskar alias Adellu, the Telangana state committee member in-charge of the Kumaram Bheem-Mancherial squad. The police force has deployed drones equipped with high-range cameras to track the movement of Maoists in Koutala, Bejjur, Dahegaon, Neelwai and Chennur areas from Pranahitha river to Godavari river. District in-charge superintendent of police V Satyanarayana told reporters that the police were confident of nabbing the squad, as they had completely sealed the area all along the river so that they do not go back into neighbouring Maharashtra. “We are using modern technology including drone surveillance to track their movement,” the in-charge SP said after his extensive tour in Maoist-infested villages of Chintala Manepalli block on Monday.These drone cameras are presently being used by security forces in Chhattisgarh forests to track the movement of Maoists. In Telangana, they have not been used till date, a senior police official familiar with the development said.The police suspect that Bhaskar had been entrusted with the task of recruiting cadres for the CPI (Maoist) party in the bordering villages so that the party could regain its lost hold in Telangana. The Maoists have called for a week-long celebration of the completion of 16 years of the formation of CPI (Maoist) till this week-end. In the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, the police managed to track a Maoist squad in the Kadamba forest range of the district. In exchange of fire with the police, two Maoists were killed. They were later identified as Chukkalu of Chhattisgarh and Jugane Badi Rao from Neradigonda mandal of Adilabad district. “However, Bhaskar and three others managed to escape from the site of the encounter,” the in-charge SP said. The police have taken into custody as many as 15 people who were understood to have been recruited by the Maoist party in different parts of Asifabad Kumaram Bheem district like Utnoor, Sirpur (U), Tiryani and Asifabad mandals. They are being questioned to know the whereabouts of Bhaskar and his team members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-with-high-range-cameras-help-telangana-cops-track-maoists-deep-inside-forests/story-LMATJHNenGPUCQjl4YXtcK.html
22-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sonia, Rahul return to India amid Oppn standoff with govt over farm bills and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Sonia, Rahul return to India amid Opposition’s standoff with government over farm billsCongress president Sonia Gandhi accompanied by her son Rahul Gandhi returned to India on Tuesday morning after undergoing a routine health check-up in the United States, people familiar with the development said. Read more ‘They love us’: Sharad Pawar, on day-long fast, takes jibe at Centre over tax noticeNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday took at a dig at the Centre after receiving a notice from the Income Tax department. The notice, he said, was sent to him because the Centre “loves us”. Read more 120 tribals in jail under anti-terror law for 3 years, trial yet to beginFor more than three years, things have not been normal in the village Burakapal since 37 tribal residents of this village were arrested and booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act ( UAPA). Read more India trials for Russia’s ‘Sputnik-V’ vaccine could start in next few weeksDr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd could begin late-stage Indian clinical trials of Russia’s potential coronavirus vaccine in the next few weeks, an executive at the Indian drugmaker said on Tuesday. Read more Deepika Padukone may be summoned by NCB in drugs case if needed: ReportThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), probing the alleged Bollywood-drug nexus, might summon actor Deepika Padukone if needed, an official said on Tuesday. NCB sources said some WhatsApp conversations purportedly discussing drugs are on the radar of the agency. Read more Balanced Rajasthan Royals look for early gains against confident Chennai Super KingsA promising Rajasthan Royals unit will look to get their IPL 2020 campaign off to a winning start when they take on Chennai Super Kings at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium. Read more Harsh Goenka shares quirky video to remind people to stay home and stay safeBusiness tycoon Harsh Goenka is known for sharing fun, witty and informative tweets. And one of his recent posts has grabbed the attention of netizens. Along with a video that highlights the importance of staying home and staying safe during the ongoing pandemic. Read more Skoda to consider Enyaq electric SUV for IndiaSkoda Auto has gone on a SUV-offensive in India, with at least two confirmed launches so far - the Karoq SUV and the upcoming Vision IN SUV. Read more No guarantee any Covid vaccine in development will work: WHO chiefWHO Chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said there is no guarantee any Covid-19 vaccine in ‘development will work’. In a virtual address, Tedros also said that almost 200 Covid vaccines are in clinical & pre-clinical testing. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-xx-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZTdgKvvLy5Ttj2jB2Oq6UJ.html
22-09-2020||India||‘We get swayed’: Health ministry highlights Covid-19 recoveries as India’s tally crosses 5.5 million||India on Tuesday crossed the 5.5 million mark in terms of number of coronavirus disease cases. But the Union health ministry said that the country’s active cases are less than a fifth of the total tally.Addressing a press conference on Tuesday afternoon, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the number of Covid-19 related fatalities in India per million population is among the lowest in the world. “It stands at 64 for India and 123 for world,” said Bhushan.He also said that daily recoveries from Covid-19 are more than the number of new infections reported per day since past four consecutive days.“We get swayed by the narrative that India has over 50 lakh cases, but we forget that nearly 45 lakh people have already recovered,” the health secretary said.“India has highest number of recovered cases of Covid-19 in the world - 44,97,867,” he added. The ministry had earlier said that the country registered over 1 lakh Covid-19 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the highest number of single-day recoveries.The government’s data said that India’s Covid-19 cases share is 17.7 per cent of global infections, while those who have recuperated are 19.5 per cent of total recoveries in world.The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in the country currently stands at 1.59 per cent. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), CFR is a measure of the severity of a disease and is defined as the proportion of reported cases of a specified disease or condition which are fatal within a specified time.With a spike of 75,083 new cases and 1,053 deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count crossed 55 lakh on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-get-swayed-health-ministry-highlights-covid-19-recoveries-as-india-s-tally-crosses-5-5-million/story-IQ4oCtWnkJplnXe0rOcKqJ.html
22-09-2020||India||As Oppn boycotts Parliament over farm bills, LS Speaker calls them for meeting||The opposition on Tuesday boycotted the Lok Sabha session over Centre’s refusal to accept its demand for withdrawal of farm bills passed by Parliament. The lawmakers also protested in solidarity with the eight Rajya Sabha members who were suspended for “misbehaving” with the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman during farm bills debate on Sunday.Opposition parties, including Congress, TMC, TRC and BSP, walked out of the Lok Sabha, according to a PTI report.“You have compelled us to do so,” Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said in Lok Sabha as opposition boycotted the house.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla is holding a meeting in the Parliament premises with leaders of opposition, including Congress’ Adhir Ranjan Choudhary and NCP’s Supriya Sule after the parties boycotted Tuesday’s session. The Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) on Sunday passed the two key farm bills - Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, amid protests and ruckus in the house.These bills have already been passed by the Lok Sabha and are awaiting President’s nod.The government says that these bills will help boost the farming sector through private investments.The opposition had demonstrated its disapproval in the Upper House of Parliament against the suspension of MPs and passage of these bills, with TMC MP Derek O’Brien indicting to the media that the opposition parties were likely to boycott the Lok Sabha session as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-boycotts-lok-sabha-over-centre-s-refusal-to-withdraw-farm-bills/story-bcO0RmmIXFOUz8pyEUpRFP.html
22-09-2020||India||Fake Indian currency notes worth Rs 1.17 crore, gold biscuits seized in north Bengal||Fake Indian currency notes (FICN) with face value of Rs 1.17 crore and 17 gold biscuits, weighing 1.2 kg, were seized from a group of people in Cooch Behar district in north Bengal on Monday evening. The operation was jointly conducted by the West Bengal Police and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). Nine people were arrested and a car, two motorcycles and 11 mobile phones seized. The arrested men were going to Assam with the FICN and the gold. Md Sana Akhtar, Superintendent of Police, Cooch Behar, said, “We are carrying out an investigation to find the source of the consignment. The FICN were in denominations of 500 and 2000.” Soumyajit Roy, inspector-in-charge of Cooch Behar Kotwali police station said, “The operation was conducted following an intelligent input from the SSB. The FICN and 17 gold biscuits were being smuggled to Assam.” The car, which was being escorted by the men on two motorcycles, initially managed to give the police the slip at Falakata. Later, the joint team led by Roy intercepted all the vehicles at Dauwaguri near Cooch Behar town. “The arrested men will be produced in court on Tuesday afternoon. We will appeal for police remand to interrogate them,” Roy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-indian-currency-notes-worth-rs-1-17-crore-gold-biscuits-seized-in-north-bengal/story-hPKmHruQHdi546pyazPMvI.html
22-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty, brother Showik move bail plea in Bombay HC||Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, who have been arrested in connection with the drug link in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, on Tuesday moved a bail plea in the Bombay High Court. Their lawyer Satish Maneshinde said the plea will come up for hearing on Wednesday before a bench headed by Justice Sarang Kotwal.The siblings filed the petition on a day when a special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, court extended Chakraborty’s judicial custody till October 6.She was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 8 for her alleged involvement in a drugs case linked to Rajput’s death on June 14. She was then sent to judicial custody for 14 days. The NDPS court had on September 11 rejected bail pleas of Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and others in the case, noting that there was no “reasonable ground” at present for not connecting the accused with the crime.The actor, however, maintains that she is innocent and has been falsely implicated. She also claimed that during her custody, she was coerced into making incriminatory confessions and that the statement was retracted on September 8 itself.Before the 28-year-old actor’s arrest, the NCB confronted her with Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and his house staff Dipesh Sawant to ascertain their roles in an alleged drug racket.Also read: NCB to summon Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh, Simone KhambattaChakraborty has been charged under Section 8(c) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, warehouse, use, consume, import); 20(b)(ii) (punishment for contravention in relation to the cannabis plant and cannabis where such contravention relates to small quantity, involves quantity lesser than commercial quantity but greater than small quantity, involves commercial quantity); 22 (punishment for contravention in relation to psychotropic substances); 27A (punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders); 28 (punishment for attempts to commit offences); and 29 (punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy) of the NDPS act.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-brother-showik-move-bail-plea-in-bombay-hc/story-Tesg6ixXl6xmZOrUa0t27L.html
22-09-2020||India||120 tribals in jail under anti-terror law for 3 years, trial yet to begin||Deep inside the Sukma jungle, the serenity of the small village Burakapal, situated just 200 meters from nearby security forces camp, is disturbed only by women nonchalantly engaged in their chores and kids boisterously playing with slingshot.A few men can be spotted in the village but they fear interacting with outsiders. For more than three years, things have not been normal in the village since 37 tribal residents of this village were arrested and booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act ( UAPA).In April 2017, just 100 meters from this village, Burkapal, 25 personnel of 74th battalion of the CRPF, including an inspector-rank officer, were killed in a deadly Maoist ambush.After the brutal killing of 76 personnel of CRPF in 2010, the ‘Burkapal Attack’ is one of deadliest hits on security forces in the last decade in the Bastar region.The troopers were guarding the Dornapal-Jagargonda road construction work near Burkapal village when the Maoists attacked. In the next few days, the Chhattisgarh police registered a case in Chintagufa police station and booked 120 tribals of six villages – Burkapal, Gondapalli, Chintagufa, Talmetla, Koraigundum and Tonguda - under UAPA and other IPC sections.“Within a few days after the attack, 37 residents of my village were booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other sections of Indian Penal Code and were sent to jail,” said Muchaki Handa, a 30-year-old newly elected sarpanch of the village, whose elder brother is also in jail for his alleged involvement in the attack.The sarpanch claimed that every male who was present in the village that day was booked.“Every male and even some teenagers who were living in the village were booked under UAPA and other sections of IPC and only those who were working in cities were left unnamed, more as a matter of chance than design. I was working in a grocery store in Andhra Pradesh therefore was not named, but my brother was booked. Not a single person was involved in the attack but police have booked them accusing them to be Maoists,” said the sarpanch.For more than three years, the trial in these cases is yet to start and bail has not been granted even in a single case registered under the UAPA. As per the police records, total 120 villagers of three villages, including 37 of Burkapal, were booked under UAPA for their involvement in the attack.“Seven juveniles of my village were also picked up and booked under sections of the IPC. After spending eighteen months in Dantewada jail they have been released,” said the sarpanch.“The incident took place when I was playing just outside the village with some friends. We heard gunshots and rushed towards our huts. Few days after the attack, my father was picked up and later one day when I was sleeping in my house in the afternoon, security forces took me to the police station,” said Bheema Sodi, pointing towards the area where he was playing.Sodi’s father Muda is in jail and was booked under the UAPA.Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist and lawyer of some of the accused booked for the attack, said 120 innocent people from villages around Burkapal were booked under the act in this case.“Till now the trial has not started and has been delayed solely for the reason of the large number of accused and the police expressing its inability to make arrangements to produce them before a court regularly. The police said they did not have enough constables. And the court was initially not willing to entertain them in batches,” Bhatia said, adding that the police arrested people without necessary investigation and culpatory evidence.Bhatia said that during the lockdown period they should be given bail and after that they should be produced in court regularly.“The police framed innocent people under the UAPA and other sections of IPC from the area where the Maoist action occurred. The trial is still in the initial stage of “framing of charges”. It is now three years since the 120 accused are in Jagdalpur jail. Such prisoners should also be categorised as political prisoners. They should be granted bail during lockdown and subsequently the trial should be carried out in fast track mode,” Bhatia added.Bastar police have denied the allegation.“Due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, there was hindrance in the trial of the case. Bastar Police are committed to ensuring a just and speedy trial of the case,” said IG Bastar Sunderaj P, rubbishing her allegation.“In April 2017, we lost 25 of our CRPF jawans in one of the cruelest attacks by Maoists on security forces, who were out on an operation to facilitate the road construction work. During the course of investigation we have arrested more than 120 Maoists cadres and their supporters. This stringent action has not only broken the network of Maoist cadres in the area, but also provided tactical advantage to the security forces during “Operation Prakhar” which was conducted in 2017-2018. As far as prosecution of the case in the court is concerned, Bastar police would extend its sincere cooperation in this regard,” he said.The activists said availability of only one trial court for the UAPA cases in Jagdalpur was a major reason for delay in start of trial.“In my view, these cases should also be tried in other sessions courts so that such cases get distributed over various courts and the trial moves faster,” said Bhatia.Another lawyer, Sanjay Jaiswal, who is the advocate for most of the accused in Burkapal case, said this is an undeniable fact that the inordinate delay is due to the tardy process in the court.“The trial will start after everyone is chargehseeted,” said Jaiswal.Soni Sori, who has been raising her voice against the arrest of tribals, said the government is not listening to the anguish of innocent tribals.“There are no men left in the village. After the attack, the security forces put innocent tribals of Burkapal and other villages in jail without any evidence. I visited the village twice. Quite unsurprisingly, women and most of the remaining tribal persons ran away to Andhra Pradesh or in the jungle due to the fear of police atrocity. The security forces gave the gullible women an assurance that they know that people of Burkapal village are not the accused and hence the men returned. The forces then did a volte face, cordoned off the villages and arrested them without any evidence. Can you imagine that even the trial has not started in the last 3.5 years after their arrest? Is this justice? Why is the government not intervening?” said Sori.DM Awasthi, Director General of Police, Chhattisgarh, said that the accused have the right to have a fair trial in the court and he will instruct police in this regard.“I have not been told about the delay in trial and no one has complained to me. I will enquire about the issue and give necessary instruction so that the trial would start. Everyone has the right to have a fair trial in the court,” Awasthi said. Sujata Jaswal, the government counsel, Jagdalpur said that the challan has been submitted in the court in May and June in Burkapal case.“The trial has not started yet due to the lockdown. As per instructions of the high court, only the necessary cases are being heard in the court. The trial of the case will start after further instructions by the court regarding the routine work,” said Jaswal. Back in Burkapal village, Jogi Sodi (25), whose husband is in jail is worried and asked the sarpanch about the case.“I have not seen my husband since three years… Will he come this year or will we have to wait more ...” she asked Handa, who nodded his head in reply and started consoling her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/120-tribals-in-jail-under-anti-terror-law-for-3-years-trial-yet-to-begin/story-uRDQr8ClO5XhjXysqZJbnL.html
22-09-2020||India||As army prepares for long winter at LAC, DRDO works on developing vegetables under intense weather||As the troops are set to spend harsh winters at the China border, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is working on cultivating vegetables in the tough conditions here, for the Indian Army, with the technologies like passive greenhouse technology, zero energy-based technique storage, and microgreens.The research for the same is being done by DRDO’s Defence Institute of High Altitude Research (DIHAR).While speaking to ANI, DIHAR’s Director, Dr Om Prakash Chaurasia said that the focus is now on to augment the availability of fresh vegetables in winters like summers.“With DRDO technology and hill council, all vegetables can be grown in summer but now our focus is on winters that how to augment the availability of fresh items in winters. There are two approaches, one is to standardise the greenhouse technology. This (Leh) place has high intercity of solar even during peak winter period so we are working on a passive greenhouse. We will be able to grow cabbage, cauliflower, and even tomato even in the month of January where the temperature drops till -25 degrees. We have an underground greenhouse as well. Another approach is to develop the storage of vegetables grown in summers. It is zero energy-based storage technology. Potato, cabbage, cauliflower, Raddish, carrot can be stored for 4-5 months,” said Chaurasia.Chaurasia also highlighted that DISAR is also cultivating superfoods like Quinoa, chia seed, seabuckthorn, and Goji Berries which are exclusively grown in Leh.“Oxygen level is low and under stress condition in this area. So, we require foods which are enriched with nutrition. We are cultivating a superfood which is a food which you consume less and it is more effective. We are cultivating foods like Quinoa, chia seed, seabuckthorn, and Goji Berries,” he added.In August last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned a special plant named ‘solo’ which is also known as the Sanjeevani herb that is found in Ladakh.Describing the utilities of solo herb which is known as Sanjeevani, Dr Chaurasia said, “Himalaya is a treasure of herbs. Sanjeevani is one of the herbs found in the Himalayas. Its scientific name is Rhodiola. It cures fatigue, mountain sickness, and works on memory boosting. The roots of Sanjeevani have the fragrance of a rose. DRDO is working with UT administration for mass cultivation of it.”DIHAR has worked on the microgreen plant which will help jawans grow plants in harsh conditions and can be grown in 10-15 days. The product can be used as a seasoning for farmers.Talking about microgreens, Dr Dorjee, a scientist in DIHAR said, “In the far area, Army is deployed in harsh conditions and there is no availability of substrate or soil to grow vegetables. Through technology, we will be able to provide these microgreen plants to army jawan when he is having lunch or breakfast in those areas.”“To grow these plants, we have to ensure that ingredients need to remain minimum like cocopeat, and after 10-15 days, these plants are ready for consumption. It can be used for seasoning too,” he added.Dorjee further said that around 20 vegetables can be grown in this medium and it is rich in vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-army-prepares-for-long-winter-at-lac-drdo-works-on-developing-vegetables-under-intense-weather/story-oKj99I8wPauDiQUYVUsz7O.html
22-09-2020||India||‘They love us’: Sharad Pawar, on day-long fast, takes jibe at Centre over tax notice||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday took at a dig at the Centre after receiving a notice from the Income Tax department. The notice, he said, was sent to him because the Centre “loves us”.“We are happy that they (the Centre) love us from among all the members... the notice was served by Income Tax after the Election Commission asked (it) to... we will reply to the notice,” he said while speaking to reporters.The notice was sent in connection with poll affidavits Pawar submitted to the Election Commission.Pawar said the Income Tax department has sought his “clarification and explanation” on some poll affidavits.The NCP chief was responding to a question on reports that his daughter and Lok Sabha member Supriya Sule, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had received similar notices from the Income Tax department.He is observing a day-long fast on Tuesday to protest the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members. Pawar, a Rajya Sabha member, bemoaned the conduct of deputy chairman Harivansh and the Modi government’s decision of “bulldozing” the Opposition in the House.“The eight MPs were expelled for expressing their opinion,” Pawar said, adding that the deputy chairman did not give priority to (House) rules.The MPs were suspended for the remaining part of the monsoon session over their “misbehavior” during the passage of the farm bills on Sunday. The two agricultural bills - the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 - were cleared by voice vote in Parliament. The Opposition was demanding that these bills should be sent to a select committee.Three of the eight suspended MPs belong to the Congress. The party, along with a few others, has said that they will boycott the proceedings of the Rajya Sabha till the time the MPs’ suspension is revoked.The Congress has also said that it will hit the streets across the country against the government for passing “anti-farmer and anti-poor” bills in Parliament.The party will also launch a campaign to collect two crore signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed legislations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-love-us-sharad-pawar-on-day-long-fast-takes-jibe-at-centre-over-tax-notice/story-ytgSk28PWkYvNN358zX3qI.html
22-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha adjourned for an hour after opposition protests on farmers’ issues||Lok Sabha was adjourned for an hour on Tuesday following protests by opposition members who claimed that the government has done too little for the welfare of farmers.Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Monday’s announcement by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar of increasing minimum support price (MSP) of six Rabi crops was too little for the benefits of farmers, who have been agitating against two farm bills, which were passed by Parliament on Sunday.Chowdhury was supported by DMK leader T R Baalu and TMC’s Kalyan Banerjee.Soon, opposition members shouted slogans and came near the well of the House to register their protests in support of farmers, who are agitating in Punjab, Haryana and some other places.At this, Speaker Om Birla adjourned the House for an hour, after about 15 minutes of business.“I want all of you to be safe. I want all of you to go back to your constituency healthy so that you can serve the people. By keeping in mind your well being, I adjourn the House for an hour,” Birla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-adjourned-for-an-hour-after-opposition-protests-on-farmers-issues/story-XKyiTlcBDfsCcHwrj4vqBL.html
22-09-2020||India||3 charged under NSA after tribal man’s son dies due to delay in treatment||The National Security Act (NSA) was slapped against three persons and a police head constable was suspended on Monday after a tribal couple, who was allegedly held as bonded labourers by one of the three accused, couldn’t get timely treatment for their son resulting in the boy’s death in Guna, 214 km north of Bhopal. One of the three accused and his wife have been arrested, said police. According to police, Deepak Jat, a resident of Richhariya village of Guna district, and his wife Sulochana, were arrested under section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (using obscene language) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), relevant sections of Schedule Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Bonded labour System (abolition) Act, said police. Two more accused Neeraj Jat and Jayaram Jat are absconding. Deepak, Neeraj and Jayaram were booked under the NSA too, said police.Cantt police station head constable Mahendra Singh was suspended for dereliction of duty as the victim Pehalwan Saharia, a resident of Kherai Khadakpur village of the district, complained to authorities that when he approached the police station on Saturday the police didn’t take action against the accused and no treatment was provided to his son who had been ailing for past three days, said Rajesh Singh, superintendent of police, Guna. The SP said, “Pehalwan Sahariya had borrowed Rs 25,000 from Deepak Jat four years ago. In return, Deepak held Sehariya and his wife as bonded labourers. Sehariya, who was living in a hut on the agricultural land of Deepak, said all his four kids were suffering from fever for the past three days. He informed Deepak about it on Saturday and asked for some money for treatment of his kids but in return Deepak and his wife, Neeraj and Jayaram beat him up and tore his clothes.” They even stopped him from taking his elder son Deshraj, 8, to hospital, said the SP. Talking to the press, Pehalwan Sehariya said, “I somehow reached Cant police station on Saturday night with my wife and requested police personnel for help but they didn’t take my complaint and request seriously. We admitted our son to the district hospital on Sunday where he died in the evening. Had the police acted on time, my son would have been alive today.” The three kids of Sehariya have been admitted to the hospital and doctors said they were suffering from Malaria. Kumar Purshottam, collector, Guna, said, “NSA has been invoked against three of the four accused. An inquiry has been ordered to know about ownership of land of the accused as we came to know that they have encroached upon government land.”The administration will take care of Pehalwan Sehariya’s whole family and the administration will help them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-charged-under-nsa-after-tribal-man-s-son-dies-due-to-delay-in-treatment/story-g4OWLtXCrV7LoAG2SpCTGO.html
22-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes 7 key bills in three and half hours||In one of the most productive days in its history, Rajya Sabha on Tuesday in a matter of three and half hours passed seven key bills including one that removes cereals, pulses and onion from the essential commodities list and another that abolishes penalty for certain offences by companies.This after most of the opposition including the Congress, Left parties, the TMC, the Samajwadi Party and the NCP decided to boycott House proceedings in protest against the suspension of eight MPs for the remainder of the session for unruly behaviour.Only members from the ruling BJP and its ally JD-U and those of parties such as AIADMK, BJD, YSR-Congress and TDP, which have been extending support to the Modi government on various issues, participated in the debates on the bills.In most bills, the members participation was sparse and the minister’s reply brief.The Upper House took up government legislative business after nearly an hour of discussion over the conduct of opposition MPs during the passage of two agriculture reform bills on Sunday, with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu saying the suspension could be revoked if the members expressed regret over their action.First, it passed a bill to declare five newly-established Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) as institutions of national importance. The crucial Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which removes cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and removes stockholding limits on them, was passed next. This bill is part of the agriculture reforms bills that the government is pushing to raise farm incomes. The bills passed on Sunday gave farmers the freedom to sell produce anywhere in the country and enter into forward contracts with companies. Rajya Sabha also passed amendments to the Bank Regulation Act to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI in a bid to protect the interest of depositors. Thereafter the Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which removes the penalty for certain offences, was passed. The National Forensic Sciences University Bill, 2020 and the Rashtriya Rakash University Bill were passed in quick succession. Thereafter the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020 to relax time limit on compliance with tax laws, GST payment and filing in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 as well as the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020 replace emergency ordinances. The sitting of the Rajya Sabha was extended by just over an hour beyond the scheduled time to allow the passage of the bills. The legislative business started at 10.29 hours and ended at 14.03 hrs - 214 minutes in all. All the seven bills have already been passed by Lok Sabha and will now be sent to the President for assent. Once he gives his assent, they will become the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-7-key-bills-in-three-and-half-hours/story-V3FgFKJFscOdconKKhRUUO.html
22-09-2020||India||India trials for Russia’s ‘Sputnik-V’ vaccine could start in next few weeks||Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd could begin late-stage Indian clinical trials of Russia’s potential coronavirus vaccine in the next few weeks, an executive at the Indian drugmaker said on Tuesday.Indian trials of the Sputnik-V vaccine candidate, being developed by Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, will enroll 1,000-2,000 participants and be conducted at multiple government and private hospitals across the country, Deepak Sapra, CEO for API and pharmaceutical services at Dr. Reddy’s, told Reuters.“We want to get to the first step - which is the commencement of the clinical trials by getting the necessary approvals from the Indian regulators - within the next few weeks,” Sapra said.The trials are part of a deal between the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Dr Reddy’s, in which the Indian firm will conduct Phase III studies in India, pursue local regulatory approvals and, subject to approval, distribute the finished vaccine product in India. RDIF will supply 100 million doses to Dr Reddy’s.The RDIF has also reached agreements with Indian manufacturers to produce 300 million doses of the shot in India. Russia was the first country to grant regulatory approval for a novel coronavirus vaccine.Sputnik-V doses supplied in India will likely be a combination of Indian- and Russian-made doses, Sapra said, adding that RDIF and Dr Reddy’s would soon identify potential manufacturers in India.The RDIF has said vaccine deliveries to India could begin in late 2020, but Sapra suggested it could take longer. “I think it’s going to be several months before we accomplish all the steps in the process,” he added.India, which has a population of more than 1.3 billion, is the world’s second worst affected country by Covid-19 behind the United States. For weeks, it has reported the world’s highest daily jump in infections, which reached a total of 5.6 million on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-trials-for-russia-s-sputnik-v-vaccine-could-start-in-next-few-weeks/story-7u9nVvx7DvRCypoiEMQGWP.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Operation Charar-i-Sharief’: Security forces gun down terrorist in Central Kashmir||A terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces on Tuesday in an overnight gunfight in Central Kashmir, officials said. The face-off happened when a joint party of police, the Army and the CRPF cordoned off Charar-i-Sharief area of Budgam on Monday evening after getting inputs about the presence of terrorists.By Tuesday morning, the forces had succeeded in killing a terrorist.“In operation Charar-i-Sharief, a terrorist has been killed and a pistol was recovered,” an army spokesman said. The identity of the slain terrorist was yet to be ascertained. The spokesman said that the joint operation was in progress.Also read: China doubled its air bases, air defences and heliports near LAC in three years - ReportOn September 17, three Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists were killed in an encounter with forces in Batamaloo area of Srinagar. According to the police, a woman was also killed in the crossfire during the gunfight.So far, over 178 terrorists have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir this year in 73 anti-militancy operations, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/operation-charar-i-sharief-security-forces-gun-down-terrorist-in-central-kashmir/story-vyzy4P2VdQRXWERCsm1cTP.html
22-09-2020||India||Kashmir Press Club slams summoning, slapping of scribe by cop over report||The Kashmir Press Club and the Kashmir Editors guild have denounced the summoning of a journalist to a police station and slapping him for alleged misreporting.While condemning the incident, the Kashmir Press Club, in a statement, said the behaviour of the police towards a young journalist Aquib Javeed is unacceptable. Javeed is also an executive member of the Kashmir Press Club.“He was summoned to the cyber police station on Saturday in connection with a story he had written recently for a news portal. As per his account which has been published today he was slapped by a ‘masked’ policeman. Aquib also mentions that he was abused during this time,” said the body.“Hitting/slapping or abusing a Journalist in connection with a story he or she has written cannot be accepted in any society and goes against the freedom of the press.”The KPC also sought intervention of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and senior officers of the department.“We urge the L-G of J&K to look into these issues of difficulties faced by the journalists while performing their professional duties in Kashmir valley,” said the Kashmir Press Club.The KPC said summons to reporters by the police for their stories has become a routine practice in Kashmir now.“The club demands an end to this practice. The administration should work out a mechanism so that a conducive atmosphere is available for journalists to deliver their duties without fear and reprisals,” said the body.Kashmir Editors Guild (KEG) also condemned the police for abusing the journalist.Police spokesman said It was reliably learnt that one story captioned “The Real Cyber Bully: Police in Kashmir Question Kashmir Twitter” was published on “Article-14” an online news portal. In the story, the writer depicted a misleading picture with incorrect detail, said the police spokesman.“The headline and the picture with some of the content were factually incorrect hence misleading. The writer published a picture of a building showing it as Cyber Police Station Kashmir Zone, Srinagar, which is incorrect. The fact of the matter is that the Cyber Police Station was notified as a Police Station in October 2019 and was established in the upper storey of the Police Station Shergari building. The said writer has misled the general public about the functioning of Cyber Police Station and its establishment.”The spokesman said writer was called in the Cyber Police Station Kashmir in connection with clarification of facts mentioned in the article.“The writer admitted that the picture published in the article is incorrect and has also admitted that he has no knowledge about the functioning and establishment of Cyber Police Station in Kashmir. Further, the writer also admitted that he has never visited Cyber Police Station and has no knowledge regarding establishment of Cyber Police Station Kashmir at Shergari Complex. The writer and other accompanying (senior journalists) regretted the incorrect detail and assured that the story will be tweaked accordingly,” said the officer.The writer accompanying other senior journalists, said the spokesman, met the SP in-charge of the cyber police station and showed the tweaked story and regretted publishing incorrect/ misleading content. “The allegation of excesses by Police officials/officers, published subsequently by Article-14 and other Social Media handle is misleading and factually incorrect, hence refuted,” said the spokesman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-press-club-slams-summoning-slapping-of-scribe-by-cop-over-report/story-8ElG7aMylKAr0iuM7TKYPI.html
22-09-2020||India||‘UP cultural centre of India’: Yogi Adityanath holds meet with leading filmmakers over film city project||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday held a virtual meeting with several leading members of the film fraternity over his proposal of a new film city in the state.Addressing members of the industry, Adityanath stressed on what makes the state the ‘cultural centre’ of the country, as he pointed out that Uttar Pradesh shares its borders with seven states and a neighbouring country (Nepal).“Uttar Pradesh has borders with seven states and one country. This is the cultural centre of the entire country. World’s oldest city Varanasi and Lord Ram’s birthplace Ayodhya, both are in the state,” Adityanath said.He also said the new film city will come up near the site of the historical city of Hastinapur. On connectivity, meanwhile, CM Yogi mentioned Uttar Pradesh has seven functional airports, while work is going on at two dozen more airports.“The new film city will be near the historic city of Hastinapur as the land identified is close to the city. Hastinapur has tremendous contribution in the history of our country. Film city will be between the holy rivers of Ganga and Yamuna,” he said.“You (the filmmakers) will get great connectivity. We are developing the Jewar international airport and will connect the area with metro service. A world-class electronic and financial city is also being planned in the area around the proposed film city,” he further said.The film city, which was proposed by the chief minister last week, is likely to come up in the state’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district. Incidentally, the district already boasts of a film city, located at Sector 16 A in Noida.According to people aware of developments, Adityanath has instructed officials to look for land in or around Noida, Greater Noida or Yamuna Expressway for this ambitious project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cultural-centre-of-india-yogi-adityanath-holds-meet-with-leading-filmmakers-over-film-city-project/story-HK07mijOYeAfPHOZqr0U1I.html
22-09-2020||India||Over 1 lakh Covid-19 recoveries recorded in last 24 hrs: Health ministry||India has registered over 1 lakh Covid-19 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the highest number of single-day recoveries, the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) informed on Tuesday. According to a MoHFW statement, the total number of recoveries has reached nearly 45 lakh-mark (44,97,867) with the recovery rate at 80.86 per cent. It stated that a total of 79 per cent of the new recovered cases are being reported from ten States/UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal and Punjab“Maharashtra continues to lead with more than 32,000 (31.5 per cent) new recovered patients. Andhra Pradesh contributed more than 10,000 to the single-day recoveries. India’s landmark achievement of recording the maximum number of recoveries has positioned it as the top country globally,” it added.The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) currently stands at 1.59 per cent. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), CFR is a measure of the severity of a disease and is defined as the proportion of reported cases of a specified disease or condition which are fatal within a specified time.With a spike of 75,083 new cases and 1,053 deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count crossed 55-lakhs on Tuesday, according to the Union health ministry.The total case tally stands at 55,62,664 including 9,75,861 active cases and 44,97,868 cured and discharged or migrated patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-lakh-covid-19-recoveries-recorded-in-last-24-hrs-health-ministry/story-ePu4VkkHZRBIkn5kRQmfMN.html
22-09-2020||India||Sonia, Rahul return to India amid Opposition’s standoff with government over farm bills||Congress president Sonia Gandhi accompanied by her son Rahul Gandhi returned to India on Tuesday morning after undergoing a routine health check-up in the United States, people familiar with the development said. The two had left for the US on September 12. Both of them missed a major part of the monsoon session of Parliament that began on September 14. The session is likely to be curtailed in view of the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country with several Members of Parliament (MPs) and the Parliament staff having tested positive. Confirming their return, an aide of Rahul Gandhi said the two leaders reached Delhi at around 7am on Tuesday. Also Read: Opposition to boycott Rajya Sabha until MPs’ suspension is revoked“Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi is travelling today onwards for a routine follow up & medical check-up, which was deferred due to the pandemic. She is accompanied by Sh. Rahul Gandhi. We take this opportunity to thank everyone for their concern & good wishes,” the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala had tweeted on September 12. Before leaving, Sonia Gandhi had carried out major organisational changes, reconstituted the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and her team of office bearers, and also formed a special panel to help her in organisational and operational matters till the next session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), to be held within six months. Apart from Surjewala, the committee comprises AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal and Mukul Wasnik. She had also chaired a meeting of the party’s parliament strategy group. Also Read: Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs on sit-in outside Parliament refuse deputy chairman’s teaIt was decided in the meeting that the Congress will raise the issues of the India-China border standoff, the Covid-19 situation across the country, the impact of lockdowns, the current state of the economy, the decline in GDP, GST compensation to states, job losses, agrarian distress and restoration of Question Hour during the session. The party had also decided to oppose the three farm bills. The two agricultural bills — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 — were cleared by voice vote in Parliament on Sunday even as the Opposition protested and stormed the well of the House seeking that they be sent to a select committee. The ruckus resulted in the suspension of eight lawmakers — Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of the Congress, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of the Trinamool Congress, KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) and Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Parliament on Tuesday also passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill after the Opposition staged a walk-out and decided to boycott the entire session till the suspension of the eight MPs was revoked. And from September 24 onwards, the Congress will hit the streets across the country against the government for passing “anti-farmer and anti-poor” bills in Parliament. The party will also launch a campaign to collect two crore signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed legislations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-rahul-return-to-india-amid-opposition-s-standoff-with-government-over-farm-bills/story-h1ggdtY3RkYo2RGDo9BeyJ.html
22-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session 2020: Essential Commodities bill gets Rajya Sabha nod||Parliament on Tuesday passed a bill to remove cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities after the Rajya Sabha (RS) gave its nod.The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which was approved by the Lok Sabha (LS) on September 15, was passed by a voice vote in the RS. The bill replaces an ordinance that was promulgated in June.The bill is also aimed at removing the fears of private investors of excessive regulatory interference in their business operations.The freedom to produce, hold, move, distribute and supply would lead to harnessing economies of scale and attract private sector and foreign direct investments in the agriculture sector, the government had said earlier. Replying to a short debate, Minister of State (MoS) for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Danve Raosaheb Dadarao said the stock limit conditions imposed through the law were hindering investments in the agriculture infrastructure.The amendments to the six-and-half-decade law provides that stock-holding limit on commodities would only be imposed under exceptional circumstances such as national calamities and famine with a surge in prices, the minister said. Processors and value chain participants would be exempted from the stock limit, he added.The minister said the move would boost investments in the agriculture sector and would also create more storage capacities to reduce loss of crops after harvest.“This amendment is in favour of both farmers and consumers,” he added.The changes in the 1955 law is an important step by the government to achieve its target of doubling farmers’ income and also for the ease of doing business, the minister said.He said the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 was brought when the country was not self-sufficient in food grains production. But now the situation has changed, and as a result, the amendment was required, he said.While India has become surplus in most agri-commodities, farmers have been unable to get better prices due to lack of investments in cold storage, warehouses, processing and export. Farmers suffer huge losses when there are bumper harvests, especially of perishable commodities, he said.Parliament on Tuesday also passed a legislation to declare the five new Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) in Surat, Bhopal, Bhagalpur, Agartala and Raichur as institutions of national importance.The Indian Institutes of Information Technology Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was introduced in the RS by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Monday. The bill was passed by the LS in March. (Additional reporting by PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2020-essential-commodities-bill-gets-rajya-sabha-nod/story-N7upoxOZGIMe6mjPq9R1fK.html
22-09-2020||India||Over 50% mobile, electronic manufacturers registered with BIS are Chinese: Govt||The Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) has informed Parliament that over 50% of the manufacturers of mobile phones and electronics registered with the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) in the last four years are Chinese companies and at least 123 Chinese products failed compliance norms since 2015. “A total of 13,752 registrations were granted to the Chinese manufacturers based on tests conducted at laboratories recognised by BIS. The detail is available in public domain at http://electronicstds.gov.in,” the ministry said in its response on Monday. According to the website, a total of 23,838 manufacturers are registered on the website. BIS is the National Standard Body of India (NSBI), which is notified under the BIS Act, 2016 and works under the aegis of the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. BIS seeks harmonious development of the activities of standardisation, marking and quality certification of goods. The ministry was responding to an unstarred question in Parliament on Monday following a rise in tension with China along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the past few months. There has been a major push back against Chinese companies that dominate the electronics and telecom industry in the country since the worsening of ties between New Delhi and Beijing. The government in response to a separate question said it placed no ban on imports of electronic equipment from China. “To boost domestic manufacturing and attract large investments in the electronics value chain, the Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for large scale electronics manufacturing was granted Cabinet approval on March 20,” it added. Under the scheme, the “Domestic Value Addition is expected to grow from the current 15% - 20% to 35-40% in case of mobile phones and from 35%- 40% to 45%-50% for electronic components,” the response stated. The ministry listed 123 Chinese products that failed to satisfy compliance norms since 2015.“Among the product categories notified under the Electronics and IT Goods (Requirement of Compulsory Registration) Order, 2012, 123 Chinese products have failed to comply with the notified Indian standard since February, 2015,” the response added. Liquid crystal display (LCD) monitors, notebook personal computers (PCs), microwave ovens, fixed general purpose light-emitting diode (LED) luminaires, printers, uninterruptible power supply (UPS) units, mobile phones and scanners are among the Chinese products that failed compliance norms. RK Bhatnagar, a former technology advisor to the department of telecommunications (DoT), said that it is a theoretical exercise and by no means conclusive. “The bigger question is how many of these Chinese companies are manufacturing these products because that number will be substantially lower,” he said. “The registration is only on paper. The actual number of functional manufacturers will depend on how many set up their units and sourced equipment via imports or otherwise,” he said . “Actual manufacturers may well be less than 100,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2020-over-50-mobile-gadget-manufacturers-registered-with-bis-are-chinese-says-govt/story-vWnl5nmC46JZ8kPmVNaoJO.html
22-09-2020||India||China doubled its air bases, air defences and heliports near LAC in three years: Report||China began building at least 13 new military positions, including airbases and air defence units, near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India after the 2017 standoff at Doklam, with work on four heliports beginning after the current tensions in Ladakh. Details of these military positions are outlined in a report released on Tuesday by Stratfor, a leading security and intelligence consultancy. The new positions include three airbases, five permanent air defence positions and five heliports. “Construction on four of those new heliports started only after the onset of the current Ladakh crisis in May,” said the report authored by Sim Tack, a Belgium-based security and a military analyst with Stratfor. “The 2017 Doklam crisis appears to have shifted China’s strategic objectives, with China more than doubling its total number of airbases, air defence positions, and heliports near the Indian border over the past three years,” it added. The Chinese military is building four air defence positions within existing airbases, and other facilities such as additional runways and shelters that will help obscure combat aircraft from observation. It has also been deploying more air defence systems and fighter aircraft to existing facilities, the report said. Amid the current standoff in Ladakh that became public in early May, there have been numerous reports of China deploying additional troops, special forces, armoured units and air defence units on the Tibetan plateau. Analysis of open source satellite imagery has shown that China has created a surface-to-air missile site on the banks of Mansarovar Lake in Tibet, and is developing similar facilities to cover sensitive stretches of the disputed border in the Doklam and Sikkim sectors. A graphic included in the Stratfor report showed that China had only one heliport and one air defence site on the Tibetan plateau in 2016, and there was a substantial expansion and upgrade of its military infrastructure in the area since 2019. Last year, China developed four airbases, four air defence sites, one heliport and one electronic warfare station. China has developed four airbases, four heliports and one air defence site on the Tibetan plateau this year. Work on heliports and one airbase began after the tensions in Ladakh. “The rapid expansion of permanent Chinese military infrastructure points to intentions that span a wider timeframe than current and recent border standoffs,” the report said. Also Read: India-China military commanders to meet at least twice more before disengagement commencesA significant portion of China’s recent infrastructure developments is aimed at “strengthening its ability to project air power along the entire Indian border” and exploiting potential “gaps in India’s capabilities”. The report surmised that such “long-term developments rise above the more immediate deployments that China conducted in its previous border standoffs with India, and indicates future intent to ramp up Chinese assertive military posturing in border disputes with India”. “China’s strategy aims to confront India with an insurmountable challenge in territorial disputes by leaning on broad support capabilities that provide Beijing with a tremendous ability to mobilise forces into disputed border areas,” it said, adding that such an approach is similar to Beijing’s strategy in the South China Sea, where a build-up of permanent defence facilities supports Chinese “localised military superiority and significantly raises the potential cost of military opposition to Beijing’s maritime claims in the region”. By applying the same strategy on the LAC, China aims to “discourage Indian resistance or military action during future border disputes by ostentatiously demonstrating its ability and intent to engage in military confrontations”. Following a string of smaller skirmishes that culminated in the June 15 clash, which killed 20 Indian soldiers and also caused unspecified Chinese casualties, the two sides have deployed around 50,000 additional troops each along the LAC. After several rounds of military and diplomatic talks failed to take forward the disengagement process, China resorted to “provocative” military manoeuvres on August 29 and 30 that were thwarted by the Indian side. Also Read: India’s imports from China dip 27.63 per cent during April-August: Piyush GoyalThis was followed by a string of incidents in which guns were fired for the first time along the LAC since 1975, though there were no casualties. “China’s intensified development of military infrastructure on the Indian border suggests a shift in Beijing’s approach to territorial disputes, forcing New Delhi to rethink its national security posture,” the Stratfor report said. While China’s new developments are geographically focused on Ladakh, its activity “across India’s entire border will likely drive future expansions of Indian military infrastructure near disputed borders at Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh”, it said. The report warned: “By forcing India to respond in kind, China’s aggressive strategy is leading to a greater concentration of military assets in heavily disputed areas along the border that could raise the risk of potential escalations and sustained conflict.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-doubled-its-air-bases-air-defences-and-heliports-near-lac-in-three-years-report/story-LgpbHDWgdfuh4cHwgyeQXP.html
22-09-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Special court sends Swapna Suresh to 4-day NIA custody||A special NIA court in Kochi on Tuesday sent Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the high-profile Kerala gold smuggling case, to four-day custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for questioning.The court also allowed Suresh to see her relatives during the custody period. During the hearing, Suresh informed the court that she does not have any health issues now.Meantime, an Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) court granted default bail to the accused Sandeep Nair in the gold smuggling case being probed by the Customs department.The bail was granted as the Customs did not file a charge sheet within the stipulated period of 60 days. However, Nair will continue to remain in prison as he is also accused in the case, which has invoked the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the matter.According to the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), an accused is entitled to default bail if a charge sheet is not filed within 60-90 days as per the offence, however, for UAPA cases, agencies have 180 days to file a charge sheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-special-court-sends-swapna-suresh-to-4-day-nia-custody/story-UsRdrW2ZL7jsytZBAVX0vL.html
22-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: 7 crucial bills passed by Rajya Sabha||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed seven important bills across the spectrums of education, commodities, health, banking, corporate, forensic medicine etc. These bills were passed during the ninth day of the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament.These seven bills will now be presented to President Ram Nath Kovind and as per Article 111 in The Constitution Of India 1949- he will further declare whether he assents to the specific bill or withholds assent.Here is what you need to know about the bills passed by the Rajya Sabha so far:1. IIIT Amendment BillThis bill declares five newly established Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) as institutes of national importance. These five IIITs set up under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode are situated in Surat, Bhopal, Bhagalpur, Agartala, and Raichur. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had introduced this bill on Monday. Under the provisions, these five IIITs along with 15 IIITs which are also built on PPP mode will be enabled to use the nomenclature of BTech, MTech or PhD degrees. It will also allow institutes to attract sufficient students that are required to strengthen research in the field of information technology.2. Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) BillThe bill ensures protection for healthcare workers. “The government took advise from various law experts before introducing this act. Under this act those who insult our corona warriors will be asked to pay fine or may even get jail term,” Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said in the Lok Sabha.3. Essential Commodities (Amendment) BillThe Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill aims to remove cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes as essential goods. The bill was passed through a voice vote in the Upper House. The bill also seeks to remove fears of private investors of excessive regulatory interference in their business operations. Minister of state for consumer affairs, food and public distribution Danve Raosaheb Dadarao said the amendment will boost investment in the agricultural sector and will create more storage capacities to reduce the post-harvest loss of crops.4. Companies (Amendment) BillThe Rajya Sabha passed the Companies (Amendment) Bill 2020, which amends 48 sections of the Companies Act 2013. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman moved the bill for passing in the Upper House and said that amendments divided into two compartments are focused on decriminalisation and increasing the ease of living.5. Banking Regulation (Amendment) BillThe Upper House passed amendments to the banking regulation act to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which comes in the backdrop of the PMC scam, aims to strengthen cooperative banks by increasing their professionalism, enabling access to capital, improving governance and ensuring sound banking through the central bank. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the amendments have been brought to completely protect the interest of depositors.6. The National Forensic Sciences University BillThe National Forensic Sciences University Bill, 2020 was moved in the Upper House by the minister of state for home, G Kishan Reddy. It aims to firstly establish Gujarat Forensic Sciences University and Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan National Institute of Criminology and Forensic Sciences, New Delhi under one name called the National Forensic Sciences University in Gujarat. It also promotes studies in the field of forensic science amid an increasing rate of crime across states.7. Rashtriya Raksha University BillAnother bill moved by Reddy, the Rashtriya Raksha University Bill seeks to upgrade Raksha Shakti University in Gujarat with its changed name and as an institute of national importance. It imparts education in the field of professional security, strategic and defence-related matters. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-7-crucial-bills-passed-by-rajya-sabha/story-SVw0mrJPimqiX15UlU7ycJ.html
22-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha commotion resonates in Bihar, support for Harivansh pours in||The resonance of unruly scenes - torn papers, broken microphones and sloganeering - that unfolded in Rajya Sabha on Sunday when a group of MPs from the Opposition benches surrounded the Chairman’s desk, where deputy chairman Harivansh sat while conducting the House proceedings, is being felt in election-bound Bihar.Harivansh is a native of the state and a member of the ruling JD(U). Senior BJP and JD(U) leaders, while condemning the Opposition MPs’ conduct, have made pointed references to the “heckling”, “abuse” and “disrespect” shown to him. The Opposition MPs created a commotion in the House after the chair refused to grant more time for discussion on two contentious farm bills that were passed by a voice vote. The Opposition also alleged that their demand for seeking a division of votes was not met; violating the parliamentary procedure.Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP, Jairam Ramesh alleged that the BJP is politicising the issue. He tweeted, “The shadow of the forthcoming Bihar elections has fallen over Parliament now. It is all very well for Constitutional authorities to demand respect. They must, in fact, command respect by their non-partisan actions.”Also read: Rajya Sabha passes bill to bring co-op banks under RBI supervision माननीय हरिवंश जी! आपका ह्रदय से अभिनन्दन। राज्य सभा में उपसभापति पद पर हुए अपमान से आप आहात हैं और पूरा देश भी। महामहिम राष्ट्रपति को लिखा आपका पत्र बहुत प्रेरणादायी है। (1/3) pic.twitter.com/jwA3kZUUE1On Monday, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who represents Patna Sahib constituency in the Lok Sabha, referred to the ruckus and said the party will not politicise the issue. Prasad, however, linked the issue to Bihari pride. “Harivansh ji is an eminent writer, we have all felt very bad at the treatment meted out to him. An eminent Indian who hails from Bihar was humiliated; the people of Bihar will give a response. Harivansh ji remained dignified… We will not make it a political issue but people are hurt,” the minister said.The minister also trained his guns at the Opposition and said, “The way the Congress and the RJD were silent and even encouraged the protesting MPs in the Rajya Sabha, this will be told to the people of the state. Both the Congress and the RJD will have to answer.”On Tuesday, following reports that the 8 MPs who were suspended for their conduct in the House declined to have the tea which Harivansh carried to their protest site inside Parliament complex, Prime Minister Narendra Modi put out two tweets to appreciate the deputy chairperson’s gesture. माननीय राष्ट्रपति जी को माननीय हरिवंश जी ने जो पत्र लिखा, उसे मैंने पढ़ा। पत्र के एक-एक शब्द ने लोकतंत्र के प्रति हमारी आस्था को नया विश्वास दिया है। यह पत्र प्रेरक भी है और प्रशंसनीय भी। इसमें सच्चाई भी है और संवेदनाएं भी। मेरा आग्रह है, सभी देशवासी इसे जरूर पढ़ें। pic.twitter.com/K9uLy53xIB“To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji,” the PM said.In an earlier tweet, there was a reference to his Bihar roots. “For centuries, the great land of Bihar has been teaching us the values of democracy. In line with that wonderful ethos, MP from Bihar and Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Shri Harivansh Ji’s inspiring and statesman-like conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud,” the PM said.This is the second time when the PM has invoked the deputy chairperson’s connection with the state where elections are expected in November. On September 14, when Harivansh was re-elected to the position for the second term, the PM mentioned how he belonged to “the land of democracy.”Also read: ‘Glided like snakes... now silent’ - Sena slams BJP’s silence on Kangana’s ‘terrorist’ remark “When anyone who is a seeker of democracy, from the land of democracy, Bihar, from JP’s (Jayprakash Narayan) and Karpuri Thakur’s land, from Bapu’s (Mahatma Gandhi) Champaran, steps forward to take responsibility, this is what happens… what Harivansh has accomplished,” the PM said while complimenting his conduct of the House. Support for Harivash, who will undertake a day-long fast, anguished by the occurrence in the house and the “humiliating” conduct against him also poured in from Vice President Venkaiah Naidu who expressed displeasure over the ruckus in the House.“This is a Gandhian way, this is the JP way. We shouldn’t try to score political points… Despite everything, Harivansh ji made tea at home and brought it for the protesting MPs,” Naidu said.In Bihar, where the BJP is part of the government in alliance with the JD(U), the party that Harivansh belongs to, deputy chief minister Sushil Modi also said the incident has “hurt the pride of Bihar”. While the NDA feels that the issue will impact the electoral outcome in the state, Shankar Dutt of the Patan University said the polls will be dominated by issues of “healthcare, employment and education that has not been able to address concerns about employability.”“The statements made by the political parties are for scoring brownie points, but I don’t think it will have an electoral impact,” he said.While a no-confidence motion against Harivansh moved by the opposition was not admitted, AAP’s Sanjay Singh, Derek O’Brien, and Dola Sen of Trinamool Congress; Congress’ Rajiv Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain, and Ripun Bora; CPIM’s KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem were suspended for the remainder of the session for “gross disorderly conduct” after the House passed a motion by voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-commotion-resonates-in-bihar-support-for-harivansh-pours-in/story-Bjv0nnKLRwBGsjIGQ3UD7K.html
22-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s judicial custody extended till October 6 by special NDPS court||Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty’s judicial custody was on Tuesday extended till October 6 by a special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, court. Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 8 for her alleged involvement in a drugs case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death on June 14. Before this, she was remanded to 14-day judicial custody.According to news agency ANI, Chakraborty and Showik moved bail applications in the Bombay High Court in connection with the drug case related to Rajput’s death. Her lawyer Satish Manshinde said the matter will come up for hearing on Wednesday and the details of the application will be shared after the hearing, ANI added.Also read | NCB to summon Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh, Simone KhambattaThe 28-year-old was arrested on the basis of statements from other accused who have been arrested in connection with the case. She was confronted with Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and his house staff Dipesh Sawant to ascertain their roles in an alleged drug racket.Also Watch | Sushant case: Bail plea of Rhea, Showik & 4 others rejected in drug angle probe A special court had denied bail to Chakraborty on September 11, saying if she was released on bail she might alert others and they might destroy evidence. In her plea, Chakraborty had stated that she was innocent and falsely implicated. She has been booked under several sections of the NDPS act.Chakraborty has been charged under Section 8(c) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, warehouse, use, consume, import); 20(b)(ii) (punishment for contravention in relation to the cannabis plant and cannabis where such contravention relates to small quantity, involves quantity lesser than commercial quantity but greater than small quantity, involves commercial quantity); 22 (punishment for contravention in relation to psychotropic substances); 27A (punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders); 28 (punishment for attempts to commit offences); and 29 (punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy) of the NDPS act.Dozens of people, including Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and drug peddlers from Mumbai and Goa have been arrested and questioned by the agency so far.The special NDPS court had also rejected the bail plea of alleged drug peddler Abdul Basit Parihar, Zaid Vilatra, Rajput’s personal staff Sawant and Rhea’s associate Miranda, who were also arrested by NCB in the case.Also read | NCB probe leads to Pak and drug cartels; Bollywood A-listers under scannerThree other accused -- Sawant, Miranda and Parihar -- have already filed their bail pleas before the high court. Bombay High Court had last week adjourned the hearings on the bail pleas of three accused to September 29.NCB had launched an investigation after it received communication from Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.ED had registered an Enforcement Case Information Report in the late actor’s death case on July 31 after a first information report (FIR) was filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh against Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28.Rajput was found dead at his residence in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-actor-rhea-chakraborty-s-judicial-custody-extended-till-october-6-by-special-ndps-court/story-N7N8W6YDom7XUDep3xlbUM.html
22-09-2020||India||Sharad Pawar stages one day fast to support suspended Rajya Sabha MPs||Former Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on Tuesday criticised Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh for his conduct during the passage of two contentious farm bills on Sunday and said he is holding a day-long fast in solidarity with eight members of the House suspended for protesting against it.The eight were suspended on Monday for the remainder of Parliament’s ongoing monsoon session for storming the Well of the House and charging towards Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings on Sunday. Parliament marshals formed a double-layered barricade to protect Harivansh. The lawmakers were angry as their demand for the division of votes on the bills was ignored. The bills were passed by voice vote while the opposition wanted them to be referred to a select committee.Pawar called Harivansh’s behaviour objectionable and added it does not suit the reputation of the Upper House. “I have decided not to have food today [Tuesday] to express my support for the eight members of Rajya Sabha. The members wanted a proper discussion on the farm bills but the deputy chairman chose to pass them without discussion and that too with a voice vote,” he said. “I have never seen such a behaviour by a presiding officer in any of the Houses where I have been a member for 50 years.”Pawar said he is happy that the lawmakers did not touch the tea Harivansh offered the eight lawmakers and continued their protest. “...It would also be a bold statement to make that the protests would bring changes in the deputy chairman’s behaviour and thus I would not dare to make it,” he said.Harivansh on Tuesday met eight lawmakers, who staged an all-night sit-in on the lawns of Parliament, and offered them tea and snacks. The lawmakers declined the refreshment and appeared unwilling to end their protest even as Harivansh said he will undertake a day-long fast over the “humiliating conduct against him”.Pawar said the ideas of Gandhi have never been destroyed like this in the country. He questioned the intentions of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government regarding the farm bills. Pawar said there was no reason to clear the bills in one go. “There was a doubt in the minds of the members over the Centre’s intention because it is claiming to make the market free for all and also boasts that farmers can sell their produce wherever they want. But on the other hand, they impose a ban on the export of onions,” Pawar said.The Directorate General of Foreign Trade banned all exports of the item on Monday following a shortage and sudden increase in prices in the domestic market.Pawar, who backed the farmers’ agitation against the legislation, underlined his Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) does not support the bills. “[NCP lawmakers] Supriya Sule in Lok Sabha and Praful Patel in Rajya Sabha have opposed the bills.” He added he could not attend the Parliament’s proceedings as he stayed in Mumbai to discuss the Maratha reservation issue.Pawar said he has also received a notice from the income tax department over financial statements he has submitted with his election affidavits for the last three elections. “The notice says that the Election Commission is not satisfied with the details shared and thus the department has sought the clarification. I heard even Supriya Sule is also going to get such a notice. It looks like they have much love and respect for some people.”Pawar said he has read somewhere that similar notices have been sent to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son, Aaditya Thackeray. He was responding to a question on whether he was being targeted because NCP is an ally of Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-stages-one-day-fast-to-support-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps/story-RTJPzlJ207Ym4T01RGVePK.html
22-09-2020||India||NCP chief Sharad Pawar to fast, express solidarity with suspended Rajya Sabha MPs||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said on Tuesday he will observe a fast to express solidarity with the eight suspended members of the Rajya Sabha, including Trinamool Congress’ Derek O’Brien.These eight MPs were suspended for the remaining part of the current monsoon session by the Rajya Sabha chairperson, M Venkaiah Naidu, for their ‘unruly behaviour’ with the House deputy chairperson Harivansh on Sunday. The MPs have said they were voicing their apprehensions regarding the passage of the two bills introduced by the Centre which aims to revitalise the country’s agricultural sector.“I will also take part in their (eight suspended Rajya Sabha MPs) movement,” Pawar, the former Union agriculture minister, said.Pawar-led NCP opposed the passage of the three bills in the Lok Sabha. NCP member Supriya Sule in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MP Praful Patel opposed the introduction and the passage of the bills.Apart from O’Brien, Trinamool Congress’ Dola Sen, the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) Sanjay Singh, Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain, KK Ragesh and Elamaram Karim of the CPI(M) were suspended for a week.The MPs began their protest on late on Monday against their suspension. On Tuesday morning, Harivansh met the protesting MPs and offered them tea but they refused. The deputy chairperson said will also fast to protest the misbehaviour of the suspended parliamentarians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-to-fast-express-solidarity-with-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps/story-bUcpdXxIafYW5QpjUmatSM.html
22-09-2020||India||An exclusive sneak peek into Hindustan Times E-Tourism Conclave||Hindustan Times E-Tourism Conclave, a two-day webinar on the road ahead for travel and tourism in India, is set to showcase the country’s leading efforts in reviving its most beloved sector.This year, not unlike last year, the conclave will have a stellar line-up of industry leaders, policymakers and stakeholders voice their concerns and find solutions. The e-conclave will be held between September 24-25, and will focus on the theme: Indian Tourism – Road to Recovery ‘Refocus, Reboot, Revive’. There will be a total of eight sessions spread over two days. Giving a sneak peek into what the e-conclave has in store, some of the panelists share their views.Vikram Kapur, Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu, says, “Certain concessions in terms of waivers, deferment of taxes be provided, given that State governments have limited fiscal space. Even though hotels have opened, there is no footfall – the leisure sector is not on the list of priority for the consumer. People have lost jobs, there have been cuts in salaries, so when disposable household income is limited, it will definitely not be a priority to spend on travel and hospitality.” Exploring viable solutions, he mulls, “We need to see how we can kick-start this demand. Marketing can only help to an extent, but then you also need funding. Perhaps the Central government can look at ways to fund the States to offer discounts and subsidies on travel. LTC scheme is there for government employees and even the private sector has leave concessions, which is a way of putting money in the pockets of the consumer to help them travel. Incentives and discounts on travel fare, hotel rooms etc. will help boost the demand. I think it is only a matter of time before people develop that confidence.”Read: HT E-Tourism Conclave: Redefining the future of tourism in India in the new normalTP Rajesh, MD and Commissioner of Tourism, Government of Tamil Nadu, says, “We will now try to focus on domestic tourism. Barring hill stations, hotels have opened, but we still haven’t reached normalcy.” Highlighting the importance of an event of this nature, he explains, “One side of it is the tourists, others being the stakeholders. We want to know what is in the mind of the stakeholders so that when we develop policies or initiatives, we will know their ideas. It provides one common platform for the aggregation of ideas. Tamil Nadu has some great stories to tell; we have identified 290 new tourism sites. We want to put it on a professional platform and leverage those strengths.”Films have always been at the intersection of demographics, continuously opening up new destinations. Be it the hidden gems of the heartland, or the more popular hill and seaside locations, films always fascinate with their geographical cinemascape. Effortlessly, they become symbiotic partners in this cycle of economic growth, too. Filmmaker Kunal Kohli, says, “There is an urgent to kick-start both these industries. A film shoot by its very nature has a whole lot of people working on it. With the advent of OTT, so much more content is being produced. India stories are very much in demand and people want to see different parts of the country for the content they are craving for. It means locations, and if every State can provide infrastructure and support to the crew, then we can work together and shoot all over the country. We will be using a lot of local resources - drivers, cooks, location managers, local actors and accommodation. It will be a revival for their business as well as our business. The film and the tourism industry need to work together and collaborate to find ways to generate employment for both industries.”Read: The future of travel: Slow, meaningful and closer to homeThe event is in partnership with Bihar Tourism, Chhattisgarh Tourism, Delhi Tourism, Gujarat Tourism, IRCTC, Tamil Nadu Tourism. Airline partner: Spicejet. Experiential holidays partner: Club Mahindra. Catch all the action live on September 24 and 25, 11am onwards on Hindustan Times’ Facebook Page.Follow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-exclusive-sneak-peek-into-hindustan-times-e-tourism-conclave/story-hXgjr8g6aMBHmxjC8IJCJN.html
22-09-2020||India||CBI gets letter rogatory to investigate fund flow in Vijay Mallya’s bank accounts||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has obtained a letter rogatory for an investigation into the flow of funds into Vijay Mallya’s accounts for evidence in the trial the businessman faces in two cheating and fraud cases in India. Courts of one country seek the assistance of the courts in another for the administration of justice there through letters rogatory.The CBI has said it has reasons to believe that the loans Mallya availed from Indian banks were diverted and invested in companies based in countries like the US, UK, and Switzerland. It has called the funds lying in accounts associated with Mallya in such countries as “the proceeds of crime”.Also read: SC asks Centre to clear stand on winding up of Mallya’s United Breweries Holdings LimitedMallya is among those who have fled India in recent years to escape prosecution including in loan defaults cases. He lost an appeal in Britain’s High Court in April against a 2018 decision to extradite him to India to face fraud charges linked to the collapse of his defunct company Kingfisher Airlines. Kingfisher is alleged to have taken loans with no intention of repaying them.The CBI obtained the letter on Monday from a special court to ascertain the utilisation of funds received in an account with the American First Commerce Bank (now Pacific Premier Bank) from December 2007 to March 2009. It has sought evidence related to $20 million remitted by Airbus SAS (France) in June 2008 and over $5 million from the State Bank of Mauritius, etc.The agency has said loans Mallya and his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines availed from IDBI Bank, State Bank of India, and other consortium banks were diverted for purposes other than those avowed to the banks.Kingfisher Airlines was incurring losses from its inception. It faced net losses of Rs 2,168 crores in the financial year that ended in March 2009. By 2009, Kingfisher had availed loans worth Rs 4,998.50 crore from various banks.As the consortium of banks sought to recover the dues, Mallya left India for the UK. The CBI initiated a probe against Mallya, Kingfisher Airlines, and IDBI bank officials in 2015 for cheating and conspiracy to dupe banks. The Enforcement Directorate is probing money laundering charges against Mallya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-gets-letter-rogatory-to-investigate-fund-flow-in-vijay-mallya-s-bank-accounts/story-fwklY4gPFdH8SCQebqziyJ.html
22-09-2020||India||Sikkim assembly holds one-day session; tourism services to resume in October||The one-day session of the Sikkim legislative assembly was held on Monday amidst lockdown in Gangtok. The week-long lockdown started on Monday after a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases.Three ministers and two legislators, who had tested positive, did not attend the session. The legislators and assembly staff were tested for Covid-19 on Friday. The assembly has 32 members. Sikkim was among the first states to impose a complete ban on entry of domestic and foreign tourists and migrant workers. The administration has now decided to allow free inter-state movement of people from October 1. Hotels and tourism-related services will be allowed to operate from October 10. Also read: ‘Provide food to sex workers during lockdown’ - SC tells Centre, statesAn order issued by the government said, “Inner line permits for foreign tourists having valid visas shall be issued from October 10 and helicopter services from Bagdogra airport to Gangtok will resume regular operations from October 1.” Every year, more than 10 lakh tourists visit Sikkim and Darjeeling-Kalimpong hills and more than 15 percent of the population in the region is depended on tourism. Tourism centres and hotels in Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills have already opened. Sikkim reported 28 deaths and 2,391 Covid-19 cases till Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-assembly-holds-one-day-session-tourism-services-to-resume-in-october/story-5DjLiFCKO3gdBLc4UkYjBM.html
22-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: RS passes bill to bring co-operative banks under RBI supervision||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, to bring co-operative banks under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).During the discussion on the bill, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the House that several co-operative banks came under stress during the Covid-19 pandemic and their finances are being closely monitored by banking sector regulator Reserve Bank of India (RBI).The amendment is to protect the interests of depositors and the legislation will help a quick recovery in cases of stressed co-operative banks without any moratorium, she said. Also Watch | ‘Don’t move towards one nation, one party’: Opposition boycotts Rajya Sabha Sitharaman assured the House that the legislation empowers the central bank to regulate only the banking activities of co-operatives and it is not applicable to a primary agricultural credit society or a co-operative society providing finance for agricultural development.The bill has already been passed by the Lok Sabha on September 16.Also read: Overnight protests, work beyond midnight for two consecutive eveningsIndia has different types of co-operative banks -- urban co-operative banks (UCBs) and rural co-operative banks (RCBs). RCBs are classified into state co-operative banks (StCBs) and district central co-operative banks (DCCBs). According to the RBI, as on March 31, 2019, there were 1,544 UCBs, 34 StCBs and 352 DCCBs. Total amount of deposits of all UCBs as on March 31, 2019 was Rs 484,315.85 crore and RCBs was Rs 505,859.16 crore.The amendments do not affect existing powers of the state registrars of co-operative societies under state co-operative laws.The legislation also enables making of a scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation of a banking entity for protecting the interest of depositors without resorting to moratorium that freeze withdrawals by depositors. The bill replaces an ordinance that was promulgated in pursuance of the commitment “to ensure safety of depositors across banks” by the President on June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2020-rs-passes-bill-to-bring-co-op-banks-under-rbi-supervision/story-lhTpMkVjlKY7bW21PDdiPJ.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Mismanagement in private Covid-19 hospitals across state’: Madhya Pradesh Opposition||The Opposition in Madhya Pradesh assembly raised the issue of alleged mismanagement in private dedicate Covid-19 hospitals across the state and demanded effective steps to check the same. The assembly, in its monsoon session, convened for a day on Monday in view of Covid-19 situation and passed at least 10 amendment bills, a finance bill and certain other bills without any discussion.Congress leader Govind Singh wanted a discussion on the finance bill but parliamentary affairs minister Narottam Mishra urged the protem speaker Rameshwar Sharma not to allow a discussion while citing the unanimous decision taken in the all-party meeting prior to the session. On this, leader of Opposition Kamal Nath said the members who wanted a discussion could submit their views in writing that could be incorporated in the proceedings. While Nath raised the issue of alleged mismanagement in the private hospitals, senior Congress MLA KP Singh expressed his concern over huge gatherings in the meeting held by political parties.Singh said, “The government has imposed a ban on religious programmes and processions but there are huge gatherings in the political programmes irrespective of the political party.”Also read: Congress to boycott session, says Opposition’s views not accommodatedNath said, “There is a lot of mismanagement in private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. We have received several complaints that even such patients were treated as Covid-19 patients who didn’t test positive for the infection. There should be an inquiry into such complaints. There should be a complaint centre where people can go and tell the authorities that they have been cheated.”Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, in his reply, said, “This pandemic is new for all of us. Nobody knew what would be the situation. There is no vaccine but we are doing our best to control the disease.”He said, “The situation was under control till there was a lockdown. But lockdown couldn’t go on for an indefinite period. As the economy was ruined there was the decision on unlocking during which virus has further spread.”He said, “The state has reported 108,167 Covid-19 cases till date. But it’s a matter of satisfaction that the recovery rate is more than 77 percent. There are 25,542 active cases in the state at present. However, there are states which have 2 to 2.5 lakh active cases. There have been 2007 deaths so far i.e. 1.89 percent of the total Covid-19 cases. Madhya Pradesh is at the 16th position in the country. I am not saying this is an achievement but in the past six months we have strengthened our testing and treatment facilities comprehensively.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mismanagement-in-private-covid-19-hospitals-madhya-pradesh-opposition/story-fivycHZB7EfRt2tDNX9ANI.html
22-09-2020||India||Kejriwal, Sisodia laud suspended Rajya Sabha MPs for taking up farmers cause||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday lauded Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Sanjay Singh and other suspended Rajya Sabha MPs, for “fighting for the farmers, regardless of the heat, mosquitoes and other inconveniences” while holding a protest at the Parliament premises.Singh has been suspended from Rajya Sabha along with seven other MPs for unruly behaviour with Deputy Chairman Harivansh during a discussion on agriculture reform Bills on September 20.Kejriwal and Sisodia took to Twitter and said that suspended MPs are fighting for the farmers.“Sanjay Singh ji and other MPs struggled throughout the night for the farmers of the country in the Parliament premises. They continued to fight for the farmers, regardless of the heat, mosquitoes and other inconveniences. They are not asking for anything for themselves. They are fighting for democracy and constitution. They are struggling for the farmers of the country,” Kejriwal said in a tweet.“Farmers across the country are saying that these laws will put an end to the farmers. How can such dangerous laws passed by Parliament without voting? Then what is the meaning of Parliament, what is the meaning of elections? If you want to pass the law in the same way then why do you call the Parliament session?,” he added.Sisodia alleged that the government is behaving like the Britishers.“The British used to run like this - used to commit the crime on the common farmers, traders and workers of India. Black laws were made against them so that Britishers could commit more crimes. Then when Gandhiji and other leaders used to meet them, they also used to give tea. Our rulers are still running the government in the same English style,” Sisodia tweeted.The eight Opposition Rajya Sabha members were suspended by Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu for “unruly behaviour” with Harivansh.On Monday, Venkaiah Naidu announced the one-week suspension of Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Sanjay Singh, Congress’ Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain, CPI (M)’s KK Ragesh and Elamaram Karim for “unruly behaviour” with the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman on Sunday during the passage of the farm bills.On Sunday Rajya Sabha witnessed unruly scenes as Opposition members stormed the well and reached the deputy chairman’s seat to protest against the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and passed by the Upper House through voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-sisodia-laud-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps-for-taking-up-farmers-cause/story-owYyXinjGJ0wk0K5Z2sFcI.html
22-09-2020||India||Connect Bilaspur to Delhi-Mumbai-Kolkata air route: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel||Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri urging him to help connect Bilaspur to Delhi-Mumbai-Kolkata air route. Bilaspur is a major hub of trade and commerce in the northern region of Chhattisgarh and also connects the northern districts of the state, said CM Baghel in his letter to the Central minister. Citing the importance of Bilaspur city, the CM stated that South Eastern Coal Field Limited Headquarters, South East Central Railway Zonal Headquarters, and Raipur Railway Division are situated in Bilaspur. “The city is one of the important centers of power production in the country. The NTPC in Seepat and many Power Production Plants in Korba and Janjgir-Champa are also situated close to this city. Besides, there are many industrial areas near Bilaspur, which make an important contribution to the economy of the state. If Bilaspur is connected to metro cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata via air services, the regional air connectivity would improve and it would also boost the nation’s economy, trade, commerce, tourism, and health sectors and promote socio-economic activities,” the letter stated. On Monday, CM Baghel launched flight services from Maa Danteshwari airport in Jagdalpur under the Centre’s UDAN (Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik) scheme.Alliance Air will operate services to Raipur, some 300 kilometers away, and Hyderabad from the Danteshwari airport, which is named after the famous Goddess Danteshwari temple in Dantewada in tribal-dominated Bastar division.The Maa Danteshwari airport in Jagdalpur has been set up on an area of 57.6 hectares, with the state Public Works Department having developed the infrastructure and AAI managing the Air Traffic Control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/connect-bilaspur-to-delhi-mumbai-kolkata-air-route-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel/story-Y8WYREHhWj8VGglTtfrmUK.html
22-09-2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi to meet CMs of 7 worst-hit states on Wednesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a high-level virtual meeting on Wednesday to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country.Chief ministers and health ministers of the seven states, which have a high viral case load, will attend the virtual meeting.“The PM will chair a high-level virtual meeting with the CMs and health ministers of seven Covid-19 high-burden states and union territories (UTs) on Wednesday to review the status and preparedness of the response and management of the viral outbreak,” according to a government statement.Also Watch | Covid update: India overtakes USA; Air India ban; UK ‘tipping point’ Also read: Telangana logs 2,166 new Covid-19 cases, recovery rate climbs to 82.43%Seven states -- Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh (AP), Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh (UP), Tamil Nadu (TN), Delhi and Punjab -- have reported a high viral case load. They account for 63% of the total Covid-19 cases in the country. According to the central database, these states also account for 65.5% of the total Covid-19 cases in the country and 77% of the total deaths due to the viral infection.Punjab and Delhi along with the five other states have recently reported a daily uptick in the number of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi are reporting a case fatality rate (CFR) of at least 2%.Besides Punjab and UP, the other five states’ positivity rate is above the national average of 8.52%, according to the data shared by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW).“The Centre has been leading the fight against Covid-19 in the country in effective collaboration and close coordination with the state/UT governments. The Union Government is supporting them to ramp up the healthcare and medical infrastructure. The clinical management capacities of the doctors manning the intensive care units (ICUs) have been substantially upgraded through the e-ICU tele-consultation exercise undertaken by MoH&FW in collaboration with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi,” according to a statement issued by the ministry on Tuesday.The Centre has been holding periodic review meetings with states and even rushing teams of experts to the viral outbreak-hit states.“High-level review with the states has ensured adequate availability of oxygen in hospitals and dedicated Covid-19 healthcare facilities. The Centre is also regularly deputing multi-disciplinary teams to states and UTs to support and handhold them in matters of containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of Covid-19 cases. The Central teams also guide the local authorities in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-covid-review-meeting-with-7-high-disease-burden-states-on-wednesday/story-jMT0VfuLAhWSZ8UtOf017L.html
22-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition to boycott Rajya Sabha over suspension of MPs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Opposition to boycott Rajya Sabha until MPs’ suspension is revokedCongress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Tuesday that the suspension of eight Opposition members should be revoked and the Opposition would boycott the proceedings of the House till the demand is met. Read moreIndia rejects Pakistan’s reference to Kashmir issue at UN, calls for tackling terrorismIndia on Tuesday rejected Pakistan’s contention that the Kashmir issue is one of the most long-standing disputes at the United Nations (UN), saying Islamabad should instead focus on the unfinished task of tackling terrorism. Read moreIPL 2020, RR vs CSK: MS Dhoni five sixes away from joining Rohit Sharma, Suresh Raina in elite T20 listThe MS Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings will be the clear favourites when they take on Rajasthan Royals in the opening game of the contest. Dhoni needs five sixes to take his total tally to 300 in T20 cricket. Read moreKhaali Peeli trailer: Ishaan Khatter and Ananya Panday are on the run from Jaideep AhlawatThe makers of Khaali Peeli have dropped the first trailer for the film online. The movie stars Ananya Panday as a young woman on the run who ends up in Ishaan Khatter’s taxi, striking a cool new partnership. Khaali Peeli is a story about two childhood sweethearts, Pooja and Blackie, who get separated during their young age but are brought back together by a crazy situation. Read moreOver 500,000 Activision accounts hacked, Call of Duty players’ data, password at riskA massive data breach at Activision has let hackers access usernames and passwords of over hundreds of thousands of its customer accounts. Reported by Dexerto, more than 500,000 Activision accounts have been hacked and the user credentials have been publicly leaked for Call of Duty players and others. Read moreDucati rides in Scrambler 1100 Pro in India at ₹11.95 lakhDucati on Tuesday launched the Scrambler 1100 Pro in the Indian market at ₹11.95 lakh. The higher Scrambler 1100 ‘Sport Pro’ is priced at ₹13.74 lakh. This is the second new BS 6-compliant motorcycle from the iconic Italian bike maker after the Panigale V2 which was introduced back in August. Read moreGo for a holiday, hug strangers: Tweeple share what they’d do if the pandemic disappearedRemember back when on New Year’s Eve in 2019 you made a list of things you wanted to do in 2020? Things like travel more, try new cuisines, go to the gym every day, visit family and friends more often - and many more such ideas and resolutions made up the plan for the next year. Read more‘Not the NDA of old’: Will Sukhbir Badal’s SAD snap BJP ties? | On The RecordIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on the issue of the contentious agricultural bills. As its ties with the BJP have come under strain over the issue, the SAD is yet to decide on the continuation of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-opposition-to-boycott-rajya-sabha-over-suspension-of-mps-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LAuN7WGNtWdCZsvVXTaxIL.html
22-09-2020||India||PM Modi to hold talks with Sri Lankan counterpart on Sept 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is slated to hold discussions with his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa on September 26 via video conference, sources said.However, no official announcement has been made.Last week, Sri Lankan Prime Minister had telephoned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and expressed strong desire and commitment to further strengthen the relationship between the two neighbouring countries.“The President of Sri Lanka, Gotabaya Rajapaksa and the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka, Mahinda Rajapaksa called Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi earlier today to convey warm wishes on the occasion of the Prime Minister’s birthday,” Prime Minister’s office had said in a statement.Prime Minister Modi had thanked both the leaders for their warm wishes and conveyed that he is looking forward to work with them to further expand cooperation between the two countries in line with India’s Neighbourhood First policy.“Both Sri Lankan leaders expressed their strong desire and commitment to further strengthen the relationship between the neighbouring countries. They expressed appreciation for the continued bilateral cooperation including in the joint fight against Covid pandemic,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-talks-with-sri-lankan-counterpart-on-sept-26/story-IilSmVW9i01s5zE0FgmKBP.html
22-09-2020||India||Glided like snakes, now silent: Sena slams BJP’s silence on Kangana’s ‘terrorist’ remark||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over its silence on Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut’s tweet calling farmers protesting the farm bills passed by the government as “terrorists”. The Sena, in an editorial in Saamana, said that the political party that “glided like snakes” to what the actress said are now silent on the “insult” to farmers. After the bills were passed by the Rajya Sabha amid din on Sunday, Prime minister Narendra Modi, in a series of tweets, reassured the farmers that the MSP and the government procurement of farmers’ produce will continue. Ranaut picked up one of PM’s tweets, described the protesters as “the same terrorists who indulged in bloodshed even though no countryman lost citizenship due to CAA”. जैसे श्री कृष्ण की नारायणी सेना थी, वैसे ही पप्पु की भी अपनी एक चंपू सेना है जो की सिर्फ़ अफ़वाहों के दम पे लड़ना जानती है, यह है मेरा अरिजिनल ट्वीट अगर कोई यह सिद्ध करदे की मैंने किसानों को आतंकी कहा, मैं माफ़ी माँगकर हमेशा केलिए ट्वीटर छोड़ दूँगी 🙏 https://t.co/26LwVH1QD9The actor later clarified that she did not call farmers terrorists and dared anybody to prove it. On Monday, the actor tweeted, “Like Lord Krishna has Narayani Army, similarly Pappu has his Champu army that knows only to fight on the basis of rumours. This is my original tweet, if somebody can prove that I called farmers terrorists then I will apologize and leave Twitter forever.”Also read: Please return farmers’ niwala’ - AAP’s Sanjay Singh responds to PM ModiWithout naming Ranaut, the editorial said, “Farmers fighting for their rights are ‘terrorists’, if anyone is saying this then it is dishonesty. But the political parties that glide like a snake when an actress speaks are now silent on the insult of the farmers.”ALSO WATCH | Kangana Ranaut on Anurag Kashyap harassment charge: ‘Many big heroes...’  It added that farmers are being called “dishonest” and “terrorists”, but what recourse is left for them then to commit suicide. In a veiled attack on Ranaut, the editorial said, “Farmers are terrorists, Mumbai is Pakistan and the civic body is Babar’s army et cetera,. Leave other accusations but the ruling BJP should at least remove their face mask over the insult of the farmers. This was our only expectation.”It also asked if the bills brought by the Modi government were “revolutionary and historical” why was coercion and the majority used to get the Bills approved. The editorial added the bills have led to “peaceful” protests by farmers in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Also read: Congress to boycott session, says Opposition’s views not accommodated“In Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, farmers have come out on the streets to protest against the farm bills. They have blocked roads at many places. When all this was going on in moderation and peace, what symptoms would it be to term them terrorists?” it said.Further attacking the BJP, the editorial added, “Farmers have been lathi-charged and have cases registered against them. This is extreme. Even Babur’s army did not do this much oppression. But the people who have made this country ‘Sujalaam, Suflaam’, have been termed terrorists by a pro-BJP actress. If the protesting farmers are terrorists, then the government approved a new agricultural bill for all the terrorists?”The Shiv Sena took different stands in both Houses of the Parliament. When the bills were introduced in Lok Sabha, Sena MP “welcomed” it. Later, when it was tabled in Rajya Sabha, Sena took a critical view of the bills. Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that the party has taken a “neutral” stand on the bills. However, it raised questions on the bills in the editorial. “We never say that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the enemy of the farmers. The new bill has two sides. The government ended the brokership in APMC and enabled the farmers to sell their produce even outside the markets but who would buy them? This is the controversy. Big industrialists are now investing in the grocery business. This means that there is a possibility that farmers will now be caught in the new slavery of corporate companies. “Farming has also been approved to be done in a contractual manner but the scheme has flopped in the US and Europe. Farmers fear that they will not get the lowest support price. The government says this will not happen. It is all rumoured,” Shiv Sena said. If MSP will continue, why has a Union minister resigned over the farm bills and why has the farmers come to the streets to protest against the bills,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glided-like-snakes-now-silent-sena-attacks-bjp-s-silence-on-kangana-s-terrorist-remark-on-farmers/story-ZbNcpXmsSd72uxDzgt0LjI.html
22-09-2020||India||Rules for resuming film shoots in Uttar Pradesh to be released ‘very soon’||The Uttar Pradesh government is going to issue “very soon” a set of guidelines that filmmakers wishing to resume work in the state would have to adhere to. The government is in talks with prominent filmmakers. Many films, including several big budget productions, were halted midway due to the coronavirus pandemic and are waiting for the government’s nod to resume shooting. “Very soon,” said sources in the chief minister’s office (CMO) on the issue of commencement of shooting. The Centre had issued guidelines in August, allowing film shooting to resume with some preconditions which include most crew members, other than actors emoting in front of the camera, wearing kits to protect themselves. UP Film Development Council (UPFDC) chief Raju Srivastava had in August written to the government to allow shooting to resume and sought guidelines for the same. It isn’t immediately clear as to why there has been a delay in formulating and releasing guidelines for film shooting, but it’s expected that they can now be released any moment. There are many films, including some with big stars like John Abraham, a film by Anushka Sharma Productions, Kartik Aryan and Nawazuddin Siddiqui. The government is in contact with several prominent filmmakers like Subhash Ghai, David Dhawan and Boney Kapoor, whose suggestions it plans to incorporate in the revised film policy that is in the works, officials said. It is learnt that chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who met filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar in Lucknow on Sunday, will be meeting several top filmmakers to give a boost to his plans to develop the country’s biggest film city in UP. The government’s subsidy scheme for filmmakers shooting in the state too has been successful with several directors filming at locales in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rules-for-resuming-film-shoots-in-uttar-pradesh-to-be-released-very-soon/story-yZwjimfW9e448GKG9FqfUL.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Provide food to sex workers during lockdown’: SC tells Centre, states||Moved by the plight of lakhs of sex workers rendered jobless and without an alternate source of livelihood following the Covid-19 lockdown, the Supreme Court gave a week’s time to the states to respond on providing them free ration and asked Centre if something could be immediately provided to them in the exercise of its powers under the National Disaster Management Act.The bench of Justices LN Rao and Hemant Gupta said, “This is a human problem. People are not getting ration for want of ration cards. They are under severe distress.” An application filed by Darbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee before the top court said, “After the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, 2020, there was no work and no income. During April and May, sex workers scrimped through their meagre savings or took loans at exorbitant interest rates to survive. Most were dependent on the charity provided by individuals and philanthropic organizations.”The Committee represented by senior advocate Anand Grover said, “Food is the most critical need of sex workers as an assessment conducted in five states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu shows that only 52 percent of 1.2 lakh sex workers are receiving ration through the public distribution system (PDS). The situation in other cities is even worse.”Also read: Study shows at least 99% of surveyed sex workers in Pune in search of alternative livelihoodGrover demanded the Court to order free ration for sex workers across the country without insisting on ration cards as most sex workers do not have any identity documents. He said that this suggestion was approved by the top court on September 15, 2011, while hearing a PIL seeking improvement of living conditions of sex workers. The suggestion stated, “All state governments, local authorities and other appropriate authorities should issue ration cards to the sex workers, relaxing the rigours of the existing rules and/or requirements as to verification of address, without mentioning the profession in the document.”As per the National AIDS Control Organization (NACO) of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, there are over 8.68 lakh female sex workers in the country and 62,137 Hijra/transgender persons in 17 states, of which, 62 percent are engaged in sex work.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) RS Suri, who appeared for the Centre, informed the Court that the government has provided benefits to sex workers under the Ujjwala Yojna for grant of LPG cylinders. Grover pointed out that in the 5-state survey, only 8 percent of 1.2 lakh sex workers could avail of the cooking gas scheme. In addition, the sex workers demanded medicines, healthcare, school fees incentive for their kids and pension for widows and old women among their community.Grover pointed out that in April 2020, the Government announced cash support of Rs 1,500 for transgender persons to help them tide over the lockdown situation. He insisted on having something similar for sex workers. He said, “While it might seem that the condition of sex workers is no different from that of other poor, unorganized workers who are also encountering extreme hardships due to Covid-19, in reality, sex workers are worse off on account of the stigma associated with their work and the exclusion that results from such prejudice.”While posting the matter for hearing on September 29, the Court asked the Centre to consider some immediate arrangement of food and basic needs for sex workers under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-food-to-sex-workers-during-lockdown-sc-tells-centre-states/story-JlAtJ064xSaw9QB4WRzrPK.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Not fighting for tea’: AAP leader Sanjay Singh tweets after refusing tea by Harivansh||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh on Tuesday tweeted eight opposition MPs, including him, suspended for Sunday’s unprecedented chaos in the Rajya Sabha, were not fighting for tea but for the welfare of the farmers.“Mr. Modi, we are not fighting for our tea. We are fighting for the welfare of our farmers, which you have taken away. I humbly request you - I am returning your tea with all due respect, please return my farmers’ morsel,” Singh tweeted on Tuesday. मोदी जी, हम अपनी चाय के लिए नहीं लड़ रहे। हम अपने किसानों के निवाले के लिए लड़ रहे हैं, जो आपने छीना है। मेरी आपसे विनम्र बिनती है - मैं आपकी चाय पूरे आदर के साथ लौटा रहा हूँ, आप कृपया मेरे किसानों का निवाला लौटा दीजिए। https://t.co/o2QUsu0BdbHe was responding to PM Modi’s praise for Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh, who had offered tea to the suspended MPs. Harivansh is at the centre of the entire controversy.“To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji,” the Prime Minister had tweeted earlier. To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji.Singh and seven other opposition party MPs were on Monday suspended for a week by Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu for ‘heckling’ Harivansh during the passage of two of the three contentious farm bills on Sunday. The suspended MPs staged a sit-in protest throughout the night and on Tuesday morning, refused tea offered by the deputy chairman.Harivansh, meanwhile, has started a 24-hour fast of his own, which he will observe until Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/please-return-my-farmers-niwala-aap-s-sanjay-singh-responds-to-pm-modi/story-nU3AZFqYEopZTTRb0cwGpK.html
22-09-2020||India||Opposition to boycott Rajya Sabha until MPs’ suspension is revoked||The Congress and a few other Opposition parties on Tuesday boycotted the proceedings of Rajya Sabha, demanding that the suspensions of eight of its members be revoked.The government responded that it was not in favour of keeping the suspended MPs away from the House, but they must express regret over their “unruly conduct” in the House on Sunday, when two contentious farm bills were passed.Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad also demanded that the government introduce a bill mandating that private companies and even Food Corporation of India (FCI) will not purchase farm produce below the minimum support price (MSP).“The government should introduce another bill which ensures that private players do not purchase beneath the MSP. On this, farmers can move court. MSPs should be announced using the Swaminathan formula. The state corporations and FCI should not purchase below MSPs. Our colleagues who have been suspended—their suspension should be revoked. Till the time the government does not take it back, we will boycott the proceedings of the House,” Azad said.Also Read: Farm bills row: Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh to observe 24-hour fastSeveral Opposition members, including Samajwadi Party’s Ramgopal Yadav, Praful Patel and Keshav Rao, who spoke after Azad, also supported the demand to revoke the suspensions.Azad, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Upper House, said no one, whether from the ruling side or the Opposition, was happy with what happened in Rajya Sabha on Sunday. Two agricultural reform bills — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 — were cleared by voice vote in Parliament on Sunday even as the Opposition protested and stormed the well of the House seeking that they be sent to a select committee.The high-pitched protests were also the most aggressive in recent years and continued even after the House was adjourned at 1pm. Aaam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen (Trinamool Congress); Congress’ Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain, and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (M) were suspended on Monday for seven days under Rule 256(2) for “gross disorderly conduct”.Azad blamed time constraints in the House and said they often did not allow members to elucidate upon important issues. He said Lok Sabha could sit longer as proceedings began at 3pm, which provided the MPs with more time, while Rajya Sabha had to wind up early. “We fight for every minute like soldiers fight on borders,” Azad said. Also Read: ‘Sloganeering, raising placards’: Protests in Parliament over the yearsHe said the MPs had been feeling uncomfortable about several such issues for some time now, and Sunday’s proceedings were the “last straw that broke the camel’s back”. He said members were also upset that bills were not sent to select or standing committees when they should have.“I don’t approve of someone breaking the microphone or standing on a table, but this had been pent up over a long time and came out like a storm,” said Azad. Parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi said the time constraint was not a new phenomenon. Many leaders, Joshi said, had sought that the proceedings be concluded early. “Four hours were allocated and the discussion took place from 9am till 1pm,” Joshi said. “The dispute was over the sense of the House. Sense of House does not mean numbers. Sense of House means majority of political parties. Their were 18 parties on one side and one party on the other,” Azad said.He said that the House depends on coordination within the government, and between the Opposition and government. “But there should not be coordination between the chair and government,” he said.“I do not know if the government had the numbers. But there could be no division on resolutions or amendments,” Azad said, referring to the passage of the farm bills.He said parliamentarian Arun Jaitley had said a government becomes “illegitimate” if the Speaker does not allow division of votes. Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu retorted that Jaitley had also spoken of the “tyranny of the minority”.Azad said government announced the MSPs on Monday, but gave no further information during discussion in the House, adding the cabinet meeting should have been held earlier.“The government has put forward a new slogan—one nation, one market—in an advertisement. My request is don’t go towards one nation, one party,” he said.Meanwhile, Naidu said the chair should not be dragged into the controversy.“Don’t try to put the blame on the chair or the person in the chair,” he said, asserting deputy chairman Harivansh had shown restraint. “If some people think ‘my way or the highway’, I will not accept it,” he added.Naidu said the members had a right to ask for a division and the deputy chairman had said “13 times” that he would allow one and asked members to go back to their seats, but they did not do so.The Rajya Sabha chairman said that the eight suspended members had not only admitted to their unruly behaviour, they had even justified their actions. “Some people justify all this. I cannot justify it,” Naidu said.Referring to statements by Opposition leaders calling the suspensions and the contentious passing of the farm bills “unprecedented”, he said there were several instances of bills being passed amid a lot of din in Parliament and that it was not the first time MPs were being suspended either. “What is unprecedented about this?” he asked, adding that passing bills amid a ruckus was not healthy and he was not happy about the suspensions either.On Sunday, Opposition parties sat in Rajya Sabha for two hours after it was adjourned and drafted a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh, which was rejected by Naidu on Monday. Naidu said it was non-admissible under the Constitution’s Article 90. The article deals with “vacation and resignation of, and removal from the office of the deputy chairman” of the Upper House of Parliament.  Harivansh met the suspended members, who staged an all-night sit-in on the lawns of Parliament, on Tuesday morning and offered the lawmakers tea and snacks. The lawmakers declined the refreshment and appeared unwilling to end their protest even as Harivansh said he will undertake a day-long fast over the “humiliating conduct against him”.Also Read: Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs on sit-in outside Parliament refuse deputy chairman’s teaNaidu said that he had told the secretary general that the protesting members must be taken care of. The secretary general, however, pointed out that members could not use the precinct of Parliament House to hold any protest, dharna or religious ceremony, he said.“I again appeal, if they [the suspended MPs] express regret for whatever has happened , the government is not very particular that they be kept out,” Joshi said. Meanwhile, the eight protesting members ended their sit-in outside Parliament after Congress and other Opposition parties boycotted the proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-to-boycott-rajya-sabha-until-mps-suspension-is-revoked/story-9n0xr4EFIDLkqHrNq2iVHM.html
22-09-2020||India||Vaccine for combating Covid-19: A look at the latest developments||As countries across the globe are witnessing a surge in the number of cases and deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), governments and organisations are consistently working towards producing a fool-proof vaccine that will combat the infection and have very few or zero side effects.Here is a look at the latest updates on Covid-19 vaccine:1. A leading scientist while speaking to Bloomberg said that a Covid-19 vaccine will be ready for India in early 2021 but rolling it out safely across a population of 1.3 billion people will be the biggest challenge.2. An $18 billion initiative being led by the World Health Organization (WHO); Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations to deploy a vaccine globally is moving into its next phase, with 156 nations and regions joining the program. The program called ‘Covax’ is aiming towards having 2 billion vaccine doses available by the end of 2021.3. A senior Indian official on Monday said the Phase III of the vaccine being developed by Oxford and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) began at the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune. Under phase-II, trials had been conducted at the Bharti Vidyapeeth Medical College and also KEM Hospital in the city.4. The vaccine candidate of Bharat Biotech International Limited is also under phase-II trial whereas Zydus Cadila’s is in the process to receive approvals for conducting phase-III trials.5. AstraZeneca on Monday released a 111-page blueprint stating that the goal is to develop a vaccine with 50 per cent effectiveness as mandated by the Food and Drug Administration. This development comes after several doubts were raised about the pharma company’s vaccine as two participants fell ill.6. On Monday, Union minister of health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan said that over four vaccines are in advanced stages of pre-clinical trial adding that support was provided to 30 vaccine candidates.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-for-combating-covid-19-a-look-at-the-latest-developments/story-65aTDKp0EhvZULVMKpBVNI.html
22-09-2020||India||India tops list of nations with highest number of Covid-19 recoveries||The Union ministry of health said on Tuesday India now ranks first among the nations that have registered the highest number of recoveries from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The health ministry also said that the country saw the highest amount of recoveries in the past three days and the recovery rate is currently at 80%.“India has recorded very high single day recoveries successively during the last 3 days. More than 90,000 #COVID19 patients have been cured and discharged from home/facility isolation and hospitals every single day,” the ministry tweeted.“Kudos to India’s frontline health workers! The country achieves record high of 1,01,468 #COVID19 RECOVERIES in the last 24 hours,” it added.Even though India is currently the second-worst-hit nation due to Covid-19, it has 19% of the world’s recoveries, said the health ministry. In a graph shared by the ministry on its Twitter page, the highest number of recoveries were recorded on Saturday when 95,880 people recovered from the disease.The health ministry also said that most deaths have been recorded among patients who have comorbidities and stressed on the need of following social distancing and other Covid-19 preventative measures in order to decrease the rising number of cases.India has recorded 6,027,580 cases of the coronavirus disease. The death toll due to coronavirus has now reached 87,882.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tops-list-of-nations-with-highest-number-of-covid-19-recoveries/story-H6YpcHlix6GCzEIea8RADK.html
22-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases lowest in nearly a month, sees record recoveries||India reported 75,083 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest since late August, and 1,053 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union home ministry on Tuesday.The new Covid-19 cases and fatalities have taken India’s tally to 5,562,663 and the death toll to 88,935. The last time India reported less than 75,000 Covid-19 cases was on August 26. There were 67,151 infections that day, according to official data.There are 975,861 active cases of the coronavirus disease and 4,497,867 patients have recovered so far, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am. With a record 101,468 people cured of the viral disease between Monday and Tuesday morning, the recovery rate is now 80.85%India, which is the second worst-hit country in the world after the United States, is now first among the nations that have registered the highest number of recoveries from the coronavirus disease, the health ministry said on Tuesday. “India has recorded very high single day recoveries successively during the last 3 days. More than 90,000 #COVID19 patients have been cured and discharged from home/facility isolation and hospitals every single day,” the ministry tweeted. “Kudos to India’s frontline health workers! The country achieves record high of 1,01,468 #COVID19 RECOVERIES in the last 24 hours,” it added.The health ministry also said that the country saw the highest amount of recoveries in the past three days.The health ministry had said on Monday that 76% of the new confirmed cases were concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra has alone contributed more than 20,000 and Andhra Pradesh over 8,000, the ministry had said.Its data also showed that 10 states and Union territories accounted for 86% of the deaths due to Covid-19 between Sunday and Monday morning. Maharashtra reported 455 deaths followed by Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh with 101 and 94 deaths, respectively, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-5-5-million-mark-sees-record-recoveries-at-over-100-000/story-EQT5Su1UvJXb1qrSOfQA9L.html
22-09-2020||India||Congress, other opposition parties to boycott monsoon session over farm bills, suspension of members||Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh issued a statement on Tuesday saying that his party along with other like-minded opposition parties will boycott the Parliament. The senior leader pointed out several reasons for their decision to boycott the ongoing monsoon session of the Parliament which is being held under extraordinary circumstances due to Covid-19. Congress said that the suspension of the members of Parliament, not letting the Leader of Opposition air his views, and not referring the bills to a standing or select committee as the main reasons behind the boycotting of the session. Also Watch | ‘Don’t move towards one nation, one party’: Opposition boycotts Rajya Sabha The senior leader speaking on behalf of his party also alleged that the recent bills introduced by the government have been not been passed but were rather ‘bulldozed’. He said that the bills should have referred to select panels for further review. On Sunday during the Rajya Sabha proceedings, several MPs had collected near the Speaker’s seat and raised slogans voicing their opposition towards the passage of two bills intended to reform the agricultural sector. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and his colleague Dola Sen; Aam Admi Party’s Sanjay Singh; Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) are the MPs who are facing a weeklong suspension from the Parliament proceedings. The ruckus which arose in the Parliament was also condemned by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh who said that the incident has hurt the image of the Parliament in front the entire nation. Opposition party members have demanded that the suspension of the MPs be revoked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-and-other-opposition-parties-to-boycott-monsoon-session-over-farm-bills-suspension-of-members/story-1zfulPxcHDMiihQ15otpzI.html
22-09-2020||India||Two medium-intensity earthquakes jolt Assam||Officials on Tuesday said that two medium-intensity earthquakes shook Assam in quick succession. The first earthquake of magnitude 4.4 with epicentre at 44 km west of Guwahati occurred at 1.28 am at a depth of 5 km, officials saidMeanwhile, the second earthquake of magnitude 4.2 with epicentre in the Barpeta district, occurred two seconds later at a depth of 71 km, they added. No loss of life or property has been reported so far. More details are awaited. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-medium-intensity-earthquakes-jolt-assam/story-ko9Gpd8bEXwuvviGwQg5RP.html
22-09-2020||India||UP to get 3 new RT-PCR sample test labs by end of September||The RT-PCR sample test in Uttar Pradesh is likely to get a boost with three new laboratories that will be set up by the end of the month.Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad on Monday said three new laboratories were being set up at Ballia, Jaunpur and Pratapgarh districts for the sample test of suspected Covid-19 patients. The laboratories will start testing samples by end of the month, he said.The new laboratories will help patients in the backward districts get quick sample test and will also assist the department in checking the spread of the Covid-19 infection.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed the health department to increase the sample test, particularly the RT-PCR test which is considered the gold standard of the Covid-19 testing. The department was also directed to set up laboratories in across all 75 districts.The department is testing around 1.50 lakh samples daily out of which around 50,000 samples are tested with RT-PCR machine at laboratories across the state. On Sunday, 1,35,990 samples were tested taking the total tally of samples tested in the state to 86.76 lakh.Also read: IT ministry tackled 3,635 ‘misuse of social media’ cases in 2019A health department official said, Uttar Pradesh started the fight against Covid-19 with a single laboratory at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow by testing just 72 samples on March 23. Now, the state has over 234 laboratories in government and private sectors.The 34 RT-PCR laboratories in government sector and 10 RT-PCR laboratories in the private sector are testing 50,000 samples daily. The state’s 14 medical colleges and institutes have RT-PCR labs. RT-PCR labs have also been established in the nine district hospitals. The state has 99 TrueNat test labs at various government hospitals and 70 TrueNat labs at private hospitals. Daily, around 1.5 lakh samples are being tested across the state, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-get-3-new-rt-pcr-sample-test-labs-by-end-of-september/story-PGxaJzq4921LNq6yBFMAaL.html
22-09-2020||India||Covid-19 cases fall in Delhi, Mumbai: Number of tests, other possible reasons||Delhi and Mumbai, the two largest cities in the country, are also among its worst Covid-19 hit regions. While Delhi, the national capital, has recorded nearly 249,259 cases of the coronavirus disease so far, Mumbai, the financial centre, has registered 186,276 cases.On Monday, Delhi and Mumbai saw relatively low spikes of 2,548 and 1,837 respectively. Here are the likely reasons behind the fall in the number of cases in Delhi and Mumbai:(1.) The number of Covid-19 tests per day in both Delhi and Mumbai have gone up recently. While Delhi, for example, has done 135,723 tests per million, testing in Mumbai has also increased in the last three months.(2.) Last week, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain had spoken about a ‘downward’ trend in the capital’s positivity rate ‘due to increased testing over the past 10-12 days.’(3.) However, low number of cases could also be due to less tests conducted on Sunday. One of the reasons behind this, officials say, is many people are unaware Covid-19 test centres are open on Sundays as well.(4.) While both Delhi and Mumbai have opened up considerably in recent days, as indeed the rest of the country has, as part of the ongoing Unlock 4.0, most private offices are yet to resume working at full strength. Maharashtra, for example, has allowed private offices to work with 30% strength.(5.) Similarly, strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols has helped keep the numbers low. While going out in the middle of a raging pandemic is always risky, following protocols- -like wearing a mask- -gives one the best possible chance to avoid catching the infection, experts say.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-fall-in-delhi-mumbai-number-of-tests-other-possible-reasons/story-3IBWpIR0UcwpaiY6cPwelJ.html
22-09-2020||India||India-China military commanders to meet at least twice more before disengagement commences||Indian and Chinese military commanders are expected to meet again in a few days after the marathon talks on Monday could not cover all the points of contentions and differences between the two countries over the border standoff.The outgoing and incoming Indian Ladakh corps commander and the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA’s) South Xinjiang Military District commander along with the head of India’s China division in the ministry of external affairs met at Moldo on Monday as part of an agreement between the foreign ministers of two countries.Authoritative sources described the nature of talks as “complex” with each side holding its ground but agreeing that India and PLA needed to completely disengage to ensure peace in border areas. “We will need at least two more rounds of talks at the military-diplomatic level before a consensus on disengagement exercise is reached,” said a senior official.ALSO WATCH | Can India conduct cross LAC strikes against China?: Lt Gen DS Hooda answers The road-map to peace on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is disengagement, de-escalation and then de-induction of both the armies with all steps requiring a certain amount of synchronization. The problem is rather serious with PLA deploying huge amount of weapon platforms including intermediate-range ballistic missiles in occupied Aksai Chin to threaten India. It is quite evident from the satellite imagery that PLA has packed Aksai Chin with heavy weapon platforms and continues to build-up on the airbases in the Western Theatre Command. Apart from missile silos in Xaidulla, just across the Karakoram Pass, in Xinjiang and Qizil Jilga in Tibet, PLA is playing the psychological warfare game to the hilt in Ladakh with rocket regiments, the surface to air missile batteries and artillery guns deployed.PLA deployed similar tactics in the South China Sea by test-firing both DF-26 and DF 21-D missiles to threaten the exercising US navy aircraft carriers, Ronald Reagan and Nimitz. Despite having intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM) in its arsenal, China is part of no international treaty on strategic arms reduction and the need for it to join tripartite talks with Russia has been a regular refrain of the Trump administration.However, removal of heavy weapon platforms and missile delivery systems is phase II of the disengagement process and may take the entire 2020 winter, just as the de-induction of troops will take time.“The Indian Army, however, is not deterred by PLA’s psy-ops in Aksai Chin and is ready with a counter in case of a worst-case scenario. Just as China has missiles to cover entire India, the converse is also true even though there would be a mismatch in numbers in favour of Beijing,” said a senior Indian military commander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-military-commanders-to-meet-at-least-twice-more-before-disengagement-commences/story-bAQSWhdcYj0vKMYgpBXP7I.html
22-09-2020||India||Farm bills row: Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh to observe 24-hour fast||Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh on Tuesday said he will observe a 24-hour fast as a mark of protest against ‘unruly behaviour’ with him by Members of Parliament from opposition parties on Sunday during the passage of two of the three contentious farm bills.In a letter to vice president Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chairperson of the Upper House, he said he was ‘unable to sleep’ for two nights due to Sunday’s unprecedented chaos in the House. “In the name of democracy, honourable members of the House indulged in physical violence,” he wrote.  Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh to observe one-day fast against the unruly behaviour with him in the House by Opposition MPs during the passing of agriculture Bills on 20th September pic.twitter.com/cphCDVHrqMDescribing the events that transpired on the day and talking about his humble background, Harivansh wrote he is inspired by Lord Buddha and, as such, will observe a one-day fast hoping that this might inspire ‘self-purification’ among those who ‘mistreated’ him.Also mentioning that September 23 is the birth anniversary of legendary poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, who was a two-term Rajya Sabha MP, he further said he will observe a 24-hour fast from September 22 to September 23. He, however, added he will participate in the Rajya Sabha proceedings for the day.Harivansh even met the suspended MPs, who are staging a sit-in protest in Parliament premises, and offered them tea, which they refused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-row-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairperson-harivansh-to-observe-24-hour-fast/story-XucAoTWMb6YL4bT0SfnztK.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Sloganeering, raising placards’: Protests in Parliament over the years||The overnight sit-in by several members from the opposition benches who were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Monday for the remainder of the ongoing monsoon session is a throwback to similar protests when MPs decided to bring the protest to the precincts of Parliament.During most sessions it is not uncommon to see MPs raise issues, carry placards, raise slogans near the Gandhi statute within the complex. Sometimes they try to sneak in placards inside the House as well which is not permitted and usually met with a reprimand from the Speaker in the Lok Sabha or the Chairperson in the Rajya Sabha. Protests that hit headlines over the years include the blocking of the main gate of Parliament during the Telangana statehood demand. Also read: Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs on sit-in outside Parliament refuse deputy chairman’s teaIn April 2012, at the peak of the pro-Telangana movement, 8 Congress MPs staged a protest by blocking Parliament’s main gate for 30 minutes and raised pro-Telangana slogans. They had been suspended from Lok Sabha for four days for their unruly behaviour in the House and causing disruptions.The suspended MPs - Ponnam Prabhakar, Madhu Yaskhi Goud, M Jagannath, KRG Reddy, G Viveknanda, Balram Naik, Sukender Reddy Gutha and S Rajaiah - had occupied the steps of the main gate of Parliament, forcing MPs to use other gates to enter and exit Parliament.A year later, five Congress MPs from Telangana sat on a two-day protest in Parliament to push for the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh. GS Reddy, Manda Jagannathan, Poonam Prabhakar, G Vivekananda and S Rajaiah sat at the main entrance of Parliament carrying placards.In 2018, Telugu Desam Party MPs staged a sit-in inside Lok Sabha speaker’s chambers demanding special status for Andhra Pradesh. The then Speaker Sumitra Mahajan was not present in the chamber. They had to be marshalled out late in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sloganeering-raising-placards-protests-in-parliament-over-the-years/story-11nu7a49ZCfn6xLTfVHMAJ.html
22-09-2020||India||Odisha Assembly Speaker calls for all-party meet on September 25||Odisha Legislative Assembly Speaker SN Patro has called for an all-party meeting on September 25 ahead of the monsoon session.Speaking to ANI, Patro said, “An all-party meeting has been called on September 25 to ensure the smooth functioning of the House during the upcoming session. We will discuss the provisional calendar and about the zero or questions hour during the meeting.”Patro stated that starred questions will not be taken up during the session.“We have made all the arrangements following the Covid-19 guidelines including seating arrangements. We are not allowing the audience this time. All the MLAs and ministers along with their personal staff and Assembly staff will undergo Covid-19 test, two days before the session and again on the fifth day of the session.”“We have also given an option to the senior member of the house this time. If he or she is not able to attend the session due to Covid-19 and they inform in advance, we can arrange video conferencing for the person to attend the house from district headquarters (Collector’s office).”Besides, the Speaker inspected the seating arrangements along with other measures in the assembly in view of Covid-19 pandemic.The monsoon session will be held from September 29 to October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-assembly-speaker-calls-for-all-party-meet-on-september-25/story-On4dPvEhWqcz6JFcaHGe1M.html
22-09-2020||India||IT ministry tackled 3,635 ‘misuse of social media’ cases in 2019||The Ministry of Electronics, Information and Technology told the Parliament on Monday that it took down 3,635 social media pages/accounts in 2019 for violating the Information Technology Act. In a response to an unstarred question by Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu about the ministry’s regulation of social media, the ministry said that 1,385 pages were blocked in 2017 and 2,799 were blocked in 2018. “With a borderless cyberspace coupled with the possibility of instant communication and anonymity, the potential for misuse of cyberspace and social media platforms for criminal activities is a global issue,” the ministry said in its response. Also Read: Delhi House panel sends summons to top Facebook executive“In line with increase of usage of Internet as also the growth of social media platforms, there are increasing number of incidents of reporting of such content having potential to incite violence and hatred. Government has a well-defined system of reporting and blocking for public access within the framework of section 69A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000 and the Rules thereunder,” it added. The Ministry’s response comes in the wake of the Facebook controversy in August this year, wherein news reports alleged that the social media company was prejudicial while implementing its hate-speech policy, giving leeway to the members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Opposition came down heavily on the government as more reports surfaced regarding the conduct of Facebook India’s public policy head, Ankhi Das, wherein she claimed credit for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s victory in the elections. Facebook India managing director Ajit Mohan was also quizzed by the IT parliamentary panel, barely days after IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad wrote to CEO Mark Zuckerberg alleging Facebook allowed anti-Modi posts. Also Read: Facebook neutral, non-partisan, its India chief says defending handling of hate speeches“There were media reports that Facebook’s hate-speech rules collide with Indian politics, thereby trying to tarnish the image of those who indulge in constructive criticism of policies. Minister for Electronics & Information Technology has written to CEO, Facebook about alleged bias of the platform and to ensure integrity and neutrality of Facebook and the people working for Facebook. Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology has already taken up the matter with Facebook,” the government said in another response. Social media companies, it added in its first response, are considered intermediaries under the IT Act, 2000. They are required to “observe due diligence while discharging their duties and have to inform the users of computer resources not to host, display, upload, modify, publish, transmit, update or share any information that is, inter alia, grossly harmful, harassing, defamatory, libelous, invasive of another’s privacy, hateful, or racially, ethnically objectionable, disparaging, or otherwise unlawful in any manner”. They are also expected to remove any unlawful content under Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India as and when brought to their knowledge either through a court order or through a notice by the government or its agency. The ministry, in response to a third question, said that the 59 Chinese-origin applications that were banned in the first round of blocks after tensions broke out along the Line of Actual Control with China were taken down in accordance with a Ministry of Home Affairs request. Subsequently, the ministry banned 47, and then 118 more applications, including the popular game PUBG and video-sharing platform TikTok. “The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has blocked 224 mobile apps under the provisions of section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India and security of State. Blocking of such Apps has been done on national security concerns and thus linkage with any country may not be disclosed in public domain,” the ministry said in response to a fourth question. According to Internet Freedom Foundation trustee Apar Gupta, the government’s blocking process lacks transparency. “The blocking process in India is extremely opaque,” Gupta said. “As recently demonstrated by the blocking of several environmental websites, the owners of websites are not provided with even a proper notice and an opportunity for a hearing prior to blocking. This requires urgent reform and, while proper steps need to be taken to prevent hate speech from being circulated on social media, it should not be done like a form of censorship that is conducted with secrecy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-ministry-tackled-3-635-misuse-of-social-media-cases-in-2019/story-F5NCnURWqlA4L3uKZ7IMSP.html
22-09-2020||India||Unprecedented scenes in Parliament’s history: Overnight protests, work beyond midnight for two consecutive evenings||The Lok Sabha, Parliament’s lower House, worked till 12.24 am Tuesday, clocking a new record of sitting beyond midnight for two consecutive evenings after it did so on Sunday as well. And while the Lok Sabha was still buzzing with activity well past midnight, a group of eight lawmakers suspended for “gross disorderly conduct” on Monday organised the first overnight sit-in just outside the Parliament building near the statue of Mahatma Gandhi.The lawmakers were suspended after they stormed the Well of the House and charged towards Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh on Sunday, who was presiding over the proceedings on Sunday, after two of the three farm bills were passed by voice vote. The opposition wanted the bills to be referred to a select committee and the division of votes for their passage.Monday night, as alive as the day, presented the two sides of India’s parliamentarians: their commitment to work beyond the stipulated hours of the House and also to assert their democratic right to protest.Also Read: Cong plans campaigns, month-long protest across India from Sept 24In the Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla, 57, sat through the proceedings till the House was adjourned on Tuesday morning to meet again in the afternoon. The House, which was scheduled to meet for only four hours from 3 pm to 7 pm, cleared the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill at 8.23 pm and at 11.38 pm approved the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill.Also Read: Oppn MPs hold first-ever night protests near HouseIt did not stop. At 12. 22 am, the lower House cleared the Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill and the Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill jointly.Marathon proceedings of Parliament are not unusual. In the 1970s and 1980s, budget discussions often spilled over the next day. But officials said that perhaps for the first time, bills were passed after midnight as the Speaker set a new standard in the performance of the House.Also Read: More chaos in House as 8 MPs suspendedThe eight lawmakers, Trinamool Congress’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen; Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh; Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah; Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem, also took protests to a new level. They stayed overnight in Parliament, slept under the open sky, and ate whatever snacks and packed thalis made available to them. Harivansh on Tuesday morning offered tea to them.Kareem, 67, is the eldest of the eight, and Rajeev Satav, 46, is the youngest. It was also Satav’s birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-parliament-clocks-two-consecutive-post-midnight-sessions/story-pVuIr4HyoqIbaaB4pk6qxL.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Shows his greatness’: PM Modi praises Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson after suspended MPs snub tea offer||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday Harivansh, the deputy chairperson of the Rajya Sabha, is blessed with a “humble mind and a big heart” after he went to meet the protesting MPs from the opposition parties and offered them tea.Harivansh met the protesting member of the Rajya Sabha from the opposition parties, who spent the night on the lawns of Parliament to protest the passage of two contentious farm bills without a division of votes on Sunday in the Upper House. He was seen sitting and drinking tea with the MPs on the ground.“To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji,” he tweeted. To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji.“For centuries, the great land of Bihar has been teaching us the values of democracy. In line with that wonderful ethos, MP from Bihar and Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Shri Harivansh Ji’s inspiring and statesman like conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud,” he added.Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) Sanjay Singh, Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain, KK Ragesh and Elamaram Karim of the CPI(M) were suspended for a week by Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu for “unruly behaviour” with Harivansh.They had refused to leave the House after their suspension, which was adjourned several times amid opposition protest.“Harivansh ji said he came to meet us as a colleague and not as the deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha. He also brought some tea and snacks for us. We started this sit-in demonstration yesterday as a protest against our suspension. We have been here all night,” Bora said, according to news agency ANI.“No one from the government has come to enquire about us. Many opposition leaders came to enquire about us and to show solidarity with us. We are going to continue this demonstration,” Bora added.The sit-in protest by eight suspended MPs on Parliament premises continued for the second day on Tuesday after they spent the night in the lawns near Mahatma Gandhi’s statue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shows-his-greatness-pm-modi-praises-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-after-suspended-mps-snub-tea-offer/story-KloHcbzx16P6yWGdImUenK.html
22-09-2020||India||As 8 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs continue protest, deputy chairman Harivansh offers tea||Eight opposition members of the Rajya Sabha, who were suspended on Monday over the chaos in the House when the two contentious farm bills were passed on Sunday, spent the night outside Parliament as to continue with their protest. On Tuesday morning, they were offered tea by Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh.Harivansh met Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Sanjay Singh, Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain, KK Ragesh and Elamaram Karim of the CPI(M). He was seen sitting on the ground and having tea with the MPs on the lawns near the Gandhi statue in the Parliament premises. “Harivansh ji said he came to meet us as a colleague and not as the deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha. He also brought some tea and snacks for us. We started this sit-in demonstration yesterday as a protest against our suspension. We have been here all night,” Bora said, according to news agency ANI.“No one from the government has come to enquire about us. Many opposition leaders came to enquire about us and to show solidarity with us. We are going to continue this demonstration,” Bora added.The MPS were suspended for a week by Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu for “unruly behaviour” with deputy chairman Harivansh Singh. They had refused to leave the House after their suspension, which was adjourned several times amid opposition protest.On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha had witnessed unruly scenes as opposition members stormed the well and reached the deputy chairman’s seat to protest against the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and passed by the Upper House through voice vote.Both the farm bills were earlier passed by the Lok Sabha through voice votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-8-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps-continue-protest-deputy-chairman-harivansh-offers-tea/story-EgfTy0zGAZl1jAfVkXqMIN.html
22-09-2020||India||Trinamool Congress to launch series of protests against farms bills from today||The ruling party in West Bengal, Trinamool Congress, will hit the streets to protest the passage of contentious farm bills starting from Tuesday in Kolkata. Parallel protests are going on outside the Parliament. Two of the party’s senior Rajya Sabha members – Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen – were suspended for a week on Monday for “unruly behaviour” that took place as the upper house of the Parliament passed two controversial bills relating to the agriculture sector on Sunday. Condemning the two bills, chief minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee said that the TMC will launch a series of protests against the bills every day starting from Tuesday. “The party will stage continuous protests starting from Tuesday. On September 22, the party’s women wing will hold a dharna near Gandhi statue in Kolkata. The youth wing will stage a protest on Wednesday followed by farmers and labourers,” Banerjee said. Also read: Despite BJD’s opposition to twin farm bills, Odisha farmer leaders aren’t impressedTuesday’s protests in central Kolkata would be led by Chandrima Bhattacharya, the minister of state for health in West Bengal. The TMC chief also called on all parties to unitedly oppose the farm bills and assured her party’s support. Meanwhile, the Congress and the Left Front have also decided to hit the streets on September 25 to protest the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. Among the eight suspended MPs, while two were from the TMC, three were from the Congress party and two were CPI(M) lawmakers. One was from the Aam Aadmi Party. In the Unlock 4 guidelines, the Union home ministry had earlier said that political functions could be held with a ceiling of 100 people from September 21. “Because of the pandemic, there is a restriction on the number of people that can gather. Hence, we will stage the protest following protocols and not bring in a large number of people,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-to-launch-series-of-protests-against-farms-bills-from-today/story-1FRr9gMa6sMXuy68QVm8WM.html
22-09-2020||India||India rejects Pakistan’s reference to Kashmir issue at UN, calls for tackling terrorism||India on Tuesday rejected Pakistan’s contention that the Kashmir issue is one of the most long-standing disputes at the United Nations (UN), saying Islamabad should instead focus on the unfinished task of tackling terrorism. In a video message on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the world body, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi lauded the UN’s achievements but also referred to “failings and deficiencies”. “The organisation is only as good as its member states wish it to be. The Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) and Palestine disputes are the organisation’s most glaring and long-standing disputes. The people of occupied J&K still await fulfilment of the commitment made to them by the UN to grant them their right to self-determination,” he said. “Today, the UN is derided as a talk shop. Its resolutions and decisions are flouted. International cooperation, especially in the Security Council, is at its lowest,” he added. Also Read: Rift in top army ranks comes to light, Gen Naravane steps inExercising its “right of reply”, the Indian delegation at the UN responded soon after. First secretary Vidisha Maitra said India had hoped the General Assembly “would be spared another repetition of the baseless falsehoods that have now become a trademark of Pakistan’s interventions on such platforms” during the commemoration of a shared global milestone. “However, for a nation that is bereft of milestones, one can only expect a stonewalled and stymied approach to reason, diplomacy and dialogue,” she said. Turning to the specific reference to the Kashmir issue, Maitra said Pakistan was interfering in India’s internal matters. Also Read: ‘Pakistan targeting Indians working in Afghanistan’: Govt to Parliament“What we heard today is the never-ending fabricated narrative presented by the Pakistani representative about the internal affairs of India. We reject the malicious reference made to the union territory (UT) of J&K, which is an integral part of India,” she said. “If there is an item that is unfinished on the agenda of the UN it is that of tackling the scourge of terrorism. Pakistan is globally recognised as the epicentre of terrorism, which by its own admission harbours and trains terrorists and hails them as martyrs and consistently persecutes its ethnic and religious minorities,” she added. Maitra said Pakistan “would do well to turn its attention inwards to immediately addressing these pressing concerns instead of diverting attention from them by misusing the UN platform”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pakistan-s-reference-to-kashmir-issue-at-un-calls-for-tackling-terrorism/story-r6yTCBjswM3rFT9RkxVRaL.html
22-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rhea Chakraborty’s 14-day judicial custody to end today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty’s judicial custody to end todayThe 14-day judicial custody of Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) earlier this month for her alleged involvement in a drugs case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, will end on Tuesday. She was remanded to 14-day judicial custody after being arrested. Read more‘Half-hearted’: Despite BJD’s opposition to twin farm bills, Odisha farmer leaders aren’t impressedA day after Biju Janata Dal opposed the twin bills on farming in Rajya Sabha, arguing that it did not have any provisions for small and marginal farmers, several farmer leaders in the state alleged that the party’s opposition was half-hearted and it was indulging in doublespeak. Read moreBollywood biggies to meet CM Yogi today, discuss UP film city projectSeveral leading Bollywood filmmakers are expected in Lucknow on Tuesday for a meeting with chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the likely contours of the film city project announced by the chief minister on Friday. Read moreClimate change since 2000 will cut US growth over next 30 years: ReportThe effects of climate change since 2000 will slow US economic growth slightly over the next 30 years, adding another drag on an economy that will struggle to rebound from the coronavirus pandemic, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) said on Monday. Read moreAli Fazal defends Richa Chadha after Payal Ghosh’s allegations: ‘My love has stood up for women time and time again’Ali Fazal has defended his girlfriend Richa Chadha after her name was dragged in Payal Ghosh’s allegations of sexual misconduct against Anurag Kashyap. Ali took to Instagram to repost the official statement shared by Richa’s lawyer on Monday and said that Richa has always championed justice for women. Read moreFresh IPL fuse lit after ‘short run’ in Kings XI defeatHaving conceded 56 runs in his four overs, it wasn’t really Chris Jordan’s night. Later in Kings XI Punjab’s chase, Jordan’s ‘short run’ that wasn’t in the penultimate over snowballed into this IPL’s first controversy. KXIP, who finished level with Delhi Capitals’ total of 157 in Dubai on Sunday, went on to lose the Super Over. Read moreNokia smartphones launching today, here’s what to expectHMD Global is set to launch new Nokia smartphones later today. The Finnish company has scheduled an event where it will “unveil a new chapter for Nokia phones.”The Nokia launch event will take place later today at 16:00 BST which is 8:30 PM IST for viewers in India. Read moreIndia Couture Week 2020: Shantanu and Nikhil’s new collection offers a high dose of realismA befitting response to the current scenario that we all are into, Shantanu & Nikhil’s fashion film titled Resurgence at the ongoing India Couture Week, presented by the Fashion Design Council of India in association with Hindustan Times, instilled that hope in their patrons that life will be back to normalcy. Read moreWoman creates dreamy art on mini canvas, netizens are in love with itArt in all kinds is beautiful. Whether it’s an oil painting or an installation at an exhibit, art can convey a different messages and prompt different reactions among people. One such video posted on Instagram reels showing a beautiful piece of art on a small canvas has grabbed the attention of netizens. Read moreWatch| IPL 2020: Royal Challengers Bangalore beat Sunrisers Hyderabad by 10 runs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rhea-chakraborty-s-14-day-judicial-custody-to-end-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oA82Gc7KsLE4ftnNxittrJ.html
22-09-2020||India||Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs on sit-in outside Parliament refuse deputy chairman’s tea||Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh on Tuesday met eight opposition lawmakers, who staged an all-night sit-in on the lawns of Parliament after they were suspended a day earlier for the remainder of the ongoing monsoon session for charging at him during protests against the passage of two of the three contentious farm bills in the upper House on Sunday. He offered the lawmakers tea and snacks. The lawmakers declined the refreshment and appeared unwilling to end their protest even as Harivansh said he will undertake a day-long fast over the “humiliating conduct against him”.Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh, who is among the eight, said the issue is not about personal equations but concerns for farmers. He added they are protesting to protect the farmers’ rights and against the way “black laws“ were passed in Parliament in violation of rules and procedures following the rejection of their demand for putting the bills to vote.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted about Harivansh’s large-heartedness in offering tea to the suspended lawmakers and congratulated him.To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji.Singh reacted to Modi’s tweet saying they are not fighting for tea. “We are fighting for the welfare of our farmers, which you have taken away. I humbly request you - I am returning your tea with all due respect, please return my farmers’ morsel,” he tweeted.मोदी जी, हम अपनी चाय के लिए नहीं लड़ रहे। हम अपने किसानों के निवाले के लिए लड़ रहे हैं, जो आपने छीना है। मेरी आपसे विनम्र बिनती है - मैं आपकी चाय पूरे आदर के साथ लौटा रहा हूँ, आप कृपया मेरे किसानों का निवाला लौटा दीजिए। https://t.co/o2QUsu0BdbSingh, Derek O’Brien, and Dola Sen (Trinamool Congress); Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain, and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (M) were suspended for seven days for “gross disorderly conduct”. They stormed the Well of the House and charged towards Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings on Sunday. Parliament marshals formed a double-layered barricade to protect Harivansh. The lawmakers were angry as their demand for the division of votes on the bills was ignored. The bills were passed by voice vote while the opposition wanted them to be referred to a select committee.Harivansh wrote to Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Rajya Sabha chairman about the fast citing anguish over the “humiliating” conduct against him.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Shobha Karandlanje lauded Harivansh for his magnanimity in offering the suspended parliamentarians tea. “A magnanimous Gesture by Harivansh Ji! Deputy Chairman of RS [Rajya Sabha] brings tea for the same MPs who heckled, ill-treated & carried out undignified attack on him in the house. Committed Gandhian met those who targeted him & told that he’s here as a friend of them!” she tweeted.Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill tweeted, “Offering Tea will not whitewash the act of Curbing Democracy-Voices raising issues of 62 Crore Farmers cannot be muted & attention cannot be diverted #FarmBill2020 #FarmersProtest.”Naidu called Sunday a “really a bad day for the Rajya Sabha” and said he was worried that Harivansh would have been harmed also. He said his deputy was also abused and the Rule Book was thrown at him.Naidu on Monday named O’Brien and repeatedly requested him to leave the House. O’Brien refused to go, while opposition members demanded that they be heard as well. Naidu also rejected the no-confidence motion against Harivansh.Also Read: Oppn MPs hold first-ever night protests near HouseThe suspended lawmakers refused to leave the House on Monday calling the action against them unilateral. They said the version of what had transpired was not considered. They brought bedsheets, snacks, and water, and began the sit-in near the Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in Parliament House.The suspension triggered a fresh confrontation between BJP and the opposition Congress as they accused each other of violating democratic norms. The Congress said the lawmakers were suspended without being heard and accused Harivansh of muzzling and throttling the voices of the opposition parties at the behest of the Prime Minister’s Office.This is the highest number of lawmakers to be suspended from the Upper House since 2010. Seven lawmakers from three parties were barred for the rest of their session over their protests against the Women’s Reservation Bill in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harivansh-meets-opposition-mps-who-camped-overnight-at-parliament-lawns/story-Zxm5u00qg8HiZUiwftP5HL.html
22-09-2020||India||Cheaper, quicker kit can help in scaling up testing: Researcher||India’s first diagnostic kit for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) based on the gene editing technology CRISPR Cas9 has been approved for commercial use by the Drug Controller General of India. The testing kit, developed by researchers from the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), was found to have high sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 98%, meaning it can accurately detect both positive and negative cases. The cost-effective and quicker test has been named after the fictional Bengali detective Feluda who stars in series of novels by filmmaker Satyajit Ray. It is also an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor Linked Uniform Detection Assay. The test barcodes the Cas9 protein – a component of the CRISPR gene editing system – to interact specifically with the genetic material of SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. This complex of Cas9 and CoV2 is then applied on a paper-strip test, which gives the result in the form of two lines for a positive and a single line for a negative just like the home pregnancy test. The test kits will be manufactured and marketed by Tata group. Dr Debjyoti Chakraborty, who developed the kit along with Dr Souvik Maiti, spoke to HT about how the new kit can help the government in scaling up testing for Covid-19 further: How does Feluda compare to the current gold-standard RT PCR test? The method of sample collection and extraction of RNA from the swab will remain much the same, but the processing of the sample will be quicker and done on a machine that is cheaper and more readily available than the ones currently used for RT-PCR test. And, it is almost as accurate as RT-PCR test. Within the lab, it took us about an hour to process the sample but the time will vary a little depending on how the final kit is packaged by the company. (An RT PCR test takes about five to six hours to be completed). It will reduce the sample to report time. How will the kits help the government in scaling up testing? The machine used for these kits are cheaper and readily available at all diagnostic labs and even colleges, which will help in increasing the number of tests that can be done. It also does not use the expensive probes needed for the RT-PCR test. And, it uses a lateral flow paper strip for giving a negative or positive result that can be interpreted visually by anyone. In comparison, the results given by the RT-PCR machine requires a trained person to interpret the result. The government has been using rapid antigen tests for ramping up India’s testing capacity? Will this be a better alternative? This test cannot be done in the field and still requires a lab to process the sample, but it is more sensitive, thereby reducing chances of throwing up false positives. The rapid antigen test detects the presence of the antigen or the viral protein. The problem with is that unless there is enough protein in the sample, the test may not detect it. In comparison, Feluda and other nucleic acid tests can detect very low copy numbers of the virus (through amplification) so the sensitivity is very high. This means the tests can detect the virus even at an early or late stage of the disease. What next? We are now working towards developing tests that can be performed at the point of care, in a sense bringing the test closer to home. The work is ongoing for that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cheaper-quicker-kit-can-help-in-scaling-up-covid-testing-researcher/story-rqcos1k1GhGLEOqqNBEc9K.html
22-09-2020||India||NIA detains 2 from airport in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram for suspected extremist links: Report||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has detained two men from the international airport in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram after a three-hour interrogation on Monday night, days after three al Qaeda operatives were arrested from the state, a report said on Tuesday.HT’s sister publication, Hindustan, cited sources saying that NIA detained the two men after they arrived Thiruvananthapuram from Saudi Arabia. Hindustan reported one of these two men is associated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the other belongs to Indian Mujahideen. One of them is Gul Nawaz from Uttar Pradesh and the other Shuhaib belongs to Kannur in Kerala, it reported. Both of the men have been detained in connection with the serial blasts in Bengaluru in 2008 and a lookout notice was also issued against them in connection with the case.They were interrogated for nearly three hours by several investigative agencies, including intelligence agency RAW, after they returned from Riyadh, it added. They will first be taken to Kochi, Hindustan reported citing sources, after which Shuhaib will be taken to Bengaluru while Gul Nawaz will be taken to Delhi.On September 19, NIA had said it had busted an al Qaeda module and arrested three terrorists from Ernakulam in Kerala and six from Murshidabad in West Bengal, who were allegedly planning to carry out major terror strikes in India at the direction of their Pakistan-based handler.The suspects were planning attacks at several locations, including Delhi-NCR, Kochi and Mumbai, and they were about to leave for Kashmir to receive a consignment of weapons, which was likely to arrive from Pakistan, the officials added.Under the scanner for some time, the nine men were arrested after the agency learnt that they acquired large quantities of weapons, country-made firearms, locally fabricated body armour, jihadi literature, and literature used for making explosives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-detains-2-from-airport-in-kerala-s-thiruvananthapuram-for-suspected-extremist-links-report/story-ICDdQndYv8jFArQAxuncCI.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Half-hearted’: Despite BJD’s opposition to twin farm bills, Odisha farmer leaders aren’t impressed||A day after Biju Janata Dal opposed the twin bills on farming in Rajya Sabha, arguing that it did not have any provisions for small and marginal farmers, several farmer leaders in the state alleged that the party’s opposition was half-hearted and it was indulging in doublespeak.The BJD on Sunday had opposed the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of the Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, alleging that it had little provision for small and marginal farmers as well as sharecroppers. “We can’t support the bill till we are sure that farmers’ interest will be protected,” said BJD leader and Rajya Sabha member Prasanna Acharya.Incidentally, the party had not supported the bill in the Lok Sabha as there was no voting on it with party MP Anubhav Mohanty urging the government to send the bills to select committee of the House. In the Rajya Sabha too, where the party has nine parliamentarians, there was no voting.Also read: ‘Govt didn’t talk to us, it should consult farmers’ - Sukhbir Singh BadalBJD’s opposition to the twin farm bills came as a surprise to several political analysts who were taken aback by the party’s stand considering that the party had supported the NDA on CAA, demonetisation, revocation of Article 370 and Triple Talaq Bill. Political analysts Satya Prakash Dash of Sambalpur University said BJD’s opposition to the central bill was a clever ploy to guard its support among farming community who have supported it over the years. “As close to 70 percent of the state’s population are farmers and many of them are BJD’s supporters, the party perhaps wanted to send a message that it is ready to oppose the BJP when it comes to agriculture,” said Dash.But despite the party’s opposition to the twin farm bills, farmer leaders did not seem to be impressed with the BJD’s stand with many of them calling it a half-hearted attempt. “The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 which is almost similar to the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 was brought in at least three weeks before the central ordinance. The BJP and the BJD are hand in glove when it comes to sacrificing the interest of farmers at the altar of the marketplace,” said Lingaraj, convenor of Paschim Odisha Krushak Sangathan Samanwaya Samiti, an umbrella body of various farmer organisations.Lingaraj said while the central Act ensures that no market fee, cess levy can be collected from farmers, traders and e-trading platform for the trade of scheduled farmers produce in the trade area, the Odisha ordinance(to be brought in as bill in the coming monsoon session) has provision of market committee collecting fee on notified commodities within the market yard. “The most important part is both the state and central ordinances and Acts support contract farming which would prove to be harmful for farmers of the state,” he said.Another farmer leader Akshay Kumar of Navanirman Krushan Sangathan said on principle both the BJP and the BJD are on the same page when it came to contract farming. “For the last several years, Odisha has been trying to get contract farming knowing that it would not be beneficial to small and marginal farmers. Yet they brought in an ordinance and now would make it an Act. There is not much to choose between the two parties when farmers’ interest is concerned,” said Kumar.Also read: ‘UN needs to address crisis of confidence’: PM Modi calls for ‘reformed multilateralism’Noted farmer leader Ashok Pradhan of Sambalpur said BJD’s opposition to the bill did not carry any meaning as the party has hardly done anything for the farmers in last 20 years of its rule. “BJD is also bringing two bills on farming that are in essence similar to central ones. When the BJD brought in the two ordinances in May this year we had warned of its disastrous consequences. While northern Indian states have some sorts of infrastructure for farmers, Odisha farmers do not have that luxury. The central Act, as well as the Odisha ordinances, would not help the farmers here anyway. The BJD opposition looks like some kind of deal,” said Pradhan.Pradhan further said in the last many years, many paddy farmers of Odisha do not get the minimum support price despite the state government’s regular announcement. Unlike northern and central states, Odisha farmers don’t get any bonus. “Farming is totally unremunerative and there is no incentive for farmers. The central Act, as well as the proposed Odisha Bill on farming, would ensure big business houses would make the farmers agricultural labourers in their own fields,” he said.Agriculture expert Devjit Sarangi, who has studied the central bill, as well as the Odisha ordinance, said a farmer can enter into a written farming agreement for any farming produce as per central bill, the proposed Odisha Bill has similar provisions. “The Odisha one only talks about state government collecting a facilitation fee of maximum 4 percent from the corporate houses that come for contract farming while there are no such features in the central bill. But if one looks at the central and state laws, there is hardly any difference,” he said.The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated by the state government on May 13, aims at registration of farmers with contract farming companies for improving production and productivity by way of land, soil management, seeds, saplings, fingerlings, inputs, feed and fodder, technology and other such services. The ordinance covers sale and purchase of 50 varieties of plant produce and 5 varieties of animal produce.The Odisha ordinance, like the central bill, would provide for geographically restriction-free trade and transaction of agricultural produce, including livestock, across the State and country to give freedom to the farmers to sell their produce in a better manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/half-hearted-despite-bjd-s-opposition-to-twin-farm-bills-odisha-farmer-leaders-aren-t-impressed/story-TimSbHwegLX713LBe0Uh4K.html
22-09-2020||India||Bhiwandi building collapse: Death toll rises to 20, rescue operations continue||The death toll in Bhiwandi building collapse site rose to twenty by Tuesday morning, twenty-eight hours after the incident. Rescue operations by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Thane, Bhiwandi disaster cell continue.Eight among the dead are children ageing between two and fourteen years. As per the officials of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC), around twenty to twenty-five people are still trapped inside the debris.“As per the required details from locals at least 20-25 people are still trapped inside the debris. We also learnt that some workers were asleep on the ground floor which runs a power loom,” said Milind Palsule, public relations officer, BNCMC.Also read: Rhea Chakraborty’s 14-day judicial custody to end todayThe 36-year-old ground plus three-storey Jilani building, located at Patel compound in Dhamankar naka, Bhiwandi in Maharashtra Thane district, collapsed on Monday morning at 3.30 am. Around 62 residents were fear trapped in the rubbles at the time of the accident. The third floor of the building came crashing down on to the first floor.The injured are being rushed to the Indira Gandhi Memorial (IGM) hospital in Bhiwandi.Ashish Kumar, NDRF deputy commandant who is leading the rescue operation, which involves over 100 rescue personnel, claimed that more and more dead bodies are being pulled out from under the debris now.The rescue operations took a halt for 30 minutes on Tuesday morning as the team had to manage and balance the slab of the third floor that came crashing down.Also read: Parties gear up to oppose three labour code bills in Parliament“Those who are removed from the debris are mostly dead now as their chances of surviving inside the debris is less. We are working in shifts and trying to pull out them,” said Kumar.He added, “Locals are also helping us in the rescue operation. Yesterday, we had passed on a message to those who survived to come ahead with the details of other residents living in the building so that we can get a proper figure of how many people could still be trapped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhiwandi-building-collapse-death-toll-rises-to-20-rescue-operations-continue/story-xP7rSRpnZ0RwsHXuMizVqO.html
22-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Diabetes, hypertension common comorbidities in patients, says Health ministry||Hypertension and diabetes are the most common comorbidities found in Coronavirus (Covid-19) patients, with 5.74% and 5.20% of the patients analysed as part of the Union health ministry’s disease surveillance initiative suffering from these two medical conditions respectively.About 76% of those infected had comorbidities, and conditions that have been commonly observed in Covid-19 patients include hypertension, diabetes, liver disease, heart disease, asthma, chronic renal disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), low immunity, malignancy, bronchitis and chronic neuromuscular disease among others.Also read: UK raises Covid-19 alert to second highest levelAge-wise distribution of patient data analysed till Monday showed nearly 63% of the positive cases were either 40 years of age, or below, and just about 10% positive cases were above 60 years of age. Men made up for 68.48%, and women 31.51% of the total case load.The findings about the age-wise distribution of infections and deaths in India appear to be in line with what scientists have observed about the global trends of the disease — it disproportionally infects younger people, while it severely affects those who are older.Fever, cough and sore throat are the most common three symptoms that Covid-19 cases experience. Of the data analysed of 37,084 laboratory confirmed cases, 25.03% had fever, 16.36 had developed cough, and 7.35% complained of sore (itchy) throat also. Breathlessness was observed in 5.11% of the cases.Government’s data shows India’s patient recovery graph is also going up steadily as nearly one in four Covid-19 cases are healthy individuals with no known comorbidities, leading to a better chances of recovery.At least 90,000 Covid-19 patients have been cured and discharged from home or facility isolation and hospitals every single day for three consecutive days. “This high rate of daily recoveries has positioned India as the top country globally with maximum number of recovered cases. This has also pushed the recovery rate to a high of more than 80%,” the health ministry tweeted on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-diabetes-hypertension-common-comorbidities-in-patients-says-health-ministry/story-hBcBewqKpNK5yxTUASehtL.html
22-09-2020||India||Bhiwandi building collapse: Death toll rises to 18||The death toll in the Bhiwandi has risen to 18, the Thane Municipal Corporation said on Tuesday.Earlier, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had said the death toll in the incident has risen to 17 .“Death toll rises to 17 in the Bhiwandi building collapse, which took place in Thane district of Maharashtra on Monday,” according to the rescue agency.The NDRF said a total of 20 people have been rescued so far. The incident happened at around 3:40 am.Soon after the incident, the NDRF, fire brigade and police teams reached the spot and started carrying out the rescue operations.President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the loss of lives in the incident.The President tweeted, “The loss of lives in the building collapse at Bhiwandi, Maharashtra is quite distressing. In this hour of grief, my thoughts and prayers are with the accident victims. I wish speedy recovery of the injured. Local authorities are coordinating rescue and relief efforts.”“Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected,” the Prime Minister said in a tweet. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhiwandi-building-collapse-death-toll-rises-to-18/story-RJXkv9gfsKlVSPdBw6vZ4L.html
22-09-2020||India||Bollywood biggies to meet CM Yogi today, discuss UP film city project||Several leading Bollywood filmmakers are expected in Lucknow on Tuesday for a meeting with chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the likely contours of the film city project announced by the chief minister on Friday.The filmmakers include Subhash Ghai, Om Raut of Tanhaji fame, Saundarya, daughter of superstar Rajnikanth, besides leading playback singers like Kailash Kher, Udit Narayan along with many others. This comes as the government intends to fast track its film city project whose location is yet to be decided. The meeting is expected at the CM’s official 5 Kalidas Marg residence in the afternoon. Earlier, on Sunday, filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar had met the chief minister and praised the announcement over the film city.During a meeting to review development works in Meerut division, comprising Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Baghpat and Gautam Buddh Nagar districts, through video conferencing on Friday night, Yogi had asked officials to find a suitable land in or around Noida for setting up the film city. Also read: Uttar Pradesh is new business destination - Yogi Adityanath“The CM, while addressing a review meeting, announced to set up the biggest and most beautiful film city of the country in Gautam Buddh Nagar. He instructed officials to look for a suitable land in or around Noida or Yamuna Expressway and prepare an action plan,” an official statement said.Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and singer Anup Jalota have already lauded chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his announcement on film city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bollywood-biggies-to-meet-cm-yogi-today-discuss-up-film-city-project/story-RdingC2jnVP0o4KagoOdNO.html
22-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty’s judicial custody to end today||The 14-day judicial custody of Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) earlier this month for her alleged involvement in a drugs case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, will end on Tuesday. She was remanded to 14-day judicial custody after being arrested.Chakraborty was arrested on September 8 by the agency after three days of questioning over the drug abuse case in connection with the death of actor Rajput on June 14. If found guilty, she faces up to 10 years in jail.The 28-year-old was arrested on the basis of statements from other accused who have been arrested in connection with the case. She was confronted with her younger brother Showik Chakraborty, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and his house staff Dipesh Sawant to ascertain their roles in an alleged drug racket.A special court had denied bail to Chakraborty on September 11, saying if she was released on bail she might alert others and they might destroy evidence. Chakraborty, in her plea, had stated that she was innocent and falsely implicated. She has been booked under several sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, which provides for punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders.Also read | NCB to summon Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh, Simone KhambattaChakraborty has been charged under Section 8(c) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, warehouse, use, consume, import); 20(b)(ii) (punishment for contravention in relation to the cannabis plant and cannabis where such contravention relates to small quantity, involves quantity lesser than commercial quantity but greater than small quantity, involves commercial quantity); 22 (punishment for contravention in relation to psychotropic substances); 27A (punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders); 28 (punishment for attempts to commit offences); and 29 (punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy) of the NDPS act.Also read | NCB probe leads to Pak and drug cartels; Bollywood A-listers under scannerAdditional sessions judge GB Gurao of the NDPS act court observed that as the investigation was still in the initial phase if the accused is granted bail, she may tamper with the prosecution evidence. “In addition, according to the prosecution, the accused has taken the names of other persons. The investigation in respect of those persons is in process. If the accused is released on bail then she will alert those persons and they will destroy the evidence. There is a possibility of tampering of evidence,” the order had said.Also read | Sushant’s former talent manager Jaya Saha quizzed by NCB, called again along with Shruti ModiChakraborty has allegedly named 15 Bollywood celebrities, including those producing and consuming drugs, news agency ANI reported quoting sources. NCB’s investigation also revealed that there is some circle also which procures and supplies drugs to celebrities, it added.The agency has so far arrested dozens of people, including Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and drug peddlers from Mumbai and Goa.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-chakraborty-s-judicial-custody-to-end-today/story-t51XFmusxurDTm0iMBtcnL.html
22-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||At a time when a mask has become a political statement — at least in the US — it isn’t surprising that the semantics between a droplet (a small drop of liquid, just to clarify)and an aerosol (a suspension of either solid particulate matter of liquid droplets in gas or, in this case, just air) should become a matter of great debate. Which could explain the enthusiasm with which the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Friday update to its website on “how Covid-19 most commonly spreads” was received. And which could explain why, less than 15 hours after it was widely reported (early on Monday morning India time), the update was pulled, with CDC claiming it was a draft that was posted in error. “Through respiratory droplets or small particles, such as those in aerosols, produced when an infected person coughs, sneezes, sings, talks, or breathes. These particles can be inhaled into the nose, mouth, airways and lungs and cause infection. This is thought to be the main way the virus spreads,” the now-rescinded update said. “There is growing evidence that droplets and airborne particles can remain suspended in the air and be breathed in by others, and travel distances beyond six feet (for example, during choir practice, in restaurants, or in fitness classes). In general, indoor environments without good ventilation increase this risk,” it added. The language was very different from that of CDC’s previous update (in June) on how Covid-19 spreads; that June update, now back on the organisation’s website, said nothing about aerosols.Because some may miss it, let me point to the “distances beyond six feet” in the rescinded update. I’ve seen people in conference rooms remove masks citing the six feet rule, and continue to talk (loudly). Both, the update-that-wasn’t suggested, are risky. So is the 15-minute exposure threshold CDC suggested in a late July note. I know of organisations that keep meetings to under 15 minutes purely on the basis of that — the internet is a wonderful thing, but as the poet Alexander Pope put it, “a little learning is a dangerous thing; drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring.” The CDC’s new guidelines-that-weren’t clearly pointed to the heightened risk of indoor transmission, especially in shared rooms, but also in open offices with poor air conditioning and bad ventilation. And talking (especially loudly, which is a natural reaction in conference rooms because everyone is spread out), was an additional risk. There’s thus far been an assumption that it is all right to speak without masks in socially distanced meetings (usually held in a closed room). Not so, indicated the CDC update. Going by it, even plexiglass-separated lawmakers in the current session of Indian Parliament are not safe. Most of them who speak do so without their masks, making it possible for aerosols to circulate (the plexiglass-glass is in front and on the side, not on top).The World Health Organization has been importuned for months by scientists who have asked to change its own advice on transmission to include the warning on airborne transmission. That hasn’t happened. While it isn’t clear what made CDC change its mind, its rescinded update can still form the basis of guidelines that governments around the world can now draft — to ensure the safe reopening of public spaces and the restart of activities. There’s enough evidence (based on research) to prove the airborne transmission of the virus. These guidelines will need to cover two aspects — the physical, and the behavioural. The first covers such things as nature of ventilation and air-conditioning, the number of people present and the distance between them, and presence or absence of barriers(such as plexiglass partitions). The second has to do with whether or not people are wearing masks, the amount of talking (or shouting or singing), the duration of the gathering or meeting, and the nature of the activity in which people are engaged (for instance, a gymnasium, where a bunch of people are exercising, and, consequently, breathing heavily, is definitely more risky than a quiet ride in the Metro). This may sound like a lot of detailing, but with a vaccine unlikely to be available till the middle of 2021, and life (and work) having to go on, everyone has to learn to live with the virus — and that involves rules, a lot of them, but all based on data and science, even if politics sometimes gets in the way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-azT5tUzIWwcF6OeDDNxUJL.html
22-09-2020||India||Police seek ED’s help in Chinese spy case probe||A Delhi court Monday sent 61-year-old journalist Rajeev Sharma, a Chinese woman and a Nepalese man, all arrested on charges of spying last week, to seven more days of custodial interrogation by the Delhi Police’s special cell. Police have also written to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) seeking its help in exploring how Sharma was allegedly paid through shell companies operated by a couple in China.Chief metropolitan magistrate Pawan Singh Rajawat extended the custody of Sharma, Chinese woman Qing Shi, and Nepalese man Sher Singh after they were produced before the court at the end of their police remand. Sharma was arrested under the Official Secrets Act on September 14. The other two were booked under the same Act on September 19 for allegedly helping Sharma receive money from Chinese intelligence agents in lieu of information he allegedly provided them. On Monday, police sought eight days’ remand of Sharma while stating that they have written to the defence ministry about the “incriminating documents recovered from Sharma”. They said Sharma has to be “confronted with huge and voluminous data”. The police also said a lot of data was recovered from the cellphone and laptop of the three arrested persons. Appearing for Sharma, senior advocate Adish C Aggarwala, opposed the remand plea and said the investigation was not being conducted in the correct manner. He said all charges against his client were baseless and there was no evidence against Sharma with the police. Aggarwala had earlier told HT that police did not recover any classified document from Sharma’s Pitampura house (when he was arrested).“We also informed the court that the police have not provided us with a copy of the FIR. The bail application that we filed on September 17 was to be heard today ( Monday). The court directed the police to provide us with the FIR copy and reply on the bail plea by September 24,” Aggarwala said. Following this, the court sent Sharma to seven-day police remand and posted the matter to September 28. The bail hearing will also be on September 28, the senior advocate said. Special cell officers said Sharma was allegedly passing on “sensitive and classified information” to Chinese intelligence agencies since 2016, and was allegedly paid nearly Rs 40 lakh through various channels, including Hawala transactions and shell companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-seek-ed-s-help-in-chinese-spy-case-probe/story-AG9O9Y9u4vSy29HVCB6eTI.html
22-09-2020||India||‘Govt didn’t talk to us, it should consult farmers’: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Singh Badal, whose wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned as the food processing industries minister to protest contentious farm bills, speaks to Sunetra Choudhury about SAD’s resistance to the bill. Edited excerpts: We have to try our best to stop it. The bill doesn’t become an Act till the President signs it. We are representing the farmers and on their behalf we are requesting the President, please reconsider signing the bill. Please send it back to Parliament and let it be properly debated there... There was no voting, it was just bulldozing of the bills taking place over there [in Rajya Sabha]. I feel that the government should talk to the farmers. There’s no point of putting ministers on TV giving clarifications. The same ministers should be deputed to meet the farmers and listen to them... Whether you make it private or not, middlemen will stay. You think {Mukesh} Ambani or {Gautam} Adani will go directly to the farms and buy it {farm produce}? Obviously they will have their layer of middlemen. Secondly, the mandi system as it exists is such that anyone can come and buy from there... Farmers feel that big corporate houses will take them over. They {government} say farmers can take legal recourse...You can’t make a farmer fight a big corporate house... They are poor people who want a sense of security which they get from the government mandi system...I feel the arguments are being made without consulting stakeholders. We are part of the NDA, they could have at least consulted us. We were never told. We got to know about the ordinance when it came to the cabinet. There itself she {Harsimrat Kaur Badal} said, please do not pass it as from the look of it, they {farmers} are going to have issues with it. But they passed it, saying we’ve got three months till the Act comes, we will talk to them...They have curtailed government APMC’s jurisdiction to 5-7 acres. They said parallel to the APMC, private people can open the mandis on their own, they will not have to pay tax. Government mandis charge 7-8% tax ... Basically, they {corporate houses} have been given tax-free incentives to buy. Outside {Parliament}, rights of farmers {are} being bulldozed, inside rights of MPs {are} being bulldozed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-didn-t-talk-to-us-it-should-consult-farmers/story-ZXzQ11KkwI7S9KqJD6PhYN.html
22-09-2020||India||Mass suspension of MPs not a first||The suspension of eight Opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha on Monday is extraordinary but not unprecedented. Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have a history of mass suspensions aimed at retaining order in the House and control chaos. The two houses, however, have different rules for suspension . Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and Aam Admi Party leader Sanjay Singh, Congress leaders Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah, CPIM’s KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem and Trinamool’s Dola Sen were suspended by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu for “gross disorderly conduct.” The latest suspension set a new record in the Rajya Sabha -- for the number of lawmakers involved. In 2010, seven MPs were suspended when they aggressively disrupted the proceeding during the passage of the Women’s Reservation Bill. The Lok Sabha, however, has a higher benchmark. It saw the suspension of 18 Andhra Pradesh MPs in February 2014 during the Telangana issue under by then Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar. In November 2013, nine MPs were suspended for the same issue by the Speaker. The first case of suspension of an MP goes back to 1962, a decade after India’s first Lok Sabha polls. Godey Murahari, a Congress lawmaker was suspended for the remainder of the session. To be sure, suspension is an extreme step to control the House and presiding officers use it only as a last resort. In Lok Sabha, the Speaker can directly suspend an MP but in the Rajya Sabha, a motion for suspension has to be moved and approved by the House. Raj Narain—known best for defeating late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in the 1977 elections—was twice suspended. In 1966 and 1974. In 2010, the UPA government moved a motion on March 9 for suspension of seven members; Kamal Akhtar, Veerpal Singh Yadav, Ajaz Ali, Sabir Ali, Subhash Prasad Yadav, Amir Alam Khan and Nand Kishore Yadav for creating disturbance during the passage of the Women Reservation Bill. Suspension orders are sometimes revoked if lawmakers express regret for their conduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mass-suspension-of-mps-not-a-first/story-XCvzLUx2DUzOIqPzRAaD1M.html
22-09-2020||India||Polls in India pose a formidable challenge amid Covid-19: CEC||Chief Election Commissioner of India Sunil Arora on Monday said “elections in India pose formidable challenges” at the inauguration of the international webinar on the theme “Issues, Challenges and Protocols for Conducting Elections during Covid-19 : Sharing Country Experiences” on completion of one year of chairmanship of the Association of World Election Bodies (A-WEB). According to ECI’s press note, it was an occasion for democracies world over to come together to share experiences of conducting elections during Covid -19.South Korea’s National Election Commission (NEC) detailed the steps it took for the electoral process, in which it is widely believed that no Covid-19 transmission took place. South Korea reportedly grappled with nearly 10,000 Covid-19 cases on April 15. The country, however, became the first one to go ahead with its national elections, which saw a voter turnout of around 30 million. At the presentation, the Koreans said that they had implemented a three-phase voting protocol for patients under quarantine. Home voting was an option for those who had tested positive until March 28 and special early voting was allowed for those who received a positive result between March 28 and April 11. Eight care centres were set up for the latter, while the registration for home voting was done online and the Commission sent home voting ballot paper. Over 11,000 voters who had self-quarantined on April 15 were asked to collect a token to vote after 6 pm, close of time of voting, to cast their votes in specific polling stations. Korea’s learnings come ahead of the 243-member Bihar assembly elections, which are likely to be held ahead of November this year and have an electoral pool of over 70 million voters. “Elections in India pose formidable challenges on account of large electorate, geographical and linguistic diversity and differing climatic conditions. Explaining in detail the scale of the upcoming elections to the Legislative Assembly of Bihar, he mentioned that the total number of electors is 729 million,” Arora told news agency ANI.The webinar had participants from over 45 countries. According to officials who attended the webinar, Arora and election commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar were among those who spoke, along with secretary-general Umesh Sinha. “A presentation was made about the preparedness for the upcoming Bihar polls,” said a person familiar with the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polls-in-india-pose-a-formidable-challenge-amid-covid-19-cec/story-P0gsC43d6jdhP5gZBo12NP.html
22-09-2020||India||LS approves strict foreign funding rules, works beyond midnight||The Lok Sabha worked beyond midnight on Monday to clear a number of bills, marking the second consecutive day when the Lower House worked beyond 12am. On Sunday, too, the Lok Sabha was in session after midnight. This is the first time that the House sat for two straight days beyond midnight. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla was chairing the session. The Lower House-- which started at 3pm due to Covid-related protocols this session-- cleared The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020 and late in the evening gave its approval to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020 and The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020.The long working hours in Lok Sabha took place on a day when the Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned without much work due to disruptions by Opposition MPs. The Lok Sabha passed the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020 aimed at making rules governing the foreign funding of non-government organisations (NGOs) more stringent and also mandating Aadhaar for all office bearers of these organisations.  The bill also seeks to bar government employees and judges from receiving foreign funds, and to prevent recipients from transferring funds to other organisations or individuals. The new bill also gives sweeping powers to the Centre to suspend the licence of any NGO, which could previously be suspended for 180 days under the original law, by an additional 180 days. And it reduces the amount of funds received that can be spent on administrative expenses to 20% from the previous 50%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ls-approves-strict-foreign-funding-rules-works-beyond-midnight/story-r6oOKFBtusZix4yZYbuBzK.html
22-09-2020||India||CBI looks to charge 2 Lieutenant Colonels over bribery||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has sought sanction to prosecute two lieutenant colonels of the army for allegedly taking bribes worth over Rs 80 lakh from a civilian supplier in the procurement of ration for troops between 2012 and 2016 in Nagaland, people familiar with the development said. Lt Col Amit Sharma and Lt Col Sutikshan Rana were posted at Army Service Corps (Supply) Type ‘C’ at Dimapur as successive Commanding Officers during this period when they allegedly took bribes in cash, kind and through bank transactions. The same contractor, identified as Jai Prakash Singh, allegedly gave bribes worth ₹58.62 lakh to Sharma, and Rs 22.92 lakh to Rana. After completing its probe against the two officers, CBI has approached the defence ministry seeking sanction against them under prevention of corruption act so that a charge sheet can be filed. “The charge sheet is ready. We will file it as soon as ministry of defence accords sanction,” said a CBI officer who didn’t want to be named. Army and defence ministry spokespersons refused to comment. The anti-corruption agency registered a case against Sharma, Rana and Singh on December 18, 2018 on a complaint from Brigadier Rajiv Gautam, posted at the headquarters of Army’s 3 Corps.  An Army court of inquiry held both officers guilty of taking the bribe. In fact, the army, while asking CBI to probe the matter in 2018, said : “ The magnitude of corruption is much more than what has been revealed by army investigations. Therefore, detailed further investigations are required by CBI to unravel the complete nexus of corrupt officers...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-looks-to-charge-2-lieutenant-colonels-over-bribery/story-vkg2JPprTeGrje7uF2kpoN.html
22-09-2020||India||PM Modi to address convocation of IIT Guwahati via video-conferencing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the convocation of the Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati through video-conferencing on Tuesday.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi shall address the convocation of IIT, Guwahati through video-conferencing at 12 Noon, on Tuesday, September 22, 2020,” Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement on Monday.Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Union Minister of State for Education Sanjay Dhotre and other dignitaries are also expected to participate in the event.According to the statement, as many as 1,803 students including 687 B Tech and 637 M Tech students will be obtaining degrees.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-convocation-of-iit-guwahati-via-video-conferencing/story-tLGPPiqnRBdfk4NW4CRQbL.html
22-09-2020||India||Organic farming to be promoted in villages along Ganga to curb pollution under Namami Gange||The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) or Namami Gange has initiated a project for organic farming in the villages along Ganga right from its source in Gangotri in Uttarakhand till Gangasagar in West Bengal to curb pollution in its water. The project was launched during the lockdown month of May under which the agriculture departments of the respective states where the Ganga flows will work on promoting organic farming in the villages situated along the river with funds for the same from NMCG. In Uttarakhand, the project will cover the villages located alongside Ganga from Devprayag in Tehri Garhwal district where its two main tributaries Alaknanda and Bhagirathi, merge in it. It will also include the villages near its aforementioned two tributaries till Haridwar from where the Ganga exits to Uttar Pradesh. The total length of Ganga in the Himalayan state including the tributaries is about 250 km. 50,000 hectares area covered in Uttarakhand with project cost of Rs 400 crore Suresh Chandra, joint director, Uttarakhand state agriculture directorate which is overlooking the project in Uttarakhand said the ‘total cost of the project here is about ₹400 cr’. “Under this project, the finding will be completely done by Namami Gange while the implementation would be done by state agriculture department. Of the total cost, we have already received ₹37 cr from it so far after it was launched in May this year,” said Chandra. He informed that in Uttarakhand, an area of 50,000 hectares would be included in the project. “The area is of the villages which are situated near the Ganga and its tributaries in Uttarakhand. In the project duration of three years, we will promote organic farming by training the farmers there for its implementation so as to gradually stop the use of chemical fertilizers,” said Chandra. Move meant to stop flowing of chemical fertilizers in Ganga Chandra said that the main objective of the project is to stop the flowing of chemical fertilizers into Ganga from the crops near it. “As of now, farmers majorly use chemical fertilizers in their crops which during rains wash down into Ganga which then pollutes it and affects water quality. This initiative aims to stop that as in organic farming the farmers will stop using the chemical fertilizers,” he said. Not much effort needed to implement the project in Uttarakhand The agriculture department official also said that in Uttarakhand ‘not much effort will be needed to implement the project.’ “It is because we have been already working on promoting organic farming here before this project was launched. We have an Organic Farming Act- the only state in the country to have it and already have 1.45 lakh hectares in organic farming. This project will add 50,000 hectares in it which is not a big deal for us,” said Chandra. Initiative will improve Ganga water quality as well provide quality agri-produce Explaining the importance of this project, Chandra said that it ‘will not only improve the water quality but will also improve the quality of agricultural produce in the crops near Ganga.’ “The improved water quality will be beneficial for the river’s ecosystem. Apart from this, with organic farming, the people will be able to get good quality vegetables and fruits from the crops near Ganga. So it is a win-win situation for all,” he said. Experts have mixed opinion on the project The experts, however, have mixed opinion on the initiative with some welcoming it while others termed it a mere gimmick. Prominent environmentalist and Padma Shri awardee Anil Prakash Joshi who runs Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organisation (HESCO) welcomed the initiative saying it will ‘curb down the pollution in Ganga which is much needed.’ “About 70% pollution in Ganga is due to man-made pollutants. This move will, if not all but, reduce the pollution by at least 15-20% which is significant considering the number of people this river has an impact on. Hence, we should welcome this step,” said Joshi. Rajendra Singh, another eminent environmentalist and Magsaysay awardee, who is also known as the ‘Waterman of India’ called the initiative as ‘mere gimmick.’ Singh said, “This move is nothing but a mere gimmick in the name of cleaning Ganga and an attempt to defame the farmers. The main cause of pollution in Ganga is discharge of waste water by industries and sewerage by the cities situated near it.” “It was evident during the lockdown when the quality of water in Ganga had improved significantly because the industries were shut down. It was not because of organic farming,” he said. Singh also said that the “Maa Ganga is actually suffering from a cardiac disease but the government is like trying to treat her toothache with this new project. The focus should be on cardiac disease which is industrial pollution.” SP Subudhi, member secretary of Uttarakhand state pollution control board welcomed the Namami Gange’s move and said, “The government has launched the project after much analysis, it will surely help in curbing down the pollution in Ganga and improve its water quality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/organic-farming-to-be-promoted-in-villages-along-ganga-to-curb-pollution-under-namami-gange/story-Del4rC9zxargjMHr3O124I.html
22-09-2020||India||To sustain political aims, both YSRC and BJP display separate roles at Centre, state||The ruling YSR Congress party in Andhra Pradesh appears to be maintaining a love-hate relationship with the Bharatiya Janata Party which is making efforts to grow into a potential opposition party in the state. While the YSRC leadership has been extending full-fledged support to the Narendra Modi government at the Centre on various issues, it is facing bitter opposition from the BJP back home in the state. For the last few days, the BJP leaders have been turning aggressive against the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government over a series of alleged attacks on temples. The recent burning of a 62-year old chariot at the famous Vaishnavaite temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district was a flashpoint in the BJP’s agitation against the state government and the YSRC government went all out to crush their agitation by arresting hundreds of BJP workers and putting scores of BJP leaders under house arrest. The BJP leaders are also fuming over the recent statement of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy that there was no need for non-Hindus like Jagan Mohan Reddy to sign the mandatory declaration in the Tirumala temple disclosing their faith in Lord Venkateshwara. Adding fuel to the fire, YSRC leader and state civil supplies minister Kodali Nani questioned why such a rule was imposed only in Tirumala, when it was not there in churches and mosques. “If Jagan Mohan Reddy doesn’t sign the declaration of his faith in Lord Venkateshwara, does it lose its sanctity?” he asked in a television chat on Sunday. This has triggered a furore in the state BJP, who took out a rally at Alipiri at the foothills of Tirumala on Monday. “This is nothing but blasphemy and it has hurt the sentiments of the Hindus. The chief minister should sack the minister,” BJP state president Somu Veerraju said. Strangely, the YSRC is extending whole-hearted support to the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. Both in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, the YSRC MPs voted in favour of the three controversial bills on agriculture sector, seeking to replace three ordinances – the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. The YSRC MPs extended support to the BJP in the election of Harivansh Narayan Singh as deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha last week. The Jagan government also accepted the option given by the Modi government for going in for additional borrowings to offset the GST compensation payment by the Centre, though more than 12 states including Telangana opposed the same. Jagan also accepted Modi government’s condition to implement power sector reforms as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat package, including fixing of meters to agriculture sector so as to enhance its borrowing limits. Political analyst Mallu Rajesh said both the YSRC and the BJP were playing their cards as per their political convenience. “The BJP, which lost badly in the last elections, wants to emerge as a strong political force in AP and unless it opposes the YSRC, it cannot fulfil its objective,” he said. On the other hand, the YSRC needs the support of the Modi government at the Centre to sustain state financial position. “And Jagan is still facing the CBI case in his alleged quid pro quo case. So, he cannot afford to confront the Centre,” Rajesh said. Interestingly, Jagan’s neighbour-- chief minister of Telangana K Chandrasekhar Rao has taken a completely different stand towards the Centre, though both the chief ministers had enjoyed very good relations till recently. KCR rejected Modi government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat package because of its conditions, opposed the twin options of the GST compensation payment and refused to implement power sector reforms. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi MPs not only stayed away from the election of deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha but also voted against the NDA government’s controversial bills on agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-sustain-political-aims-both-ysrc-and-bjp-display-separate-roles-at-centre-state/story-Bj6nIR3CG7s7G1ndl2mMOK.html
22-09-2020||India||Meghalaya schools reopen in staggered manner, attendance sparse||Amid surging cases of Covid-19 infection in the small hill state which is preparing itself for a bigger onslaught in the coming month, schools here as in some parts of the country are bracing themselves to partially throw open their doors to students of Class 9-12 from Monday..On September 10, the state education department had studied at length the protocol for opening of institutions from September 21 issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare and with the help of experts had submitted a state-centric SOP (standard operating procedure) to the government.This was approved by the cabinet the following week paving the way for re-opening of schools at least from class 9 to 12 albeit with a rider. Students may attend school seeking help from their teachers on subjects that they need to but with their parents’ written consent. Teachers, however, will start attending school based on a roster system.Day one witnessed sparse attendance as teachers, parents and students are still wary of venturing out with cases increasing each day especially in Shillong agglomeration. However, it was noticed today that people are still unsure and are yet to come to terms with the new normal.HT spoke to a student of Class 11 in a popular city private school who requested not to be named and this was the response. “I’m already doing online classes but there are some parts of some subjects which I want to consult with my teachers. But after seeing the increase in Positive cases in our district (East Khasi Hills) especially Shillong I’m not really sure I should move out right away,” the student stated.Echoing similar sentiments a parent of Pine Mount School one of the oldest premier institutions established in this state since the British era, Mrs VP Kharmawlong asserted, “Unless and until I’m 100% sure my daughter is going to be absolutely safe, there’s no way I’m giving my consent,” adding, “Even the IVR announcement before our mobile phones are connected says one small mistake can prove to be costly so it’s better to be safe than sorry.”On the other hand, schools are gearing up to take matters forward. St Edmunds School for instance has collated data on what topics of which subject a student requires help and accordingly a time table has been prepared which is topic and subject centric and not an extra load on the teachers who have to get back home to carry on with online classes. “We have asked students to specify the exact topics of respective subjects where they need help so that it is organised and accordingly we know how to address the matter,” Brother Solomon L Morris the Principal told HT over the phone. He said about 26 students divided into 3 batches will attend school for a particular subject daily so as to maintain social distancing norms and other protocols. He however made it clear that Class 9 students are not included yet.Loretto Convent is planning to start classes by this coming Thursday after a detailed action plan has been chalked out today. Speaking to HT over phone, Sr. Mercia the Principal said, “We’re going to have 4 teachers coming in daily for classes 9-12 and they will address the needs of the students subject wise after written consent of their parents,” adding “However, the counsellor will be available daily and we will ensure that the students won’t have to stay long. They come, finish their business and leave.” She said she was more concerned about practical classes where physical presence is required. “But we’re not starting them now, we’ll see how the situation evolves.”Vice Principal Seven Set School, Geddelia Nongbri, said, “After having received proper instructions from the government, we are ready to open. We will call students in batches to maintain social distancing etc. Otherwise the school has been fumigated and sanitised and kept ready for reopening.”This indeed will be a trying week for students, parents and teachers as well as school administrators as they try to adapt themselves to the drastic changes taking place in the education sector amidst the ongoing pandemic. While some are keen to see normalcy return, others remain concerned and wary about taking the plunge however soft the landing maybe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-schools-reopen-in-staggered-manner-attendance-sparse/story-NznxvjX1jVri9bNT3zucnL.html
22-09-2020||India||After thundershowers across Mumbai, more rain likely today||The city, suburbs, and various areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region recorded light to moderate rain and thundershowers from Monday afternoon and evening onwards.The weather bureau said thundershowers were expected to continue overnight between Monday night and Tuesday morning while an orange alert has been issued for Tuesday with the possibility of heavy to very heavy rain across isolated areas.Between 8.30 am and 8.30 pm on Monday, the suburbs recorded 15.6 mm rain while 3.2 mm rain was recorded in south Mumbai. Location-wise rain showed 22 mm rain at Sion and Bandra, Bhiwandi recorded 12 mm rain, 32.3 mm rain in Thane, 43.4 mm rain in Navi Mumbai, and 64.8 mm (heavy rain) across Dombivali-Kalyan over 12 hours.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted active monsoon conditions on Monday and Tuesday due to the development of a low-pressure area over northeast Bay of Bengal, which will strengthen surface level winds and its convergence along the west coast. “On Tuesday, conditions are likely to intensify with intense cloud cover off the Arabian Sea coast, which is likely to bring heavy to very heavy rain across isolated areas,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-thundershowers-across-mumbai-more-rain-likely-today/story-p7COy1FJdfCqiYo2GNUHQL.html
22-09-2020||India||ITBP ties up with Uttarakhand govt to promote adventure tourism at Tehri Lake||The Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB) and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Monday to promote adventure sports activities at Tehri Lake in the state. With the MoU, ITBP along with the department will now work on the building of adventure sports activities like land base adventure centre, water base adventure centre, aero base adventure centre at Rajiv Gandhi Adventure Sports Academy situated at Tehri Lake. The MoU was signed between Prashant Kumar Arya, director UTDB and Gambhir Singh Chauhan, DIG, ITBP in the presence of IG, ITBP Nilaabh Kishore. Dilip Jawalkar, secretary for tourism said, “The signing of this MoU will add to the post-pandemic revival process of adventure sports in Uttarakhand. This MoU is one of our initiatives to promote adventure activities in Tehri Lake. We hope that through this initiative, adventure tourism in Uttarakhand will get a new direction.” According to the MoU, ITBP will provide training in adventure sports as well as various courses related to it at the Rajiv Gandhi Adventure Sports Academy. It will train over 200 candidates selected by the state government or tourism department every year free of cost. All arrangements and expenses for the operation of and training in the academy will be borne by the ITBP. The ITBP has prepared the road map for development and taking over of the water adventure facility near Tehri Lake and submitted to the state government for finalising a tie-up for the project to bolster tourism in Uttarakhand. It would use the training infrastructure built by the state government for training and sporting purpose for all types in areas surrounding Tehri Lake, following security and other norms stipulated by the state. “ITBP signs MoU with Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB) for development of tourism and water sports in Tehri Dam, to take over the Tehri Adventure Institute for 20 years…” the ITBP tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-ties-up-with-uttarakhand-govt-to-promote-adventure-tourism-at-tehri-lake/story-ZnebOoHRbtOQAtnnafNjMM.html
22-09-2020||India||Karnataka assembly session to be cut short as Covid-19 cases continue to surge||The monsoon session of the Karnataka assembly that began on Monday has been cut short amidst growing concerns of increasing Covid-19 cases in the state. Instead of the 10 days till September 30, which was the original duration of the session, it has now been truncated to six days after the government finally managed to convince the opposition and will now end on September 26.Earlier CM BS Yediyurappa had appealed to the opposition to curtail the session to a mere three days pointing out that nearly 55-60 of the 225 MLA’s in the assembly could not attend as they had been infected. Though administration officials said that extraordinary precaution has been taken to ensure safety measures are in place, there was concern among both leaders and officials.Finally at the Business Advisory Committee meeting, leader of opposition Siddaramaiah who till then had even called for extending the session to three weeks, agreed to cutting it short. In turn the government has promised that it would allow detailed discussion on some of the contentious bills including those related to land reforms, APMC, amendments to electricity act and purchase of equipment for Covid-19 care. The government is looking to pass at least 38 bills.Siddaramaiah said that the APMC act was a “death sentence” for the farming community in the state. “Unable to control the pandemic and misusing the occasion, the government is bent on destroying agriculture which has been one ray of hope,” he said in a statement.Meanwhile, thousands of farmers took to the streets of Bangalore protesting against the government’s proposed changes in the land reforms act which would permit non-agriculturists to purchase farm land. They are also protesting against changes proposed in the electricity act, APMC and are demanding adequate compensation for farmers who have lost crops due to recent floods.The amendments in the APMC act allow farmers to directly sell to private players circumventing the 160 APMCs in the state. This some farmer organisations would put farmers at a disadvantage. They have threatened to launch a state wide bandh on Friday in case the contentious bills and amendments are not withdrawn.The opening day of the session also witnessed an unseemly fight between a ruling party MLA from Kadur, Belli Prakash and minister for horticulture Narayana Gowda over release of some funds and transfer of officials, creating embrassment for the government. Though later on both BJP legislators tried to underplay the incident claiming it was just “differences between brothers” the opposition said that this was an indication of the inefficiency and chaos in the government.Nearly 10 members of the BS Yediyurappa cabinet including deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan, home minister Basvaraj Bommai, among others - have tested Covid-19 positive or are under isolation. Several opposition leaders too, including former minister and Congress leader Priyank Kharge, have tested positive for coronavirus and are in isolation.The state which till now has recorded more than half a million Covid-19 positive cases said on Monday that it had identified 7,339 new cases and 8,145 people have died till now due to Coronavirus. Earlier in the day, responding to a question on cabinet expansion, CM Yediyurappa had said that he is awaiting directions from the party high command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-assembly-session-to-be-cut-short-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-surge/story-3yE3wFf7iOoVcEfJzmJQkJ.html
22-09-2020||India||Had decisive majority in RS: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The Centre refuted on Monday claims by Opposition leaders that it did not have the numbers to push through two controversial farm bills in the Rajya Sabha and said the conduct of some members did not allow a division of votes to take place.Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad along with cabinet colleagues, railway minister Piyush Goyal and parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi, held a press conference where they blamed opposition members of trying to “humiliate” deputy Rajya Sabha chairperson Harivansh.Prasad claimed that the government had a decisive majority among the members present in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday -- 110 in favour and 72 against.“If Opposition members had gone to their place, there would have been voting. And their defeat was certain. But their agenda was not to let the bill pass,” claimed Prasad.Prasad called the Opposition’s behaviour “the tyranny of minority”, a phrase coined by former finance minister Arun Jaitley. “You will not follow rules, break mikes, attack deputy chairman and then talk of democracy, this won’t do,” the law minister said.A top parliamentary authority told HT that the number count in the Upper House revealed that the National Democratic Alliance and its supporters were 32 votes ahead of the Opposition bloc. A number of members have stayed away from the proceedings of the 250-member House because of concerns over the Coronavirus pandemic.The comments came a day after the Rajya Sabha turned into a battleground over the passage of two agricultural reform bills — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020.The Upper House saw senior leaders charge towards the seat of Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings; jump onto tables; and shoot videos of the ruckus. The bills were eventually cleared by a voice vote with the Opposition alleging its demand for a division (voting through paper ballots) on the legislation was rejected.Prasad said Harivansh was a person of international eminence from Bihar and the way he was treated hurt the people of the state. Prasad said the decision by opposition members to not leave the House after they were suspended was a violation of rules and patently illegal.Referring to the incidents on Sunday, Prasad said Joshi had requested that the House keep functioning until the bill under consideration was passed – but that opposition members did not pay heed to the request and rushed to the well of the House.“There is enough visual evidence available that if the marshals would not have protected the deputy chairperson Harivansh ji, he would have been nearly been physically assaulted as to what was happening just by his side on the podium,” Prasad said.He said in his 21 years in Parliament, he or the other ministers had not seen “shameful” conduct of members who were minister or leaders of their parties.He said the Opposition members knew the norms and the need for conduct. “Harivansh ji was ready for voting. Thirteen times the deputy chairman asked them to go back to seats. How can voting take place when you won’t go to your seats,” Prasad asked.Prasad said if a member was suspended, the member has to accept it and go out of the House. “You will not follow the norms, the rules and propriety and you talk of democracy,” said Prasad.Prasad said Harivansh, who hails from Bihar, was an eminent writer, and that everyone from the eastern state felt bad at the treatment meted out to him. “An eminent Indian who hails from Bihar was humiliated and the Congress party and RJD [Rashtriya Janata Dal] were encouraging it in the most unabashed manner. The people of Bihar will give a response,” Prasad said.Bihar is scheduled to go to the polls later this year.Joshi said the proposal to curtail the session came from the Opposition.CONGRESS/OPPOSITION COMMENT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-decisive-majority-in-rs-prasad/story-dB7wasXTR5vINAN8WGRrhL.html
22-09-2020||India||Oppn MPs hold first-ever night protests near House||With Opposition MPs continuing their sit-in protest near the Gandhi statue at the time of going to print, protests in Parliament saw its first-ever night shift on Monday, adding to the several “new normal” unveiled in the monsoon session. Initially, the MPs refused to leave the House after being suspended by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu for “gross disorderly conduct.” After the House was adjourned for the day, the MPs shifted base to near the Gandhi statue—the favourite spot for protests inside the Parliament complex. It was a long haul but they didn’t look tired. They received a regular supply of snacks, packed juices and cold drinks as well as a steady stream of supportive leaders: Ahmed Patel, Gaurav Gogoi of Congress, Manoj Jha of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), and several Trinamool Congress leaders joined the protesting MPs to express solidarity. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee called up and spoke to the MPs staging the agitation. She also tweeted, “Suspension of the 8 MPs who fought to protect farmers interests is unfortunate & reflective of this autocratic Govt’s mindset that doesn’t respect democratic norms & principles. We won’t bow down & we’ll fight this fascist Govt in Parliament & on the streets.” Colourful bed sheets were hurriedly brought from an MP’s flats from South Avenue. The aides also ensured enough supply of food for the MPs to sustain them. In the evening, Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s KK Ragesh told others that his wife was preparing idlis at home. He was asked to bring them after 7pm. Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh spent time giving interviews, Trinamool’s Dola Sen started singing songs and protestors held placards screaming “We will fight for farmers”, “democracy murdered” and “parliament assassinated.” Apart from packed thalis, boxful of snacks were also supplied. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien, one of the eight suspended MPs, announced, “We will continue to sit in protest overnight. Our protest will not end soon.” Indian Parliament is no stranger to unique protests. In the 70s, Atal Bihari Vajpayee arrived in Parliament in a bullock cart to oppose the hike in fuel by the Indira Gandhi government. Last year, when the government was celebrating Constitution Day, Congress and other Opposition parties gathered near BR Ambedkar’s statue in the Parliament lawn and read out different articles of the Constitution.Later in the day, leaders of 18 political parties, including the Congress, Left parties, Nationalist Congress Party, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Samajwadi Party, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena and the RJD, submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention in the matter. The leaders urged the President to not grant his assent to the proposed legislations and expressed concern over the way farm bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha. “We, belonging to diverse political parties cutting across India’s political and geographical spectrum, bring this representation to you to respectfully draw your urgent attention to the absolute and total murder of democracy, ironically in the most hallowed temple of democracy, Parliament,” read the memorandum. “We pray that you return the bills and do not append your signature,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-mps-hold-first-ever-night-protests-near-house/story-nmDihGsHS1be46bMV1QyYM.html
22-09-2020||India||Parties gear up to oppose three labour code bills in Parliament||Opposition parties, which fiercely protested the passage of two farm reform bills, are now preparing to oppose three upcoming labour reform laws. One of these, a provision in the Industrial Relations Code allows companies with up to 300 workers to lay off people without the concerned state government’s approval, a facility only available to companies employing up to 100 people under the current law. Union labour minister Santosh Gangwar on Saturday introduced three labour codes—on social security, industrial relations and occupational & health safety—in the Lok Sabha. The fourth Code, on wages, has already been cleared by Parliament. The labour reform bills will replace myriad archaic labour laws into codes, have been pending for a long time. The government claims to have incorporated 174 of 233 recommendations of the standing committee on labour for the three codes. The Opposition had claimed that the fresh bills — replacing the original versions, should be reviewed afresh by panels. The Industrial Relation Code Bill 2019, Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code, 2020 and the Code On Social Security, 2020 are set to be discussed in next few days, setting the stage for a renewed confrontation between the Opposition and the government. The Industrial relations bill redefines the scope of trade unions. The social security Code aims to create a social security network for all workers including migrants and the OSH Code sets standard for health safety norms for firms. Already, Congress leaders such as Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari and the Left leadership are opposed to the labour reforms. While Tewari wants the new codes to be put in the public domain for a month as they have seen substantial changes, Tharoor has demanded that the government accept the standing committee’s recommendations fully. “The alternative would be to face constitutional challenge in the court…does he wants a judicial scrutiny again?” Tharoor questioned the labour minister.“The government has held nine tripartite consultations, and 10 inter-ministerial consultations during the drafting stage of the codes,” Santosh Gangwar told the Lok Sabha, introducing the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-gear-up-to-oppose-three-labour-code-bills-in-parliament/story-Jl3yAgW1YWKbLBbloZvAmI.html
22-09-2020||India||First stubble fires start to show up on Nasa map||Farmers have begun burning crop residue in parts of Punjab and Haryana, satellite images from the United States space agency Nasa has shown, suggesting an early start to a practice that plunges much of the region, including Delhi, into a pollution crisis in the run up to the winter. Data from Nasa’s (national aeronautics and space administration) fire information for resource management system (FIRMS) shows a progressive increase in detection of fire in areas that typically have farmlands. Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association, said that the most number of fires, shown as red spots on the map was seen from Amritsar district in Punjab. “Crop fires in the state of Punjab and Haryana have started appearing in India. This year, we will be supporting satellite air quality data analysis and forecasting through a community forum for better understanding the impact of such fires on local weather and environment,” said Gupta. Data provided by Gupta shows that in the Amritsar district, between September 13 and September 16, five to seven fires were spotted through satellite monitoring. However, the number started rising and reached 26 on September 18 and on September 19 as many as 50 fires were spotted. On September 20, 62 fires were observed only in the district. Apart from Amritsar, other districts in Punjab where stubble burning fires are being seen are Tarn Taran, Firozpur, and parts of Kapurthala, Mansa and Jalandhar, where every day, at least two fires are seen. A senior official of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) said that these fires were signs of ‘early varieties’ of crops being harvested. “We are hoping that the number of stubble burning cases will be less this year. Our teams are alert but these fires are yet to start,” the official said on the condition of anonymity. While the situation in Haryana is still better, fires were spotted in the districts of Fatehabad and Ambala. Every year these farm fires usually begin in full-swing by mid-October, last year early fires were detected by September 25. The practice is linked to paddy farming in both these states. As a cheap and quick solution, farmers set fire to vast spreads of crop residue in order to turn their farm around for winter sowing. But this spews clouds of smoke in the atmosphere, which coupled with typical pre-winter conditions – slow, cooling winds that settle down closer to settlement – covers cities in a thick blanket of toxic smoke. The problem has turned into a public health crisis in recent years, with vulnerable people being advised to stay indoors.This year, it is likely to exacerbate Covid-19 outbreak. Research from Italy, one of the first coronavirus hot spots, showed that air pollution was linked to worse mortality rates. The virus, in severe cases, causes respiratory distress -- a condition that can be made worse to exposure to polluted air.By October 15, when monsoon retreats, winds change direction: they turn westerly and north-westerly, bringing in the smoke. In Delhi, the average wind speed in winter ranges between one and three metres per second, which is nearly one-third the average speed in summer months. Delhi government data shows that last year stubble burning accounted for 44% of Delhi’s air pollution. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said that Punjab produces 20 million tonnes of crop stubble out of which 9 million tonnes was burnt last year. In Haryana, 1.23 million tonnes out of 7 million tonnes was burnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-stubble-fires-start-to-show-up-on-nasa-map/story-5X3cEhFihEHkdM5G0NssOJ.html
22-09-2020||India||Unregulated digital media can spark hate, terror: Govt to SC||Digital media is completely unregulated and capable of spreading hate and instigating violence and terror, the central government told the Supreme Court on Monday, adding that if the top court was undertaking an exercise to regulate media, it should start with internet-based news outlets and not mainstream electronic media, which is governed by some checks and balances.A web-based news portal or YouTube channel can be launched by anyone without any requirement of registration or clearance by the government, and does not face any geographical barriers, factors which the Centre said could harm the “fabric of the nation”.“Any individual can start his own web-based channel by way of a YouTube channel and the only thing he needs is a desire to start and a smart phone which can be accessed by anyone. There is absolutely no check on the web-based digital media. Apart from spreading venomous hatred, deliberate and intended instigation to not only cause violence but even terrorism it is also capable of indulging in tarnishing the image of individuals and institutions. The said practice is, in fact, rampant,” the affidavit filed by the government said.The centre also urged the court to leave broader issues relating to media regulation to the parliament and the central government stating “it is a subject matter which must be examined and dealt with by the competent legislature.” The affidavit was submitted in the context of a case against television (TV) news channel Sudarshan News — which has been at the centre of a controversy after it aired four episodes of a programme, Bindas Bol, on September 11, 12, 13 and 14, relating to the entry of Muslims into the civil services — and the court is now considering the larger issue of regulating television content in the absence of a robust self-regulation mechanism.“The Centre’s stance is interesting, because it is very well empowered to frame laws to regulate digital media. The affidavit filed by the centre itself acknowledges that. It is, therefore, not clear why Centre has asked the court to regulate digital media,” said Mahesh Menon, who teaches law at the Daksha Fellowship programme.The Centre’s affidavit said no eligibility criteria or qualifications had been stipulated by the law for starting web-based news organisations and no statutory provisions to regulate or govern them were in place.The affidavit likened the functioning of web-based media to electronic media, pointing out that digital news outlets use “spectrum” and “internet”, which are public property, much like how electronic media uses “airwaves”.The Centre’s affidavit highlighted the wider reach of such web-based media in comparison to print and electronic media because of its easy access.“The print media has a limitation — only those who can read a particular language can have access to a particular newspaper or a magazine. The electronic media also has a limitation, as, by and large, one would be able to access a ‘broadcast’ or a channel only when he has an access to a TV set and subscription through either Direct to Home [DTH] operator or a cable operator,” it said.Issues concerning security of the nation are also addressed in case of print and electronic media since a TV channel requires a clearance by the ministry of home affairs before it can be registered, while print media is also required to get similar clearances from statutory authorities.So no further directions from the court are required for regulating electronic or print media, the Centre said. However, if the court considers it necessary to lay down guidelines for media, it should start with web-based media, which is completely unregulated, it suggested.“By the very nature of its composition, the print and electronic media would rarely cross the line which may need intervention of this Hon’ble Courts frequently. As against that, by its very nature the web-based digital media, by and large, remains unregulated,” the affidavit contended.The Centre also cautioned that regulating television content could have the undesired impact of media organisations pushing similar content on digital platforms, which are unregulated.“Any further regulation of electronic and print media by the court either by way of guidelines or providing for any redressal mechanism would incentivise broadcasters to use electronic media less and telecast / publish the same thing on digital platforms which would remain unregulated despite having wider reach without any corresponding responsibility or obligation,” the Centre submitted in its affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unregulated-digital-media-can-spark-hate-terror-govt-to-sc/story-XsyiTiJXiCugRZHLYqx9NL.html
22-09-2020||India||India, China commanders meet again amid standoff||Senior military commanders from India and China on Monday met in the eastern Ladakh sector in their latest attempt to break the logjam in talks to reduce tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), with a joint secretary from the Indian external affairs ministry taking part in the military dialogue for the first time, officials familiar with the developments said. The military dialogue started at 9am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC in the Chushul sector and was on at the time of going to print. The outcome of the talks was not immediately known. Two Indian lieutenant generals were among the officers who took part in the talks — Harinder Singh, who heads the Leh-based 14 Corps and his soon-to-be successor PGK Menon, the officials said on condition of anonymity. Menon is tipped to replace Singh in Leh after the latter completes his one-year term as corps commander next month. Menon attended Monday’s talks — the sixth between corps commander-ranked officers since June 6 — as a representative of the army headquarters, the officials said. A joint secretary-ranked diplomat was roped in for the dialogue in a step to ensure that the talks yield some headway, as reported by HT on Monday. The Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs — the diplomatic dialogue between the two countries — involves a representative of the Indian defence ministry. Military tensions are high in the eastern Ladakh theatre where both armies have made arrangements for holding positions through the winter. Monday’s meeting between the Indian and Chinese corps commander-ranked officers was their first after the Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied a series of key heights to prevent the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the positions scattered across Rezang La, Reqin pass, Gurung Hill and Magar heights. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other, as reported by Hindustan Times on September 10. The recent developments on both banks of Pangong Tso have increased India’s bargaining power as there will definitely be an element of quid pro quo in the talks, the officials said. A high-powered panel on China reviewed the latest developments in the Ladakh sector last week, focussing on charting the course of future negotiations to restore status quo ante of mid-April on the disputed border. The agenda for Monday’s talks was discussed at the high-level meeting, even as the situation in Ladakh remains tense after a series of recent manoeuvres by the two armies in the Pangong Tso area. Last week, defence minister Rajnath Singh told lawmakers in Parliament that no force in the world can stop the Indian Army from patrolling the country’s borders in the Ladakh sector, signalling a strong resolve to regain access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along the LAC. In tensions that began in early May, Indian and Chinese troops have come face-to-face at multiple points along the LAC. In some of these areas, particularly the Finger Area and Depsang, Indian forces have been cut off from reaching forward areas they could previously patrol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-commanders-meet-again-amid-standoff/story-l7WU6lKNXjFsP540r69psK.html
22-09-2020||India||More chaos in House as 8 MPs suspended||Eight opposition MPs were on Monday suspended from the Rajya Sabha — the most in the history of the Upper House — for the remainder of Parliament’s monsoon session for “gross disorderly conduct” during protests against two contentious farm bills the previous day, triggering a fresh confrontation between the government and the Opposition.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress accused each other of not upholding democratic norms after action was ordered by Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu against the MPs from four opposition parties for their Sunday protest, in which they stormed the Well of the House and charged towards the Chair, which was occupied by deputy chairman Harivansh.The suspended MPs refused to leave the House on Monday on the grounds that the action was unilateral and without considering their version of what transpired. After House proceedings were halted, they brought bedsheets, snacks, and water, and sat beside the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Parliament House, where they said they intended to stay through the night. They were still in the premises till late evening. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and his colleague Dola Sen; Aam Admi Party’s Sanjay Singh; Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) were suspended for seven days each. The last time a large group of MPs was suspended from the Upper House was in 2010, when seven MPs from three parties were barred for the rest of their session over their protests against the Women’s Reservation Bill.On Sunday, Parliament marshals formed a double-layered barricade to protect Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings when the MPs charged at him, ostensibly for not paying heed to their demand for a division of votes on the two agricultural reform bills. The bills were passed by voice vote, without being referred to a select committee of Parliament. In the House on Monday, Naidu condemned actions of the eight MPs and read out a list of “offences” he said the members were guilty of.“Some members came into the Well of the House. They also threw papers. They wrenched the mike of the deputy chairman. They hurled some papers at the deputy chairman. They also abused the deputy chairman also and the Rule Book was also thrown at him,” the chairman said.Declaring that he was “pained yesterday”, which he called a “really a bad day for the Rajya Sabha,” Naidu said: “I am worried that he (Harivansh) would have been harmed also.”The day began with the government moving a resolution seeking the suspension of the eight MPs for “unruly behaviour especially with the Chair and their gross disorderly conduct in violation of the rules and etiquettes of Rajya Sabha”.Amid furious protests, Naidu named O’Brien and repeatedly requested him to leave the House. O’Brien refused to go, while several opposition members demanded that their side also be heard.As chaos prevailed, Naidu also rejected the no-confidence motion by opposition MPs against deputy chairman Harivansh. “As per the provisions of Article 90 (c) of the Constitution, a notice period of 14 days is required for moving a resolution, not a motion. As the House is going to be adjourned sine die on October 1 as per the present schedule, notice does not complete the required period of 14 days,” Naidu said.Leaders of 18 political parties, including the Congress, the Left parties, NCP, DMK, Samajwadi Party, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena and the RJD, submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention in the matter. “We pray that you return the bills and do not append your signature,” it added.Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh said the eight opposition MPs were suspended without being heard . “The Murder Of Democracy in India rolls on.” CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said: “By suspending MPs if the government hopes to silence the Opposition, it shall not succeed.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi lashed out at the government. “Muting Of Democratic India continues: by initially silencing and later, suspending MPs in the Parliament & turning a blind eye to farmers’ concerns on the black agriculture laws. This ‘omniscient’ Govt’s endless arrogance has brought economic disaster for the entire country,” he tweeted.The Congress alleged that the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman tried to “muzzle and throttle the voices of the opposition parties at the behest of” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).BJP’s Bhpender Yadav hit back at the Congress. “My leader and my party have a tradition of following democratic principles. We were in the House and debating the Bills following the point of order set by the Chair. Who started the hooliganism is for everyone to see,” he said.Parliamentary affairs minister, Prahlad Joshi, defended the suspensions. “When the Chairman names a member, then that member has to leave the house. Never before (has) a member defied the orders of the Chair. Eight suspended MPs had misbehaved, it was a type of goondaism {hooliganism}. They have proved that they have no trust in democracy.”In a media briefing on Monday evening, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the suspended MPs had no right to talk about democratic processes. “Suspended MPs who assaulted the dy chairman of Rajya Sabha yesterday refused to follow the orders of the chairman today and created ruckus despite directions to leave the house. They have no moral authority to talk about democracy if they can’t respect the institutions of democracy.”The suspension of the MPs was carried out after invoking section 256 of the rule book, which allows the chairperson to ask an MP to leave the house for unruly behaviour. Rule 256 provides for the suspension of a member; it says: “If the chairman may, if he deems it necessary, name a member who disregards the authority of the Chair or abuses the rules of the Council by persistently and wilfully obstructing the business thereof.”Commenting on the suspensions, PDT Acharya, a former Lok Sabha general secretary, said: “There were unruly scenes on the floor of the House. These things have been happening and don’t always end up in suspension; the choice to take action is also a political decision.”On the Opposition’s charge that their demand for a division of votes had gone unheeded, Achraya said that as per the rules, the Chair cannot deny a division. “If the chair has done that, then it is a cause for addressing. As per the Constitution if a member has asked for division, the chair has to agree.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-chaos-in-houseas-8-mps-suspended/story-0GqZAMUgC7U0dx3w8tdOiO.html
22-09-2020||India||Bill suspending insolvency action against Covid-hit firms passed in LS||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, that prohibits the initiation of fresh insolvency proceedings against companies under stress due to the spread of Covid-19 pandemic since March 25.The Rajya Sabha passed the bill on Saturday. The bill seeks to replace an ordinance promulgated in June this year to provide relief to pandemic-hit firms.The ordinance, promulgated on June 5, prohibited initiation of insolvency proceedings against companies for their defaults for six months starting March 25, when a nationwide lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19 came into effect.The six-month period is due to end on September 25. The protection period is, however, extendable up to one year.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the house that the ordinance was issued to provide “immediate relief” to companies as the government had to prevent companies, stressed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, from being pushed into insolvency.“This bill is the successor to the ordinance issued on June 5. The object of the bill is for temporary suspension of any CIRP [Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process] for a period not exceeding one year due to unusual circumstances caused by the pandemic,” Abir Lal Dey, partner at law firm L&L Partners, said.“It will be interesting to see how the wilful defaulters will be dealt with during the suspension period. Also, upon expiry of the suspension period, which is not very far, there may be an increase in the filing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-suspending-insolvency-action-against-covid-hit-firms-passed-in-ls/story-Q0kC8L4zOHGFNW6nWpFH7O.html
22-09-2020||India||14 yrs on, APMC abolishment yields mixed results in Bihar||Fourteen years after Bihar became the first state in India to abolish the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act in 2006, enabling private companies to buy directly from farmers, the results have been a mixed bag.The agriculture markets have been replaced by roadside wholesale markets that have come up in every part of the state , and where farmers sell their produce without any regulatory protection -- but to anyone they want unlike in the APMC system, where they were bound to commission agents. The local municipal bodies, which have set up these markets, charge 1% of the selling price each from the farmer and the buyer as a facilitation fee.“Government should abolish municipal tax from small vegetable farmers and allow them to sell produce for free in municipal areas,” said Bijay Kushwaha from Parhuti village of Bihar’s Kaimur district.He said that under the APMC Act, also farmers had to pay 1% tax. When asked what has changed since the APMC law was abolished, he said farmers can now bargain with the buyers without having to go through a commission agent. “We don’t feel cheated.”Anil Kumar from Sakra village of Muzaffarpur district in the eastern part of the state said that farmers are free to sell -- although this doesn’t guarantee cartelization by the buyers.“Earlier, commission agents used to control the price. Now, traders from other states do. Nothing has changed since the Act was repealed. Farmers fight their own battle and there is no government protection,” said Shekhar Mehta, a farmer from Navhatta in Saharsa district.The passage of two farm reform bills by Parliament on Sunday has brought the focus on Bihar. A third bill is awaiting clearance by the Rajya Sabha. One of the bills allows farmers to operate outside the purview of APMC. And another allows them to strike contract farming deals with businesses. “Bihar was the first state to repeal the law even though it meant an annual loss of Rs 70 crore. But it brought an end to exploitation of farmers and corruption at mandis. This helped in farmers getting a better price and brought freedom from commission agents,” said Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Monday. A study by Jaipur-based National Institute of Agriculture Marketing in 2011-12 said that despite repealing of the APMC law the state’s agriculture infrastructure had not developed in the absence of private firms. The study recommended markets to be developed in the public-private partnership mode through a regulation to be enacted by the state government. “The private sector will operate and maintain the market. The user charge may be levied for the services provided in the market,” the study said.It also said that the market information system had been dismantled with abolition of APMC Act, which is effective in the rest of the country because of the mandi system. The study also suggested formation of farmers associations for better marketing of the produce.This agricultural season has also seen a lower volume of grains being procured by the government at the Minimum Support Price. According to the Food Corporation Of India website, only 0.05 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat was procured from Bihar in 2020-21 against the revised target of 7 LMT. In 2019-20, the state agencies procured 0.03 LMT of wheat.Bihar co-operative minister Rana Randhir Singh claimed that procurement of wheat was low as market price was better than the MSP (of Rs 1,925 per quintal). “Many buyers like those from biscuit and flour industry are buying wheat directly from farmers,” the minister said.“Farmers are not getting remunerative price for their produce. This year farmers sold grains (wheat and maize) at much less than MSP whereas farmers in Punjab and Haryana got MSP for wheat,” countered Kaimur District Kisan Majdoor Sangh president Vijay Bahadur Singh.This is primarily because the number of procurement centres had reduced from about 9,000 in 2015-16 to 1,619 in 2019-20, and the farmers are dependent on buyers from other states. About 80% of the foodgrains disbursed under the Public Distribution System in Bihar is procured from other states.Former agriculture secretary Siraj Hussain said the state government had not done enough to ensure that farmers are able to sell their produce at MSP. “While several eastern states have geared up their procurement machinery, Bihar has unfortunately not been able to develop its cooperatives which are primarily responsible for procurement in the state.” “It is (through a) direct marketing module approach that ITC, makers of Ashirwad flour, is procuring 2-3 lakh metric tonnes of wheat yearly directly from farmers,” Sushil Modi said. Agriculture minister Prem Kumar added that Bihar farmers were getting good price and with the new farm reform law, they will get a better price.The opposition feels otherwise. “It (APMC Act abolition) has hardly helped in improving the farmer’s condition. Instead, it has led to a continuous rise in prices and consumers are still facing its impact. Farmers are not getting any benefit too,” said senior Congress leader, H P Verma.(With inputs from Prasun K Mishra and Aditya Nath Jha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-yrs-on-apmc-abolishment-yields-mixed-results-in-bihar/story-dP9PLxWuVe41I27YZMgIPK.html
22-09-2020||India||Cabinet hikes MSPs for rabi crops amid farm stir||The Union government on Monday announced higher minimum support prices (MSPs) for a range of winter-sown or rabi crops, setting them at 50% over costs of cultivation, a move aimed at allaying concerns among farmer groups that a set of farm-sector reforms undertaken by the government could weaken the MSP regime. The decision on rabi MSPs was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar announced the hike in Lok Sabha. The new MSP rates, announced earlier than usual, come amid widespread protests by opposition parties and farmer groups in Punjab and Haryana, after Parliament passed two key farm bills on Sunday. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a video address, said opponents of the farm-sector reforms were misleading farmers, saying the government would continue to buy farmers’ produce at MSP rates. MSPs are federally fixed prices for farm produce aimed at preventing distress sale. The government buys largely rice and wheat at these prices through its procurement system. For the upcoming winter-sown season, the highest increase in MSP was announced for lentil (a jump of Rs 300 a quintal) followed by gram and rapeseed and mustard (Rs 225 a quintal each) and safflower (Rs 112 a quintal). The Cabinet approved an increase of Rs 75 a quintal and Rs 50 a quintal for barley and wheat. At these new MSP rates for key winter crops, farmers would get 106% return over cost of cultivation for wheat, 65% return over costs for barley, and 78% returns over cultivation costs for lentil (masoor) and gram, and 98% return over costs for mustard. In absolute terms, wheat MSP for 2021-22 stands at Rs 1,975 a quintal, up from Rs 1,925 in the previous year. Similarly, the MSP for lentil stands at Rs 5,100, higher than Rs 4,800 during 2020-21. The MSP for mustard was hiked to Rs 4,650 from Rs 4,425 earlier. “The differential remuneration (varying hikes in MSP) is aimed at encouraging crop diversification. This increase in MSP is in line with the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission,” a Cabinet note said. Earlier in the day, in a speech aimed at putting a lid on concerns of farmers’ groups, Modi said the existing agricultural state-regulated mandis (also known as agricultural produce market committees or APMCs) would continue to function. He also said the government would continue to buy farm produce at MSP rates. “APMCs will not shut down. The new laws are not against mandis and I also want to assure the country that the government will continue to buy farm produce at minimum support prices in every (farm marketing) season,” the PM had said. Parliament on Sunday passed The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, which aims to ease all restrictions on trade of agriculture produce. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, also passed on Sunday, lays down a new architecture for contract farming in the country so that agribusiness and farmers can engage with one another more confidently, enable modern supply chains and investments by agribusinesses in cultivation.Some farmer groups want the government to write MSP into the new act. “Our demand is to make MSP a legal right. We will continue to protest,” said VM Singh, the convener of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a major platform of farmer organisation, which is protesting the farm-sector reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-hikes-msps-for-rabi-crops-amid-farm-stir/story-mFhhVhSZq6g5EPFPZcDhhK.html
22-09-2020||India||SC cancels separate entrance exam of B’luru law school||The Supreme Court on Monday quashed the September 3 decision of National Law School of India University, Bengaluru (NLSIU) to hold a separate entrance exam, National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) for admission to its the 5 year integrated LLB programme and the postgraduate LLM programme in place of Common Law Admissions Test (CLAT).A 3-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan ordered NLSIU to admit students based on CLAT 2020 and also directed the consortium of national law universities (NLUs) to conduct CLAT on September 28. “The notice for admission to the five year integrated B.A.LL.B(Hons.) programme 2020-21 dated September 3, 2020 is quashed. The respondent No.1 (NLSIU) shall complete the admission of BA LL.B (Hons.) programme 2020-21 on the basis of the result of CLAT-2020,” the bench which also comprised justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah ordered.CLAT should be conducted after taking all precautions and care for health of the students after following the standard operating procedures of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of Human Resource Development, the court added.The court also directed that declaration of results should be completed as early as possible so as to enable NLUs to start their courses by mid-October.Admission to LLB courses offered by 22 National Law Universities (NLUs) in different states is based on the CLAT score which is held every year by a consortium of NLUs. CLAT is scheduled to be held on September 28.However, NLSIU decided that it would hold a separate entrance test this year, the NLAT, in view of the delay in conducting CLAT due to Covid-19. A notification was also issued on September 3 announcing its decision to hold NLAT.“Candidates will be selected on the basis of the aggregate marks secured in an online home-based Entrance Examination known as NLAT. The NLAT 2020 will test applicants for admission to the undergraduate B.A., LL.B. (Hons) and postgraduate LL.M programmes commencing in 2020,” the notification said.It also made it clear that NLSIU will not accept CLAT 2020 scores for admission for the academic Year 2020-21. According to the notification, NLSIU preferred to opt out of CLAT this year because it has to complete admissions before the end of September 2020 failing which it will inevitably result in a ‘Zero Year’ with no admission. This is because the NLSIU follows a trimester system with 3 terms of 90 days duration.“Each term must accommodate 60 hours of classroom instruction in each course and adequately provide for examination and evaluation processes. Further, the academic offering for the 3rd, 4th and 5th year of the B.A., LL.B programme as well as the LL.M programme is fully integrated and requires a common academic calendar,” the notification explained.Later another notification was issued stipulating technical requirements for writing the exam. As per the notification, candidates were to have a computer system with minimum internet bandwidth of 1 Mbps and exams can be given using laptops or desktops alone with integrated webcam and microphone. Further, only Windows operating system would be allowed.Dr. Venkat Rao, who was a former Vice Chancellor at NLSIU, approached the Supreme Court challenging NLAT stating that the decision taken by the Executive Council of NLSIU to conduct NLAT was illegal and without any legal authority.Further, the notification mandating technical requirements to give the exam are onerous and cast unreasonable burden on students, the plea said. A parent of one of the law school aspirants was also a petitioner along with Rao.The Supreme Court had on September 11 allowed NLSIU to hold NLAT as an interim measure but asked the university not to declare results or admit students till the court arrives at a final decision. The university had conducted NLAT pursuant to that order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-cancels-separate-entrance-exam-of-b-luru-law-school/story-sq2hSAXSjRtLOoLvsSRDfO.html
22-09-2020||India||Rain burst likely before monsoon withdrawal||Parts of India are likely to experience a late burst of rainfall in the next two to three days when the monsoon normally begins its gradual withdrawal. A low-pressure area over northwest India is likely to bring widespread and heavy rains to the west coast, the east and the peninsular region, India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said on Monday.IMD scientists are expecting the withdrawal of monsoon to commence from west Rajasthan only after September 25; the four-month monsoon will come to an end on September 30, and any rain recorded after that will be counted as post-monsoon rain. As of Monday, the monsoon is 7% excess this year, although there are significant variations across regions. It is 29% excess over the southern peninsula, 14% excess over central India, 1% excess over northeast India, but 16% deficient over northwest India. Since a plus/minus 19% deviation from the long period average is counted as normal, this means rainfall is normal in three of the regions, and above normal in the fourth. Following intense showers in the west, east and even several parts of Uttar Pradesh, IMD is expecting reduced rainfall over the country, which may make conditions favourable for commencement of monsoon withdrawal from northwest India.The low pressure system will move west-north-westwards up to central Madhya Pradesh and then recurve towards Uttar Pradesh. We are expecting very good rains in UP too during this spell,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the National Weather Forecasting Centre.The low pressure area is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining north coastal Odisha. “We are expecting rains to reduce significantly once this low pressure system passes. There is no likelihood of another low pressure area forming in the next seven days,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.The normal date for commencement of monsoon withdrawal from northwest India is September 17 and for complete withdrawal from the country, October 15. The new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates were issued by IMD in April. Until last year, the normal date for commencement of withdrawal was September 1 and for complete withdrawal was October 15 . IMD’s new onset dates are based on an analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based on data from 1971 to 2019 by scientists in IMD, Pune.“We are not seeing any parameters of monsoon withdrawal being met in the next two days. Rain should stop completely but it rained in west Rajasthan on Saturday and there is water vapour in the region; anti-cyclonic wind pattern is also not established yet. We have to monitor if conditions are becoming favourable for withdrawal after the low-pressure area weakens. But the monsoon season will end on September 30. There are no changes to the season,” said K Sathi Devi, head of the National Weather Forecasting Centre.Last year, the monsoon started withdrawing only on October 9 against the normal date of September 1 and withdrew completely only by October 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-burst-likely-before-monsoon-withdrawal/story-dffeCarbCMVfR76atiYcUM.html
22-09-2020||India||Need balanced approach on right to protest: Supreme Court||The right to protest in public place should be balanced with the right of the general public to move freely without hindrance, the Supreme Court observed on Monday, reserving its verdict on a batch of petitions over the road blockade at Shaheen Bagh in Delhi by protestors opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act , or CAA.While the issue pertaining to Shaheen Bagh itself was rendered infructuous (pointless) since the protests ended after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and a lockdown was imposed on March 25, the court heard the parties on the larger issue of the right to stage protests in public places and to what extent it can be regulated.“The right to protests should be balanced with the right to movement of public. In a parliamentary democracy, there is a right to protest. But can a public road be blocked for a long time? When and where can protests be held? We will think about how it can be balanced,” the bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul remarked.The protestors in Shaheen Bagh were opposing the CAA, which was passed on December 12, 2019. The CAA sought to fast-track the grant of Indian citizenship to religious minorities, including Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians, from the Muslim-majority countries of Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan.The exclusion of the Muslim community led to widespread protests across the country, as did the linking of citizenship with religion. Shaheen Bagh was the epicentre of such protests in the national capital. The protests in Shaheen Bagh started on December 15, 2019 and continued for more than three months. Advocate Amit Sahni and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Nand Kishore Garg had moved the Supreme Court in February, seeking the lifting of the road blockade in the Shaheen Bagh – Kalindi Kunj stretch.Sahni, in his plea, stated that the road closure in Shaheen Bagh had caused great inconvenience to the public at large. The road closure and the consequent traffic diversion led to a wastage of precious time and energy besides congesting other routes, he claimed.Sahni stated that while people had the right to protest, the right is subject to reasonable restrictions and protestors cannot be allowed to occupy public roads indefinitely.The Supreme Court had tasked senior advocate Sanjay Hegde and advocate Sadhana Ramachandran, on February 17, to mediate with the protestors and come to a constructive solution to resolve the issue but no solution could be arrived at.During the hearing on Monday, advocate Sahni said that while there is a right to protests, it should not inconvenience public at large. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, said the right to protest cannot be absolute and is subject to reasonable restrictions.“Every right is qualified,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-balanced-approach-on-right-to-protest-court/story-HOkyuWncusx7rAma1ObmWJ.html
22-09-2020||India||Nearly 7 lakh cyber attacks in 2020, IT Ministry tells Parliament||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeITY) told the Parliament on Monday that Indian citizens, commercial and legal entities faced almost 7 lakh cyber attacks till August this year.The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) has “reported 49,455, 50,362, 53,117, 208,456, 394,499 and 696,938 cyber security incidents during the year 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 (till August) respectively”, the MeITY said while responding to an unstarred question in the Lok Sabha regarding cyber-attacks on Indian citizens and India-based commercial and legal entities. However, countering the claim that India is among the top five countries with the greatest number of cyber-attacks, the Ministry said that such “vendor reports” are not validated. However, according to a NITI Aayog report by member VK Saraswat, “India ranks 3rd in terms of the highest number of internet users in the world after USA and China, the number has grown 6-fold between 2012-2017 with a compounded annual growth rate of 44%”. “With proliferation in internet and mobile phone usage, there is a rise in number of cyber security incidents in the country as well as globally. Proactive tracking by CERT-In including its Cyber Swachhta Kendra and National Cyber Coordination Centre (NCCC) and improved cyber security awareness among individuals and organisations across sectors has led to increased reporting of incidents,” MeITY said in its response. The government also highlighted steps taken to counter the attacks. “The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) regularly issues alerts and advisories regarding latest cyber threats/vulnerabilities and countermeasures to protect computers and networks on regular basis. Government has issued guidelines for Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) regarding their key roles and responsibilities for securing applications / infrastructure and compliance. Government has empanelled 90 security-auditing organisations to support and audit implementation of Information Security Best Practices,” the ministry said. The ministry said the government has also formulated “Cyber Crisis Management Plan for countering cyber-attacks and cyber terrorism” for implementation by all Ministries/ Departments of Central Government, State Governments and their organizations and critical sectors”.It has also conducted 49 mock cyber drills to assess preparedness in sectors such as Finance, Defence, Power, Telecom, Transport, Energy and Space. “Government has initiated setting up of National Cyber Coordination Centre (NCCC) to generate necessary situational awareness of existing and potential cyber security threats and enable timely information sharing for proactive, preventive and protective actions by individual entities. Phase-I of NCCC has been made operational,” said the response adding that it was in the process of formulating a national cyber security policy. According to Raman Jit Singh Chima, Global cybersecurity lead and Asia Pacific Policy Director at Access Now, the lack of clarity regarding who manages the cyber-security scenario of India has thrown up way lesser numbers than the actual cyber-attacks. “These are voluntarily reported incidents,” said Chima. “These include both state and non-state attacks that one govt agency - CERT-IN - is aware of. However, there is no legal requirement in India to declare a data breach. On an average, according to industry report, data breaches cost Indian firms an average of Rs 14 crore.” Chima added that the government needed to expedite the national security policy, explain their position on attributing state cyber attacks, and make it legally binding to report data breaches and cyber incidents in India. “This is useful initial data but the government should also take note of how many incidents have been found by the National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre to assess how much critical infrastructure has been targeted. They should make this information public and also disclose if any of the attacks can be attributed to other countries, which is a part of the MP’s questions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-7-lakh-cyber-attacks-in-2020-it-ministry-tells-parliament/story-bOv6SuWSP9XxUwtF9uBTvK.html
22-09-2020||India||Since ’15, 1.45 million cyber security incidents: Govt||India’s cyber security monitoring agency Cert-In recorded 1.45 million incidents – events like breaches and hacks – in the period between 2015 and 2020, the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) told parliament on Monday. The ministry was responding to an unstarred question regarding cyber-attacks on Indian citizens and India-based commercial and legal entities. The government countered allegations that this puts India among the top five countries that face the most cyber attacks. The ministry said that such “vendor reports” are not validated. According to a NITI Aayog report by member VK Saraswat, “India ranks 3rd in terms of the highest number of internet users in the world after USA and China, the number has grown 6-fold between 2012-2017 with a compound annual growth rate of 44%”. “With proliferation in internet and mobile phone usage, there is a rise in number of cyber security incidents in the country as well as globally. Proactive tracking by CERT-In including its Cyber Swachhta Kendra and National Cyber Coordination Centre (NCCC) and improved cyber security awareness among individuals and organisations across sectors has led to increased reporting of incidents,” MeITY said in its response. “Government has initiated setting up of National Cyber Coordination Centre (NCCC) to generate necessary situational awareness of existing and potential cyber security threats and enable timely information sharing for proactive, preventive and protective actions by individual entities. Phase-I of NCCC has been made operational,” said the response adding that it was in the process of formulating a national cyber security policy. According to Raman Jit Singh Chima, global cybersecurity lead and Asia Pacific Policy director at Access Now, the lack of clarity regarding who manages the cyber-security scenario of India has thrown up way lesser numbers than the actual cyber-attacks. “These are voluntarily reported incidents,” said Chima. “These include both state and non-state attacks that one govt agency - Cert-IN - is aware of. However, there is no legal requirement in India to declare a data breach. On an average, according to industry report, data breaches cost Indian firms an average of Rs 14 crore.” Chima added that the government needed to expedite the national security policy, explain their position on attributing state cyber attacks, and make it legally binding to report data breaches and cyber incidents in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/since-15-1-45-mn-cyber-security-incidents-govt/story-DGkgUZKrC9fVIyYzwK4S4M.html
22-09-2020||India||SC: Mindful of need to protect free speech||The nature of the injunction to be imposed on Sudarshan TV from airing its controversial show on the entry of Muslims in civil services would require careful consideration, the Supreme Court observed on Monday, underscoring that its orders on regulation of television content should not lead to a chilling effect on free speech.A three-judge bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud asked the parties to the case whether or not there should be a blanket injunction on the programme, Bindas Bol, or whether the injunction should be on those aspects of the show that can be counted as hate speech.“What exactly can the court prohibit? It is not like a trademark infringement suit where court can say not to use a particular symbol or colour. In this case, we can’t say for instance visuals of a bearded man in green T-shirt and skull cap should not be aired. We can’t go into such specifics. That will denigrate the standards of dialogue of a Constitution court,” justice Chandrachud said.Advocate Shadan Farasat, who was appearing for three students from Jamia Millia Islamia, expressed doubts whether a limited injunction would serve the purpose, adding that he will come up with suggestions in response to the query from the bench on the nature of the junction to be imposed.During the hearing on Monday, the court also took exception to an affidavit filed by Sudarshan TV on Sunday in which the Noida-based news channel had stated that it will comply with all laws while airing the remaining episodes of the controversial programme but did not go into any specific changes it intended to introduce.The court also objected to the affidavit referring to certain shows telecast by NDTV in 2008 and 2010 on “Hindu Terror,” with justice Chandrachud asking what the relevance of the shows was to this case.The affidavit by editor-in-chief of Sudarshan News, Suresh Chavhanke, had highlighted two shows aired by NDTV, one in September 2008 titled “Hindu Terror: Myth or Fact” and another in 2010 titled “Is Saffron Threat Real?” both anchored by journalist Barkha Dutt ,which he submitted “pained” and “shocked” him. “Did we ask for your opinion on NDTV show,” justice Chandrachud added.Jain said that it was in response to the court’s remarks concerning representation of a Muslim man in green T-shirt.“This is contrary to judicial practice. Just because we ask questions does not mean you can shoot off your mouth and put it on affidavit,” the bench said.The court had, on September 18, asked Sudarshan News to file an affidavit giving details of what changes it proposed to make in the programme so as to convince the court to lift the injunction imposed on September 15.The top court had on September 15 barred further telecast of the controversial programme after it took strong exception to the content of the show, observing that the first four episodes gave an impression that it was being aired with the insidious objective of vilifying the Muslim community and to bringing it into disrepute.The court was hearing a petition filed by advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan challenging the broadcast of the programme contending that it was derogatory towards the Muslim community and fell within the realm of hate speech and was in violation of the programme code which regulates TV content.The bench, which also comprises justices KM Joseph and Indu Malhotra, had also decided to lay down guidelines on regulation of TV content after it took note of the fact that self-regulation had not achieved desired results.The court also said that it is mindful of the fact that its orders on regulation of TV content should not lead to a chilling effect on free speech. The court made this observation after advocate J Sai Deepak, who was appearing for certain intervenors, said that the court should consider the impact its orders may have as it could resulting in a chilling effect.“You are absolutely right. But here we are concerned with balance between free speech and dignity. And the dignity is not of an individual but a community as a whole. If it was an individual, he could have availed civil remedy. But here the community is a large amorphous group and we can’t ask them to take recourse to civil remedy,” justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-mindful-of-need-to-protect-free-speech/story-hJPqXpZjHP9wHDTGZeAlYO.html
22-09-2020||India||Women leading from front in armed forces||Warships will no longer be a no-go zone for women naval aviators with two of them --- selected for the helicopter stream --- set to become the first women in the navy’s history to operate from flight decks of warships and stay on board the vessels, the navy announced on Monday.The announcement comes even as a female fighter pilot is being trained to fly the Rafale aircraft and join the Ambala-based No. 17 squadron shortly. The woman pilot, who is undergoing conversion training to fly the Rafale jet, is one of the 10 women fighter pilots in the Indian Air Force (IAF), officials said. “Two women officers have been selected to join as observers (airborne tacticians) in the helicopter stream. They will, in effect, be the first set of women airborne combatants who will be operating from warships,” a Kochi-based navy spokesperson said.  The entry of women has so far been restricted to fixed-wing aircraft operating from inland bases, he said. In a short-lived experiment, women from the navy’s logistics branch were deployed on warships in the mid-1990s. The two lady officers --- Sub-Lieutenants Kumudini Tyagi and Riti Singh (daughter of a naval officer) --- are among the 17 officers who were awarded “wings” on graduating as observers at a ceremony held in Kochi on Monday. Rear Admiral Antony George, chief staff officer (training), presided over the ceremony. As observers, the two women have been trained for a variety of roles including navigation, flying procedures, tactics employed in air warfare, anti-submarine warfare and airborne avionic systems. It feels great to be a part of Indian Navy’s history today, said Sub Lieutenant Kumudini Tyagi. “Being combat-ready platforms of navy, through the helicopters, we will be capable of carrying out combat roles including control of weapons and onboard sensors. This profile is exciting and thrilling at the same time,” she said.“Men on deck be ready to be observed. Women observers for sure will navigate you to the shore. Waiting to see women in the trenches now,” said Wing Commander Anupama Joshi (retd.), from the first batch of women officers commissioned into the IAF in the early 1990s. They will serve on board maritime reconnaissance and anti-submarine warfare helicopters of the navy --- currently Seaking choppers and later on MH-60R helicopters being bought from the United States. India is buying 24 Lockheed Martin-Sikorsky MH-60R helicopters from the US to strengthen the navy’s anti-submarine/anti-surface warfare and surveillance capabilities, in a deal worth Rs 17,500 crore. “Rear Admiral George while complimenting the graduating officers highlighted the fact that it is a landmark occasion wherein for the first time women are going to be trained in helicopter operations which would ultimately pave way for the deployment of women in frontline warships,” the navy said in its statement. Along with the navy, the IAF is also giving its women officers more opportunities and exposure with the Ambala-based Rafale squadron set to induct its first woman fighter pilot. Ten women have been commissioned as fighter pilots after the experimental scheme for their induction into the IAF’s combat stream was introduced in 2015, a watershed in the air force’s history. IAF is operating its Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on its highest state of alert, amid heightened border tensions with China. The IAF’s current fleet of five Rafale fighters is fully operational and ready to undertake any mission, officials said. India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016. The air force formally inducted the planes at the Ambala air base on September 10 though they landed at their home base on July 29. The Rafale jets are part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, also known as the Golden Arrows. Rafale weaponry includes Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles --- weapons that allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges. The next batch of three to four Rafale jets is expected to reach Ambala from France in October followed by a third batch in December. All deliveries will be completed by the end of 2021. The head count of women in the military adds up to more than 4,000, but combat roles were off limits to them until the IAF took the lead in crushing internal resistance to induct them into the fighter stream. Tanks and combat positions in the infantry are still no-go zones for women, who were allowed to join the armed forces outside the medical stream for the first time in 1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-leading-from-front-in-armed-forces/story-qf9lJU0T9Xo6dwG7OnIGRK.html
22-09-2020||India||UP new business destination: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke to Sunita Aron about the state’s rise in the ease of business rankings, steps being taken to attract investments, and development areas that still need work, among other things. Edited excerpts: After a leap from 12th to second spot in the national ease of business rankings, are you aiming for the first position next year? Why not?. We should make every effort to get the top position. The state has the potential, and we know how to work hard. Our ranking stood at 16th in 2016. We have reached the second position, and we will strive for the top position next year. UP has displayed that it is the new destination for business. The government of India has already provided a list of total 301 reforms to be implemented before the end of this year, and we are working on them. I have already conducted a review meeting with all departments concerned at my level and have given clear directions. For this year, our target is to 100% implement all the prescribed reforms vis-à-vis constantly reaching out to the beneficiaries from time to time. We plan to establish a dedicated feedback call centre at Invest UP level which shall reach out to our entrepreneurs to seek their feedback as well as redress their grievances.Some states are still raising questions on the methodology adopted this year in the rankings.The Business Reform Action Plan (Brap) had listed 187 reforms and we, in one year, implemented 186 of them, spread across multiple areas such as labour, land allotment, registration, environment clearances etc. However, our online single window portal, Nivesh Mitra, became a game-changer. From submission of applications and fee, the entrepreneur could download digitally signed approvals/NOCs {no objection certificates} and licences. It also helped in ensuring transparent licencing system. Moreover, in 65 of the 75 districts, widespread reforms took place. The satisfaction level of entrepreneurs was also 75%. Lot of groundwork has been done in past three years to transform the investment climate in the state But this is not the first time we are hearing about a single window system. Successive governments had announced this. How is it different?We worked on ground implementation of the reforms, with focus on Brap 19. The evaluation has also been done on user feedback. We received 2.3 lakh NOC applications out of which 2.2 lakh were efficiently disposed of. This was possible as about 20 departments were integrated with the online single window portal. This is how 186 key reforms across 20 departments were done in the last one year. What about the poor law-and-order, and the bureaucratic red-tapism that UP is infamous for? Where is the red-tapism now? No one is complaining. Besides reforms, we are improving air connectivity, constructing expressways and ensuring timebound disposal of complaints and grievances. The number of sanctions too have been reduced from 55 to 35 as compared to 38 in Andhra Pradesh and 49 in Telangana, the states that won first and third position, respectively. The entrepreneurs often faced problems in environmental clearances and labour. These issues, too, have been addressed. As for law-and-order, the government has taken several steps for its overall improvement. The police response has drastically improved .The data shows that majority of the crime cases that are happening are because of personal enmity or family feuds. I can only say that the entrepreneurs never felt as secure as they do today. The opposition parties are still critical of the government. They dub it as just branding and marketing. The Opposition is not aware about the ground realities, and they do not want to accept the fact that UP has done it. But the reality cannot be disputed as the [Brap] ranking has been done on the basis of independent feedback. While some investors have experienced the post-reforms efficiency of the system, it has raised the curiosity of others. After investment summits, ground breaking ceremony and defence expo, entrepreneurs have now understood the state’s potential.Which regulations were changed that made the environment conducive for business? We gave clear timelines through the Public Service Delivery Guarantee Act for approval of complete application. We have done away with the practice of inspection prior to registration under the Shops and Establishment Act. The registration is granted within one day from the date of application. Such instructions were also given for labour, land and other clearances. You have been meeting entrepreneurs, big and small. Are they satisfied with the reforms undertaken by the state government? We have great feedback. Their confidence is high as my officers are in regular contact with the investors. We have created a dedicated help desk to handhold the investment leads generated, particularly those relocating from foreign countries. As a result, we have more than 50 investment intents that have been received from around 10 countries, including Japan, US, UK, Canada, Germany, South Korea, etc. worth around Rs 7,000 crore. These include Ikea, Yazaki, Miyachi Corp, AB Maurie, Britannia, etc. Often MoUs get signed at investment summits; they rarely start rolling. Out of 1,045 MoUs signed during the UP Investors’ Summit, 152 MoUs (with investment intent of Rs.49,147 crore) have started commercial operations and 175 MoUs (with investment intent of Rs.55,055 crore) are at various phases of active implementation. Four hundred and sixty-one MoUs (with investment intent of Rs.93,474 crore) have been in active follow-up position at various UP departments. You think the government still needs to be more proactive in ensuring timebound clearances? Time bound delivery of licences/NOCs is the most critical step for ease of doing business. Understanding this criticality, we have taken several initiatives in this regard, including clearly telling departments to raise only one-time query on submitted applications from entrepreneurs within seven days of application received. You want to make Uttar Pradesh a trillion-dollar economy in the next five years. How do you propose to go about it? The state government is emphasising on Industry 4.0 and rejuvenating its investment promotion strategy. For this, over and above the traditional sectors such as food processing, dairy, textile, ESDM & IT {electronics system design & manufacturing and information technology}, the state has identified new focus sectors such as pharma, with renewed focus on bulk drug and medical device manufacturing, electric vehicle mobility to push EV demand in the state, warehousing & logistics, defence and aerospace manufacturing, data centre, etc. Also, rapid extension of world-class infrastructure through expressways – Poorvanchal/ Bundelkhand, new industrial parks are on the anvil. According to you, which are the weak areas that demand attention and focus? The major challenges for rapid industrialisation are creation of land bank and adapting to modern techniques for good governance. All the available industrial land of all industrial authorities have been updated on the GIS {Geographic Information System} portal and is available on the single window portal Nivesh Mitra. Other reforms include FAR {floor area ratio} increased up to 3.5 for industrial use, which is one of the highest in India, allowing agricultural land leasing for solar energy projects, fast track land allotment within 15 days for mega investments, allowing mix land use for development of Integrated Industrial Townships etc. Through Invest UP, now we are prepared to provide complete investment life cycle support to the investors. Covid-19 has had adverse impact on the state’s finances. What is your action plan to mobilise funds to take the state back to the path of development? Since, the state government has resorted to generate fresh leads post Covid-19, not only the scope of investment facilitation has broadened, but also the focus on faster investment implementation has gained importance. The state government is now promoting rapid investment implementation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-new-business-destination-yogi-adityanath/story-3qCaZTAFUIkK6PEGtlTEFK.html
22-09-2020||India||Calcutta HC forms benches for Ponzi scheme matters, criminal cases involving lawmakers||Calcutta high court chief justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan has constituted a two-judge bench that will exclusively hear chit fund or Ponzi scam cases every Friday starting September 25. The chief justice has also formed a two-judge bench and a single-judge bench that will hear all pending criminal cases involving sitting and former members of the state legislature and Parliament. These two benches became operational on Monday. Formation of a separate bench for Ponzi scam cases is being viewed in political circles as a significant development since several prominent leaders of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) figure among the accused. No TMC leader, however, has commented on this. With over six months left for the West Bengal assembly elections, heightened activity by Central probe agencies since August has prompted the TMC to allege “political vendetta by the Bharatiya Janata Party.” On August 24, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) sent notices to five TMC leaders in connection with the 2014 Narada News sting operation, the videos of which were made public before the 2016 Bengal assembly polls, seeking details of their family property. The videos purportedly showed high-profile TMC MLAs and MPs receiving money to help a fictitious company. On August 26 and 27, the Kolkata office of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the Narada case as well as the Saradha, Rose Valley and MPS Group Ponzi fund scams involving thousands of crores of rupees, revamped its economic offence wing. Two officers of the rank of superintendent of police flew down from Delhi to join duty. The CBI is trying to wrap up the probe in the Saradha Ponzi fund case involving an estimated Rs 2,460 crore that was raised from around 1.8 million depositors from West Bengal, Assam, Jharkhand, Odisha, and Chhattisgarh. Sudipta Sen, who owned the group, is in jail. TMC’s former Rajya Sabha member Kunal Ghosh spent over two years in jail in this case. The Rose Valley scam, involving around Rs 17,000 core, is the biggest Ponzi scam in Bengal in terms of money involved. In 2014, the Supreme Court asked the CBI to investigate the scams and the role of ‘influentials’ in money laundering. The ED is conducting a parallel probe. In the Narada case, the CBI filed the FIR in March 2017, acting on a Calcutta high court order that was upheld by the Supreme Court. However, the trial in this case is yet to start. “We welcome the formation of the new benches. Court proceedings got delayed because of the Covid-19 lockdown. A separate bench for Ponzi scams will help common people who lost their money,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha. “The Calcutta high court is overseeing the probes into the Ponzi scams as well as refund of money to investors, around 200 of whom have died by suicide. Thousands of depositors have been waiting for refunds since 2013-14. Faster hearings will help them,” said lawyer Arindam Das who represents the cheated investors of Saradha, Rose Valley and MPS groups. The official notification (No 3477-RG), announcing formation of the three benches was issued by Rai Chattopadhyay, the high court registrar general, on Saturday. Justice Joymalya Bagchi and justice Suvra Ghosh will hear all pending criminal cases involving sitting or former lawmakers. The single bench in this matter will be headed by justice Bibek Chaudhuri. Justice Joymalya Bagchi and justice Jay Sengupta will take up Ponzi scheme cases. On August 26, while hearing a bail petition filed by MPS Group owner Pramathanath Manna, who is in jail for six years, the division bench of Justice Joymalya Bagchi and Justice Suvra Ghosh expressed displeasure and asked the CBI why the trial has not started yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-forms-benches-for-ponzi-scheme-matters-criminal-cases-involving-lawmakers/story-BXs3CFLXaW1QzEfA6ZRExM.html
22-09-2020||India||Sushant’s former talent manager Jaya Saha quizzed by NCB, called again along with Shruti Modi||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the drugs angle in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, has summoned the actor’s ex-manager Shruti Modi on Tuesday along with his former talent manager Jaya Saha who was questioned on Monday as well.The central agency quizzed Saha for around four hours at the Bombay Port Trust (BPT) guest house in South Mumbai. She reached the guest house around 2 pm and left around at 6:15 pm in the evening, NCB deputy director KPS Malhotra said. The NCB had earlier summoned Saha and Modi to appear on September 16 but their questioning was postponed after one of the members of the investigating team tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Bollywood actors Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and designer Simone Khambatta will also be called to join the NCB probe this week, Malhotra had said earlier in the day.The actors will be summoned under Section 67 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, after they were named by Rhea Chakraborty while she was being interrogated between September 6 and September 8 before being arrested, NCB officials said.The agency had earlier confirmed that Chakraborty had named the three in her statement but the context in which their names were taken is not clear yet. “Their roles can’t be given right now,” Malhotra said. Chakraborty, however, had later retracted her statement. The agency has so far arrested 18 people, including Rajput’s girlfriend actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and drug peddlers from Mumbai and Goa.Meanwhile, the Central Investigation Bureau (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) have also launched investigations over different angles associated with Rajput’s death on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-former-talent-manager-jaya-saha-quizzed-by-ncb-called-again-tomorrow-along-with-actor-s-ex-manager-shruti-modi/story-2xrPSVr3QZ52OhZl315NLL.html
