23-09-2020||India||Supreme Court should migrate from Vidyo app: Survey||A majority of Supreme Court lawyers who participated in a survey on the virtual court hearings did not favour the Vidyo app used by the apex court for video conference hearings and suggested that the top court should migrate from Vidyo to a different software application.227 lawyers participated in the survey which was carried out online by 5 Supreme Court lawyers. Out of the 227, 13 lawyers were senior advocates and 133 were Advocates-on-Record (AoRs). To be sure, the number of participants who took the survey was limited when compared to the total number of practicing lawyers in Supreme Court. There are more than 2,700 AoRs in the Supreme Court while the SCBA has nearly 2,000 members on its voter’s list. “An overwhelming majority of participants [155 of 218 (71.1 percent) who answered the question on Vidyo app] strongly felt that, owing to the technical issues with Vidyo, the Supreme Court should migrate to a different software application for conducting hearings through Video Conferencing,” the survey report said.Vidyo app has proved to be problematic in practice and needs a complete overhaul and technology/ bandwidth issues needs to be immediately improved, the report dated August 29 suggested. The top court could consider exploring the possibility of developing a separate software application which integrates the best practices across various applications, it added.The report said that advocates were routinely either unable to log in or were automatically logged out during court proceedings, probably due to bandwidth/ capacity issues with the App. They also faced difficulties in re-joining the hearing if they were logged out for some reason.“Participants also complained that they were completely subject to the mercy of the Control Room and, on several occasions, were not unmuted in time, and hence were unable to present their arguments,” it said.These problems were more acute in batch matters involving large number of parties, the report added.The survey was conducted by 5 AoRs - Bhabna Das, D Abhinav Rao, Harsh Parashar, Krishna Dev J and RV Yogesh.The apex court started hearing cases through video conferencing on March 23, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the national lockdown in view of the Coronavirus pandemic.The hearing in Supreme Court is conducted through Vidyo app which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktop. The platform is hosted on the servers of National Data Centre of National Informatics Centre. While the judges on the bench join the video conference from the residence of one of the judges, the lawyers join from their respective houses.Another issue regarding video conference hearing which was highlighted by the survey report was that the lack of proper technical assistance from the court staff and a grievance redressal mechanism.“There is absolutely no clarity on who is to be contacted in case of any technical issue in connecting via the link shared,” the report said.A significant number of advocates experienced some stress owing to the link to the video conference being shared at the last minute, especially if they had to forward the link to a Senior Advocate / Arguing Counsel, it was pointed out.Currently, links to the hearing are shared on Whatsapp groups specifically created each day for each court. It was suggested that the link for hearings for different virtual courts be published along with the cause list or sent to the concerned AoRs by automated e-mails sufficiently in advance.“This can, in the long run, eliminate the time and resources consumed in creating WhatsApp groups for different virtual courts every day for this purpose, and also reduce the anxiety caused due to receipt of links at the last minute.”94.7 percent of the participants (213 out of 225) also felt that the above issues can be best addressed by having separate designated officers for each virtual court, a demand which seems to have been accepted by the top court which on September 22 issued a circular giving contact details of dedicated court masters and court moderators for each court, who can be contacted for any assistance during video conference hearings. The apex court has been frequently updating the standard operating procedure to address various issues faced by lawyers during video conference hearings. The court had on August 29 also invited sealed tenders for “a comprehensive plan for video conference hearings including hardware and support”.The survey also covered other aspects like E-filing and listing of cases.79.3 percent out of 213 advocates stated that they had used the E-filing Platform of the Supreme Court. 8 advocates (3.8 percent) stated that they had been unable to use it because of technical issues.98 out of 166 (59 percent) advocates stated that they preferred E-filing to physical filing. However, a significant portion [41 percent] of advocates had faced some problems with the E-filing mechanism. “By and large, advocates feel that the interface is not user-friendly, unnecessarily requires filling in of too many details at the advocates’ end, and that the support from the Registry is inadequate. Advocates are also anxious about the diary numbers not being generated immediately on E-filing, unlike a physical filing. This leads to uncertainty for the advocate and the client about whether the filing has been acknowledged by the registry and whether this would cause further delay in the process,” the report stated.Only 4 participants actually expressed “satisfaction” with the existing E-filing system, it added.68 out of 116 (58.6%) participants stated that they found the E-filing system of the Delhi High Court to be the most efficient.The survey also pointed out shortcomings regarding listing of cases. 41.8 percent of the participants said they were able to get their matters listed only after filing a mentioning application indicating some urgency, the report said.“There was a significant delay of 10 days or more in listing of the cases of a large proportion of participants i.e. 34 percent. On some occasions, this delay was caused despite filing a mentioning application, which has remained pending for several days,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-should-migrate-from-vidyo-app-survey/story-S5mMZD3K29bYTfoUvZUi2J.html
23-09-2020||India||IICT partners with Mylan for combination therapy trials||Hyderabad-based Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) has partnered with the Indian subsidiary of global pharmaceutical company, Mylan, to test combination therapies for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The institute had identified first three combination therapies, for Phase 3 clinical trials, based on computational modelling of molecules and laboratory-based data. Another five combinations are also in the works and will be finalised after preliminary data for the same is received.“Mylan is a global company with a big portfolio of antiviral drugs. Some of these drugs, in combination with antibiotics or other medicines, will be used for the first three-arm trial. All the drug combinations that we are working on include either one or two antibiotics in combination with medicines that boost the immunity of the host or make the human cells not receptive to the virus. So, the drug combinations will work both on the virus and the host to produce the best results,” said Dr S Chandrashekhar, director, IICT.He said the first three combinations to be tested will have the antiviral drug Favipiravir, currently in use for treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 symptoms, antiviral drugs used against Hepatitis C, and antiviral drugs used against HIV.“Some of these antiviral drugs have received a nod for experimental use by the drug controller, but these trials will actually produce data to show how effective the drugs are. And, Mylan, being a big global company, can use the data for global approvals,” he said.The trial sites for the combination therapies are yet to be identified, but the institute hopes to collaborate with hospitals in four to five cities in India.“We are still looking for clinical partners — maybe in Hyderabad, Delhi, and even Kolkata. Anywhere between 100 to 400 patients will be enrolled for the trials,” said Dr Chandrashekhar.Only adult patients with mild to moderate Covid-19 at risk of complications will be enrolled for the trials. The application for conducting the trials has been submitted to the Drug Controller General of India, he said.“The current collaboration with Mylan is a significant milestone during the current Covid-19 pandemic. CSIR {Council of Scientific and Industrial Research} has prioritized conducting clinical trials of well-proven drugs in partnership with industry towards the development of multiple therapeutic options for Covid-19,” said Dr Shekhar Mande, director general of CSIR, in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iict-partners-with-mylan-for-combination-therapy-trials/story-JjtQt9HznZ2Iy2LtuLWObL.html
23-09-2020||India||CM Mamata invites flak from BJP for seeking Ayushman Bharat, Kisan Samman Nidhi funds||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has drawn flak and ridicule from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for saying that she is willing to implement the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers and the Ayushman Bharat Yojana healthcare scheme if the funds are transferred to her government for disbursement. Banerjee said this in her letters to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on September 9. Under these schemes, the Centre transfers money directly to bank accounts of beneficiaries. Banerjee’s letters were released on social media by the state government on Tuesday afternoon while the BJP was heightening its campaign, accusing her of depriving millions of farmers of the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme against the backdrop of her opposition to the farmers’ bills passed by the Parliament. Banerjee also said in her letter to Dr Harsh Vardhan that the Centre would have to bear 100 per cent cost of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana since the state government spends a huge amount of money on free treatment at government hospitals and an insurance cover for treatment of critical diseases at private hospitals. BJP leaders and even governor Jagdeep Dhankhar have said that if the funds were directly given to the state there could be misappropriation. “The chief minister wants the money so that it can be pocketed to fight the coming assembly polls. Relief funds given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after Cyclone Amphan was misappropriated by TMC leaders,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said in Delhi. Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s national information technology cell, taunted Banerjee and her nephew, Lok Sabha member Abhisek Banerjee, by referring to them as ‘Pishi’ (aunt) and ‘Bhaipo’ (nephew) in his tweet on Wednesday. “Under pressure, Mamata Banerjee writes to Centre, says WB ready to disburse PM Kisan Samman Nidhi ‘provided’ money is transferred to the state government. Pishi, heard of DBT? No Bhaipo in between, no cut money either. Money will go directly to farmers and not to TMC workers,” wrote Malviya. In West Bengal, the term ‘cut money’ is synonymous with bribe or commission. In his tweet, Governor Dhankhar also talked of corruption and asked why the chief minister wants to be an intermediary. “Hallmark of #PM-KISAN is transparent direct transfer of fund to farmer without intermediary and cut. Government @MamataOfficial wants to be its agent intermediary. For what! OMG- fishing for opportunity #MAP. Glaring injustice and corruption #AmphanRelief and PDS an open secret,” Dhankhar tweeted, tagging the chief minister. The TMC reacted by saying that Banerjee asked for the funds purely to uphold the spirit of the country’s federal structure. “The allegations being made by the BJP are baseless. The chief minister wants to uphold the spirit of federalism. In any scheme, the beneficiary should get the money from the state government. Direct transfer to bank accounts of beneficiaries will help the BJP create a political influence. This cannot be allowed,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and spokesperson Saugata Roy. “If the Centre intends to give the money let it do so through the state. That would be subscribing to the federal structure laid down by the Constitution,” said Roy. The Bengal unit of the BJP on Wednesday even started posting on its social media page short videos to target the chief minister. Made with selected clippings from televised footage, the videos showed Banerjee expressing her apprehension about the plight farmers might face because of the new bills and the Prime Minister dismissing her charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-invites-flak-from-bjp-for-seeking-ayushman-bharat-kisan-samman-nidhi-funds/story-eF7TCwnFJebLbwJ5KQXN0L.html
23-09-2020||India||Fit India Movement 2020: PM Modi to interact with fitness influencers, citizens on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with fitness influencers and citizens on Thursday during a nationwide “Fit India Dialogue” to celebrate the first anniversary of the Fit India Movement.The online interaction will see participants sharing tips and anecdotes from their fitness journey and the prime minister expressing his thoughts on the virtues of a healthy life, according to an official statement issued Tuesday.Cricketer Virat Kohli, model and avid runner Milind Soman, nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar and other fitness influencers will participate in the event.In times of Covid-19, fitness has become an even more important aspect of life, and this dialogue will see a timely and fruitful conversation on nutrition, wellness and various other aspects of fitness, the statement said.A brainchild of Modi, the Fit India Dialogue is yet another effort to involve citizens of the country to draw out a plan to make India a fit nation.“The basic tenet on which the Fit India Movement was envisaged, that of involving citizens to imbibe fun, easy and non-expensive ways in which to remain fit and therefore bring about a behavioural change which makes fitness an imperative part of every Indian’s life, is being strengthened by this dialogue,” it said.Anyone can join the dialogue via NIC link from 11.30 am onwards on September 24, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fit-india-movement-2020-pm-modi-to-interact-with-fitness-influencers-citizens-on-thursday/story-ellwGCpbEnLxwSbtt6OBoJ.html
23-09-2020||India||Suresh Angadi Covid-19+ dies, first Union minister to succumb to viral infection||Minister of State for Railways and Karnataka BJP MP Suresh Angadi passed away on Wednesday days after testing positive for Covid-19 becoming the first union minister to succumb to the viral disease.Angadi had announced on September 11 that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and had requested all those who came in close contact with him over the last few days to monitor their health and get tested in case of any symptoms. He was admitted to AIIMS hospital in New Delhi soon after. So far at least four MPs including Angadi and six MLAs have succumbed to the disease.The 65 year old was a fourth term MP from Belagavi, Karnataka and served as a member of parliament from 2004. Angadi became the vice president of BJP’s Belagavi district unit in 1996 and continued in that office till 1999. In 2001 he was nominated as the president of the district unit and continued to hold that post until he was nominated as the party’s candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency in 2004. He served as the Minister of State for Railways from 2019.“Shri Suresh Angadi was an exceptional Karyakarta, who worked hard to make the Party strong in Karnataka. He was a dedicated MP and effective Minister, admired across the spectrum. His demise is saddening. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.Former Prime Minister and JDS chief, HD Deve Gowda expressed his sadness over the demise and tweeted that he was like a “younger brother”.“I am shocked and deeply saddened by the demise of Union Minister of State for Railways and four-term MP from Belagavi Shri. Suresh Angadi. He was like a younger brother to me. I feel terrible losing him. This is an unbearable loss to our nation,” he said.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal said the junior railway minister “was like a brother.”“Deeply anguished at the unfortunate demise of Suresh Angadi ji. He was like my brother. Words fall short to describe his commitment & dedication towards the people.My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends in this hour of need. Om Shanti,” Goyal tweeted.BJP Party president JP Nadda also condoled his death. “Extremely saddened by the passing away of Central Minister Shri Suresh Angadi Ji. He was a remarkable leader who dedicated all his life for organisation and went on to serve society with utmost diligence and compassion. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and followers,” he tweeted.“Due to the sad demise of Shri Suresh Angadi, Minister of State for Railways, it has been decided that the national flag will be flown at half mast on September 24, 2020 in all Government offices in Delhi where it is usually flown,” a home ministry spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suresh-angadi-covid-19-dies-first-union-minister-to-succumb-to-viral-infection/story-M4nIvrSeAkHPhOrWgJE7QL.html
23-09-2020||India||G4 countries call for urgent steps for reform of UN and Security Council||The G4 countries – Brazil, India, Japan and Germany – on Wednesday expressed disappointment at attempts to derail reforms of the United Nations and called for text-based negotiations within a fixed timeframe to revamp the world body. The foreign ministers of the four countries, during a virtual meeting during the 75th session of the UN General Assembly, highlighted the urgency of reforming the world body and updating its main decision-making bodies to better reflect contemporary realities. The move is in line with India’s position on the reforms of the UN, including the expansion of the permanent and non-permanent membership of the Security Council, its main decision-making organ. The foreign ministers – Brazil’s Ernesto Araújo, India’s S Jaishankar, Japan’s Motegi Toshimitsu and Germany’s minister of state in the federal foreign office, Niels Annen, who represented foreign minister Heiko Maas, said the declaration adopted by all heads of state and government on the 75th anniversary of the UN reaffirmed the “common resolve to finally take decisive steps towards the early and comprehensive reform of the Security Council”. Jaishankar tweeted that the G4 ministers had “called for a decisive push for UNSC reforms during #UN75”. He said there was a “unanimous call for text-based negotiations in a fixed timeframe” and India’s approach to the UN is guided by reformed multilateralism. In a joint statement, the G4 ministers noted that the declaration said the “world of today is very different from what it was when the United Nations was created 75 years ago. There are more countries, more people, more challenges but also more solutions. Our working methods need to keep pace and adapt.” “In keeping with this call, G4 Ministers highlighted the urgency of reforming the United Nations and updating its main decision-making bodies, in order to better reflect contemporary realities,” the joint statement said. The ministers also “expressed disappointment at attempts to derail this process and committed to addressing the issue in a meaningful way and with increased urgency at this 75th anniversary of the UN”. They also said the expansion of the Security Council in both categories “will be indispensable to make this body more representative, legitimate and effective, enhancing therefore its capacity to deal with the complex challenges the world faces today on questions of international peace and security”. The ministers insisted that only the reform of the Security Council will stop the body “from becoming obsolete”. Broader membership of the Security Council, “with increased and enhanced representation of countries with the capacity and willingness to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, including from Africa, will allow it to preserve its credibility and create the political backing needed for the peaceful resolution of today’s international crises”, the joint statement said. The G4 countries have backed each other’s candidature for permanent membership of an expanded Security Council. Except for China, all the other P5 countries – the US, the UK, France and Russia – have also offered unstinted support for India’s membership of the Security Council. The G4 ministers also expressed concern at the lack of “any meaningful movement forward in the Intergovernmental Negotiations (IGN) on Security Council reform and expressed their concern that – after two sessions in February and March – the IGN was adjourned due to Covid-19 and no further meetings were held”. They said these negotiations lack the “necessary openness and transparency” and are constrained by flawed working methods. They further said they were convinced the “time has come to leave behind debates based solely on general statements, without substantive text based negotiations actually taking place in an intergovernmental setting”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/g4-countries-call-for-urgent-steps-for-reform-of-un-and-security-council/story-Ma6tZlvhBDUmNQGpAAD2ZP.html
23-09-2020||India||Twitter, Facebook arbitrarily censuring ‘nationalistic’ content: BJP MP||BJP member Tejasvi Surya on Wednesday raised the issue of social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook allegedly arbitrarily censuring content posted by users, especially those with a “nationalistic approach” and sought government intervention for protection of such content.Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha, Surya said for a long time there have been many “credible” allegations made against Twitter, Facebook and their affiliates of “arbitrary and unilateral regulation and censuring” of content posted by third party users, especially those with a “nationalistic approach”.“This poses a significant constitutional challenge not only on the grounds of unreasonable restriction of free speech but also amounts to illegal interference during elections,” he said.The MP said Facebook, Twitter and similar platforms claim themselves to be intermediaries within the meaning of the term under the IT Act, 2000.He said the key element of this definition is that the role of the said intermediaries is limited to processing, storing and transmitting data of third party users and does not include intervention on content of the users. Therefore, Section 79 of the Act provides these intermediaries exemption from liability. An intermediary receives protection that a regular publisher does not receive, he said.Surya said while this is the explicit spirit of the statute, the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules, while laying down what sort of third party content must be prohibited by the privacy policy and terms and conditions of the intermediary, goes far beyond the remit of Article 19(2) of the Constitution read with Section 79 and 69 of the IT Act. Article 19(2) of the Constitution authorises the government to impose, by law, reasonable restrictions upon the freedom of speech and expression “in the interests of… public order”, whereas section 69 of the IT Act allows the government to intercept any information and ask for information decryption.Surya said the guidelines essentially empower private party intermediaries to remove on the basis of user complaints or suo moto any content deemed to be in violation of its guidelines.He said these guidelines are not only ultra vires the parent statute but also unconstitutional as the grounds they provide are too wide and will fail the standards of constitutionality set out by the Supreme Court in the Shreya Singhal case while striking down Sec 66A of the IT Act (which provided police the power to arrest a person for posting “offensive” content online). The guidelines are problematic because they empower private enterprises performing essentially a public function to act as censors of free speech without government oversight, thus effectively and severely impacting safeguards of the fundamental right to free speech, he said. “I therefore urge the government to repeal such unconstitutional guidelines and issue new ones to govern social media platforms, thereby protecting the fundamental right to free speech of our citizens and protect our democracy from foreign interference,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-facebook-arbitrarily-censuring-nationalistic-content-bjp-mp/story-Gb2UgoT1cHAA12yv3AbdzI.html
23-09-2020||India||Analysis of quakes in and around Delhi in past 20 yrs doesn’t show any definite pattern: Vardhan||An analysis of the earthquakes which occurred in and around Delhi in the past 20 years did not show any definite pattern in the frequency of the quakes which could suggest an increase in seismic activity, Union Earth Sciences Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday.A total of 745 earthquakes have been recorded by the National Seismological Network, including 26 such events in the National Capital Region (NCR), during the last three years (September 2017 to August 2020) with magnitude three and above (on the Richter scale), the minister said.In a written response to a question in Lok Sabha, Vardhan said during the last few months (April 12 to July 3, 2020), four earthquakes of magnitude in the range of 3.3 to 4.7; and 13 smaller earthquakes, including the aftershocks (magnitude 2.5- 3), were recorded in NCR.He, however, said it is difficult to state that any increase in seismicity is an indicator of likely occurrence of major earthquakes.“An analysis carried out by the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), an institute under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, on past 20 years’ earthquakes which occurred in and around Delhi, does not show any definite pattern in frequency of earthquake occurrence which could suggest any increase in earthquake activity,” Vardhan said.However, during the recent years, seismic monitoring over Delhi has improved considerably and even lower magnitude events are automatically detected and disseminated quickly through NCS website and mobile application.“It is perhaps giving the impression of enhanced earthquake activity in the region, which was otherwise not noticed earlier. It is difficult to state that any increase in seismicity is an indicator of a likely occurrence of a major earthquake,” he said.The Andaman and Nicobar Islands recorded 198 quakes during this period (September 2017 to August 2020), while Jammu and Kashmir registered 98 tremors. Both are known to areas with high seismic activities, the minister told the Lower House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/analysis-of-quakes-in-and-around-delhi-in-past-20-yrs-doesn-t-show-any-definite-pattern-vardhan/story-ydMM44mOedyHGrJsJrUMWJ.html
23-09-2020||India||PM Modi condoles Suresh Angadi’s death, calls him an ‘exceptional karyakarta, dedicated MP’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the demise of minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi and called him an exceptional party worker who strengthened BJP in Karnataka.“Shri Suresh Angadi was an exceptional Karyakarta, who worked hard to make the Party strong in Karnataka. He was a dedicated MP and effective Minister, admired across the spectrum. His demise is saddening. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti,” PM Modi said.Angadi passed away in Delhi on Wednesday in the national capital. The 65-year-old BJP minister had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-suresh-angadi-s-death-calls-him-an-exceptional-karyakarta-dedicated-mp/story-L6i3s2DbJQmYth05oW2WiP.html
23-09-2020||India||Jagan Reddy’s Tirumala visit kicks up a row, protests follow||YSR Congress Party president and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday visited the popular hill shrine of Lord Venkateshwara at Tirumala in Chittoor district without signing the mandatory declaration proclaiming his faith in the presiding deity, leading to protests from Hindu groups and opposition parties. The chief minister, who arrived in Tirumala straightaway from New Delhi, was accorded a rousing reception at the temple. He wore traditional attire of a Hindu devotee, sported the “Thiru Namam” (the Vaishnavite style of tilak on the forehead) and carried the silk clothes on his head into the temple to present them to the Lord on behalf of the state government, amidst chanting of Vedic hymns. However, Jagan, a protestant Christian by faith, ignored the demands of the Hindu groups and the opposition parties, including Bharatiya Janata Party, Telugu Desam Party and the Congress, that he should follow the decades-old tradition of signing the declaration form meant for non-Hindus stating that he has faith in Lord Venkateshwara. Though Jagan had visited Tirumala several times in the past without signing the mandatory declaration, it kicked up controversy this time following a statement from Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams trust board chairman that there was no need for non-Hindus to sign the declaration compulsorily and as such, Jagan didn’t have to sign the same. The TTD chairman’s statement triggered massive protests from Hindu groups. On Wednesday, activists of Bajrang Dal tried to lay siege to Jagan’s Lotus Pond residence at Banjara Hills in Hyderabad and courted arrests. A tense atmosphere prevailed in Tirupati, where the police took hundreds of TDP and BJP leaders and activists into preventive custody as they planned to take out protest rallies on the occasion of the chief minister’s visit. TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu demanded that Jagan should respect the temple traditions and sign the declaration meant for non-Hindus. He also demanded that as per the traditions, Jagan should also be accompanied by his wife Bharati. He accused the Jagan government of hurting the sentiments of Hindus. Popular seer of Sri Peetham Swamy Paripoornananda told reporters in Hyderabad that Jagan should respect the feelings of the Hindus, as he would not lose anything by signing the declaration. However, YSRCP leaders rejected the demand of the opposition parties and Hindu groups. State civil supplies minister Kodali Nani questioned the propriety of imposing such a rule in Tirumala. “Only those who have faith in Lord Venkateshwara come to Tirumala temple. Why should anybody declare their faith again?” he asked. He said the BJP leaders should first advice Prime Minister Narendra Modi to visit the temples along with his wife. “When Modi can go alone to Ayodhya temple to lay foundation stone, why should Jagan bring his wife to the Tirumala temple?” he asked. BJP leaders fumed at the minister and demanded that Jagan should immediately sack him from the cabinet. “We should not rest till Kodali Nani is sacked from the cabinet for insulting Modi,” BJP national spokesman and MP GVL Narasimha Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-s-tirumala-visit-kicks-up-a-row-protests-follow/story-bGSUHyJLC26pU0s1w1xJON.html
23-09-2020||India||Deeply saddened: PM Modi, Rajnath Singh and others mourn Suresh Angadi’s demise||Minister of state for railways, Suresh Angadi, passed away at the age of 65 on Wednesday due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The minister was undergoing Covid-19 treatment at AIIMS hospital in New Delhi after testing positive for the virus on September 11.Several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman and more mourned his death.“Shri Suresh Angadi was an exceptional Karyakarta, who worked hard to make the Party strong in Karnataka. He was a dedicated MP and effective Minister, admired across the spectrum. His demise is saddening. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti,” PM Modi wrote on Twitter. Shri Suresh Angadi was an exceptional Karyakarta, who worked hard to make the Party strong in Karnataka. He was a dedicated MP and effective Minister, admired across the spectrum. His demise is saddening. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/2QDHQe0Pmj“Deeply saddened by the demise of Rail Rajya Mantri, Shri Suresh Angadiji. He was a good administrator, seasoned Parliamentarian and blessed with a warm and affable personality. My heartfelt condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti!” Rajnath Singh said.‘Painstaking at work, amiable and sincere’Expressing disbelieve over the news of the minister’s demise, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman wrote, “Hard to believe that Minister Suresh Angadi is no more. Painstaking at work, amiable and sincere, he was a valued colleague who shall be greatly missed.” Hard to believe that Minister Suresh Angadi is no more. Painstaking at work, amiable and sincere, he was a valued colleague who shall be greatly missed. pic.twitter.com/HtZcxBNbhN I remember the ever smiling Angadi-ji. Very pained at hearing this sad news. https://t.co/BtZ2bUXmqe Prayers for the departed soul Shri @SureshAngadi_ Ji Om Shanti 🙏 pic.twitter.com/ezddPVxIGXCongress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad offered condolences.“Deeply saddened to hear about the untimely demise of Sh Suresh Angadi, MoS Railways who succumbed to COVID. Heartfelt condolences to his family. I pray to Almighty that his soul rests in peace,” he wrote on Twitter. Deeply saddened to hear about the untimely demise of Sh Suresh Angadi, MoS Railways who succumbed to COVID. Heartfelt condolences to his family. I pray to Almighty that his soul rests in peace.“Saddened by the passing away of Minister Suresh Angadi. An unfortunate victim of the pandemic. Sincere condolences to his family,” wrote P. Chidambaram. Deeply shocked to hear about the passing away of my senior colleague @SureshAngadi_ ji. He always gave a kind listen to karyakartas and dedicated himself to strengthening the Sangathan. My condolences to his loved ones & supporters.Om Shanti 🙏||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-saddened-pm-modi-rajnath-singh-and-others-mourn-suresh-angadi-s-death/story-yB07u8JccdR2OQk8ziR9PK.html
23-09-2020||India||Statewide bandh in Karnataka next week against farm bills||A joint forum of several farmers, labourers and Dalit organisations have called for a statewide bandh in Karnataka on September 28 after the state government went ahead and tabled a bill to amend the APMC act. President of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Kodihalli Chandrashekar, State president of Confederation of Farmers Association Kuruburu Shanthakumar, Hasiru Sena (Green Army) Chief Badgalapura Nagendra and others said that a state wide bandh would be observed on Monday to protest against what they said was ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the state and Central governments.Farmer organisations have been protesting against some of the recent changes in the state like allowing non-agriculturists to buy farmland, amendments to the electricity act and now the APMC act which would allow farmers to sell outside of mandis to private players.Chandrashekar said on Friday that there would be statewide protests against the proposed farm bills but on Monday there would be a complete statewide bandh. Except essential and emergency services, all other services would be shut on the day of bandh. Shanmugappa, president of the Karnataka unit of Lorry Owners and Agents association, claimed that five lakh trucks and lorries would come to a standstill. A few autorickshaw and taxi app based aggregator (like Ola and Uber) organisations have also extended support for the proposed bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statewide-bandh-in-karnataka-next-week-against-farm-bills/story-X0eKVEoZ5MTDFlfr8vsION.html
23-09-2020||India||Delhi govt asks ‘willing’ staff from other hospitals to join its 3 new facilities||The Delhi government has called for “willing” medical personnel from its existing hospitals to apply to work at two of its newly operationalised hospitals in Burari and Ambedkar Nagar, and another one yet to open in Dwarka. There have been no new appointments for the hospitals in Burari and Ambedkar Nagar, which is being run by already diverted staff from other hospitals. The two hospitals together have 500 beds for the treatment of patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Presently, health and family welfare department has deputed staff (medical, nursing, and paramedical) in Burari and Ambedkar Nagar hospitals on diverted capacity from other government hospitals. Now, this department intends to post willing staff in the aforesaid hospitals,” read a circular by the deputy-secretary (Human Resources-Medical) Surinder Narang. The circular has asked all medical superintendents to send a list of staff willing to be posted at the three new hospitals within two weeks. The 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital, which is the biggest Covid-19 treatment facility in the city, has also diverted staff to the hospitals. “We have already sent 15 of our nurses to the hospital in Burari. Now, we are looking at staff who live near these areas to join the three hospitals,” said a senior official from the hospital management. The doctors from the hospital have reported severe shortage of staff, especially to run the intensive care unit. “We just have 33 senior residents in the anaesthesia department who run two ICUs, the operation theatres in the hospital, and the operation theatre at the trauma centre in civil lines. The doctors are burnt out now,” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-asks-willing-staff-from-other-hospitals-to-join-its-3-new-facilities/story-oyPbGyXNje38S4RKRqgacO.html
23-09-2020||India||School toilets without handwashing facilities in 15 states: CAG report||Over half of the government school toilets built by central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) do not have even the basic hand-washing facility, an even greater necessity in Covid-19 affected times, a survey of over 2,000 schools by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has found.Lack of running water, poor maintenance and unavailability of separate toilets for girls too continue to affect school students, according to the CAG report tabled in Parliament on Wednesday.The report mentions that the HRD ministry (now named the Education ministry) had under the Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyan (SVA) sought help of CPSEs for construction of toilets in government schools. Separate toilets for boys and girls have also been suggested under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act 2009 (RTE Act) norms.As many as 53 CPSEs participated and constructed 1,40,997 toilets.Seven CPSEs - NTPC, PGCIL, NHPC, PFC, REC, ONGC and CIL - constructed 1,30,703 toilets at a cost of Rs 2,162.60 crore. The CAG examined the construction of toilets by these seven by surveying 2,695 toilets across 2048 schools in 15 States.According to the findings, the CPSEs did not construct 83 toilets though these toilets were identified by them for construction. Of the remaining 2,612 toilets which were reported to have been constructed, 200 toilets were not found constructed in the respective schools and 86 toilets were only partially built.“The non-existing and partially constructed toilets constituted 11 % of toilets surveyed,” the CAG report pointed out.Of the 1,967 coeducational schools, 99 schools had no functional toilets while 436 schools had only one functional toilet. The aim of providing separate toilets for boys and girls was not fulfilled in 535 schools, a sizeable 27 % of the sample.Out of 2,326 constructed toilets surveyed, 691 or 30% were found not in use mainly due to lack of running water, lack of cleaning arrangements, damages or other reasons like use of toilets for other purposes.During the survey, 1,679 (72 %) out of 2,326 constructed toilets were found without running water.Further, hand washing facility was not available in 1,279 (55 per cent) out of 2,326 constructed toilets, according to the report.There were also cases of defective construction of toilets, non-provision of foundation/ramp/staircase and damaged/overflowed leach pit etc.The audit also found that proper maintenance or sanitation was not available in 1,812 out of 2,326 toilets. 715 out of 1,812 toilets were not being cleaned. 1,097 toilets were being cleaned twice in a week to once in a month.Thus, 75 per cent of selected toilets were not maintained hygienically. Cases of non-provision of soap, bucket, cleaning agents and disinfectants in toilets and inadequate cleanliness of pathway were also noticed, the report found.The CAG recommended the concerned ministries to look into the issue of non-existing and incomplete toilets that were claimed as constructed. It also asked the Navratanas and the ministries to address absence of basic amenities in the toilets like running water, hand wash facility, urinals, drainage of waste water, etc.Since the audit survey covered 2 per cent of total toilets, the CPSEs are advised to review the remaining 98 per cent toilets and take appropriate action, the report said.The report also found that the Power and Coal ministries as well as the ONGC declared construction of 1,30,703 toilets by the selected seven CPSEs on time (15 August 2015). However, as per MHRD data and the Swachhta Status Report (2016) of the National Sample Survey Office, the CPSEs constructed all the approved toilets as of 1 March 2016 and the number of toilets completed by these seven CPSEs was 1,19,530.Comparison of the two reported figures indicated that the figures for number of toilets completed was overstated to the extent 11,173 toilets by power and coal ministries, it said.The report also mentioned that pre-fabricated structures were used for constructing many toilets leading to extra expenditure, dilution in durability and non-compliance with direction.The audit also found that some of the CPSEs appointed implementing agencies on nomination basis which was not in accordance with the directions. Further, the agencies were paid implementation charges at 10 to 15 per cent of completion cost which were high as compared to 2.5 to 3 per cent paid to State Government Agencies (SGAs) and involved an extra expenditure of Rs 49.30 crore, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-without-handwashing-facilities-in-15-states-reveals-cag-report/story-JlshSR01lfPuLHsIbHGrjK.html
23-09-2020||India||Nehru’s statue to be reinstalled in Karnataka Vidhana Soudha, assures CM Yediyurappa||Following a controversy over the re-installation of a statue of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa assured the state legislative council that it would be reinstalled soon at a suitable location.The statue had been removed from the south-east lawns of the state’s seat of power Vidhana Soudha due to ongoing work of metro rail construction. However, Congress MLC Govindraj alleged that in spite of the metro rail work being completed and a letter written to reinstall the statue in 2017, no action had been taken. He was supported by several of his party colleagues who accused the ruling party of disrespect being shown to a national leader.Even as fisheries minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary said that “the government would look into the matter” several Congress legislators protested leading to the CM later giving a written response that it would find a suitable spot to reinstall the statue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nehru-s-statue-to-be-reinstalled-in-karnataka-vidhana-soudha-assures-cm-yediyurappa/story-0ErY1RnqgzMVZRghhMAPUO.html
23-09-2020||India||‘Railways resorted to window dressing to show operating ratio in better light’: CAG||The ministry of railways took to “window dressing” for presenting its working expenses and operating ratio in a “better light”, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) said in a report tabled in Parliament on Wednesday.The operating ratio measures expenses as a proportion of revenue or the amount spent on every rupee earned. A higher ratio indicates poor ability to generate surplus.In December last, the auditor had said the Railways had the worst operating ratio in the last ten years at 98.44% and its revenue surplus had decreased by more than 66% from Rs 4,913 crore in 2016-17 to Rs 1,665.61 crore in 2017-18.Against the target of 92.8 per cent in the budget estimates, the operating of railways was 97.29 per cent in 2018-19. This meant that railways spent Rs 97.29 to earn Rs 100, the CAG noted.“However, if advance freight of Rs 8,351 crore from NTPC and CONCOR was not included in the earnings of 2018-19, or would have been 101.77 per cent instead of 97.29 per cent. The Net surplus in 2018-19 was Rs 3,773.86 crore. The railways would have ended with a negative balance of Rs 7,334.85 crore but for receipt of advance freight and less appropriation to DRF and Pension Fund. The Ministry of Railways (MoR) resorted to window dressing for presenting the working expenses and operating ratio in a better light,” the CAG report on railways’ finances noted. During 2018-19, the railways generated total internal earnings of Rs 1,90,507 crore against the targeted internal earnings of Rs 2,01,090 crore, the report noted.“The Railways could not achieve even revised estimate target of Rs 1,97,214 crore. The total internal earnings also included freight advance of Rs 8,351 crore received from NTPC and CONCOR for transportation of goods in 2019-20,” it added.The national auditor also raised concerns over delays in projects over the past five years due to inefficiency of zones and weak monitoring by the railway board.“Projects were to be completed during 2015-20. However, due to inefficiency of Zonal Railways and weak monitoring at the Railway Board level, the progress of projects was slow,” the report said.The CAG also raised doubts over railways’ utilisation of its Extra Budgetary Resources (EBR) for financing projects which started from 2015-16 onward. Scrutiny of records relating to 395 projects funded from EBR revealed that 268 projects were still in progress as on 31 March 2019. This had resulted in a blockade of Rs 48,536 crore EBR funds besides defeating the intended objective of generation of revenue for debt servicing, the CAG noted.“Ministry of railways resorted to Extra Budgetary Resources for project financing from 2015-16 onwards. Financial assistance of Rs 1.50 lakh crore was agreed to by Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) over a period of five years (2015-20). Audit observed that the financing arrangement with LIC materialized partially due to regulatory constraints. During 2015-19, only ` 16,200 crore could be raised from LIC. MoR recouped the shortfall of Rs 49,164 crore by raising funds through short-term/medium term market borrowings which carry a higher rate of interest,” it said.The national auditor said there were instances of irregular utilisation to the tune of Rs 1,495 crore from EBR funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-resorted-to-window-dressing-to-show-operating-ratio-in-better-light-cag/story-NZbgQvGUJXTVdEBTx4zKuM.html
23-09-2020||India||Bengal CM Mamata inaugurates green projects to be built in collaboration with EU countries||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday virtually inaugurated two major green projects worth around Rs 1226 crore to be built by European Union countries in Kolkata and East Midnapore district. The memorandum of understanding (MoU) for these projects were signed at the global business summit held at the beach town of Digha in East Midnapore in December 2019. The ambassadors of Italy, Netherlands and the European Union and the deputy ambassador of Germany took part in the virtual inauguration. One project involves waste management and sustainable development at the Kolkata Leather Complex at Bantala in the eastern outskirts of the city. It involves foreign investment worth three million Euros (around Rs 26 crore), said the chief minister and will be built in collaboration with Dutch partners. The second is a solar power project worth Rs 1200 crore to be set up in East Midnapore by a German company. The West Bengal government will invest Rs 200 crore in the project. Once complete, it will generate 350 million units of power annually. “I am happy to announce that the projects are being inaugurated within six months of signing the MoU. Where there is a will there is a way. The leather complex project will create five lakh jobs and help medium, small and micro enterprises grow. Several leather companies from other states have also set up units at Bantala,” said Banerjee. State finance minister Amit Mitra said the solar power project will save the climate from 50,000 tons of carbon emission every year. “Sustainability is the way to go forward in future. We look forward to friends and partners. India is the largest exporter of leather goods in the world and Europe is the largest market,” said Ugo Astuto, the EU ambassador to India. Addressing Banerjee, Italian ambassador to India Vincenzo de Luca said, “Without your leadership we could not have promoted our objective in West Bengal and could not have been able to share our expertise and technology. The challenge is to promote green energy in India and Europe.” Marten van den Berg, the ambassador of Netherlands, said, “We look forward to work internationally with West Bengal, Italy, Germany and European Union.” For Banerjee, who has been accused on numerous occasions by the opposition parties of failing to bring in foreign investment despite her trips to many countries since 2011, Wednesday’s development could help the Trinamool Congress politically in the run-up to the assembly polls to be held in 2021. Recently, even governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had taken up the issue and sought details of the outcome of the Global Business Summit that the state government holds every year. “WORRISOME (ELOQUENT) SILENCE of otherwise vocal FM @MamataOfficial on details of Bengal Global Business Summit speaks volumes. Baffling- Why not give details of claimed ‘resounding success’ investment of over Rs 12.30 lakh crores investment! Is there nothing to showcase!” Dhankhar tweeted on August 31. “Surely there should be accountability of spending crores on ‘futile’ extravaganza @MamataOfficial. Corruption by way of favoritism and patronage calls for probe. My worst fear- was it ‘dream merchant’ affair! Just a PR exercise! Awaiting CM response!” he said in another tweet, tagging the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-inaugurates-green-projects-to-be-built-in-collaboration-with-eu-countries/story-oQoYq2zjnCR516QdtNVieL.html
23-09-2020||India||As RS clears bills amid Oppn boycott, Naidu defends action; expresses anguish at ‘unpleasant turn of events’||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said it is “extremely unpalatable” when bills are passed amid a boycott of proceedings by some sections of the House, but not taking up legislative work in such a situation may legitimise their action as an “instrument of blocking legislation”. He was speaking before adjourning the Upper House sine die, eight days ahead of schedule, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Rajya Sabha passed 15 bills in the last two sittings with opposition parties boycotting the proceedings to protest the suspension of eight members on Monday for their “unruly” behaviour in the House during the passage of two key farm bills. “Though it is not the first time that some members are suspended and bills are passed when some sections of the House boycott the proceedings, I find it extremely unpalatable. “This kind of situation needs to be avoided by all means,” Naidu said in his remarks on the conclusion of the 252nd session of Rajya Sabha. Expressing concern over the conduct of some of the members, he said it was “deeply painful” and all need to “collectively ponder” over these issues.Naidu, who has been associated with the Upper House for the last 22 years, said he gets anguished whenever bills are passed in the din.Over the suspension on the eight members, Naidu said rules of the House do provide for such action when it becomes inevitable. “If legislative work is not taken up during the boycott by some sections of the House, it may legitimise such boycott as an effective instrument of blocking legislation,” he said. Naidu said the House had to hold 18 sittings but it held only 10. “We have to conclude this session eight sittings ahead of the scheduled 18 sittings as the Covid-19 pandemic continues to challenge humankind across the globe even after nine months of its outbreak,” he said.The Chairman also said that for the first time in the history of Upper House, a notice of motion for removal of the Deputy Chairman has been given, which was rejected by him. “The developments in the House surrounding this unprecedented move have been deeply painful for all those who hold the stature and the dignity of this august House dear to their hearts,” he said Most of the opposition including the Congress, Left parties, the TMC, the Samajwadi Party and the NCP had decided to boycott House proceedings in protest against the suspension of the eight MPs Terming it an “unpleasant turn of events”, Naidu appealed to members to ensure that “such unseemly behaviour is not repeated”. “I am naturally more pained to see that happen as the chairman of this august House. It hurts me the most when the Chair is rendered helpless by the turn of events and has to perforce take action against the members as per the rules,” said Naidu. Earlier in the day, the House passed key bills including three on labour reforms, two Appropriation Bills and the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment. Naidu said the 10-day session was productive and as many as 25 bills were passed and six were introduced. “The productivity of the House during this session has been 100.47 per cent. As against the scheduled available time of 38 hours and 30 minutes, the actual functional time of the House has been 38 hours and 41 minutes,” said Naidu. Though the Upper house has lost three hours and 15 minutes due to disruptions, it sat for an extra three hours and 26 minutes. “The new normal of high productivity witnessed during the last three sessions has continued during this session as well,” he said, adding “as a result, the overall productivity of the last 4 sessions comes to a praiseworthy 96.13 per cent. This high productivity for four consecutive sessions is the best during the last 5 years.” In this 252nd session, the Upper House has spent 22 hours 03 minutes on discussions over the government’s legislative proposals during these 10 sittings, which is a record 57 per cent of the total functional time of the House during this session. Besides, 1,567 unstarred questions were replied to in writing by the government “Members raised issues of urgent public importance through 92 Zero Hour and 66 Special Mentions on which a total time of four hours 15 minutes was spent, accounting for 10.99 per cent of the total functional time of the House,” he said. Despite the pandemic, 198 members participated in the discussion on various Bills During the session, Rajya Sabha had done readjustment of the sitting patterns to maintain social distance. It functioned from six different locations including the chambers of both the Houses - Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and four galleries of the upper house. “We are living in extraordinary times warranting several adjustments requiring us to live a new normal life,” he said. The Monsoon session had started on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-rs-clears-bills-amid-oppn-boycott-naidu-defends-action-expresses-anguish-at-unpleasant-turn-of-events/story-m5DJT5xM4mvnwX4rOsnnxK.html
23-09-2020||India||Programme code violation by Sudarshan TV, issued show cause notice, Centre tells SC||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that it has prima facie found violation of the programme code by Sudarshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol’ show and has issued a notice to the channel. The top court said that the steps taken by the government in pursuance to the show cause notice against the channel will be subject to the orders of the court. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that Sudarshan TV has to give reply to the show cause notice by September 28, failing which an ex parte decision will be taken. “During the course of the hearing today, Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India stated that the Central Government has, in exercise of the power conferred upon it by sub-section (3) of Section 20 of the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act 1995, issued a notice to show cause dated September 23, to ‘Sudarshan News’,” the bench said in its order. It said that since the notice is stated to be ‘returnable’ on September 28, Mehta has requested the Court to defer the hearing in the present case so as to enable the central government to take a considered view of the matter. Since the notice has been issued today, the hearing is deferred to October 5, the court said. It added: “The notice shall be dealt with in accordance with law and the Central Government shall submit a report to this Court indicating the outcome of the notice. “Since the notice has been issued during the pendency of these proceedings, further steps in pursuance of the notice to show cause shall be subject to the result of the present proceedings and to such orders as may be passed by this Court.” The top court also said that its interim order of September 15, 2020 (injuncting the telecast of remaining episodes of the programme) shall continue to remain in operation pending further orders. During the brief hearing, Mehta said that the four page notice to the channel has sought an explanation on various points regarding violation of the programme code and why action should not be taken against it. The detailed notice under Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1995 has been issued today itself, showing facts that are, according to the government, prima facie not in accordance with the programme code, he said. The bench observed that if the case wasn’t heard by the court then all episodes would have been aired by now. At the outset, it asked intervenors in the matter to file written submissions, if any. On September 21, the top court had pondered over the nature and extent of its order regulating ‘Bindas Bol’ programme on alleged infiltration of Muslims in bureaucracy saying it did not want to “curtail” freedom of speech as the programme has “public interest” involved on issues of “foreign funding” and “reservation”. The apex court, which has already imposed the pre-telecast ban on episodes of ‘UPSC Jehad’ on a plea raising grievances against it on grounds including hate speech, was irked over the fact that the channel, in his affidavit, has named one English news Channel for running two shows on Hindu terror earlier.   “Why have you said about the programmes (of the English news channel)? Who asked about your opinion about the programmes,” it had said. Lawyer Vishnu Shankar Jain, appearing for Editor-in-Chief Suresh Chavhanke, had said that his affidavit contained reference of the English Channel and their programmes on Hindu terror as he was asked earlier as to why the ‘UPSC Jehad’ episodes have “shown Muslim men in skull caps and wearing greens”. The bench then said: “Does this mean that every time, the judges asked questions you will shoot your mouth with your views? If that is the case then judges will stop asking questions. You are not supposed to file affidavits on all the questions which judges ask. Judges ask questions to elicit a better response.” On being told by the petitioners that the episodes have violated the programme code under cable TV rules, the top court pondered over the extent of control and curb which can be imposed by it through its orders. “This programme (‘Bindas Bol’) has public interest involved on (issues of) foreign funding or on reservation. If we are to issue injunction (stay) then what kind of injunction will be like, whether it should be a blanket injunction. There is also public interest involved with it,” the bench had observed. The top court had observed that constitutional values, human dignity are needed to be protected but the court cannot “become the enforcers of programme code”. Earlier, the top court had questioned Sudarshan TV over its programme asking whether the media can be allowed to “target whole set of communities”.   It had asked the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the National Broadcasters Association to give suggestions for strengthening the “self-regulating mechanism” of NBA for electronic media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/programme-code-violation-by-sudarshan-tv-issued-show-cause-notice-centre-tells-sc/story-K9mIsLgDhcnB8Qi43jqqnN.html
23-09-2020||India||Spike in killings by Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar raises questions||In the last one month, 16 people, including eleven villagers, four security personnel and one forest guard were killed by Maoists in the districts of Bastar division. Bijapur witnessed 10 killings, including six civilians. These killings are a matter of serious concern for both the senior police officials and human rights activists working in the Maoist-hit region.On Wednesday, a 22-year-old villager was killed by Maoists on suspicion of being a police informer in Jagargonda area of Sukma district. Similarly, a villager was killed in Bijapur on Tuesday for the same reason.Police officers posted in the region said that there are several reasons for the increase in killings by the Maoist cadres.“The state policy of going soft on frontal organisations of Maoists in the past one year has emboldened militia commanders. Second, the Maoists have realised that they have suffered heavy casualties in past few years due intelligence-based operations conducted by security forces. The intelligence is mainly human intelligence, so Maoists have started a brutal campaign to eliminate civilians,” said a senior intelligence officer.An IPS officer posted in one of seven districts of Bastar region said that Maoists are now not afraid of any public outcry over killings of civilians.“Maoists want to create an environment of fear among villagers which can help them increase recruitment. There has been a decrease in recruitment of sentries in 2017-18. The other very important factor behind the killings is that there is total indiscipline in ranks of Maoists, with local cadres now doing mass executions without even taking approval of senior cadres. And lastly, there is total ideological disarray with movement becoming an armed war with no ethics,” the officer added.Sunderaj P, Inspector General of Police ( Bastar range ), said that as a result of conducting an effective campaign against Maoists, many of their camps were demolished.“Realising that there is no future in Maoism, a large number of Maoists have also surrendered due to which the Maoists are frustrated and are trying to terrorise by killing and beating innocent villagers,” said the IG.He further said that roads, bridges, culverts and other basic facilities have been provided to the villagers in the Bastar region in the last few years even in situations of lockdown and floods, which has increased the confidence of the villagers in governance, administration and security forces.“They panicked after losing the confidence of the villagers and they are killing them,” said the IG.Another IPS officer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that for Maoists this is part of their extreme terror strategy.“The present government is not that aggressive in comparison to the earlier one towards Maoists. Hence in 2016-17, the recruitment almost stopped. Now due to government policies, many lower cadres are surrendering and villagers are supporting the government which is rattling them,” said the officer.What activists and tribal leaders say about the increase in killing?Human Right Activist Bela Bhatia said the killings going on in Bastar should be condemned.“Maoist killings of ‘police informers’ must also be condemned. Most of those who get implicated are also from the same villages or area, often the same ethnicity and class. The police put a lot of pressure on locals for information and some people do succumb. The question is whether these villagers have a choice in the matter. Can they say ‘No’ to the police? or the Maoists?,” Bhatia said.Soni Sori, the tribal leader of Bastar division, also said that Maoists should be condemned for the killing.“I don’t know why Maoists are killing villagers but this should be stopped. If Maoists claim they are here for tribals why are they killing them? Maoist should answer this question? Second, most of the killings took place in Bijapur district from where I am getting information that local police, specifically district reserve guard ( DRG) are beating common villagers which should also be condemned,” said Sori.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-killings-by-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar-raises-questions/story-fy30XCe6izKPS6CtOkgUaL.html
23-09-2020||India||India, Sri Lanka to hold virtual bilateral summit on September 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa will hold a virtual bilateral summit on September 26, their first official engagement after parliamentary elections in the island nation last month. The implementation of developmental projects by India, cooperation on counter-terrorism and defence matters, trade, and the devolution of powers to Sri Lanka’s Tamil minority are expected to figure in the talks, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday. “The virtual bilateral summit will give an opportunity to the two leaders to comprehensively review the broad framework of the bilateral relationship soon after the parliamentary elections in Sri Lanka and in the context of the time-tested friendly ties between the two countries,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. Rajapaksa began a fresh term as prime minister after his Sri Lanka People’s Front party secured a two-thirds majority in parliamentary polls in August. In July, India announced a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka under the framework of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), though New Delhi is yet to take a call on Colombo’s request for a bilateral swap facility for $1.1 billion. Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had sought the special swap facility of $1.1 billion during a phone conversation with Modi in May. President Rajapaksa also made it clear recently that Sri Lanka’s strategic security policy will have an “India first” approach though Colombo remains open to dealing with other key players for economic development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sri-lanka-to-hold-virtual-bilateral-summit-on-september-26/story-ggqmh9TZYuAvpnzLQHZnUK.html
23-09-2020||India||‘Modi govt committed to farmers’ welfare’: Smriti Irani slams Opposition for protesting against farm bills||Union minister Smriti Irani on Wednesday defended the farm bills cleared by Parliament, saying the Modi government is committed to farmers’ well-being.“It is clear that the Modi government is committed to farmers’ welfare. We have to understand that when the government says something in the Parliament, it is a sovereign promise to people of the nation,” Irani was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Upper House of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) on Sunday cleared two key agriculture reform bills amid protests and uproar by Opposition parties. The Opposition, led by Congress, boycotted Parliament on Tuesday after Centre refused to accept its demand for withdrawal of the bills. Recalling the Swaminathan Report, Irani took a dig at the Congress and applauded Modi government for implementing the recommendations made in the report and giving 1.5 timers higher minimum support price (MSP) to farmers.“Congress in its 10 years in power didn’t implement the Swaminathan Report. Modi government implemented the report and gave 1.5 times higher MSP. Under Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme, more than Rs 90,000 crore was transferred into the accounts of more than 10 crore farmers,” Irani said, as quoted by ANI.Irani also slammed the Opposition for standing against the farm bills. “The bills allow the farmers to trade their produce freely, secures the farmers’ land and ensures that traders have to mandatorily pay farmers within maximum three days. Then why is the Opposition opposing these bills?” she added.The Opposition has, meanwhile, decided to press for the withdrawal of the bills. Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, urging him to not sign the bills.The Congress party has also decided to launch a nationwide protest from Thursday demanding that the bills should be taken back by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-committed-to-farmers-welfare-smriti-irani-slams-opposition-for-protesting-against-farm-bills/story-mF5BpOaPApgjwJR59lMFhN.html
23-09-2020||India||In meeting with CMs, PM Modi eases SDRF cap, gives message to tackle Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a virtual meeting with chief ministers of seven states where the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) caseload is higher. He appreciated the efforts being made by the states to check the spread of the disease and also announced increasing the cap on the amount they can spend from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF).“Today, I announce that the states can spend 50 per cent of the SDRF amount on efforts to check the spread of Covid-19. This limit was earlier 35 per cent,” PM Modi said.He also emphasised that micro zones should be formed for effective management of the coronavirus disease.PM Modi further highlighted the importance of masks and said it is a very important tool in fight against Covid-19.“We need to increase our focus on effective testing, tracing, treatment, surveillance and clear messaging,” said PM Modi.“Effective messaging is also necessary because most Covid-19 infections are without symptoms. In such a situation, rumours may rise. It might raise doubts in the minds of the people that testing is bad. Some people also make mistake of underestimating the severity of infection,” he added.The Prime Minister said that India has said that India has ensured the supply of life-saving medicines all over the world even in difficult times. “We have to work together to see that the medicines easily reach from one state to another,” he further said.The states with high Covid-19 caseload are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab. The Union health ministry said that more than 63 per of the active cases in the country are concentrated in these states.They also account for 65.5 per cent of the total confirmed cases and 77 per cent of the total deaths, a statement had said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-can-now-use-50-of-state-disaster-relief-fund-cap-of-35-removed-pm-modi-says-in-meeting-on-covid-19-with-chief-ministers/story-eNDL3f013GcO2d76Ts8R8J.html
23-09-2020||India||Major fall in Covid-19 cases under home isolation in Delhi for first time since August last week||The number of Covid-19 patients in Delhi who are in home isolation fell on Tuesday by nearly 750 compared to the previous day, the decline being recorded after nearly a month of a steady rise in such cases, according to official data.However, the number of containment zones continued to rise with the count standing at 1,937 on Tuesday.On Monday, the number of home isolation cases had mounted to 19,213 and the city had 1,889 containment zones that day. The next day, the number of home isolation cases dropped to 18,464, according to data shared by the Delhi health department.Since last week of August, both the number of home isolation cases and containment zones have shown a steadily rise, except on September 19 when the count of home isolation cases was 18,648, a very marginal fall from the previous day’s figure of 18,701.However, this Tuesday, for the first time in nearly 30 days, home isolation case count fell by a sizeable margin of 749, to 18,646.Experts feel the drop could be due to two reasons, with a senior doctor at a Delhi government-run dedicated Covid-19 facility asserting that home isolation as been very effective in managing the pandemic in the city.“One reason for the drop in numbers could be people are getting better and finishing their home isolation. The other could be some patients at home being transferred to Covid-19 care centres. But, in my opinion, the first reason is a bigger factor,” Dr B L Sherwal, Medical Director, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital told PTI.Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who recently tested Covid-19 positive and was in home isolation, was shifted to LNJP hospital on Wednesday.Asked if the situation is likely to improve in Delhi after the surge in cases in September, the doctor said, “We will have wait and watch for a week or so at least. It is too early to comment now”.Covid-19 cases have shown a surge since the beginning of this month with September 16 recording 4,473 cases, the highest single-day spike here till date. The daily surge in cases in Delhi had breached the 4,000-mark for the first time on September 9 while the number of fatalities recorded that day was 20.From September 9-19, fresh cases have been recorded more than 4,000 per day except on September 14 when the figure stood at 3,229 with 26 deaths being recorded that day, according to official data.The Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days.The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported, ranged from 24,198 and 2,312 respectively on September 1 to 61,973 and 4,071 on September 19.Delhi recorded 3,816 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, as the tally in the city rose to over 2.53 lakh, while the death toll climbed to 5,051.On September 20, fresh cases and home quarantined cases stood at 3,812 and 18,910 respectively. On September 21 the city had 2,548 new case and 19,213 patients in home quarantine.Delhi had seen a big surge in cases in June, but the spike had come down in July.The home isolation figures on July 1 stood at 16,703 with 437 containment zones marked in the city. On July 31, while the home isolation cases count had come down to 5,763, the containment zones had risen to 692, according to official data.On August 3, the number of Covid-19 patients under home isolation, and containment zones count, both came down to 5,577 and 496 respectively. On August 25, there were 5,949 home isolation cases and 654 containment zones or localised areas from where infections were reported.Home isolation cases rose to 6,850 with 763 containment zones on August 28; then to 7876 home isolation cases with 833 containment zones on August 31; and 8,407 home quarantined cases with 894 zones on September 2.On September 5, the number of home isolation cases jumped to 9,822 while the containment zones count stood at 946.Delhi government had been laying a lot of emphasis on home isolation, especially for asymptomatic patients as part of its Covid-19 management strategy in the past several months.In an interview to PTI, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on September 7 had asserted that home isolation policy had proved a “game-changer” in taming the surge in June, a strategy the city government will continue to pursue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-fall-in-covid-19-cases-under-home-isolation-in-delhi-for-first-time-since-august-last-week/story-AidjnQcQ7IX4K2GNEkavuN.html
23-09-2020||India||Court stays arrest of ex-minister Arun Shourie in hotel sale case||The Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday stayed the arrest warrant issued against former Union disinvestment minister, Arun Shourie, and another person by a special CBI court in connection with alleged corruption in the 2002 sale of a hotel in Udaipur.On Tuesday, the court provided relief to three other persons from arrest in the same case.The court’s decision came on petitions filed by Arun Shourie and Kantilal Vikamsey, then head of valuation firm Kanti Karamsey & Co.The single bench of Justice Dinesh Mehta noted that Shourie because of his age, his wife’s ailments and a child who requires his care would find it difficult to appear before the Court, particularly in the present scenario.“Considering the age and family circumstances of the petitioner, a small indulgence of appearing any time by October 15 is granted to him. The petitioner (Shourie) shall not be arrested in pursuance of the arrest warrant issued in relation to the order passed by special judge, CBI cases, Jodhpur. The petitioner may appear before the Court on any date by October 15 and furnish a personal bond of Rs 2 lakh and two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each. The petitioner shall be permitted to appear before the court with his counsel,” justice Mehta said. Prashant Bhushan, appearing for Shourie, said that the trial court has committed an error in holding that the prosecution sanction under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act is not required. He further said the petitioner was not even named in the FIR.Meanwhile, the CBI clarified its stand on the matter on Wednesday. Addl. Solicitor General SV Raju, appearing for the CBI, said that the order of the Special Judge, CBI is not in conformity with law. He emphasised that the CBI is reiterating its stand that no irregularity had been committed and the very order of taking cognizance is not proper.On September 15, along with Shourie and Pradip Baijal, the special CBI court ordered the registration of cases against Ashish Guha, the managing director of Lazard India Ltd who was the financial adviser, valuer Kantilal Karamsey of Kantilal Karamsey & Company and Jyotsana Suri, director of Bharat Hotels Ltd.The CBI court’s order came despite the agency filing a closure report.The case centres on the sale of the Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur, earlier run by the Indian Tourism Development Corporation, to Bharat Hotels Limited in 2002. The CBI filed an FIR in 2014, alleging that the government lost Rs 244 crore in sale as the hotel was evaluated at Rs 252 crore and was sold for Rs 7.52 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-stays-arrest-of-ex-minister-arun-shourie-in-hotel-sale-case/story-dRtlMlJmHKWVn5GpYg9TLK.html
23-09-2020||India||CBI books BSF official, 3 traders for cattle smuggling at Indo- Bangladesh border||An investigation conducted by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged cattle smuggling at Indo-Bangladesh border has revealed that the Border Security Force (BSF) and Customs Department takes play an active role in the illegal trade for which huge bribes are paid. The agency on Wednesday conducted raids at 15 places in several cities including Delhi, Kolkata, Siliguri, Murshidabad, Ghaziabad, Amritsar and Raipur after filing a case against a BSF Commandant - Satish Kumar and three traders – Mohammad Enamul Haque, Anarul SK and Mohammad Golam Mostafa. Interestingly, Enamul Haque was also involved in bribing another BSF Commandant Jibu D Mathew, who was arrested by CBI in January 2018. It was alleged that Enamul had paid Rs 50 lakh to Mathew for letting the illegal cattle smuggling trade run smoothly at the border. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had also raided Enamul’s premises’ in January this year. Based on the 2018 probe, CBI had launched a preliminary enquiry to investigate a larger conspiracy as well as role played by Kumar. The agency decided to register an FIR on Monday, which not only indicts Kumar but the border guarding force at large. The FIR states – “The enquiry revealed that cattle from India to Bangladesh across the International Border of these two countries are sent in large numbers not through ports of trade but illegally by paying bribes to the BSF personnel responsible to prevent cross border movement of men and property, safeguarding interests of India”. Citing alleged bribe paid to Satish Kumar, CBI FIR says when the Commandant was posted in 36th battalion of BSF at Malda, West Bengal between December 2015 and April 2017, more than 20,000 cows were seized by the BSF before they could be transported across the border to Bangladesh. However, BSF didn’t seize any vehicle carrying these animals or arrest the smugglers. “Further, due to close nexus between the BSF and Custom officials with traders like Enamul Haque, Anarul and Golam Mostafa, the seizure list of such seized cattle was prepared arbitrarily categorizing the breed and size of animals with an intention to reduce the upset price of the cattle during auctions,” said CBI FIR. Describing the role played by BSF and Customs after the seizure, CBI FIR says that these cattle were auctioned immediately (within 24 hours of seizure) with the help of nearest Customs station i.e. Jangipur, Murshidabad. “Since the cattle were shown mostly small in size/common breed in the seizure memo of BSF, the auction value of such cattle were reduced which were then procured at a considerable lower price by the above named traders due to their unholy nexus with the officials of Customs department”. The agency further alleged that Enamul Haque used to pay Rs 2,000 per cattle to BSF officials and Rs 500 to concerned Customs officials. “Besides, Customs’ officials used to take 10% of the auction price as bribe from successful bidders like Enamul Haque, Golam Mostafa and Anarul SK etc,” CBI FIR adds. Subsequently, BSF was to be paid Rs 50 per seized cattle for feeding it by the successful bidders. After showing the auctioned cattle to have been disposed of at local market, the same were illegally smuggled across the international border. Commandant Satish Kumar, according to CBI, got his son Bhuvan Bhaskar employed in the company of Enamul Haque at a salary of Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 per month. When contacted, BSF refused to comment. A query sent to Customs remained unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-bsf-official-3-traders-for-cattle-smuggling-at-indo-bangladesh-border/story-g6512esydGNE9Z5OKVyMnI.html
23-09-2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi chairs high-level meet with CMs of seven states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired a high-level virtual meeting with chief ministers and health ministers of seven states which have reported very high number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.These states and the union territories are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Punjab.The health ministers of these states were also present in the meeting where response to the disease and its management was discussed.According to the Union health ministry, more than 63 per cent of the active cases of coronavirus in the country are concentrated in these seven states and union territories. They also account for 65.5 per cent of the total confirmed cases and 77 per cent of the total deaths.Along with the other five states, Punjab and Delhi have reported an increase in the number of cases being reported recently.The Centre has been leading the fight against Covid-19 in the country in effective collaboration and close coordination with the states. The Union government is supporting them to ramp up the healthcare and medical infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pm-modi-chairs-high-level-meet-with-cms-of-seven-states/story-mt3A8pugxrhCnsethgVYBP.html
23-09-2020||India||After a hold-up of 4 days, woman, pregnant daughter cremated in Odisha||After four days of intense negotiations, the villagers in Odisha’s Kendrapara district allowed the bodies of a mother and her pregnant daughter to be cremated this afternoon.Pramila and her daughter Satyapriya Nath had gone missing from their home in Manpada village on September 19. Their bodies were found floating in Hansua river and a pond, respectively, the next day. Thereafter, the elder daughter of the deceased lodged an FIR with police.Earlier, hundreds of villagers resisted all attempts of police and administration to cremate the bodies even as the corpses started decaying.“After the post-mortem of the bodies on September 20, the family of the deceased was handed over the corpses. However, the deceased woman’s husband and other villagers did not allow the corpses to be cremated demanding that the brother of the woman as well as other people allegedly involved in the murder be arrested. The villagers finally saw reason after Sanjay Behera, the nephew of the deceased woman was arrested today,” said Tapan Nayak, inspector-in-charge of Rajnagar police station.Nayak said delay in cremation of the corpses had turned the village into a huge cauldron of stench as flies were seen swarming over the bloated corpses. Pus and blood had started leaking out of the bodies.“The SP as well as the BDO had tried to reason with the villagers about the necessity of cremating the bodies. But they were too stubborn,” he said.Police said the anger of the villagers probably stemmed from the report that the woman’s daughter was found pregnant during post-mortem. The woman after marriage was staying with her own parents while her husband lived in the same village in another house.“The villagers suspected the woman’s own brother to be behind the deaths. They alleged that the nephew of the deceased woman was in a relationship with the latter’s daughter which led to her getting pregnant. They accused the woman’s family to have killed her and her daughter and then threw the bodies separately. But the level of anger did surprise us a bit,” a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-hold-up-of-4-days-woman-pregnant-daughter-cremated-in-odisha/story-Z9UbvpK7yuYhE9v3CvqIUK.html
23-09-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter approaches Supreme Court for mother’s release||Iltija Mufti has again approached the Supreme Court against the detention of her mother and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti under Public Safety Act (PSA) as the Peoples Democratic Party leader continues to be in jail since August 5 last year, when the Centre revoked the special status of J&K.Iltija Mufti filed a habeas corpus petition in the apex court last week challenging her mother’s detention under PSA since February 5 and the two subsequent extensions. Habeas corpus is a writ seeking production of a person, who has allegedly been in illegal detention, before a court.Mehbooba Mufti was booked under PSA on February 5 after her preventive detention of six months had expired. Under PSA, a person can be put behind bars without trial from three months to two years.Iltija said that her mother’s detention is illegal and questionable in a democracy. “A key opposition leader has been jailed for over a year without recourse to trial,” she said.The former CM is currently lodged in her Gupkar home, which has been turned into a sub-jail, where she was shifted on April 27.Iltija has challenged the detention on several grounds, including that the dossier based on which grounds of detention have been framed are “ stale, vague and that they suffer from non-application of mind, malice in law and that they violate the provisions of sections 8(3)(b) of the PSA”.Iltija had filed the petition in February and the case was scheduled to be listed for March 18 when countrywide lockdown was announced to contain the Covid-19.She said she was bringing to the top court’s notice that despite its order in February, the J&K administration is yet to even file a reply. “And it shows you the respect they have for courts and SC,” she said.The applicant has prayed before the court to command the respondents i.e respective representatives of government of India and the union territory to produce Mehbooba Mufti before the court to set her free.She has also urged for quashing of her detention orders and award compensation for her illegal detention.Iltija has argued that the detention of her mother was extended on February 5 as she declined to sign a bond asking her not to make any statement on the recent events in J&K.“This bond and surety which she was repeatedly asked to sign,… included the promise that: ‘In case of release from detention, I will not make any comment(s) or issue statement(s) or make public speech(s) hold or participate in public assemblies related to the recent events in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, at the present time, since it has the potential of endangering the peace and tranquility and law and order in the State or any part thereof’,” the petition says.“Thus, the admitted basis of the detention is a blanket undertaking not to make any comment on the recent events in the State,” it says.The petition says that the detenu has not been allowed any visits by her close relatives, barring a solitary visit by her brother and her sister’s husband on August 19 after multiple requests.“Furthermore, the detenu has not been accorded a chance to attend to her duties as the president of her party, the Jammu and Kashmir’s Peoples Democratic Party. Even party officials and cadres who had applied to visit her on several occasions have not been granted permission by the respondent administration,” it says.Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders were detained in August 2019, hours before the central government nullified Article 370 of the Constitution, which accorded special status to the region, and bifurcated the state into two union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislature and Ladakh without one.Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, the two former chief ministers, were released on March 13 and March 24, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-s-daughter-approaches-supreme-court-for-mother-s-release/story-lVbOp5aenj9oheS9ayrQUO.html
23-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Protests in Panipat, Ambala; Haryana Police use water cannon||The Haryana Police on Wednesday used water cannons at several locations where the protests are being carried out against farm bills recently passed by Parliament.Several Opposition parties along with farmers have taken to street across the country to protest against the two bills.In Haryana’s Ambala, the police used water cannon against Lok Insaaf Party workers, who were taking out a bike rally from Punjab to Delhi to protest against the farm reform bills. The police resorted to using water cannons after party workers tried to jump over barricades placed at Shambhu village on the inter-state border near Ambala, according to reports.The police had warned the party workers to not cross the barricades and also denied them permission for movement of large group in the wake of restrictions placed across state over rising Covid-19 cases.“We want to raise our voice against the anti-farmer bills,” LIP leader Simarjeet Singh Bains told reporters at the Shambhu border, as quoted by PTI.Earlier on Wednesday, the police had stopped a tractor rally, which was being carried out by Haryana Youth Congress.The Rajya Sabha on September 20 passed two key farm bills - Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.During the farm bills debate, the house witnessed a lot of ruckus and uproar as several Opposition parties raised strong objection.On Tuesday, the Opposition boycotted Parliament over Centre’s refusal to accept its demand for withdrawal of farm bills. The Congress party has also called for a nationwide agitation on September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-protests-in-panipat-ambala-haryana-police-use-water-cannon/story-a5U8ncPK8gnbWXJ4xAOacK.html
23-09-2020||India||2 killed, 7 injured as vehicle falls off Srisailam Ghat road into a gorge in Telangana||Two people were killed and seven others sustained injuries when the car in which they were travelling fell into a gorge while negotiating a turn on the Ghat road in Telangana’s Nagarkurnool district on Tuesday night, the police said. The accident occurred at Eegalapenta village in Nallamala hill range on the Telangana side of the Srisailam reservoir at around 9 pm, while the victims were going for a darshan of Lord Mallikarjun Swamy of the famous Srisailam temple located on the Andhra Pradesh side of the reservoir in Kurnool district. The deceased were identified as Neetu Singh (45) and Raj Kumari Bai (65), who succumbed to injuries while being shifted to a private hospital in Hyderabad in the early hours of Wednesday. The injured – Namrata Singh, Hemalatha, Anil Singh, Asmith Singh, Dharmik Singh, Dharmesh Singh and Suman Latha, were given first aid at the local hospital being run by the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco) and later shifted to Hyderabad for better treatment. According to Eegalapenta sub-inspector of police S Pochaiah, three families belonging to Dhoolpet and Mangalhat areas of Hyderabad left in the evening in three different vehicles for a darshan in the Srisailam temple. “The Ghat road on the Nallamala hills near Eegalapenta has steep turns. While the first two vehicles managed to negotiate the turns, the third vehicle, a Toyota Innova, lost control and crashed into a wall, before falling off into a 20-feet gorge,” the SI said. One of the injured managed to come out of the vehicle and alerted his friends in the first two cars. They returned to the accident site and with the help of locals and the police, rescued the victims. “The condition of Neetu Singh and Raj Kumari Bai was critical and they were immediately rushed to Hyderabad, where they were declared brought dead. The other injured were admitted to the local hospital of TSGenco for first aid treatment. They were also taken to Hyderabad later,” the police official said. The bodies have been shifted to the Osmania General Hospital mortuary. “We have booked a case of accident and are investigating,” Pochaiah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-killed-7-injured-as-vehicle-falls-off-srisailam-ghat-road-into-a-gorge-in-telangana/story-w8GhCV9DSl6jryv6pLiKzL.html
23-09-2020||India||Concerned over tar balls sullying beaches, Goa writes to Centre||The Goa government has written to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar seeking a solution to the recurring problem of tar balls that wash ashore before as well as after the monsoon.State environment minister Nilesh Cabral said that he has sent a copy of a study on the sources of tar balls in Goa to the Union minister and that “discussions are in progress”.“We have tracked down the source of these tar balls after studying the phenomenon. We have written to the MoEF about the matter. The Central ministry will now study our findings before taking measures to address the issue which we have raised,” Cabral said.In 2013, a study by the National Institute of Oceanography had conducted a study on the source of the tar balls that wash ashore on beaches of Goa, sullying the water and the sand and coating it with a slimy coating that makes it unsafe to bathe in the sea.The studies had said that the source of the tar balls was from passing tankers that wash their tanks en route between the Middle East and Southeast Asia or from accidental oil spills.A subsequent study in 2016 found that the tar balls that washed ashore in late May were from Bombay High, but the ones seen in August-September after the monsoon were from the tankers on the high seas. The soft and sticky tar balls are a huge deterrent to tourists visiting the beach and threaten the footfalls at beachside businesses.Tar ball deposition along the West Coast of India (WCI) is a common phenomenon during the southwest monsoon season, particularly along the coast of Goa and Gujarat, and it is a major concern to the stakeholders especially tourism stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerned-over-tar-balls-sullying-beaches-goa-writes-to-centre/story-Rv7JlmwHqSIU6oJlZZTxkM.html
23-09-2020||India||Sushant case: NCB visits Shraddha Kapoor’s home to serve summons, Deepika to appear on Friday||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday issued summons to actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh in a drug case related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.While Padukone has been summoned on September 25, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan have been asked to appear before the NCB on September 26, news agency ANI reported. NCB officials visited Shraddha Kapoor’s house on Wednesday evening to serve the summons.Earlier on Wednesday, the agency recorded the statement of film producer Madhu Mantena in connection with the case.Also Watch: NCB summons Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, other actors | Sushant death case Mantena was the co-producer of 2016 Bollywood film ‘Udta Punjab’ which dealt with the issue of drug menace.His name allegedly cropped up during the questioning of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s talent manager Jaya Saha, who was quizzed by the probe agency for last two days, NCB officials said.The NCB had on Tuesday summoned Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash and KWAN talent management agency’s CEO Dhurv Chitgopekar, but the former could not appear before the agency due to ill-health.The NCB is probing the drug link in Rajput’s death.Padukone and the three other actors were named by Rhea Chakraborty while she was being interrogated between September 6 and September 8 before being arrested, according to NCB.Earlier this month, the NCB had arrested six people from Mumbai and Goa in connection with the case. The NCB first arrested 23-year-old Bandra resident identified as Karam Jeet Singh Anand alias KJ and recovered marijuana and hashish from him.According to NCB officials, Karam Jeet was part of the drug syndicate which it had busted as part of the ongoing investigations.The NCB has so far arrested a total 16 accused in the case including Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty, Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant, drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar; Kaizan Ebrahim, Karna Arora, Abbas Lakhani and Anuj Keshwani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-issues-summons-to-actors-deepika-padukone-sara-ali-khan-shradhha-kapoor-and-rakul-preet-singh-in-drugs-related-probe-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-8eKU2bCRHLdSJGDEHbA8uN.html
23-09-2020||India||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia hospitalised due to Covid-19||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who had tested positive for novel coronavirus on September 14, has been hospitalised on Wednesday, news agency PTI reported. The 48-year-old Aam Aadmi Party leader has been admitted to the state-run LNJP Hospital.  Sisodia had tested positive for Covid-19 and was being treated for the viral contagion in home isolation. After testing positive, Sisodia had confirmed on Twitter and said, “Had got my COVID-19 test done after I had a mild fever. The report has come positive. I have gone into self-isolation. As of now, I have no fever or any other issue. I am fine. By your blessings, I will recover fully and return to work soon.”Sisodia is the second minister in the Delhi government to have tested positive for the viral infection. Earlier, Delhi’s health minister Satyendra Jain had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-hospitalised-due-to-covid-19/story-kw3tFEIWmBrnbgn68jNdGN.html
23-09-2020||India||Kerala to move Supreme Court against farm bills, says move violates federal structure||The CPI (M)-led Kerala government on Wednesday decided to move the Supreme Court against the agriculture bills passed by the Parliament three days ago saying the move was a violation of the federal structure as agriculture falls into the concurrent list.Earlier state agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar had sought legal opinion and got advice that these bills can be challenged in the apex court. The state cabinet which met on Wednesday discussed the issue in detail and felt that the Union government’s decision was interference into powers of states and against the spirit of federalism.“Agriculture falls into the state list as per the seventh schedule of the Constitution. Not a single state was consulted before bringing these bills and farmers’ bodies were also kept in the dark. We feel these legislation will only benefit big corporates engaged in the sector,” said Kumar who attended the cabinet proceedings online after he tested Covid-19 positive. He is the third minister to test positive for Covid-19 after finance minister Thomas Issac and industry minister EP Jayarajan.The minister said the state will introduce an alternate mechanism roping in agriculture co-operative societies and self-help groups in a big way. “Lakhs of farmers across the country are eking out a miserable life and many have committed suicide. Reeling under the pandemic, now the Modi government has brought in a fresh set of policies in the name of reforms. They will only serve interests of big farming corporates,” said the minister. Though Kerala is not an agrarian state many farming bodies have pledged their support to the nationwide stir called on September 25. Two left MPs from the state, KK Ragesh and Elamarom Kareem, were among eight members from the Rajya Sabha suspended for making a noisy protest over the passage of these bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-move-supreme-court-against-farm-bills-says-move-violates-federal-structure/story-ylcsdaPvNddgTGuh8NHO2L.html
23-09-2020||India||Parliament passes Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020||Parliament on Wednesday passed a Bill for inclusion of Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi in the list of official languages in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, in addition to the existing Urdu and English. The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020 was passed by Rajya Sabha through voice vote. Lok Sabha had cleared the legislation on Tuesday. Replying to a debate on the Bill, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said it was a long-standing demand of the people of Jammu and Kashmir that the language they speak should be included in the list of official languages. The minister pointed out that around 74 per cent people in the Union Territory spoke Kashmiri and Dogri languages. He said that according to 2011 census, only 0.16 per cent population in Jammu and Kashmir spoke Urdu, while 2.3 per cent spoke Hindi. Reddy said the government would also take steps to encourage other local languages like Punjabi, Gurjari and Pahari in the region. Participating in the debate on the Bill, Naresh Gujral (SAD) termed it “unfortunate” that Punjabi was not included in the Bill and urged the government to reconsider it. The J&K Constitution included Punjabi and the first Chief Minister of J&K was a Punjabi, he said and added: “It hurts the feeling of those who are settled there. I would urge the government to reconsider because language is the basis of cultural heritage of the community.” He said 13 lakh Punjabis live in Jammu and Kashmir. Mir Mohammad Fayaz (PDP) demanded inclusion of Gurjari, Punjabi and Pahari in the Bill, saying that the motto of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas” was lacking in the state. “Include Punjabi, Gurjari and Pahari so that we win the trust of everyone in J&K,” he said. Ramdas Athawale (RPI) expressed “support to Dogri and Kashmiri languages” and in his poetic style said that a day will come when PoK will come to India. Mamata Mohanta (BJD) said the bill will facilitate integration of the UT into mainstream. Shamsher Singh Manhas (BJP) spoke in Dogri. Surendra Singh Nagar (BJP) supported the Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-jammu-and-kashmir-official-languages-bill-2020/story-mF3yw1MkRYMKdspP7WbfeJ.html
23-09-2020||India||Ahead of nationwide stir, Youth Congress takes out tractor rally against farm bills||Indian Youth Congress (IYC) members, led by its national president Srinivas BV, took to the streets on Wednesday, a day ahead of the party’s nationwide agitation against the passage of anti-farmers’ bills during the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament.In the second phase of the Kisan Aakrosh rally, the IYC supporters had taken out a tractor march from Panipat in Haryana to Delhi on Wednesday.Also read: Ghulam Nabi Azad to meet President over farm billsHowever, Haryana Police prevented the IYC members from entering Delhi. “Thousands of farmers and youth had joined our protest rally. We were stopped by Haryana Police as they used water canons and force on us. But this will not deter us from raising our voice. Enough is enough. Nobody can stop us now,” Srinivas said. The IYC national president and other members were also detained by Delhi Police on Tuesday when they had tried to march towards the Parliament building in protest against the passage of the farm bills. Srinivas claimed that the new laws would make farmers dependent on corporate houses. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi talks about Atmnirbhar Bharat, or self-reliant India, but the farm bills of his government will make farmers dependent on corporate houses,” he alleged. In Amritsar, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu joined the party protest in support of farmers. Similar protests were also held in some other parts of the country, including Haryana and Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-nationwide-stir-youth-congress-takes-out-tractor-rally-in-support-of-farmers/story-yREp7eogc1xxnKxJZuMleN.html
23-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bharat Biotech inks deal with US varsity for Covid intranasal vaccine and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bharat Biotech inks licencing deal with Washington University School of Medicine for Covid intranasal vaccineBharat Biotech, a leading vaccine and bio-therapeutics manufacturer, has inked a licencing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri, the US, for a single dose intranasal vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read morePakistan’s 39-yr-old NSA a key player in army’s Gilgit move that suits ChinaArmy chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa has fronted Pakistan’s exercise to create a province in disputed Gilgit-Baltistan (GB) in the occupied Northern Areas, holding a quiet meeting with the country’s politicians on the topic before a minister went public with Islamabad’s plans last week. Read moreRajya Sabha adjourns sine die; second-shortest monsoon session so farWith the passage of 25 bills and introduction of six others, Rajya Sabha records showed 100% productivity during the monsoon session that was held amid the Covid-19 pandemic and adjourned sine die on Wednesday. Read moreMumbai to receive more rainfall in next 6 hours; NDRF teams on standbyThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday predicted more rainfall for Mumbai, which is witnessing flood-like situation in several areas due to incessant downpour since Tuesday night. Read moreIPL 2020: Mitchell Marsh ruled out of tournament, Sunrisers Hyderabad name replacementSunrisers Hyderabad on Wednesday suffered a huge blow as their Australian all-rounder Mitchell Marsh was ruled out of IPL 2020 with an ankle injury, the franchise announced. Marsh hurt his ankle while bowling in SRH’s IPL 2020 opener against Royal Challengers Bangalore. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput took advantage of those closest to him to sustain drug habit: Rhea Chakraborty in bail pleaActor Rhea Chakraborty has alleged that Sushant Singh Rajput “took advantage of those closest to him to sustain his drug habit.” Rhea is currently lodged at Byculla Jail, after being arrested for procuring drugs for the late actor, whom she was dating at the time of his death. Read moreHow Ayushmann Khurana’s quirky, eccentric and unique style has evolved through the yearsAyushmann Khurrana proves he is a fashion icon, no matter what style he chooses to wear. Whether it is his not-so-subtle taste in casuals or completely unique and often extravagant formals; it is next to impossible to ignore the Gulabo Sitabo actor whenever he chooses to make an appearance. Read moreMercedes-Benz GLE 53 AMG 4MATIC Plus Coupe launched in India at ₹1.20 croreMercedes-Benz on Wednesday launched the new GLE 53 AMG 4MATIC Plus Coupe in India starting at ₹1.20 crore. Read moreWatch | DRDO’s plan to help feed Indian forces amid Ladakh long haul against China||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bharat-biotech-inks-deal-with-us-varsity-for-covid-intranasal-vaccine-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mdlbsR6cmUnAisGVwgvUZL.html
23-09-2020||India||Ganga’s water did not improve during lockdown; less flow may have deteriorated quality||The quality of the water in the Ganga did not improve and rather deteriorated at many stretches including possibly due to the discharge of untreated or partially treated sewage despite curbs on human activities during the 68-day lockdown imposed from March 25 to check the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) report released on Wednesday. Seven out of 19 major rivers in India, including the Brahmani, however, recorded an improvement in water quality in April, as compared to the period before the lockdown, it added. The Ganga’s compliance with primary water quality reduced from 64.6 % to 46.2% during the lockdown. The report suggests that this may also have been because of negligible seasonal flow, which increases the concentration of pollution, and no freshwater discharges from the upstream. Compliance also reduced in the Beas, the Chambal, the Sutlej, and the Swarnarekha.The Baitarani, the Mahanadi, the Narmada, and the Pennar were 100% compliant with outdoor bathing water quality criteria.The CPCB sought to assess percentage variation (increasing or decreasing) trends in water quality only for bathing criteria parameters such as pH, DO (dissolved oxygen), BOD (biological oxygen demand), and FC (Fecal Coliform excluding Fecal Streptococci). These are all measures that show if a river can sustain life and is safe for bathing.For the Ganga, during pre-lockdown, 42 out of 65 monitored locations (64.6 %) and during the lockdown, 25 out of 54 monitored locations (46.3 %), were found to be within the desirable limits of primary water quality criteria for outdoor bathing.The Brahmani river’s compliance with primary water quality criteria for outdoor bathing improved from 85% in the pre-lockdown period to 100%. For the Brahmaputra, it improved from 87.5 % to 100 % and for the Cauvery from 90.5 % to 96.97 %. In the case of the Godavari, it went up from 65.8% to 78.4 %, the Krishna 84.6 % to 94.4 %, the Tapi 77.8 % to 87.5 %, and the Yamuna 42.8 % to 66.67 %.Manoj Mishra, convenor of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said the lockdown happened during the lean season for all rivers, particularly those originating from the Himalayan region. “The river flow contributes to the dilution of pollutants. So, their analysis pertaining to the Ganga and other Himalayan rivers is correct.” Mishra said rivers including the Narmada, the Pennar, and the Mahanadi anyway have a low industrial effluent load. “So, it is not a surprise that they met bathing water quality standards before and during the lockdown.” Mishra said CPCB should not have compared apples with oranges because the issues facing these rivers are very different. “The clear impact of lockdown was seen in the Yamuna downstream of Wazirabad because it has high industrial effluent load which became nil during the lockdown and in March and April… there was rain in Yamuna’s catchment leading to higher water discharges.” The 2,525-kilometre-long Ganga originates in the northernmost part of Uttarakhand, flows through Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, and West Bengal before it discharges into the Bay of Bengal.The report said the lockdown period offered a unique situation to carry out assessment of water quality of surface water bodies including major rivers. It provided an opportunity to re-comprehend and redesign existing frameworks and put in place robust mechanisms to cleanse identified polluted river stretches, it added.CPCB scientists said there might be separate reasons behind the improvement of water quality in Yamuna during the lockdown and the worsening of the condition around the same period in many stretches of the Ganga.“We found that the water in the Ganga had improved in Uttarakhand and some stretches of UP during the lockdown. However, no improvement was seen in West Bengal and Bihar in the downstream. This combined with a lean flow led to fewer locations recording improvement in the quality of the river water. Sewage may have a higher contribution to pollution in these stretches. While in Yamuna the contribution from industrial effluents, which was nil during the lockdown, appears to be moderate. Yamuna in Delhi received freshwater from upper reaches during the lockdown. There were rains in the river’s catchment areas in upper reaches in March, according to our analysis,” said a CPCB scientist, who was involved with the study, on condition of anonymity.CPCB separately observed its 46th Foundation Day on Wednesday and announced its plans for the next decade until 2030 to provide technical leadership for “science-based environmental management” and guiding policy decisions to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganga-s-water-did-not-improve-during-lockdown-less-flow-may-have-deteriorated-quality/story-c4dBziGjlhrsnooE5naW3H.html
23-09-2020||India||Elephant electrocuted in Chhattisgarh, 9th death in last four months||A wild elephant got electrocuted in Chhattisgarh after coming in contact with a live electrical wire in Dharamjaigarh forest division of Raigarh district on Wednesday.The elephant’s carcass was recovered from a farm at Medharmar village, a senior forest official said. The owner of the farm had laid live wires for running an electric borewell which the elephant ran into and was killed. The pachyderm’s body has been sent for post-mortem. This is the ninth elephant death in the state in the last four months. In June, six elephants died in four districts of the state. While the carcasses of two tuskers were recovered from the Pratappur forest range in Surajpur district, another elephant was found dead in neighbouring Balrampur district. Two elephants were electrocuted in Dharamjaigarh under Raigarh district and a calf died after getting stuck in a marshland in Dhamtari district. One elephant died in July in Jashpur district of the state. Following the fatalities, the state forest department in July issued orders to divisional forest officer (DFO) of Dharamjaigarh in Raigarh district, where maximum elephants have been electrocuted in the last ten years, to take necessary steps to contain such incidents.Also Read: Private hospitals in Chhattisgarh overcharging patients to face action, says reportThe order said the forest department should ensure that the 11 KV electric lines, which have been instrumental in causing the deaths, should be 7.5 meters above the ground-level and insulated electric wires were used in these areas. The department has also directed the forest officers to coordinate with Chhattisgarh state power corporation to find out each and every illegal connection or live wire in these areas frequented by the elephants. In the last decade, the state has recorded an increase in its wildlife population including elephants, whose number rose from 225 to 290, as per the state forest department. North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in plains of the state. Several reports of human-elephant conflicts surfaced in the last few years in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-electrocuted-in-chhattisgarh-9th-death-in-last-four-months/story-s6c8Mku7pZ3Uzvf6F1V8iM.html
23-09-2020||India||Bengali, Mizo groups protest against settlement of Bru migrants in Tripura||The joint action committee (JAC) comprising local Bengali and Mizo-based organizations of Kanchanpur in North Tripura district on Tuesday held dawn-to-dusk strike protesting against permanent rehabilitation of Bru migrants in Kanchanpur. The Bru migrants have been staying at six relief camps located at Kanchanpur and Panisagar sub divisions in North Tripura for more than two decades after escaping from an ethnic clash in Mizoram in 1997. After these years, the Centre signed an agreement with Tripura and Mizoram governments to settle Bru migrants permanently in Tripura. “The strike was peaceful. No violence was reported. And no picketer was detained,” said Kanchanpur sub divisional magistrate Chandni Chandran. She added that no prior permission was taken from the administration for the strike. During the strike, the JAC also submitted a memorandum to chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb through Chandran, giving the government a seven-day deadline to reconsider the decision to rehabilitate Bru migrants, or else, they would choose the path of movement, said the protestors. Also Read: Mizoram CM requests Tripura not to resettle Bru migrants in Mizo habitatsChairperson of Nagorik Suraksha Mancha Ranjit Kumar Nath said, “The resettlement of the Bru migrants in Kanchanpur area will put pressure on the residents who are living here for years. According to the state government, nearly 4,600 Bru families would be settled in Kanchanpur and its adjoining areas.” Mizoram Bru displaced peoples’ forum (MBDPF) secretary Bruno Msha said, “Frequent strikes by the JAC are creating hurdles in our rehabilitation process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengali-mizo-groups-protest-against-settlement-of-bru-migrants-in-tripura/story-Mc3n9uSisIWPoSaznTZkaP.html
23-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Ghulam Nabi Azad to meet President today||Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad will meet President Ram Nath Kovind at 5pm on Wednesday to request him, on behalf of 18 political parties, to not give his assent to farm bills passed by the Upper House on Sunday amid a ruckus. Azad will also apprise the President about the Rajya Sabha passing important legislations in both Houses of Parliament in the absence of Opposition parties, which boycotted the rest of the monsoon session after the government rejected their demands to withdraw the farm bills. They had also requested Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to revoke the suspension of eight members—Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of the Congress, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of the Trinamool Congress, KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Also Read: Rajya Sabha adjourns sine die; second-shortest monsoon session so farThe two agricultural bills—the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020—were cleared by voice vote in Parliament on Sunday even as the Opposition protested and stormed the well of the House seeking that they be sent to a select committee. The ruckus resulted in the suspension of the eight members. Parliament on Tuesday also passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. On Tuesday, Azad had said that the opposition will not end its boycott till the government introduces another bill making it illegal for private players to buy food grains from farmers below the minimum support price (MSP), and making it mandatory for all state agencies to comply by the MSP and fix the procurement price as per the Swaminathan panel’s recommendations. Representatives of the Opposition parties met in the Parliament House on Wednesday to chalk out their future strategy. It was decided at the meeting that a delegation will meet the President in a delegation and hand over a memorandum to him, urging him not to give his assent to the farm bills. Also Read: Claim pro-farmer reforms, but no data on their suicides: TMC attacks CentreRepresentatives of the Opposition parties then sought time from the Parliament and were told that only five leaders would be allowed to meet the President in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a Congress leader said. He said the leaders of the 18 Opposition parties then decided that only Azad would meet the President on their behalf. The standoff between the government and the Opposition over the farm bills has escalated with both sides taking a hard stand on the issue. While the Rajya Sabha adjourned sine die on Wednesday afternoon, the Lok Sabha will follow suit in the evening. While the Congress has decided to hit the streets across the country to protest against the farm bills Thursday onwards, other regional Opposition parties are planning an agitation against the farm bills in their respective states too. Earlier in the day, Opposition leaders, including Azad, Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh (Congress), Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress and Samajwadi Party member Jaya Bachchan, took out a protest march from the Mahatma Gandhi statue to the Ambedkar Statue at the Parliament house complex. The leaders carried placards with messages such as ‘Save Farmers’, Save Workers’ and ‘Save Democracy’. Prior to their protest, the leaders had also written to the Rajya Sabha chairman urging him not to pass the three labour codes in the Upper House in the absence of Opposition parties. “It will be a blot on democracy if the bills are passed unilaterally,” they wrote in the letter. Azad later said he would meet the President and tell him that there was no division of votes during the passage of bills in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-ghulam-nabi-azad-to-meet-president-today/story-KXHeku1NnQI514ysbcJbsI.html
23-09-2020||India||Indians in TIME’s 100 most influential people list 2020: PM Modi, Ayushman Khurrana, Bilkis and others||The TIME magazine’s list of 100 most influential people for the year 2020 includes Prime Minister Narendra Modi, actor Ayushman Khurrana and Bilkis, who emerged as the face of the Shaheen Bagh protests.PM Modi has been kept under the ‘Leaders’ along with US President Donald Trump, US attorney general William Barr, Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen, US NIAID chief Anthony Fauci and Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden. The Indian Prime Minister, who turned 70 a few days ago, had also made it to the TIME magazine’s 100 most influential people’s list earlier as well. Bilkis was an unlikely face among the names who made it to the 100 most influential people’s list. She was among the leading figures who led peaceful protests in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh area against the Citizenship Amendment Act or CAA last year. The 82-year-old was known for sitting at the protest site from early morning till midnight almost everyday for three months until the protests were disbanded due to Covid-19.Actor Ayushmann Khurana was the only actor from India who made it to the list. Khurrana is the youngest Indian to be featured in this year’s TIME Magazine, according to news agency PTI. Khurrana told PTI that he has used his acting to bring a positive change to the world. Deepika Padukone wrote an essay to introduce Khurrana to TIME magazine’s readers. He has acted in award-winning movies like “Vicky Donor”, “Shubh Mangal Saavdhan”, “Badhaai Ho”, and “Article 15.”The others to bring laurels to the Indian community by being included in the coveted list include Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google’s parent Alphabet and clinical microbiology professor Ravindra Gupta.Gupta, who is a professor of clinical microbiology at the Cambridge University, has been featured by the TIME magazine under the ‘Pioneers’ category. A doctor of Indian origin, Gupta achieved the feat of curing the London Patient Eric Castellijo of human-immunodeficiency virus or the HIV. Castellijo, who is the second person to be functionally cured of HIV wrote of Dr Gupta in the introduction, “Gupta has shared his knowledge and his enthusiasm to find a feasible cure for everyone. He has championed me and empowered me to become an ambassador of hope to millions of people living with HIV around the world.” Castellijo also narrated how Gupta’s compassion moved him and also brought him respect among colleagues in the HIV research community. Pichai was put into the category of ‘Titans’ along with Miami Heat forward Dwayne Wade, actress Gabrielle Union and Formula One racer Lewis Hamilton among others. Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO of JPMorgan Chase, said Pichai embodies the real American dream as he emigrated from India as an adult and worked his way up to become the CEO of Alphabet. He said, “(Sundar) represents the best of what we aspire for our society. He used his natural gifts and strong work ethic to rise through the ranks of Google (now Alphabet) by leading many of their most successful products…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-in-time-s-100-most-influential-people-list-2020-pm-modi-ayushman-khurrana-bilkis-and-others/story-3iTzYgW8wPzFXoX8co7bvI.html
23-09-2020||India||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad meets President Kovind amid farm bills crisis||Congress MP and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday evening amid growing dissent over passage of farm bills passed by Parliament.Azad met the President and handed over a memorandum, urging him to not give his assent to the farm bills cleared by Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.“There was no division of votes, no voice voting. Constitution was undermined in the temple of democracy. We have given a representation to president that farm bills have been passed unconstitutionally and he should return these bills,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The government should have consulted all parties and farmer leaders before bringing the bills, Azad said after meeting the President.Previously, it was decided that leaders of five Opposition parties - Congress, TMC, Samajwadi Party, TRS and DMK - will meet the President to raise the issue but due to Covid-19 safety protocols the parties decided to submit the memorandum through Azad.The Opposition has launched a staunch protest against passage of two agricultural bills — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 — by voice vote in Parliament on Sunday.Several leaders from the Opposition including TMC’s Derek O’Brien and Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh entered the well of the Rajya Sabha demanding that the bills be sent to a select committee. The ruckus ensued and resulted in the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha MPs, including O’Brien and Singh, who then camped overnight in Parliament complex in protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-ghulam-nabi-azad-to-meet-president-kovind-amid-farm-bills-crisis/story-EaKMNTYzD0WwbGQSv9FsCO.html
23-09-2020||India||Sikkim, north Bengal affected as landslides damage NH-10 following heavy rain||Road link between Sikkim and neighbouring West Bengal has been affected, as landslides triggered by incessant rainfall since Monday have caused massive damage to National Highway (NH)-10 at several locations. Incessant rainfall also caused landslides at 29th Mile in West Bengal’s Kalimpong district on Tuesday. “Though NH-10, which connects Sikkim and Siliguri, north Bengal’s biggest town, via the Kalimpong district, was opened for a couple of hours on Tuesday afternoon, it had to be closed again late at night,” said Subodh Chettri, executive engineer-II, public works department (PWD), division-9, West Bengal. Chettri said repair work has been hampered due to heavy rainfall and the NH-10 stretch at Rambi in Kalimpong district is likely to have suffered further damage. Repair work has to be suspended because a portion of NH-10 between Sethi Jhora and Birik Dara is still inundated, the officials said. Vehicles operating between Sikkim and Siliguri and Kalimpong and Siliguri are taking a detour. In north Bengal, many rivers are in spate, as heavy rainfall was recorded until Wednesday afternoon. “Though it is raining incessantly since Tuesday, we have not yet received any report about a loss of human life. The Siliguri-Mirik road was closed on Wednesday morning at Ghayabari. Several wards under the Siliguri Municipal Corporation have reported waterlogging,” said S Poonambalam, district magistrate (DM), Darjeeling. Tenzing T Kaleon, district collector (DC), North Sikkim, said, “The roads leading to the border with China are open because the area has not recorded heavy rainfall yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-north-bengal-affected-as-landslides-damage-nh-10-following-heavy-rain/story-86Ct20TV5OxXc0tWdJLIdI.html
23-09-2020||India||Monsoon session, scheduled to continue till October 1, curtailed due to Covid-19; Rajya Sabha adjourned sine die||The monsoon session of Parliament, which scheduled to go on till October 1, was cut short due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic on Wednesday. Subsequently, Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die.The suspension of session comes after Parliament functioned for 10 days and passed 25 bills. Additionally, six bills have been introduced in this session.The monsoon session, which is held every year in mid-July, was delayed due to Covid-19 outbreak in the country and began on September 14. As of Wednesday, India remains the second worst-hit country, after the United States, in terms of infections as its tally rose to 5.6 million on Wednesday with 83,347 infections recorded in the last 24 hours.The highlight of the session was the passage of the two farm bills which led to ruckus and boycott from Opposition members. Eight leaders of the Opposition parties (Rajya Sabha MPs) were suspended for a week due to the ruckus. The suspension aggravated the stalemate bentween the government and the Opposition with the Congress party deciding to launch a nationwide campaign against the farm bills passed by Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-scheduled-to-continue-till-october-1-curtailed-due-to-covid-19-rajya-sabha-adjourned-sine-die/story-enO8UXvC9nmHVUzumGOwMJ.html
23-09-2020||India||‘Proud of you’: Rajnath Singh congratulates DRDO for successfully test firing anti-tank missile||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for successfully test firing its Laser-Guided Anti Tank Guided Missile (ATGM).“Congratulations to @DRDO_India for successfully conducting test firing of Laser-Guided Anti Tank Guided Missile from MBT Arjun at KK Ranges (ACC&S) in Ahmednagar. India is proud of team DRDO which is assiduously working towards reducing import dependency in the near future,” Singh tweeted. Congratulations to @DRDO_India for successfully conducting test firing of Laser Guided Anti Tank Guided Missile from MBT Arjun at KK Ranges (ACC&S) in Ahmednagar. India is proud of Team DRDO which is assiduously working towards reducing import dependency in the near future. pic.twitter.com/WuBivV7VYUEarlier, DRDO announced it had successfully test fired the missile at the Armoured Corps Centre and School (ACC&S) in Ahmednagar on Tuesday. The agency further said in these tests, the missiles--fired from MBT Arjun Tank--successfully defeated a target at three kilometre. The missile employs a tandem HEAT warhead to defeat Explosive Reactive Armour (ERA) protected armoured vehicles. It has been developed with multiple-platform launch capability and is currently undergoing technical evaluation trials from a gun of MBT Arjun: DRDO https://t.co/6CqggD8chiOn various features of the missile, DRDO said ATGM employs a tandem HEAT warhead to defeat Explosive Rear Armour (ERA) protected vehicles. “The missile has been developed with multi-platform launch capability and is currently undergoing technical evaluation trials from a gun of MBT Arjun,” the agency further explained.ATGM has been developed by the Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE), Pune, in association with High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL), Pune, and Instruments Research & Development Establishment (IRDE), Dehradun.Also on Tuesday, DRDO had carried out a successful flight test of ABHYAS High Speed Expandable Aerial Target (HEAT) vehicles from a test range in Balasore, Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proud-of-you-rajnath-singh-congratulates-drdo-for-successfully-test-firing-anti-tank-missile/story-J5e1GR71882TMQsHe90yBN.html
23-09-2020||India||Supreme Court directs no action to be taken against Facebook’s India head till October 15||The Delhi Assembly told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that Facebook India’s vice president and managing director Ajit Mohan was not summoned as an accused and that no coercive action was intended against the company.The court was hearing a petition filed by Facebook India and Mohan against the notice issued by the Delhi Assembly for deposing before it on Wednesday for the social media company’s alleged role in the Delhi violence in February.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for Delhi Assembly, said that Mohan was summoned as a witness to get the social media giant’s suggestions on devising mechanism to prevent misuse of Facebook.“He was called as a witness, not as an accused. No coercive steps were intended. During previous hearings, it came to light that Facebook was misused (in connection with communal riots). So, we want to get suggestions from them and devise mechanism so that Facebook is not misused,” Singhvi said.Justice Kaul, who is heading the three-judge bench hearing the case, said that the notice issued to Mohan by the Delhi assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee did not give such an impression. “That is not what you have said in the notice. Then you may recall the notice,” justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said.Singhvi offered to will file a counter affidavit clarifying the stance of the Delhi Assembly.The court then adjourned the hearing till October 15 and Singhvi submitted that no further meeting will be held on this subject matter till the petition is disposed. The court recorded Singhvi’s submissions and asked Delhi Assembly to file it’s response within a week.During the hearing, senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Mohan, said that right to free speech under Article 19(1)(a) includes right not to speak. Salve also told the court that if his client doesn’t appear, he can’t be compelled to face penalty.Salve also said that Mohan works for a US-based company and doesn’t want to comment on a politically sensitive issue in India.The petitioners had moved the apex court challenging the two summons issued by the Delhi Assembly and others against them on September 10 and 18.The committee’s insistence on compelling Ajit Mohan to speak, and its categorical threat to his non-appearance as a “breach of privilege of the committee and [to take] necessary action as deemed fit”, gives rise to a clear and present danger to the fundamental rights and liberties of petitioners in the ultra vires proceedings before the Committee, Mohan had claimed in his petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-india-head-not-summoned-as-accused-no-coercive-action-was-intended-delhi-assembly-in-supreme-court/story-Z3ryYFZ3liy57TASkan6OO.html
23-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine tracker: From free Sputnik V to Bharat Biotech’s new deal. All you need to know||The world is racing to find a vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) which has wreaked havoc across the globe. Several landmarks have recently been achieved across the globe in the last few days - Russia even announced a vaccine for general public’s use and US President Donald Trump promising to roll one out in November.Here is a round-up of all latest Covid-19 vaccine developments:Free Sputnik V to UN staffRussia, the first country that claimed to have come up with a vaccine, said it will offer Sputnik V free of charge to the staff of the United Nations. Bharat Biotech’s new dealThe Hyderabad-based pharma company, which is developing Covaxin along with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has entered an agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri, the US. This vaccine will be an intranasal one — to be administered through the nose. The first phase of human trial will take place is Missouri, while the later phases will be conducted in India if Drug Control General of India gives nod.As far as its own vaccine, Covaxin, is concerned, Bharat Biotech will start the phase 3 clinical trials in October.Serum Institute of India: Covishield and other candidatePhase 2 and 3 trials of Oxford-Astrazeneca’s Covishield of which Pune’s Serum Institute of India is a partner have already begun from this week. King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital and BYL Nair Hospital — two civic-run hospitals are conducting the trials.Meanwhile, SII has started manufacturing Codagenix’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate — CDX-005. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and Sputnik VDr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd could begin late-stage Indian clinical trials of Russia’s potential coronavirus vaccine in the next few weeks. will enrol 1,000-2,000 participants and be conducted at multiple government and private hospitals.‘No respiratory disease vaccine has 100 per cent efficacy’On the lines of World Health Organization and the US Food and Drug Administration (US FDA), the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has issued a new set of guidelines for Covid-19 vaccine candidates. According to the guidelines, a vaccine with 50 per cent efficacy might be approved for use. This is a global standard as no respiratory vaccine has 100 per cent efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-tracker-from-free-sputnik-v-to-bharat-biotech-s-new-deal-all-you-need-to-know/story-82gZwsc7dx0rwULI1rFFOK.html
23-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha adjourns sine die; second-shortest monsoon session so far||With the passage of 25 bills and introduction of six others, Rajya Sabha records showed 100% productivity during the monsoon session that was held amid the Covid-19 pandemic and adjourned sine die on Wednesday. This was also the second-shortest monsoon session of the Upper House since 1952. Instead of the scheduled 18 sittings, only 10 sittings were held between September 14 and 23. The House was scheduled to wind up on October 1. Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu said the session was concluded ahead of time as the Covid-19 pandemic continued to challenge humankind nine months after its outbreak. He said Rajya Sabha consistently recorded its highest productivity in the last four sessions and it was “praiseworthy”. In his closing remarks, Naidu said a record amount of time (about 58% of the number of business hours) was spent on bills during the session, as against an average of 28% over the years. Also Read: Parliament passes Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts BillMore allotment of time to bills, he said, justified the purpose of this session in which the Question Hour was dispensed with. Opposition parties had protested the doing away of the Question Hour, pointing out that it infringed upon their right to seek answers from the government. The monsoon session that was marked by many firsts—including the schedule being limited to four hours, no weekend breaks and staggered sitting arrangements for MPs—also witnessed a ruckus on Sunday when some members of the Opposition surrounded deputy chairperson Harivansh’s desk to protest against the decision of not spending more time discussing the contentious farm bills. Referring to the ruckus that led to the suspension of eight Opposition MPs, their day-long protest inside Parliament complex, the Opposition parties’ subsequent walk-out and the deputy chairperson’s one-day fast, Naidu said the session had brought forward some concerns, like the notice for the deputy chairman’s removal. “It is our collective responsibility to avert such an unpleasant turn of events. The suspension of members is unpalatable but forced,” he said, adding that while protesting was the Opposition’s right, it was the manner of protest that needed attention. Also Read: Rajya Sabha passes Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020According to Rajya Sabha Statistical Information 1952-2018; the 252nd session saw just 10 sittings, making it the second shortest of all the 69 monsoon sessions that have been held so far. Records show that the 110th session held in July, 1979, and the 187th session held in October, 1999, which were also monsoon sessions, comprised six sittings each. The 89th session of the House, the monsoon session, held during July-September, 1974, remains the longest monsoon session with 40 sittings. This is also the longest of all the 252 sessions of the House held since 1952. So far, three sessions, including the current session, have had 10 sittings or less;16 sessions were held for 11 to 20 sittings each; 40 sessions had 21 to 30 sittings each; nine had 31 to 39 sittings each and one session had 40 sittings. The 76th session of Rajya Sabha, also the monsoon session, had 18 sittings during August-September, 1976. Six other monsoon sessions had 16 to 17 sittings each. Rajya Sabha records show only the 187th session with 6 sittings was held in October. This was the first session that took place after then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee assumed office for the third time. Of all the 252 sessions of the Rajya Sabha so far, the 111th session remains the shortest with just one sitting on August 20, 1979. This was on account of then Prime Minister late Shri Charan Singh resigning the same day. Typically, monsoon sessions are held during the months of July-August; this year, due to the pandemic, the session was delayed and Parliament could reconvene only in September. The budget session that precedes the monsoon session also had to be cut short in March when the Covid-19 outbreak occurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajyasabha-adjourns-sine-die-second-shortest-monsoon-session-so-far/story-UcRD8Ir14o4F3t32KJgoGK.html
23-09-2020||India||Claim pro-farmer reforms, but no data on their suicides: TMC attacks Centre||Firing fresh salvo at the Centre, the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal attacked the Narendra Modi-led government for claiming to champion pro-farmer reforms through the agricultural bills passed in the Rajya Sabha, but drawing a blank when questioned about the farmer suicides. “@narendramodi ji’s regime is making a mockery of our nation! They fail to record the no. of farmer suicides in their reign and then claim to implement Pro-Farmer laws, while thwarting every rule in Parliament. We’ll not stay quiet & take this battle head-on! #WeStandForDemocracy,” tweeted Abhishek Banerjee, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamool MP. This comes two days after G Kishan Reddy, union minister of state for home affairs, had informed the Rajya Sabha that national data on causes of suicide in farming sector was untenable and not published separately, as many states and union territories had reported ‘Nil’ data to the National Crime Records Bureau. In a counter offensive, a delegation of the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to apprise him of the TMC’s alleged double standards on the issues related to the contentious farm bills that were passed in the Rajya Sabha. “The price of potato in West Bengal has shot up because of the middlemen backed by the TMC. While farmers are selling potatoes at Rs 8–Rs 10 per kilo, in the markets each kilo of potato is being sold at Rs 30–Rs 40 per kilo. The TMC will never act against these middlemen as the money is going to the party’s coffers. While farmers are being cheated, the chief minister is spreading lies against the farm bills,” said Jai Prakash Majumdar, state vice president of BJP, who led the delegation to Raj Bhavan. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had condemned the farm bills passed in the Upper House of Parliament on Sunday and had said that these bills would trigger a food pandemic in the country and wipe off small and marginal farmers.The TMC has already started staging protests since Tuesday in Kolkata against the farm bills. While on Tuesday, the party’s women wing led by Chadrima Bhattacharya, minister of state for health in West Bengal, staged a protest in central Kolkata, on Wednesday the youth wing took out a rally. On September 9, Banerjee had written to the Centre that she was open to implementation of the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers if the funds were transferred directly to her government for disbursement. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, however, criticised the state government, saying that funds for Central welfare schemes go directly to the beneficiaries and not routed through the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/claim-pro-farmer-reforms-but-no-data-on-their-suicides-tmc-attacks-centre/story-Rfxs9vjDVMuSrg7Z7ZITwK.html
23-09-2020||India||Covid: Private hospitals in Chhattisgarh overcharging patients to face action, says report||The Chhattisgarh government has warned of action against private hospitals if they overcharge Covid-19 patients, an official said on Wednesday.There have been complaints that some private hospitals, which are designated as Covid-19 treatment facilities, are charging hefty amounts from patients.Chhattisgarh Health Services Director Neeraj Bansod on Tuesday issued a directive to all district chief medical and health officers (CMHOs), asking them to take action if they get complaints against private hospitals of charging more than the fees fixed by the state government for Covid-19 treatment.Such hospitals will face action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Chhattisgarh Public Health Act, 1949, and the Chhattisgarh Epidemic Diseases Covid-19 Regulations, 2020, a public relations department official said on Wednesday.The CMHOs have also been directed to inform the district collector concerned about such complaints and if necessary, cancel the permission for Covid-19 treatment of those private hospitals, he said.The Chhattisgarh government on September 5 fixed the rates of Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals after classifying them in three categories.Hospitals in major districts like Raipur, Durg, Rajnandgaon, Bilaspur, Korba and Raigarh have been listed in A category, while those in Surguja, Mahasamund, Dhamtari, Kanker, Janjgir-Champa, Balodabazar-Bhatapara, Kabirdham and Bastar districts are in ‘B’ category.Hospitals in remaining 14 districts of the state have been placed in ‘C’ category.The ‘A’ category hospitals accredited by the National Accreditation Board of Hospitals (NABH) can charge Rs 6,200 per day from moderately sick patients, Rs 12,000 per day for severely ill patients and Rs 17,000 per day for very severely ill patients.The non-NABH accredited hospitals can charge Rs 6,200, Rs 10,000 and Rs 14,000 from moderate, severe and very severely ill patients, respectively, the official said.Hospitals in the B category can charge 80 per cent of the rate fixed for the A category hospitals, while hospitals in the ‘C’ category can charge 60 per cent of it.Till Tuesday, Chhattisgarh reported 90,917 Covid-19 cases and 718 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-private-hospitals-in-chhattisgarh-overcharging-patients-to-face-action-says-report/story-xLBvOfXuV1aaRqUUFVnEZN.html
23-09-2020||India||Am I some minister or a great opposition leader? Kangana’s latest salvo||Firing a fresh salvo at Congress on Wednesday, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut questioned the ongoing protests against her in the country and said it must have been a case of “mistaken identity”. “Am I some minister or a great opposition leader? Who they think I am? this is rather flattering,” the embattled actor wrote on Twitter after Punjab Congress burnt the effigies of Kangana for “disrespecting farmers by labelling them terrorists”. First congress in Maharashtra threatened me and beat my posters with chappals now congress in Punjab burning my effigies, seems like a clear case of mistaken identity. Am I some minister or a great opposition leader? Who they think I am? This is rather flattering 😂 @INCIndia https://t.co/uHEAPRN6l0“First congress in Maharashtra threatened me and beat my posters with chappals now congress in Punjab burning my effigies, seems like a clear case of mistaken identity,” the actor wrote.The protests came after the actor allegedly equated the protesting farmers with “terrorists”. “People who spread misinformation and rumours about CAA that caused riots are the same people who are now spreading misinformations about Farmers bill and causing terror in the nation, they are terrorists. You very well know what I said but simply like to spread misinformation,” the actor had tweeted earlier.Alongside, Kangana is engaged in a tussle with the Shiv Sena government in Maharashtra after an allegedly “illegal” portion of her Mumbai office was razed on September 9.The Bombay high court on Tuesday asked actor Kangana Ranaut to implead Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut in her petition for threatening her with ‘Ukhad diya’ – the title of an article in Sena mouthpiece Saamana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/am-i-some-minister-or-a-great-opposition-leader-kangana-s-latest-salvo/story-aPTeTiIwtuifGqjguyHy4L.html
23-09-2020||India||PM Modi to hold virtual bilateral summit with Sri Lankan counterpart on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa will hold a virtual bilateral summit on September 26, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Wednesday.The ministry said the summit will give an opportunity to the two leaders to comprehensively review the broad framework of the bilateral relationship.The two leaders are expected to deliberate on a host of issues like ways to further deepen anti-terror cooperation, boost overall defence and trade ties as well as implementation of India’s development projects in Sri Lanka.The long-pending Tamil issue in Sri Lanka is also likely to figure in the talks. India has been pitching for fulfilling the aspirations of the Tamil community in the island nation.“The virtual bilateral summit will give an opportunity to the two leaders to comprehensively review the broad framework of the bilateral relationship soon after the Parliamentary elections in Sri Lanka and in the context of the time-tested friendly ties between the two countries,” the MEA said in a statement.Last month, Rajapaksa was sworn in as Sri Lankan Prime Minister for a fresh term after his party, Sri Lanka People’s Front, secured a two-thirds majority in the parliamentary polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-virtual-bilateral-summit-with-sri-lankan-counterpart-on-saturday/story-BnLZtok9JL9NQd3wZdfP4O.html
23-09-2020||India||CPCB turns 46; promises to prioritise science in policies, health risk in pollution control||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), which turned 46 on Wednesday, has announced its plans for the next decade, or until 2030. CPCB authorities on the occasion of its Foundation Day on Wednesday said they would provide technical leadership for “science-based environmental management” and would provide guiding policy decisions to the government.Also read: EPCA asks agencies to jointly patrol industrial areas to check pollutionTheir goals will include revamping laboratories with facilities for monitoring of persistent organic pollutants (POPs), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and toxic air pollutants that have a gamut of health impacts. CPCB plans to start an environmental research, development and computational laboratory, the use of satellite-based data for air quality monitoring, and also an in-depth study on the nature of pollution.The authorities also announced that their work in the next decade would be guided by science, air and watershed approach. It would be a regional approach of management, prioritising pollution reduction strategies while factoring in health hazards among many other parametres, they added.CPCB officials said their landmark river basin studies established in the 1970s became the pivot for the Ganga Action Plan, which is being implemented by the Centre to reduce pollution in the Ganges.CPCB is also responsible for the air and water quality standards in the country, including the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), which was launched in January 2019. The programme aims to achieve a reduction in particulate matter (PM) by up to 30% over the next five years, or 2024, over annual average levels in 2017 in more than 100 cities.“We have also achieved a 25% reduction in particulate matter pollution in the national capital in the past three-four years,” said Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpcb-turns-46-promises-to-prioritise-science-in-policies-health-risk-in-pollution-control/story-Qq9BWu7vuuRkY5GuBTHDfP.html
23-09-2020||India||Parliament passes Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill||Parliament on Wednesday passed a Bill that seeks to provide a legal framework for bilateral netting of qualified financial contracts.Lok Sabha had passed the bill on Sunday.The legislation allows for enforcement of netting for qualified financial contracts.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman termed the Bill as critical for financial stability in the country, and said it brings in a firm legal basis for bilateral netting for two counter parties.Sitharaman said: “It is just the bilateral contracts which do not have any firm legal basis. Value of bilateral derivative contracts is estimated by Clearing Corporation of India to be Rs. 56,33,257 crore as of March 2018.” Bilateral contracts constitute 40 per cent of total financial contracts while multilateral contracts constitute 60 per cent, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-bilateral-netting-of-qualified-financial-contracts-bill/story-GD0P3ivIFyqf66qNwU4dUJ.html
23-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition leaders to meet President at 5pm on farm bills and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Opposition leaders to meet President today amid Parliament boycott over farm billsOpposition parties will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday amid the ongoing row over farm bills. Only five opposition leaders will be allowed to meet the President at 5 PM , reports said. Read more‘Not joined any party as of now’: Former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey after voluntary retirementFormer Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey on Wednesday said he is yet to join any political party and has also not taken any decision in this regard. Pandey was speaking to media after opting for voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) in a sudden development on Tuesday evening. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘They were all just personal runs’ - MS Dhoni batting at No. 7 ‘makes no sense’ to Gautam GambhirFormer India batsman Gautam Gambhir was surprised to see MS Dhoni bat so down the order, despite Chennai Super Kings chasing a huge 217-run target to win. In a still chase on Tuesday night, the likes of Sam Curran, Ruturaj Gaikwad and Kedar Jadhav batted at No. 4, 5 and 6 respectively while Dhoni reserved himself for No. 7. Read moreAyushmann Khurrana only Indian actor on Time’s 100 most influential list, Deepika Padukone praises actorAyushmann Khurrana has been named among world’s 100 most influential people by the Time Magazine. The actor took to Instagram to share how “honoured” he was to be a part of the group. He shares the honour with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who, too, has been named in the list. Read moreToyota Urban Cruiser SUV launched in India at ₹8.40 lakhToyota on Wednesday launched the Urban Cruiser SUV in the Indian market starting at ₹8.40 lakh. The company has announced that the deliveries of the new SUV will start from mid-October. Read moreEngrave Apple devices in 6 Indian languages, other perks you can get from Apple’s India online store from todayApple’s online store in India is all set to go live today. The site still mentions it’s ‘coming soon’ for now and is expected to go live ‘shortly’, but a quick glance tells you that the store, when it goes live, will offer shopping assistance, free no-contact delivery, different payment options, free sessions to understand how to use your device better, being able to engrave your Apple devices in six Indian languages, etc. Read moreHave the Covid-19 numbers dropped in India?Hindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of Covid-19 cases in India so far; government’s 5-pt plan to check oxygen shortage; HC stays order on 80% Covid quota in hospitals; Air India discusses flights overs scenic spots after Qantas flies over barrier reef. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-opposition-leaders-to-meet-president-at-5pm-on-farm-bills-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fytz3Dd38j6MhyJEMu8UVJ.html
23-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday through a voice vote passed the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020. The bill amends the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act 2010, which regulates the use and acceptance of foreign contribution by individuals and organizations. The Act prohibits foreign contribution for any activities that pose a danger to national interest. The bill was passed by the Lok Sabha on Monday and will now be sent to President Ram Nath Kovind for his assent. Minister of state (MoS), home affairs, Nityanand Rai moved the bill for passage in the Upper House. During the discussion on the bill, Rai said that the FCRA is a law for national and internal security, aimed to ensure that foreign funds do not dominate the political and social discourse in India. The minister also said that it has been proposed to make Aadhaar for Indian citizens and passports or OCI for foreigners mandatory to verify identity. The home ministry consulted UIDAI and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) before proposing the move, he added.“Experience says that many organisations attempted to hide their identity and were successful in doing that. The reason behind this is that they had no fear because their identity was not established completely. So Aadhaar card has been brought in to establish their identity,” Rai said.The minister pointed out that the bill provides for reduction in administrative expenses of any NGO receiving foreign funding, from 50 per cent to 20 per cent of annual funds.The bill also proposes to enable the Centre to allow an NGO or association to surrender its FCRA certificate.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-foreign-contribution-regulation-amendment-bill-2020/story-Hy9oJkRsFJ7e8A06JeZetN.html
23-09-2020||India||EC denies asking CBDT for IT notice to Pawar||The Election Commission (EC) on Wednesday issued a statement denying reports that it had directed the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to issue a notice to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar over his poll affidavits.“In some sections of Media it has been reported that Income Tax notice has been issued to Shri Sharad Pawar, Member of Parliament, on the directions of Election Commission of India. In this context, it is stated that the Election Commission of India has not issued any such direction to CBDT to issue notice to Shri Pawar.”Pawar on Tuesday told reporters the income tax department has issued him a notice in connection with poll affidavits submitted to the EC over the last decade. He added he has heard his daughter, Supriya Sule, was likely to get a similar notice soon and that such notices were also sent to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son, Aaditya Thackeray.Pawar said the income tax department has sought his “clarification and explanation” over some affidavits.“I received a notice from the income tax department. It was sent on the directives of the Election Commission of India. They have sought information and clarification related to the details on assets shared by me in election affidavits filed in 2020, 2014, and 2009-10. I heard that Supriya is also likely to get a similar notice soon. I will have to immediately respond to the notice as it also warned of things such as raids,” Pawar said.Pawar’s remarks came days after CBDT took up complaints lodged with the EC alleging discrepancies and omissions in poll affidavits of Uddhav Thackeray and Aaditya Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-denies-asking-cbdt-for-it-notice-to-pawar/story-QQyA1kSUaGQQv665zzlXHN.html
23-09-2020||India||Bharat Biotech inks licencing deal with Washington University School of Medicine for Covid intranasal vaccine||Bharat Biotech, a leading vaccine and bio-therapeutics manufacturer, has inked a licencing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri, the US, for a single dose intranasal vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Bharat Biotech owns the rights to distribute the vaccine in all markets except for the US, Japan and Europe, the company announced on Wednesday.The phase-I trials, which will check the safety profile of the vaccine candidate in humans, will take place in the US university’s vaccine and treatment evaluation unit in St. Louis. Also read: For 5th consecutive day, recoveries surpass fresh Covid-19 cases in IndiaUpon obtaining the required regulatory approval, Bharat Biotech will pursue further stages of clinical trials in the country and undertake large scale manufacture of the vaccine at its GMP facility located in Genome Valley, Hyderabad. “We are proud to collaborate on this innovative vaccine. We envision that we will scale this vaccine to one billion doses. Individuals can be vaccinated by a single dose regimen. An intranasal vaccine will not only be simple to administer but also reduce the use of medical consumables such as needles, syringes, etc, significantly impacting the overall cost of a vaccination drive,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director (MD), Bharat Biotech. “Our experience in viral vaccines, manufacturing capabilities, and distribution continue to be our strong suit in ensuring safe, efficacious, and affordable vaccines. It is prudent for Bharat Biotech to be involved in diverse but tenable projects to provide a much-needed vaccine against Covid-19 that reaches all citizens of the world,” he added. According to the company’s statement, this intranasal vaccine candidate has shown unprecedented levels of protection in mice studies; for which the technology and data have been recently published in the scientific journal Cell and in an editorial in Nature, a British weekly scientific journal. Dr David T Curiel, director, Biologic Therapeutics Center, and professor of radiation oncology at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis and Precision Virologics’ interim chief executive officer (CEO) said in a statement, “The ability to accomplish effective immunisation with a single nasal dose is a major advantage, offering broader reach and easier administration. An effective nasal dose not only protects against Covid-19, but it also prevents the spread of the disease by offering another kind of immunity that occurs primarily in the cells that line the nose and throat. Most other vaccine candidates currently under development can’t do that.” The latest move expands Bharat Biotech’s portfolio of vaccines that are being developed and are in various stages of clinical development, including Covaxin, which is in phase-II human clinical trials stage in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-inks-licensing-deal-with-washington-university-school-of-medicine-for-covid-intranasal-vaccine/story-2neT4U43G4piTdMgOwtiMN.html
23-09-2020||India||India prepared for a long haul over disengagement but not yield an inch in Ladakh||Although India and China has agreed to stop sending more troops to Ladakh front-line, New Delhi is prepared for a long haul of multiple rounds of military-diplomatic talks before a firm political understanding is reached between two sides on complete disengagement.“This is going to be a long drawn out process and it will be foolhardy to assume that results will be achieved in one or two rounds of talks. While both sides have agreed in principle not to send more troops to the border, there is no means for both sides to verify this on ground as neither would like to share information collected through communication intercepts and spatial intelligence,” said a senior official.As of now, there is no change of situation on ground with People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops still on finger four mountainous spur on north Pangong Tso lake and Indian Army dominating the Rezang La Rechin La ridgeline on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). There has been no change in situation in Gogra-Hot Springs sector as the PLA have linked the withdrawal there to Pangong Tso disengagement.ALSO WATCH | DRDO’s plan to help feed Indian forces amid Ladakh long haul against China China watchers believe that the Ladakh situation will require a series of dialogues before understanding between the two sides builds up on how to keep the LAC quiet post May intrusions by the PLA in western sector. Given the continuous infra upgrade across the occupied Aksai Chin and Arunachal Pradesh by China, the PLA capacity to rapidly deploy on the LAC is better than Indian Army. This means that till such time a larger political understanding is reached, the Indian Army will have to be on alert all along the LAC as PLA cannot be allowed to take advantage again.Apart from Ladakh, there has been PLA build-up in depth areas of Arunachal with focus around Nyingchi as the latter is going to connected soon with Lhasa by rail road. The Chinese are also building a rail road from Shigatse or Xigaze to Yatong or Yadong in Chumbi Valley, which will put pressure on Indian Siliguri corridor. The upgrade in Tibet and Xinjiang is not only designed to put pressure on India but largely to consolidate the hold of Han Chinese on these sensitive areas as part of the Communist party’s Sinicization programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-prepared-for-a-long-haul-over-disengagement-but-not-yield-an-inch-in-ladakh/story-SR8ZRTGLoOpEbFdercn6GO.html
23-09-2020||India||Opposition leaders to meet President today amid Parliament boycott over farm bills||Opposition parties will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday amid the ongoing row over farm bills. Only five opposition leaders will be allowed to meet the President at 5 PM , reports said.On Tuesday, the opposition boycotted the ongoing session over Centre’s refusal to accept its demand for withdrawal of farm bills passed by Parliament.On Sunday, the Rajya Sabha passed two contentious key farm bills - Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020) through voice vote. Also Read | Rajya Sabha: 8 Opposition MPs suspended for a week after protests over farm billsOn Wednesday, the MPs of the Opposition parties which boycotted Parliament met at the chamber of Ghulam Nabi Azad, Leader of Opposition in the House. Following the ruckus in the Upper House on Sunday, eight Opposition MPs, including Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and AAP’s Sanjay Singh, were suspended from Rajya Sabha for a week under Rule 256(2) on Monday.Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh who was at the chair when the Opposition MPs created a furore inside the Rajya Sabha observed a one-day fast protesting the unruly behaviour of the Opposition MPs. The two farm bills are presently awaiting President’s nod.Meanwhile, the government has recommended the adjournment of the Rajya Sabha sine die, Union minister of state (MoS) for parliamentary affairs, V Muraleedharan informed the House.“I have to inform members that the government has decided to recommend adjournment of the House sine die today. Some important legislative business passed by Lok Sabha has to be disposed of before the adjournment,” the MoS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-to-meet-president-amid-parliament-boycott-over-farm-bills/story-AShXSAZvwzMsYq22i1hblL.html
23-09-2020||India||Mayawati slams both opposition, centre over Monsoon Session chaos||BSP supremo Mayawati Wednesday hit out at the government as well as the Opposition for the ruckus and chaos during the ongoing Monsoon Session, saying their conduct has harmed the dignity of Parliament and the Constitution.  In a tweet in Hindi, she said “Although Parliament is called the temple of democracy, its dignity has been shredded many times. Even during the ongoing Parliament session, the functioning of the government and the behaviour of Opposition in the House are embarrassing for the dignity of Parliament, Constitution and democracy. Very sad!” Mayawati’s reaction came in the wake of eight Rajya Sabha Opposition members being suspended from the House on Monday for the ruckus during the passage of two key farm Bills a day earlier. The government had brought a motion for their suspension which was passed by the House by voice vote.The Opposition has been alleging the government did not follow proper procedures during passage of the Bills and didn’t allow division of votes as it lacked numbers. The suspended MPs sat on an overnight dharna on the Parliament complex which they ended after the Opposition decided to boycott Lok Sabha proceedings in solidarity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-slams-both-opposition-centre-over-monsoon-session-chaos/story-tNjParM1MpaPYxvCIQMDMP.html
23-09-2020||India||India says Turkish President’s remarks on Kashmir amount to ‘gross interference’ in internal matters||India on Wednesday rejected Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s comments that the Kashmir dispute is a “burning issue” for the stability of South Asia, saying they were tantamount to “gross interference” in the country’s internal affairs. This was not the first time that India and Turkey have engaged in a terse exchange on the Kashmir issue—Erdoğan has repeatedly raised the matter after the Indian government scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August last year, and India has pushed back on each occasion. Also Read: World powers take the stage, virtually, at UN debateIn a video message for a special session marking the 75th anniversary of the UN, Erdoğan said: “The Kashmir conflict, which is also key to the stability and peace of South Asia, is still a burning issue. Steps taken following the abolition of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir further complicated the problem. “We are in favour of solving this issue through dialogue within the framework of the UN resolutions and especially in line with the expectations of the people of Kashmir.” Soon after, TS Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, tweeted that Erdoğan’s remarks were “totally unacceptable”. “We have seen remarks by President of Turkey on Indian [union territory] of Jammu & Kashmir. They constitute gross interference in India’s internal affairs and are completely unacceptable. Turkey should learn to respect sovereignty of other nations and reflect on its own policies more deeply,” Tirumurti said. Erdoğan’s remarks were welcomed by his ally, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, who said in a tweet: “Deeply appreciate President Erdoğan once again raising his voice in support of the rights of the Kashmiri people during his address to UNGA. Turkey’s unwavering support remains a source of strength for the Kashmiris in their legitimate struggle for self determination.” Deeply appreciate President Erdogan once again raising his voice in support of the rights of the Kashmiri people during his address to UNGA. Turkey’s unwavering support remains a source of strength for the Kashmiris in their legitimate struggle for self determination. pic.twitter.com/RIBJAIUptyErdoğan was among the few leaders who had raised the Kashmir issue at last year’s UN General Assembly session and he subsequently also raised it during a visit to Pakistan in February. He raised the matter despite India’s external affairs ministry saying such remarks would affect bilateral ties. In February, India made a strong demarche with the Turkish government on Erdoğan’s remarks on Jammu and Kashmir during his visit to Islamabad. “These remarks reflect neither an understanding of history nor of the conduct of diplomacy. They distort events of the past to advance a narrow-minded view of the present,” the external affairs ministry spokesperson had said at the time. The remarks in February were also described as “one more example of a pattern of Turkey interfering in the internal affairs of other countries”, and India also rejected the “repeated attempts by Turkey to justify the cross-border terrorism practised so blatantly by Pakistan”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-turkish-president-s-remarks-on-kashmir-amount-to-gross-interference-in-internal-matters/story-aNCWlZVqsQ269GSdufb3JJ.html
23-09-2020||India||For 5th consecutive day, recoveries surpass fresh Covid-19 cases in India | All you need to know||Continuing the positive recovery trend, India for the fifth consecutive day recorded more daily recoveries than the number of fresh cases — in the same span of time. The change in the trend started from September 19, when India was reporting around 90,00 daily Covid-19 cases. On September 19, the number of recoveries was over 95,000.In the last few days, the number of fresh daily cases has dipped and from 90,000-mark has settled in the 80,000-mark, making an exception on September 22, when India recorded the lowest daily case of 75,083September 23Recoveries: 89,746Fresh cases: 83,347September 22Recoveries: 1,01,468Fresh cases: 75,083 September 21Recoveries: 93,356 Fresh cases: 86,961September 20 Recoveries: 94,612Fresh cases: 92,605September 19Recoveries: 95,880Fresh cases: 93,337Also Read: Recoveries cross 4.5 million-mark in India, 83,347 fresh cases reported in last 24 hours“We get swayed by the narrative that India has over 50 lakh cases, but we forget that nearly 45 lakh people have already recovered,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday.When the number of recoveries surpass the number of active cases, it is considered as an indication of “flattening the curve” worldwide. But the trend has to go on for a number of days before it can be said that the curve has been flattened.In June, when unlock 1.0 was announced, the number of recoveries surpassed active Covid-19 cases. From time to time, hotspot states like Delhi, Kerala too achieved more number of recoveries than active number of cases. But the trend didn’t continue for long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-5th-consecutive-day-recoveries-surpass-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-india-all-you-need-to-know/story-naUrspdeic7j7fE9xwCCsN.html
23-09-2020||India||India-China row: Five things you need to know today||In a joint statement after key military talks on September 21, India and China agreed to stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may complicate matters. Also read: Deadlock at talks, China wants India to exit key heightsWhile the development is being seen as an effort by both sides to not allow the border row to escalate further, the situation on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) remains tense and there has been no thinning of military buildup in the eastern Ladakh theatre. How things stand today 1. Both sides will soon hold a seventh round of commander-level talks with the aim of taking measures to solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity on the border. Expectations from the military dialogue are not very high as both armies have made their positions known to each other. 2. At the September 21 talks, Indian negotiators firmly demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante as the only approach towards de-escalation. However, China asked India to withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction. 3. The scope of the military talks has changed vastly after recent developments on the southern and northern banks of Pangong Tso, where the Indian Army has taken control of advantageous heights. 4. Both sides are prepared for the long haul in the Ladakh theatre where they have made arrangements to provide logistics support to thousands of troops who are likely to remain deployed in the sector through the winter. 5. China has deployed sizeable military assets in the eastern Ladakh theatre including 50,000 troops, 150 aircraft, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems, with India matching every military move made by the neighbour. The combat ratio between the two forces is 1:1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-row-five-things-you-need-to-know-today/story-29FjnNp244RrXwaf81DYdL.html
23-09-2020||India||Recoveries cross 4.5 million-mark in India, 83,347 fresh cases reported in last 24 hours||India recorded 83,347 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally to 56,46,010. The number of recoveries reached 45,87,613 while deaths cross 90,000 mark to reach 90,020. India is now testing more than 12 lakh people for Covid-19 daily, the latest data released by the Union health ministry has revealed. More than 6.5 crore tests have so far been completed in the country. “The improvement in the testing rate is leading to early identification of positive cases which, in turn, will reduce the positivity rate in future,” the ministry said. India’s share in global Covid-19 recoveries is 19.5%, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday as the country recorded over 100,000 (101,468) recoveries from the disease, for the first time, on Monday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet the chief ministers of seven states that are majorly contributing to the Covid-19 caseload of the country, including Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab.Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 18,390 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the total to 1,242,770. The state surpassed 60 lakh Covid tests with its highest number of samples tested in a 24-hour period with 105,026 tests. Active number of cases in the state stood at 272,410.Delhi, on the other hand, has recorded 3,816 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to over 2.53 lakh, while the death count climbed to 5,051.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recoveries-cross-4-5-million-mark-in-india-83-347-fresh-cases-reported-in-last-24-hours/story-zWTbzJPVOjqmhGYvMZ62rN.html
23-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine likely to have 50-100% efficacy: ICMR||The vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is likely to be anywhere between 50 to 100% effective, according to director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“All the vaccines for respiratory viruses are not 100% effective. The World Health Organisation (WHO) says that there are three things key for a vaccine: safety (how safe it is for human use), immunogenicity (whether it is able to provoke body’s immune response) and its efficacy (how effective it is against the virus),” said director general, ICMR, Dr Balram Bhargava.“And WHO says even if we get 50% efficacy that is more than acceptable. So for respiratory viruses we will never get a vaccine with 100% efficacy. We are obviously aiming at 100% efficacy but we may get anywhere between 50 to 100%,” he added. Central Drugs and Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), has also issued a draft guidance note on vaccine development in the country, with special focus on Covid-19 vaccine, especially safety profile.Initiation of phase III trials should be preceded by adequate characterization of safety and immunogenicity for each vaccine candidate, dose level, and age group to be evaluated to support general safety, potential for vaccine efficacy, and low risk of vaccine associated respiratory distress, according to the note. “...subjects with history or laboratory evidence of prior COVID-19 infection should not be excluded from COVID-19 vaccine trial. However, subjects with acute COVID-19 or other acute infectious illness should be excluded from such trials. Consideration should be given for inclusion of diverse populations in all phases of vaccine clinical development to ensure that vaccines are safe and effective for everyone in the indicated populations. Evaluation of vaccine safety and efficacy in phase III clinical trial in adults should include adequate representation of elderly individuals and individuals with comorbidities,” the note reads.Normally, permission to carry out clinical trials is given in stages, considering the data emerging from earlier phases. However, on case by case basis, clinical development programs may be allowed to proceed through a seamless approach to expedite the development of a vaccine for which, there is an unmet medical need in the country, like in case of Covid-19.“In case, a vaccine has been developed and has undergone clinical trial development outside India and marketing authorization application for the same have been submitted to CDSCO, the clinical data generated will be considered for evaluation of overall safety and effectiveness of the vaccine. However, additional clinical trial may be required in local population to confirm the safety and effectiveness in Indian population. The extent of local clinical trial requirements will be decided on case by case basis considering the urgency, unmet need of the vaccine in the country,” it said.Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, Union health ministry, however, said, “This is just a draft guidance note that has been put in public domain as part of the transparency policy of the government to invite stakeholders comments. It is not a finalIndia’s two indigenous vaccine candidates against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have completed phase 1 human trials, and recruitment of subjects for the next level, phase 2, has also completed.“Among the three Covid-19 vaccine candidates- Zydus Cadila’s has completed phase 1 human trials, and phase 2 recruitments have been completed. For this three doses are to be given 28 days apart. For Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate also the phase 1 trial is done, and so is recruitment of trial participants for phase 2. For this trial two doses are to be given. Results are being analysed,” informed Dr Bhargava, during one of the press briefings on Covid-19.Phase 2,3 human trials for Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate conducted by the Serum Institute of India is also currently underway in the country.Another Covid-19 vaccine candidate, for which talks are on for trials in India is the one developed by Russia called Sputnik V.“Indian government was approached by the Russian government through appropriate channels for assistance and collaboration in terms of establishing a manufacturing base through our companies here for their vaccine; basically connecting the Russian teams with Indian manufacturing companies that in normal course also happens but that connect was facilitated and they are in talks with various companies,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, who chairs the Covid-19 empowered group for vaccines in India.“Another dimension was to look into regulatory pathways for phase 3 trials or any other clinical trials to be facilitated here. Indian government has conveyed to them to apply with appropriate documents; they have to identify the entity that will approach the regulator on their behalf. We hope they will soon approach the central regulator systematically while adhering to the norms and regulations of India. It is a work in progress,” Dr Paul added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-have-50-100-efficacy-icmr/story-QAMr8HTxJNBOya5JzwKXHJ.html
23-09-2020||India||Centre says 16 countries provide visa-free entry to Indian passport holders||The Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday that a total of 16 countries including Nepal, the Maldives, Bhutan and Mauritius provide visa-free entry to Indian passport holders.As per information provided by the minister of state for external affairs V Murleedharan, these countries provide visa-free entry:1. Barbados2. Bhutan3. Dominica4. Grenada5. Haiti6. Hong Kong SAR7. Maldives8. Mauritius9. Montserrat10. Nepal11. Niue Island12. Samoa13. Senegal14. Trinidad and Tobago15. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines16. SerbiaIn a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, Murleedharan pointed out that 43 countries provide visa-on-arrival facility and 36 countries provide e-visa facility to Indian ordinary passport holders.Iran, Indonesia and Myanmar are among those that provide visa-on-arrival facility and Sri Lanka, New Zealand and Malaysia belong to the group of 26 countries that have e-visa facility, according to the information provided by Murleedharan. The minister said that the government has been making efforts to increase the number of countries that offer visa free travel, visa-on-arrival and e-visa facility to Indians with a view to ease international travel. While the issuance of visa and the conduction of visa-related process is the sovereign and unilateral decision of the respective country, the matter regarding easier and liberalised visa policy for Indian nationals is taken up regularly in bilateral meetings and forums with foreign countries, he added. Meanwhile, the Donald Trump administration is set to make it tough for US firms to hire foreigners on H-1B non-immigrant short-term visas by limiting the definition of ‘specialty’ occupation and raising minimum wages for employees. Both these measures would ensure that Americans are not displaced or denied employment because of migrant workers available at cheaper rates.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-16-countries-provide-visa-free-entry-to-indian-passport-holders/story-eHknmGdw1VRV31EBjujsOP.html
23-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amid heavy rainfall, local trains cancelled in Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Local trains cancelled in Mumbai due to heavy rainfall and waterloggingLocal passenger train services in Mumbai on Wednesday were affected due to heavy rains. Parts of Mumbai received heavy rainfall on Tuesday night leading to disruption in local train services and waterlogging in certain areas. Read moreLandslide warning in north Bengal including Darjeeling and KalimpongThe India meteorological department (IMD) has warned of possible landslides in the hills of Darjeeling and Kalimpong due to forecast of heavy rains in the districts of north Bengal over the next two days. The regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata has said that the districts in north Bengal could experience ‘enhanced rainfall activity’ till Friday. Read more10 Covid-19 reinfection cases have raised questions, to be studied in UPA medical college in Uttar Pradesh will conduct a research on Covid-19 patients who contracted the infection for the second time after testing negative for the virus following treatment the first time. Head of the department of microbiology, BRD medical college, Gorakhpur, Dr Amresh Kumar said the medical college had details of around 10 such patients who witnessed a relapse of the infection. Read moreIndian Americans have powered economic growth of United States, says BidenIndian Americans, with their hard work and entrepreneurship, have powered the economic growth of the United States and helped forge cultural dynamism in the country, Democratic presidential candidate and former vice president Joe Biden said on Tuesday. Read more6-month-old goes water skiing like a pro. Video prompts mixed reactions among netizensEvery now and then, the Internet comes up with videos of toddlers acing some or the other impossible task with perfection and ease. This video of six-month-old Rich Casey Humpherys is now a part of that category. A post, complete with images and clips of the toddler, shows him skiing on water like a pro. Read moreMoto E7 Plus to launch in India today, check key specs and featuresMotorola’s Moto E7 Plus will launch in India today. The smartphone is the latest addition to the popular Moto E series, which mainly focuses on the entry-level and budget segments. The upcoming Moto E7 Plus has already launched in Brazil. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister shares photo of actor training hard for Kedarnath: ‘Whatever he did, he gave his 100%’Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti has shared a picture from his hard training regime before he started shooting for his 2018 movie, Kedarnath. Shweta said that Sushant gave his 100% to whatever he did. Read moreInternational Day of Sign Languages 2020: Significance and historyInternational Day of Sign Languages is observed annually on September 23, along with the celebrations of International Week of the Deaf. It was first celebrated in 1958 and has since evolved into a global movement for deaf unity, one that focuses on raising awareness about the importance of sign language as a means of communication and in ‘full realization of the human rights of people who are deaf,’ according to the United Nations. Read moreWatch| IPL 2020: Rajasthan Royals beat Chennai Super Kings by 16 runs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amid-heavy-rainfall-local-trains-cancelled-in-mumbai-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mNt97QHH2ilbOGwjdTCsAN.html
23-09-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan announces Rs 4,000 for PM Samman Nidhi beneficiary farmers||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced an annual direct cash transfer of Rs 4,000 to farmers who are listed as beneficiaries of PM Samman Nidhi scheme and promised to take effective measures to double farmers’ income by year 2022.Thus, about 80 lakh farmers in the state who are beneficiaries of PM Samman Nidhi, as per government officials, will now get Rs 10,000 per annum as assistance, including Rs 6,000 from PM Samman Nidhi and Rs 4,000 from the state. The assistance from the state will be given in two equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each.Speaking at a function organised for farmers in Bhopal, Chouhan said, “Mukhyamantri Kisan Kalyan Yojna (chief minister farmers’ welfare scheme) is being introduced in Madhya Pradesh. Under the scheme, the beneficiaries of PM Samman Nidhi—farmers’ families--will get Rs 4,000 in two equal instalments.” He said, “We have decided that all the schemes meant for farmers like relief under revenue circular book (RCB), PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, loans at zero percent interest rate, Prime Minister crop insurance scheme etc will be implemented in a package for the sake of holistic development of farmers.” He enumerated his government’s efforts to ensure the benefit of various welfare programmes reached the farmers while promising to work towards doubling their income by 2022.Also Read: 2 more ministers of Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet test Covid-19 positive“We implemented again the government’s scheme to provide loans to farmers at zero percent interest rate. The farmers were given benefits of Pradhan Mantri Samman Nidhi and crop insurance scheme. Farmers were given more than Rs 27,000 crore against procurement of food grains. We will not spare any effort to double the income of farmers till 2022,” Chouhan said. However, Congress downplayed the announcement and said it was likely to be like previous announcements which “failed” to provide any relief to farmers in reality. Also Read: Mamata Banerjee wants Ayushman Bharat, Kisan Samman Nidhi schemes in Bengal but with riders“Had the CM been serious about giving this financial assistance of Rs 4,000 to farmers, he would have made this announcement in the state assembly itself, which held its one-day session only yesterday and he would also have announced a budget provision for the same. Further, since it’s a policy decision of the government, would the CM tell people as to when this decision was taken by his cabinet? So far, we have no knowledge that it was decided in any cabinet meeting. This is all to mislead people for votes in the ensuing by-election,” said Bhupendra Gupta, state Congress spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-announces-rs-4-000-for-pm-samman-nidhi-beneficiary-farmers/story-RruFkyLvxNcPbk2MiYCf9L.html
23-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: What to expect today||An action-packed Wednesday is expected in Parliament with several bills to be passed, protests and a meeting of Opposition parties with the President of India on the cards before the two Houses end the curtailed monsoon session.Representatives of Opposition parties plan to gather near the Gandhi statue in the Parliament complex at 12pm Wednesday—the same place where the eight suspended Opposition MPs protested overnight on Monday—to oppose the farm bills, the three labour codes and other policies of the Narendra Modi government.Also Read: New Parliament to cost Rs 971 crore, Centre informs ParliamentThey will, however, not go inside the Rajya Sabha, where the three labour codes—on occupational safety, industrial relations and on social security—are expected to sail through smoothly without any opposition. The Congress, Samajwadi Party, Trinamool Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Left parties had declared on Tuesday they will boycott the rest of the session in the Upper House over farm bills.Representatives of the Opposition will meet the President of India at 5pm Wednesday to urge him not to give his assent to the farm bills to turn them into laws.The Opposition had decided to oppose the three labour codes inside the House, but the quick passage of the farm bills coupled with the suspension of the eight MPs changed their plans.Also Read: Rajya Sabha holds crucial meeting as Opposition boycotts Parliament proceedingsThe monsoon session of Parliament is expected to end on Wednesday after another round of bills is cleared. The session had started on September 14 with a logistical overhaul due to the Covid-19 pandemic, including two separate shifts in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, the MPs of one House sitting in the other House to maintain social distance, a new sit-and-speak order and restrictions on the entry of visitors.The Rajya Sabha will discuss passing five bills, including the labour codes, while the Lok Sabha, that will convene at 6pm to accommodate the sine die adjournment process in the Upper House, will discuss passing the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020, the Major Port Authorities Bill, 2020 and the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020.The Upper House will also take up the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill and the Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-what-to-expect-today/story-KpkkKk22G45TZ8uv9y9XjJ.html
23-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s daily testing capacity reaches over 12 lakh. 14 states top chart||India is now testing more than 12 lakh people for Covid-19 daily, the latest data released by the Union health ministry has revealed. More than 6.5 crore tests have so far been completed in the country. “The improvement in the testing rate is leading to early identification of positive cases which, in turn, will reduce the positivity rate in future,” the ministry said. A total of 14 states have higher tests per million and lower positivity rate than India average. The list of these 14 states include Mizoram, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Sikkim, Tripura, J&K (Union Territory) , Odisha, Assam, Punjab and Uttarakhand.  #IndiaFightsCoronaIndia's testing capacity has surged to more than 12L daily tests.Higher than 6.5 cr total tests have been conducted across the country. pic.twitter.com/BHak3pZ1PWBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said that the state has tested 1.94 lakh samples for coronavirus in a single day which is the country’s highest.The number of tests per million in Bihar is 47,482, which is more than the national average of 47,337, he said.Stating that the state government has taken plenty of measures to curb the spread of the pandemic, Kumar said that its efforts to increase the testing rate have helped in identifying and isolating the positive cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-daily-testing-capacity-reaches-over-12-lakh-14-states-top-chart/story-BxPicC1rZl4BehbOKjZS9I.html
23-09-2020||India||Heavy rain warning for Uttar Pradesh, northeastern states||The eastern and western parts of Uttar Pradesh (UP) are likely to record heavy to extremely heavy rainfall on Wednesday, according to a forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The country has recorded 7.7% excess rainfall since June 1.Also read: Moisture incursion delays monsoon withdrawal, season will end in 9 daysHowever, a country-wide break-up shows that there is a 16.1% deficiency over north-west India; 1.8%, 15.5% and 30% excess over eastern and north-east India; central India; and peninsular India, respectively. In September, the southern peninsula has recorded 80% excess rainfall. Rainfall recorded in the 19% excess and 19% deficiency is considered in the normal range for a monsoon.Rainfall in UP in the next two days is expected to reduce the rain deficiency over north-west India. Western UP has reported a 37% rain deficiency during this monsoon season.The low-pressure area, which had developed over the north-west Bay of Bengal on September 20, is lying over northern Chhattisgarh with an associated cyclonic circulation. It is likely to move west-north-westwards during the next two days and later north-eastwards towards UP, IMD had said in its bulletin on Monday night.The monsoon trough, which is an area of low-pressure, is lying south of its normal position. A trough is running from southern Maharashtra to sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim.Under the influence of these systems, the IMD is expecting widespread and heavy rainfall over Konkan, Goa and western UP on Wednesday. A similar forecast has been made for eastern UP on Wednesday and Thursday and over Bihar from Wednesday to Friday.Extremely heavy rainfall, measuring over 20 centimetres (cm), is likely to occur over eastern UP on Wednesday following which it is likely to shift to the north-eastern region.Widespread rainfall with isolated cases of extremely heavy rainfall is likely to occur over sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya until Thursday due to the convergence of strong moisture-laden winds from the Bay of Bengal at a lower troposphere, the IMD has predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-uttar-pradesh-northeastern-states/story-WrsPpaAg9JfKaR45EdYzTJ.html
23-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccination: Lack of facilities and other challenges for India||Even as worldwide hunt for a novel coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine continues, leading vaccine scientist Gagandeep Kang has said rolling out an eventual vaccine safely across India’s 1.3 billion population will be the country’s biggest challenge in fighting the disease.A vaccine for the raging pandemic is likely to be ready by early 2021.Kang, a member of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety, said India--which is host to some of the front-runner vaccine clinical trials--has no local infrastructure to go beyond immunising babies and pregnant women. “With senior citizens being most vulnerable, we need to quickly come up with infrastructure to immunise them,” she further said.Here are some challenges India faces in its vaccination program:(1.) Storage and distribution: Storage and distribution of vaccine will be a major issue as vaccines are needed across the country, and not just in a particular region. A large number of trained people will be needed for this.(2.) Lack of infrastructure: Kang further said India does not have the experience of vaccination of people of all age groups. Lack of proper facilities for this will also present a major challenge.(3.) Low temperature: According to a Forbes report, any coronavirus vaccine needs to be kept at a temperature of -70 degree Celsius. However, in India, most cold chains operate at temperatures up to -30 degree Celsius.(4.) Questionable testing: Around 50% antigen tests being conducted in India might be false. In such a scenario, wrong data will create a lot of obstacles. (5.) Rate of infection: The country currently has a positivity rate of 8%. Also, the rate of spread of infection has not slowed down. Due to this, the number of patients is set to increase.With a tally of more than 5.5 million, India currently has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the world, after the United States. However, it also has the most recovered cases, contributing 19.5% of total global recoveries, as per the Union health ministry.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccination-lack-of-facilities-and-other-challenges-for-india/story-lb6qKOUogrhtOLrz7HpfYN.html
23-09-2020||India||PM Modi to meet chief ministers of these 7 states. Here’s why||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday is scheduled to meet the chief ministers of seven states, which are majorly contributing to the country’s Covid-19 caseload. The meeting comes just ahead of the completion of Unlock 4 — the last phase of the unlocking, which will end on September 30. After the country went under a nationwide lockdown on March 25, PM Modi held several virtual meetings with the CMs to discuss the Covid-19 situation. Here is all you need to know about today’s meeting* The chief ministers of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab will attend the meeting.* These seven states account for 63 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases in the country.* Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi are reporting a case fatality rate of at least 2 per cent.* These states have recently reported a daily uptick in the number of cases as well.* Centre is sending its team to states to help state governments in containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management. Recently, a team was sent to J&K. The Covid-19 situation of Delhi is also being monitored by a Centre-delhi government joint team. It will be assessed whether these seven states need central guidance at this point of time.On Tuesday, India crossed the 5.5 million-mark in terms of number of coronavirus disease cases. But the Union health ministry said that the country’s active cases are less than a fifth of the total tally.Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 18,390 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the total to 1,242,770. The state surpassed 60 lakh Covid tests with its highest number of samples tested in a 24-hour period with 105,026 tests. Active number of cases in the state stood at 272,410.Delhi, on the other hand, has recorded 3,816 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to over 2.53 lakh, while the death count climbed to 5,051.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-chief-ministers-of-these-7-states-here-s-why/story-bEOs2kOg8RCoxtFkn1aD8H.html
23-09-2020||India||Goa prisoner accused of raping British woman goes missing, officials puzzled||An under trial lodged at Goa’s central jail accused of raping a 42-year-old British woman has gone missing, leading to speculation that he has escaped even as jail officials are scratching their heads over his disappearance without leaving a trace. Ramchandran Yellappa, was arrested for allegedly raping the British national at Canacona in South Goa in 2018 and is currently on trial in the case. Jail authorities said that an examination of CCTV footage showed that Yellappa didn’t exit through the main gate, which is the only way in and out of the complex either through jumping over it or going right through it for an ‘errand’ that are sometimes given to prisoners lodged as part of their daily chores. Instead, it is being considered that he could be hiding within the complex or could have somehow scaled the high walls that surround the jail complex. “We are on the lookout for him, the search is on. He hasn’t left through the main gate, so we believe that he could be within the complex itself,” an official at the jail, said.Also Read: Goa to approach SC to modify Tarun Tejpal trial timelines in view of Covid-19If true, this would not be the first time when Yellappa has escaped from custody while under trial. In June last year, while being produced before a court, he removed the glass panels covering the ventilator in the toilet inside the court complex and escaped. He was later arrested. In December 2018, a 42-year old British woman was allegedly raped and robbed on her way back from the railway station at Goa’s southernmost tehsil of Canacona. The Goa police managed to arrest the attacker identified as Yellappa the same day.Also Read: One dead as heavy rain batters GoaThe woman’s complaint revealed she was waylaid and attacked by a man she could not identify, who raped her and then stole her belongings, robbing her of Rs 20,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-prisoner-accused-of-raping-british-woman-goes-missing-officials-puzzled/story-o4IimPbypWCh9OMrFSwexL.html
23-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: ‘At least 50 per cent efficacy’, DCGI issues new guidelines||On the lines of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the US Food and Drug Administration (US FDA), the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has issued a new set of guidelines for Covid-19 vaccine candidates, focussing on safety, immunogenicity and efficacy parameters.According to the guideline, a Covid-19 vaccine candidate should have at least 50 per cent of efficacy in the Phase-3 clinical trial for it to be widely deployed. Additionally, the pharma companies developing the vaccines must provide adequate data informing the potential risk of vaccine-associated Enhanced Respiratory Disease (ERD).Also Read | 30 Covid-19 vaccine candidates under development, Govt informs Lok SabhaDCGI has also asked the pharma companies to keep pregnant women and women of childbearing potential in mind as they are developing the vaccines. Safety assessments throughout clinical development and all pregnancies in study participants for which the date of conception is prior to vaccination or within 30 days after vaccination should be followed for pregnancy outcomes, including pregnancy loss, stillbirth, and congenital anomalies, it said.Fifty per cent efficacy is a global standard as WHO, in its guidelines, mentioned 50 per cent efficacy fro a vaccine to be accepted and pharma giants like Astrazeneca, too, in its trial blueprint asserted that the company is working towards a vaccine with 50 per cent efficacy. “For respiratory viruses, we never get 100 per cent efficacy. We are aiming for 100 per cent efficacy but may get 50-100 per cent,” Dr Balram Bhargava, ICMR, Director-General said.The DCGI has also asked pharma companies to present a final analysis plan before closing the trail database. “This should include any planned interim analyses, which should be adequately addressed in terms of purpose, timing, and any statistical adjustments required,” the guideline said. “If a trial fails to meet the predefined criteria for superiority and/or non-inferiority with respect to any of the antigenic components, the possible reasons for the result and the clinical implications of it should be carefully considered before proceeding with clinical development or licensure,” DCGI said.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-at-least-50-per-cent-efficacy-dgci-issues-new-guidelines/story-tff80MhcJNB8ANmRiaB3ZN.html
23-09-2020||India||Facebook India moves supreme court against Delhi assembly panel summons||Facebook India and its vice president and managing director Ajit Mohan moved the Supreme Court on Tuesday, challenging the September 10 and September 18 notices issued by the Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee that sought Mohan’s presence before the panel that is probing the Delhi riots and the role of the social media firm in alleged hate speech.The petition said that the subject matter under investigation by the Delhi assembly fell within the exclusive domain of the Union government and a state legislative assembly could not compel witnesses to appear and provide evidence on such subjects.“The Committee seeks to compel petitioner No. 1 (Ajit Mohan) to provide testimony on subjects within the exclusive domain of the Union of India. Specifically, the Committee is seeking to make a ‘determination of the veracity of allegations levelled against Facebook’ in the Delhi riots, which intrudes into subjects exclusively allocated to the Union of India,” the petition said.The plea also contended that the summons violates the right of the petitioner to remain silent and his right to privacy, which are fundamental rights. “By targeting Facebook – a platform that allows users to express themselves – the summons create a chilling effect on the free speech rights of users of the Facebook service,” the plea added.The case will be heard by a three-judge bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul on Wednesday.Mohan was first summoned by the committee for its meeting ofSeptember 15 in connection with complaints alleging deliberate omissions and inaction by the social media company in removing hateful content and posts. The committee earlier said that in its meeting of August 31, it prima facie found Facebook India was allegedly complicit in aggravating the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that left at least 53 people dead.Notice was issued to Facebook officials on September 10 based on that finding, asking them to appear before the panel on September 15, but Facebook officials failed to appear for the meeting. A second notice was issued on September 18.In its summons issued on September 18, the committee said that it was empowered to make suggestions to the central government and it was in line with cooperative federalism which “encompasses a large number of areas including making recommendations to the union government when the same is required”.The committee is investigating the matter based on several complaints received from the public after an article was published in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14.The WSJ report titled “Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics” alluded to the role allegedly played by top Facebook officials, particularly its public policy head Ankhi Das, by citing business imperatives to refrain from applying hate-speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), though the groups and individuals had been internally flagged for promoting or participating in violence.In a letter to the social media company recently, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said Facebook’s India team was dominated by people who “belong to a particular political belief” and have acted against users “supportive of the right-of-centre” ideology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-india-moves-supreme-court-against-delhi-assembly-panel-summons/story-exrgUJRGksKVLeDlUsoMWL.html
23-09-2020||India||Govt pushes flurry of bills as Oppn boycotts||At least seven Opposition parties boycotted proceedings in both Houses, Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said they would go on a fast, and the government hurriedly pushed through key bills on an action-packed Tuesday — with the possibility of the monsoon session being cut short and ending on Wednesday. The eight members of Parliament (MPs) suspended for the commotion during the controversial passage of farm reform bills in the Rajya Sabha, spent Monday night protesting outside Parliament, rebuffed a conciliatory gesture by Harivansh (who went to meet them with tea in the morning), but ended their vigil after Opposition parties decided to boycott the Lok Sabha for the remainder of the session. The Rajya Sabha, where the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) does not have a majority, passed at least seven bills in just three-and-a-half hours in the absence of Opposition voices, making Tuesday’s session one of the most productive in its history. The Lok Sabha, where the NDA has a clear majority, took up three important labour reform bills, and cleared them, with the Congress and some other opposition parties boycotting the day’s proceedings to protest the happenings in the Upper House.  The Lok Sabha will meet around 6pm on Wednesday and is likely to cut short the session, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The Rajya Sabha’s business advisory committee met without the Opposition’s participation on Tuesday evening. The Upper House, which will convene at 9am, is set to adjourn sine die after taking up remaining bills on Wednesday, the people added. The monsoon session of Parliament, which began on September 14, was supposed to end on October 1. HT reported on Sunday that the session may end as early as on September 23 after many parties agreed to cut it short amid a rising number of Covid-19 cases linked to the Parliament House complex; 32 Parliamentarians, including two ministers, and more than 100 officials have tested positive for Covid-19 in a testing drive in Parliament ever since the session began. The Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Trinamool Congress, CPI (M), Aam Aadmi Party, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, and Samajwadi Party all boycotted the session citing the suspension of the MPs, and the way the farm bills were pushed through, without a division or voting. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) too walked out of the two Houses with its members saying they were not part of the Opposition but have done so on their own, alleging that the government was only trying to “bluff” the farmers. “We will not end our boycott till the government brings another bill making it illegal for private players to buy food grains from farmers below the MSP, all state agencies comply by the MSP and the procurement price is fixed as per the Swaminathan panel’s recommendations,” Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad told reporters outside the Parliament building. He also said the revocation of suspension of the Opposition members was not a demand but a request. Azad said the House should run in coordination between the government and the Opposition. “But there should not be coordination between chair and government,” he said, referring to Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh pushing through the two contentious farm bills on Sunday while allegedly ignoring Opposition voices. “President Ram Nath Kovind should not give assent to the bills as proper procedure was not followed in their passage in the Rajya Sabha,” he added. In its reply, the government said it was not keeping the suspended MPs away from the House but they should express regret over their behaviour. “Let them apologise, we will consider withdrawing the suspension,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters. On Monday, Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and his colleague Dola Sen; Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh; Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) were suspended for seven days each for “disorderly conduct”. Vice-president and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday rejected a notice for a no-confidence motion against Harivansh as it was not in proper format and did not give a 14-day notice period. Among the seven bills passed by the Upper House were The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, approved by the Lower House on September 15, seeks to remove cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities, replacing an ordinance promulgated in June. It is the third bill in the government’s farm liberalisation plan. The Lok Sabha, too, witnessed uproarious scenes with the Opposition demanding that the government should roll back the farms bills and withdraw the suspension of the eight Rajya Sabha members. “Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha are like twin brothers...if one is in pain, the other has to be concerned. Our issue is related to the farm bills; we want them be taken back,” Adhir Ranjan Choudhary, the Congress’s leader of the House, said. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said it is unfortunate that the proceedings of the Rajya Sabha were discussed in the Lok Sabha. “Whatever happens in one House, it has never been discussed in another House. It is unfortunate that this thing is being discussed now.” Harivansh, meanwhile, wrote a letter — addressed to the President and Vice-President — invoking his humble origins in Bihar and went on a day-long fast on Tuesday to protest “humiliating” conduct towards him by some MPs.“In the name of democracy, members of the House indulged in violent behaviour. There was an effort to intimidate the person in the chair. All norms of the Upper House were disregarded. The rule book was torn and thrown over me...,” he wrote.Congress member Satav, one of those suspended members, said: “We are equally pained and hurt over the way the deputy chairman conducted the proceedings in the House on Sunday. Seeking a division or amendments are our Parliamentary rights that were denied to us by him...”NCP chief Pawar, too, said he was observing a day-long fast to protest the suspension of the eight members of the Upper House. Addressing a press conference in Mumbai, Pawar, a Rajya Sabha member, also bemoaned the conduct of Harivansh and the government’s decision of “bulldozing” the Opposition in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-pushes-flurry-of-bills-as-oppn-boycotts/story-MoFJc6C3b6VCw2ORTrGGcL.html
23-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Monday, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced that 64 rich countries have joined its Covax facility for fair distribution and allocation of a Covid-19 vaccine. This writer has previously referred to Covax, a partnership of vaccine developers and countries set up by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (Cepi), and WHO, that aims to source and distribute two billion doses of the vaccine by the end of 2021. Another 38 countries are expected to join Covax in the next few days, WHO said. Currently (including the 64), 156 countries are part of the facility under which they will receive the vaccines – with 92 eligible for free or subsidised vaccines. The rich countries will pay for the vaccine, though – their participation is, in effect, a hedge to ensure they have access to a successful vaccine (although many of them have already signed deals with vaccine-makers for hundreds of millions of doses). WHO said on Monday that its alliance now covers 64% of the world’s population. Interestingly, neither China nor the US (the world’s most populous and third most populous nations) are part of the facility. India is part of the facility by virtue of being a lower-middle income economy.Covax is a work-in-progress, and is yet to raise the money it needs to pay for or subsidise the vaccines for lower-income countries. There have also been questions about whether the richer countries that are part of the facility will pay because of the deals they have already struck with vaccine-makers (the argument for is that they will do so as a way to build a vaccine stockpile in the best-case scenario and as a sort of insurance for the worst-case one). A previous instalment of this column cited an article from Nature magazine that showed that many rich countries have already struck deals with vaccine-makers to cover their entire population. The UK, for instance, has firm agreements that ensure a little more than five doses per capita; the US, two; the EU, close to two; Japan, 1.5; and Australia, one. This data is as of late August, so it is likely the numbers have increased.WHO’s vaccine allocation plan, which has been public for some time, envisages distributing vaccine doses to cover 3% of the population of each of the participating countries and then scaling this up to 20%. Its assessment is that this will cover frontline workers in the fight against Covid, as well as the most vulnerable groups. In the second phase of distribution, WHO plans to use a risk assessment technique to understand “the potential impact of Covid-19” on a country and “the vulnerability of a country based on health systems and population factors”. The agency actually has a detailed methodology for risk assessment. There has been some criticism of WHO’s allocation protocol – the countries that need the vaccine the most should be prioritised even in Phase 1, some say. But that would have perhaps made Covax a non-starter.Interestingly, the US National Academies of Sciences Engineering and Medicine (Nasem) put out, in early September, a document detailing a possible protocol for what it termed “equitable allocation of vaccine for the novel coronavirus”. The organisation suggests four criteria to determine the allocation: infection risk, mortality risk, “risk of negative societal impact”, and transmission risk. Based on these, Nasem came up with a four-phase plan for the allocation of the vaccine. In the first part of Phase 1, it suggests vaccinating frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19; in the second part of the first phase, it extends this to people with comorbidities as well as old people living in crowded areas. Its recommendation for the second phase includes workers in “essential” industries with high exposure risk, teachers, old people not covered in the first phase, and the homeless. In Phase 3, Nasem recommends the coverage of “young adults” and children, and also workers in “essential industries” with “increased” risk. And Phase 4 covers everyone not already covered.India’s expert group on vaccines is working on the country’s own vaccine prioritisation protocol, and it could do worse than to look closely at the Covax allocation methodology of WHO or Nasem’s allocation framework. We need a plan for when the vaccine will be available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-0aOchR7Rge8OhxlsleFY2J.html
23-09-2020||India||NIA raids in Kashmir in case involving ex-cop Davinder Singh||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out searches at multiple places in Baramulla and Srinagar districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday in connection with the arrests of dismissed deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh and Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Naveed Babu in January, officials said.A spokesperson of the NIA said the houses of the five close associates of Shopian resident Tariq Mir, who was arrested last year in a weapon smuggling case, were among those searched.“Several incriminating documents and digital devices have been seized,” the spokesperson added. On January 11, 2020, Singh was arrested while allegedly ferrying Hizbul commander Syed Naveed Mushtaq, alias Naveed Babu; advocate Irfan Shafi Mir, and another terrorist, Rafi Ahmad Rather, from Shopian to Jammu in his car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-in-kashmir-in-case-involving-ex-cop-davinder-singh/story-6RiRbmJPdWd6FcZrfx4i2M.html
23-09-2020||India||India corners Pak on terrorism at UN||India on Tuesday rejected Pakistan’s contention that the Kashmir issue is one of the most longstanding disputes at the United Nations, saying Islamabad should instead focus on the unfinished task of tackling terrorism. In a video message on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the United Nations, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi lauded the world body’s achievements but also referred to “failings and deficiencies”. “The organisation is only as good as its member states wish it to be. The Jammu & Kashmir and Palestine disputes are the organisation’s most glaring and long-standing disputes. The people of occupied Jammu and Kashmir still await fulfilment of the commitment made to them by the UN to grant them their right to self-determination,” he said. “Today, the UN is derided as a talk shop. Its resolutions and decisions are flouted. International cooperation, especially in the Security Council, is at its lowest,” he added. Exercising its “right of reply”, the Indian delegation at the UN responded soon after, with first secretary Vidisha Maitra saying India had hoped the General Assembly “would be spared another repetition of the baseless falsehoods that have now become a trademark of Pakistan’s interventions of such platforms” during the commemoration of a shared global milestone. “However, for a nation that is bereft of milestones, one can only expect a stonewalled and stymied approach to reason, diplomacy and dialogue,” she said. Turning to the specific reference to the Kashmir issue, Maitra said Pakistan was interfering in India’s internal matters. “What we heard today is the never-ending fabricated narrative presented by the Pakistani representative about the internal affairs of India. We reject the malicious reference made to the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir, which is an integral part of India,” she said. “If there is an item that is unfinished on the agenda of the UN it is that of tackling the scourge of terrorism. Pakistan is a country which is globally recognised as the epicentre of terrorism, which by its own admission harbours and trains terrorists and hails them as martyrs and consistently persecutes its ethnic and religious minorities,” she added. Maitra said Pakistan “would do well to turn its attention inwards to immediately addressing these pressing concerns instead of diverting attention from them by misusing the UN platform”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-corners-pak-on-terrorism-at-un/story-MItnBowDVPhS4L7slekwrI.html
23-09-2020||India||Why onion farmers often end up in tears||With the Rajya Sabha passing amendments to Essential Commodities Act (ECA), food prices will enter a new policy paradigm. The government is claiming that the deregulation -- the new ECA removes restrictions over movement and storage of food items such as onions by private players -- will incentivise creation of better infrastructure and lead to an increase in farm incomes. Critics maintain that this could actually legalise hoarding. Farmers, starved of capital, often sell their crops when prices are low. Onions present an interesting study. While they are not an essential commodity, last week, the Union government banned onion exports. HT reported that the government also planned to release its buffer stocks in the market to bring down prices. Inflation has emerged as a serious problem in the past few months. Headline inflation has been above 6%, the upper band of the Reserve Bank of India’s comfort level, for the fifth consecutive month. Food inflation is above 9%.The government’s move to ban onion exports and release buffer stocks, in this context, is a pre-emptive strike on inflation .Onion farmers, however, are likely to end up in tears. The recent rally in prices came after a long phase of lower prices . This is not the first time this is happening. Unlike their grain producing brethren, vegetable farmers face a far greater volatility in prices and incomes. This is because there are no Minimum Support Price (MSP) driven price floors and costs do not come down when prices crash. Also, while the government is pro-active in limiting windfall gains for farmers during times of high prices in the name of fighting inflation, it does not shy away from pursuing inflationary policies for its own gains. For instance, it continues to impose high duties on petrol and diesel, while attacking onion farmers’ incomes to control inflation. Vegetable prices more volatile than cereals National Account Statistics (NAS) data gives value of production of major crops in both current and constant prices. While the prices of two major cereals, rice and wheat, have been rising continuously, those of important vegetables, tend to fluctuate a lot. This volatility is not seen in the cost of production. An examination of A2+FL measure of cost – this includes cost of hired and own labour, rent of leased in land and other inputs – for rice, wheat, potatoes and onions proves this. Wildly fluctuating prices, with continuously rising costs, mean that vegetable farmers are vulnerable to a large volatility in incomes. This also means that unless they are allowed to make windfall gains, they cannot compensate for the windfall losses they suffer when prices crash.  An article by Ila Patnaik and Radhika Pandey, economists at the National Institute for Public Finance and Policy, says that the government has changed export rules for onions at least 17 times between 2104 and 2019. The frequent export bans may suggest that most of India’s onion output is exported. An analysis of trade data shows that this is not the case. Onion exports are usually less than 10% of domestic production, and here too, farmers face a very volatile market. High prices don’t always lead to higher incomes Farmers value revenue over prices. Many instances of a spike in onion prices -- this holds true for most horticultural products -- are driven by a shortfall in supply due to weather-related crop destruction. This means that even though prices are high, farm-incomes might not rise commensurately, and, in fact, even fall, as the quantity of crops sold goes down. The fact that farmers lack the financial wherewithal to store crops, means that they are far less likely to have accumulated inventories to gain from these sudden spikes. Data on daily turnover of onions at the Lasalgaon market in Nashik district, among the most important onion producing regions in the country, proves this (to be sure, this data is only a proxy for farmer incomes). The data highlights two things. One, there is large scale volatility in monthly turnover of onions, which implies a volatility in incomes of onion farmers. Two, periods of high inflation need not coincide with periods of high income for onion farmers. For example, in 2019, wholesale price inflation for onions grew at a slower pace in July (7.6%) and August (33%) than in October (119.8%) and November (172.3%). Yet, the turnover in July and August was much higher than in October and November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-onion-farmers-often-end-up-in-tears/story-mfqp4ChBFV1vFHBnWTQYuI.html
23-09-2020||India||‘Bihari pride’ in focus amid uproar in House||The uproar in Parliament over the controversial passage of farm bills resonated in poll-bound Bihar with senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleging that the Opposition’s protests against Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh hurt ‘Bihari pride’. Harivansh, a member of the Janata Dal (United) who was a journalist and writer, hails from Bihar and the government has sought to corner the Opposition for the “heckling”, “abuse” and “disrespect” shown to the senior Bihar politician. The controversy began on Sunday when the government rushed through two contentious farm bills amid fierce protests from the Opposition. Senior Opposition leaders charged towards Harivansh, jumped onto tables; and alleged that their demand for a division of votes was denied. The next day, eight Opposition members were suspended, triggering even more unrest and protests by the Opposition. Hours later, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who represents the Patna Sahib Constituency in the Lok Sabha, linked the issue to Bihari pride. “An eminent Indian who hails from Bihar was humiliated; the people of Bihar will give a response. Harivansh ji remained dignified… We will not make it a political issue but people are hurt,” the minister said. He also trained his guns at the Opposition and said, “The way Congress and RJD [Rashtriya Janata Dal] were silent and even encouraged the protesting MPs in the Rajya Sabha, this will be told to the people of the state. Both Congress and RJD will have to answer.” The Congress and the RJD are part of the Opposition alliance in the Bihar assembly elections, scheduled for later this year. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi put out two tweets to appreciate the deputy chairperson’s gesture of serving tea to the suspended MPs who spent the night in protest inside the Parliament complex. “To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji,” the PM said. In a second tweet, he referred to Harivansh’s Bihari roots. “For centuries, the great land of Bihar has been teaching us the values of democracy. In line with that wonderful ethos, MP from Bihar and Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Shri Harivansh Ji’s inspiring and statesman like conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud,” the PM said. This is the second time in this session that the PM has invoked the deputy chairperson’s connection with Bihar. On September 14, when Harivansh was re-elected as deputy Rajya Sabha chair for the second term, the PM mentioned how he belonged to “the land of democracy.” “When anyone who is a seeker of democracy, from the land of democracy, Bihar, from JP’s (Jayprakash Narayan) and Karpuri Thakur’s land, from Bapu’s (Mahatma Gandhi) Champaran, steps forward to take responsibility, this is what happens…what Harivansh has accomplished,” the PM said while complimenting his conduct of the House. Harivansh wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and vice-president Venkaiah Naidu, invoking his humble origins in Bihar.Harivansh noted that he was born in the same village at Saran in Bihar as anti-Emergency icon Jayaprakash Narayan and spoke about the influence of Mahatma Gandhi, Ram Manohar Lohia, Karpoori Thakur and Chandra Shekhar on him. “I am a man of village and built by literature, sensibilities and values,” he said.In Bihar, where the BJP is part of the ruling alliance with the JD(U), deputy chief minister Sushil Modi said the incident “hurt the pride of Bihar”. Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP, Jairam Ramesh, alleged that the BJP was politicising the issue. He tweeted, “The shadow of the forthcoming Bihar elections has fallen over Parliament now. It is all very well for Constitutional authorities to demand respect. They must, in fact, command respect by their non-partisan actions.”RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav agreed with him. “They (BJP) will keep talking of Bihar now, and the moment elections end they will forget Bihar. The PM still has not sent a central team to assess the flood situation here. As far as farm Bills are concerned, we’ll hold a protest against it,” he said. Shankar Dutt, a professor at Patna University, said the assembly polls is likely to be dominated by issues of health care, employment and education, and not the Rajya Sabha ruckus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihari-pride-in-focus-amid-uproar-in-house/story-Y8YFFV2uwamDW8wN44tIIM.html
23-09-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi return from US amid House standoff||Congress president Sonia Gandhi accompanied by her son Rahul Gandhi returned to India on Tuesday after undergoing a routine health check-up in the US, people familiar with the development said. The two left on September 12. Both of them have missed a major part of the monsoon session that began on September 14. The session is likely to be curtailed in view of the rising number of Covid cases in the country with several Members of Parliament (MPs) and the Parliament staff testing positive. Confirming their return, an aide of Rahul Gandhi said the two leaders reached Delhi around 7 am on Tuesday. Later, Rahul Gandhi posted a series of tweets accusing the Modi government of working for the development of crony capitalists at the cost of farmers. “2014- Modi ji’s election promise of Swaminathan commission MSP (minimum support price) for farmers. 2015- Modi government said in court that this will not be possible. 2020- Black agriculture laws,” he tweeted in Hindi. Then, in a four-line verse in Hindi, he sarcastically said, “Modi ji’s intention is clear” with new “anti-agriculture” attempt.Before leaving for abroad, Sonia Gandhi carried out major organisational changes in the Congress Working Committee and her team of office bearers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-rahul-return-amid-house-standoff/story-IgIeJUswib1KpFVd5vRj2I.html
23-09-2020||India||‘Sleepless night’: Harivansh on fast||Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh, who has been accused of not paying heed to the Opposition’s demand for a division of votes on two contentious agricultural reform bills and for overlooking the views of Upper House members sitting in the Lok Sabha chamber at the time, invoked his humble origins in Bihar and went on a day-long fast on Tuesday to protest “humiliating” conduct towards him by some MPs.Harivansh wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Rajya Sabha chairperson, saying protests in the Upper House during the passage of the two bills on Sunday caused him pain, stress and mental tension. “I was not able to sleep the whole night,” he wrote.Harivansh, who was elected deputy chairperson for the second time on September 14, was in the Chair when the bills were passed in the midst of pandemonium. Opposition parties, who say he denied them their parliamentary rights by ignoring their demands, later drafted a no-confidence motion against Harivansh. It was rejected by Naidu as it was not in proper format and did not give a 14-day notice period.Footage from the House showed that fierce protests from the Opposition, including senior leaders charging towards the Chair, jumping onto tables; and shooting videos of the ruckus. “Ugly and unparliamentary slogans were raised. Scenes that can disturb the heart and mind, scenes that bring shame on democracy... I am an introvert, belong to a village and rooted in literature, sensitivity and values,” Harivansh, a leader of Bihar’s ruling Janata Dal (United), said in his letter.“In the name of democracy, members of the House indulged in violent behaviour. There was an effort to intimidate the person in the chair. All norms of the Upper House were disregarded. The rule book was torn and thrown over me. The historic table on which officials carry on the work of the Upper House was climbed upon and papers torn. Some were thrown at the chair,” he said. Harivansh said like lighthouses in the dark, institutions determine the future course for societies and countries. “That is why the Rajya Sabha and the position of the Rajya Sabha chairman are more important and glorious, not me,” he wrote.Harivansh said he was going on fast hoping it would lead to a feeling of “atma-shuddhi (self correction)” in the MPs who had behaved in an unruly manner.Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien and his colleague Dola Sen; Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh; Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) were suspended for seven days each on Monday for their conduct inside the House amid protests that their version of events were not heard. Since their suspension, the eight MPs were holding a protest on the Parliament premises. They called off the protest around Tuesday noon. The members said what happened inside the Rajya Sabha over the farm bills was “undemocratic” and “against the idea of India”.“We are equally pained and hurt... He was under pressure from the government, which, in turn, was under pressure from the corporate to get the farm bills passed on that very day. Also, why did he bring media along when he came with tea in the morning?” said Satav.His reference was to a gesture by Harivansh to bring tea and snacks for the protesting MPs in the morning. “The farmers want justice, not tea. Is this a child’s play? First you murder democracy and then you offer tea? If it was a personal visit, then why did he have two cameras with him?” asked O’Brien, another of those suspended. The government claims that the division of votes could not take place because members did not go to their seats despite repeated pleas by the deputy chairperson.PM Narendra Modi, meanwhile, said Harivansh’s gesture was proof of his greatness. “To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness...,” he tweeted.Naidu, too, backed Harivansh and said he had acted with utmost restraint. “He handled the situation in a very deft manner,” Naidu said in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sleepless-night-harivansh-on-fast/story-M6Oh6J5uAT0XBw6ZVBRsZL.html
23-09-2020||India||Opposition boycotts BAC meeting||Opposition parties on Tuesday boycotted the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting of the House. The BAC, a panel led by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu, discusses the weekly agenda of the House and was scheduled at 6 pm on Tuesday. At least four Opposition leaders-- Ram Gopal Yadav of Samajwadi Party, Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh of Congress, Manoj Jha of RJD and Derek O’Brien of TMC didn’t attend. “BAC in this regime has become bulldozing approval committee,” quipped Jairam, when asked why the Opposition didn’t attend. The Opposition parties also alleged that they were informed just an hour ago. Rajya Sabha officials, however, rejected the allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-boycotts-bac-meeting/story-a9wXuQPlI8zGUZiRfzgoWN.html
23-09-2020||India||Odisha asks all Covid-19 hospitals to set up helpdesks to convey health status to kin||The Odisha government on Tuesday directed all Covid-19 hospitals in the state to set up 24X7 dedicated helpdesks to help family members of Covid-19 patients with information on the health status of the patients.The Health and Family Welfare department in a fresh guideline said the helpdesk should have a dedicated toll free number with wide notifications. “The helpdesk should be manned with sufficient people to attend all calls round the clock in shift-wise manner. Apart from telephonic communication, the hospitals should use social media applications like WhatsApp to communicate the voice and pictures of the patient to the attendants of the patient. A dedicated conference room may be set up outside the Covid-19 facility with provision of TV and Cameras which can be connected with CCTVs installed inside the facilities so that the attendant can see the patient and talk with him/her,” the department notification said.The state government’s notification came two days after BJP Lok Sabha MP from Bargarh, Suresh Pujari urged the Centre to take charge of Covid-19 management in Odisha citing that the state government has utterly failed in testing, tracing and treatment of patients. Participating in a debate on the Covid-19 situation in the country in the Lok Sabha on Sunday, Pujari who recovered from Covid-19 infection recently, alleged that a large number of infected people are dying due to lack of treatment as the health system has collapsed. Pujari had urged the health ministry to make arrangements for providing information about the health condition of Covid-19 patients under treatment to their family members on a daily basis as they have no access to hospitals.The health department said steps should be taken to collect and record the contact numbers of the patient at the time of admission and even if not inquired by the attendant of the patient, a general information of the condition of the patient needed to be communicated as a SMS or WhatsApp message to the attendant of the patient every day at least once.It warned that non-functioning of the helpdesk would attract action against the erring hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-asks-all-covid-19-hospitals-to-set-up-helpdesks-to-convey-health-status-to-kin/story-ZJp8E4KHw92dtbNHAEXhTP.html
23-09-2020||India||Medical students have to work at dist hospitals||In a move aimed at increasing presence of specialists in districts, the Centre has made it mandatory for all postgraduate medical students pursuing MD (doctor of medicine) and MS (master in surgery) to serve three months at district hospitals, as part of their studies.The board of governors of Medical Council of India (BoG-MCI) recently notified new postgraduate medical education regulations that include the district residency programme, which will be implemented from the 2020-21 academic year.“It is a part of reforms that government has undertaken in the medical education sector to ensure there’s no shortage of doctors, nurses and specialists. Under the district residency programme, all postgraduate trainees or residents who pursue the three-year-long MD or MS course, will be asked, either in the second year or early in the third year, for three months to work in district hospitals as a compulsory part of their training, as a rule,” said Dr VK Paul, chairman, BoG-MCI.“We feel it is a win-win scheme as it will transform not just learning, but will also transform speciality care at district level,” said Paul.Medical faculty members said it is a good idea in principle. “Without a monitoring mechanism in place, there is always a possibility that those three months are underutilised. ,” said Dr VK Bahl, former dean (academics), New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-students-have-to-work-at-dist-hospitals/story-mLopegGFuHaR2c12fZpjtM.html
23-09-2020||India||HC stays arrest warrants for 3 petitioners in Rajasthan hotel sale case||The Rajasthan high court on Tuesday stayed arrest warrants issued against three persons by a special Central Bureau Investigation (CBI) court in connection with alleged corruption in the 2002 sale of a hotel in Udaipur.The high court also ordered that possession of the property, which was handed over by the court to the state government on September 16, be given back to the private company that ran it.The court’s decision came on petitions filed by Jyotsna Suri, chairperson and managing director of Bharat Hotels Limited, former disinvestment secretary Pradeep Baijal and then managing director of investment firm Lazard India Limited, Ashish Guha.“Petitioners shall not be arrested in pursuance of the arrest warrant issued in relation to the order passed by special judge, CBI cases, Jodhpur. Petitioners shall appear before the court below on October 8 and furnish a personal bond and two sureties,” the single-judge bench of justice Dinesh Mehta said.On September 16, the special CBI court ordered the registration of criminal cases against former Union disinvestment minister Arun Shourie, Baijal, Suri, Guha and Karamsey Vikamsey, then head of valuation firm Kanti Karamsey & Co. The CBI court’s order came despite the agency filing a closure report. The court will hear a petition by Shourie on Wednesday. The case centres on the sale of the Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur, earlier run by the Indian Tourism Development Corporation, to Bharat Hotels Limited in 2002. The CBI filed an FIR in 2014, alleging that government lost Rs 244 crore in the sale.Justice Mehta said that attaching the property of a running hotel business for a transaction that took place in 2002,that too, without notice to the petitioner or her hotel, is beyond comprehension; particularly when a decision about the petitioner’s involvement or guilt was yet to be taken by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-stays-arrest-warrants-for-3-petitioners-in-rajasthan-hotel-sale-case/story-29p538fPM1vGjLfofGMkjP.html
23-09-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee wants Ayushman Bharat, Kisan Samman Nidhi schemes in Bengal but with riders||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had written to the Centre on September 9 that she was open to implementation of the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers as well as the Ayushman Bharat Yojana healthcare scheme if the funds were transferred directly to her government for disbursement. Banerjee also said the Centre would have to bear 100 per cent cost of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana. This was the first time the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief expressed her willingness to start these schemes although she had been at the receiving end of attacks by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) since 2014 for not implementing the Centre’s social welfare projects. The letters Banerjee wrote to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar were released on social media by the state government on Tuesday afternoon while the BJP was heightening its campaign, accusing her of depriving millions of farmers of the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme against the backdrop of her opposition to the farmers’ bills passed by Parliament on Sunday. The PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme is funded entirely by the Centre but in case of Ayushman Bharat, states have to bear 40 per cent of the contribution towards premium. Only the states in the North-East and three Himalayan states have to bear 10 per cent of this cost. “On different occasions, it is heard that the state government in Bengal is not implementing the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi launched by the Central government. It may please be appreciated that the state government has already introduced way before the Krishak Bandhu scheme to provide financial assistance to farmers including sharecroppers,” Banerjee wrote to Tomar on September 9. “Under this scheme, every farmer/sharecropper receives Rs 5000 from the government. The scheme also envisages death benefit of Rs 2 lakh in case of unfortunate death of any farmer in the age group of 18 to 60. More than 70 lakh farmers are being covered under the Krishak Bandhu scheme in Bengal,” she wrote, adding that the scheme also offers crop insurance and the premium is borne entirely by the government. Saying that the state’s scheme leads to a huge expenditure, Banerjee wrote, “We will be happy to provide benefits to the farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme and in that case the Central government may transfer the requisite fund direct to the state government for further disbursement with full responsibility to the beneficiaries through the state government machinery.” In a similar letter to Dr Harsh Vardhan, Banerjee said the state government provides 100 per cent free treatment, medicines and diagnostic tests for all in government hospitals and also provides an annual cover of Rs 5 lakh under the Swasthya Sathi scheme for treatment of critical diseases such as cancer, heart disease etc. at private hospitals. “More than 7.5 crore people in Bengal are covered under Swasthya Sathi,” she wrote. “Ayushman Bharat scheme may be extended by the Government of India with entire 100 per cent expenditure for the scheme. In such a case the entire funding for the scheme may be routed through the state government,“ wrote Banerjee. Reacting to the letters, the Bengal BJP alleged that Banerjee was trying to find a way to raise funds for the crucial assembly polls to be held next year. “The chief minister has asked for direct transfer of funds so that the money can go her party’s election fund. We have seen now Central funds meant for providing relief to people affected by cyclone Amphan in May was misappropriated. The cut-money (bribe or commission) culture is an integral part of the ruling party,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha. Even governor Jagdeep Dhankhar wrote a letter to the chief minister on Monday, saying if timely steps had been taken by the state government over 70 lakh farmers would have received Rs 8,400 crore under the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. “Each of the over 70 lakh farmers would have so far got Rs 12,000 directly in the bank accounts without any intermediary,” wrote the governor on Monday. The letter was released to the media by the Raj Bhawan on Tuesday when Banerjee’s party hit the streets of Kolkata in protest against the farmers’ bills. After Banerjee’s letters to the two Union ministers were released to the media Dhankhar called a press conference at Raj Bhawan on Tuesday evening where he criticized the state government. Funds for Central welfare schemes go directly to the beneficiaries and not routed through the state, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-wants-ayushman-bharat-kisan-samman-nidhi-schemes-in-bengal-but-with-riders/story-FPvlPL0x5ZisbjU10tBgIK.html
23-09-2020||India||Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey steps down from service||Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey took voluntary retirement from service on Tuesday evening. September 22 was the last working day for the 1987-batch IPS officer. The Bihar Governor late on Tuesday evening approved the request of Pandey seeking VRS from services. A notification in this regard was also issued by the home department. Pandey in all probability will contest assembly polls. He was due to retire in February next year. Following the VRS of DGP, Director general of Homeguard and Fire services, Sanjiv Kumar Singhal has been given additional charge of the DGP .Gupteshwar Pandey has been in the news recently. He has made it to the headlines and is a talking point on social media in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput case.Pandey had earlier taken premature retirement to contest Lok Sabha elections in 2009. Gupteshwar Pandey, a 1987 batch IPS officer of Bihar cadre, reportedly wished to contest from the Buxar Lok Sabha seat on a BJP ticket in 2009.With the intention of contesting the Lok Sabha polls, the now Bihar DGP opted for voluntary retirement scheme in March, 2009. His dream to plunge into electoral politics, however, did not materialize.Nine months after his VRS, Pandey requested the Bihar government to allow him to withdraw his resignation. The Nitish Kumar-led government approved Pandey’s plea and the high-profile cop reported back to work. He went on to become the DGP of Bihar Police before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He was born in 1961 in Geruabandh village in Buxar district of Bihar. Pandey graduated from Patna University in Sanskrit and even took his UPSC exam in Sanskrit. He cleared the UPSC in his first attempt and went on to become an Income Tax officer. In his second attempt, he cleared the IPS. Pandey served as the SP of several Naxal-affected districts like Aurangabad, Jehanabad, Arwal, Begusarai and Nalanda, besides being DIG of Munger and Muzaffarpur zone. Later, he became the IG of Muzaffarpur Zone and was DG of Bihar Police (training) before he went on to become the DGP. He has also been active in leading the alcohol ban campaign by the Bihar government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-chief-gupteshwar-pandey-steps-down-from-service/story-3KOIZJ5QXc5jcmXQnZzO4I.html
23-09-2020||India||Decoding the impact of ECA amendments||Parliament on Tuesday passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020, the third legislation linked to the Narendra Modi government’s plan to liberalise agricultural trade and usher in broader farm reforms. What does it do: The Essential Commodities Act 1955, which the bill amends, is mainly used to curb inflation by allowing the Centre to enable control by state governments of trade in a wide variety of commodities. The bill removes virtually most primary food items, such as cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onions and potatoes, from the list of “essential commodities”. How did ECA work: States can dictate quantities traders can store and also restrict the movement of any commodity deemed “essential”. Under the law, the government generally imposes stock limits to discourage hoarding of items, including food commodities, such as pulses, edible oils and vegetables. Was ECA effective: Several experts have argued the law was handy in the 1960s and 1970s when India was still a net importer of food. The Economic Survey 2019-20, which devoted a full chapter to the issue, states that government intervention under the ECA 1955 often distorted agricultural trade while being totally ineffective in curbing inflation. “First, frequent and unpredictable imposition of blanket stock limits on commodities under Essential Commodities Act (ECA) neither brings down prices nor reduces price volatility. However, such intervention does enable opportunities for rent-seeking and harassment,” the Economic Survey had said. Rent-seeking is a term used by economists to describe unproductive income, including from corruption. For instance, the survey notes that stock limits on dal (lentils) in 2006, sugar in 2009 and onions in September 2019 spiked “the volatility of the wholesale and retail prices instead of smoothening them”. Since large stocks held by traders can be outlawed under the ECA 1955 anytime, they tend to buy far less than their usual capacity and farmers often suffer huge losses during surplus harvests of perishables. Such laws have kept poor farmers poor by restricting opportunities to export when global crop prices go up, according to a 2018 study by the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), a grouping of 36 countries, and the New Delhi-based research firm ICRIER. What’s the rationale for the bill: “While India has become surplus in most agricultural commodities, farmers have been unable to get better prices due to lack of investment in cold storage, warehouses, processing and export as entrepreneurs get discouraged by the regulatory mechanisms in the Essential Commodities Act, 1955,” according to the statement of objects and reasons laid out in the bill. How does the new bill work: The bill now requires that imposition of any stock limit on agricultural produce must be linked to prevailing inflation, war or famines or a grave situation. “A stock limit may be imposed only if there is a 100% increase in retail price of horticultural produce and 50% increase in the retail price of non-perishable agricultural food items,” it says. The increase will be calculated over the price prevailing immediately preceding twelve months, or the average retail price of the last five years, whichever is lower. And the stocks of agribusinesses equivalent to their export order will not be subject to any limits. “This is such a wide range for a price trigger to invoke the ECA. Many things are left vague. Price triggers or price levels should have a reference to a locality. Suppose that a big food exporter says it has an export order from Ethiopia of, say, 1 lakh tonne? How will the government verify if that is a fake indent or a genuine one?” asked Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture (ASHA), critiquing the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decoding-the-impact-of-eca-amendments/story-zytnowEInD30QSyIE8oPbK.html
23-09-2020||India||3.6 magnitude earthquake in Srinagar||A moderate-intensity earthquake with a magnitude of 3.6 shook Srinagar on Tuesday night, panicking residents who rushed out of their homes, officials said. Officials at the Disaster Management Authority said the earthquake was recorded at 9.40 pm, with its epicentre in Srinagar at a depth of five kilometres. There were no reports of any damage or casualties so far. The tremors were not felt in most parts of the Kashmir Valley. Deputy Commissioner Shahid Iqbal Chaudhary tweeted about the “scary” tremors experienced in the city. “This was scary. Hope everyone is safe. #EARTHQUAKE,” he posted on the social network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-6-magnitude-earthquake-in-srinagar/story-8GmC71ZtxrfMci4pIN8OIL.html
23-09-2020||India||Deadlock at talks, China wants India to exit key heights||Key talks over the dispute at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China remained inconclusive, with Indian negotiators firmly demanding comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante as the only approach towards de-escalation, and China asking India to withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday.The two sides, however, made some headway. According to a joint statement, released in New Delhi and Beijing, they agreed to stop sending more troops to the front line, and to hold a seventh round of commander-level talks “as soon as possible, take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border area”. During the talks between corps commander-ranked officers from the two armies at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC in the Chushul sector that went on for 13 hours on Monday, both sides made their positions known to each other, and were unable to reach a consensus on easing military tensions in the Ladakh theatre, the officials cited above said. “The military talks are deadlocked but both sides have agreed to meet again and find common ground to reduce tensions in the Ladakh theatre. It appears the road to border peace will be long,” an official said on condition of anonymity.The joint statement after the conclusion of the talks said: “They (the two sides) agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, strengthen communication on the ground, avoid misunderstandings and misjudgments, stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground, and avoid taking any actions that may complicate the situation.” In Beijing, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson said the two sides exchanged in-depth views on easing the current situation in the border areas during the talks between the commanders. “The two sides agreed to continue maintaining dialogue and consultation on this front,” said spokesperson Wang Wenbin. Naveen Srivastava, a joint secretary from the Indian external affairs ministry, was part of the military dialogue for the first time, with the structure of the talks being slightly changed by India in the hope of a possible breakthrough. Two Indian lieutenant generals were among the officers who took part in the talks — Harinder Singh, who heads the Leh-based 14 Corps and his soon-to-be successor PGK Menon.India and China agreed on five points to guide their approach to the situation on the LAC, including the disengagement of troops and easing of tensions, during talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow on September 10.The lack of a breakthrough in the talks despite the consensus in the foreign ministers’ meeting shows that there are still serious differences on the ground about how the disengagement should proceed, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“Perhaps a rethink is required on how we should approach the whole process of negotiations,” Hooda added.The scope of the military talks has changed vastly after recent developments on the southern and northern banks of Pangong Tso, where the Indian Army has taken control of advantageous heights.“While earlier only we were seeking restoration of status quo ante of mid-April at friction areas on the LAC, now the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is asking us to withdraw from vantage positions. The new thing is an element of a quid pro quo,” the officials said.Monday’s meeting between senior military commanders was their first after the Indian Army speedily moved and occupied a series of key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing chunks of Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the lake’s southern bank that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the positions scattered across Rezang La, Reqin pass, Gurung Hill and Magar heights. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridge-line on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other, as reported by Hindustan Times on September 10.According to latest inputs, China began building at least 13 new military positions, including airbases and air defence units, near the LAC with India after the 2017 standoff at Doklam, with work on four heliports beginning after the current tensions in Ladakh. Details of these military positions were outlined in a report released on Tuesday by Stratfor, a leading security and intelligence consultancy. The new positions include three airbases, five permanent air defence positions and five heliports. “Construction on four of those new heliports started only after the onset of the current Ladakh crisis in May,” said the report authored by Sim Tack, a Belgium-based security and military analyst with Stratfor. Last week, defence minister Rajnath Singh told lawmakers in Parliament that no force in the world can stop the Indian Army from patrolling the country’s borders in the Ladakh sector, signalling a strong resolve to regain access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along the LAC.In tensions that began in early May, Indian and Chinese troops have come face-to-face at multiple points along the LAC. In some of these areas, particularly the Finger Area and Depsang, Indian forces have been cut off from points they could previously patrol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadlock-at-talks-china-wants-india-to-exit-key-heights/story-keQaXmopVPj9XsEMGDJBXJ.html
23-09-2020||India||Alpha, Beta, Bond key to police’s riots probe||Alpha, Beta, Silver, Gold, James and Bond. These are just some of the witnesses, placed under protective custody and referred to by their pseudonyms, who will be the key to the Delhi Police proving that February riots were part of a “planned conspiracy” by some anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act activists and timed with US President Donald Trump’s India visit.In a charge sheet submitted to a city court on September 16, police have attached the statements of at least 100 “insiders” or “eyewitnesses” (referred to by aliases) who have given statements claiming to have seen some of those arrested -- local leaders Tahir Hussain and Ishrat Jahan, former JNU student Umar Khalid, activist Gulfisha Khatoon, and Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana -- planning the violence. The witnesses have recorded their statements before a judge under Code of Criminal Procedure 164, which is admissible evidence during a trial. However, the veracity of their statements will be tested during the trial, and some experts contend that the police’s reliance on protected witnesses is a contravention of investigative procedure.Delhi Police have maintained that some anti-CAA protest leaders, such as Umar Khalid, along with others such as Hussain, Jahan and other activists, planned the protests, mobilised people by blocking roads, and brought different groups together to incite people against the government. They have all denied any wrongdoing.As evidence of the role of those arrested, one protected witness, referred to by the pseudonym Lambda, has detailed the alleged role played by former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain before a judge. Lambda has claimed to be an eyewitness to the preparations that Hussain made before the riots. His statement before a judge reads, “…I have known Tahir Hussain for more than a year. Before the riots, I had seen many cars entering his house. I would regularly see him buying bottles from scrap dealers. I have seen people taking acid inside. While the person carrying an acid bottle was coming out, I saw him dropping a bottle. There were fumes emanating, so I asked the person what it was. He said it was an acid. After that I saw that person a couple of times... He has five-six cars. I think he had three drivers. I have seen them carrying petrol tanks inside his factory.” Lamda has then claimed to have seen the former councillor leading a group and distributing money to his supporters while asking them to pelt stones. Delhi Police in their case papers claim to have recovered stones, acid bottles, and Molotov cocktails from the terrace of his building. Hussain has repeatedly denied his role in the violence and said he is a victim of a political conspiracy. The police charge sheet has the statement of another witness, who has been given the name Bond. In the statement before a judge on April 5, Bond said, “Umar Khalid said that at the right time, they will also start ‘Chakka Jam’ in Muslim areas of Delhi. Khalid said to the protesters that the government is a Hindu government and against Muslims so we have to overthrow the government.” Claiming to be an insider, Bond has described a meeting on December 16, 2019, in which he said that the group deliberately made women and children sit in the protest sites to ensure that police could not act.Last week, Khalid’s counsel Trideep Pais had told a court that while Khalid was against CAA, and was not ashamed of it, he was not involved in the riots. He also said the police were yet to give any evidence linking Khalid, who was not even in Delhi during the riots, with the incident.There is another witness -- the police call him Beta -- who has claimed to be an insider who joined the anti-CAA protests after watching videos of protesters burning buses near Jamia Millia Islamia last December. The witness told a judge on April 5 that they joined the protester because of sentimental reasons after watching buses burn. Beta has detailed several meetings that they were a part of since December and how protesters from groups such as Jamia Coordination Committee, Pinjra Tod and Bhim Army came together and conspired to protest. All of the groups have denied any role in the violence.Detailing a provocative speech on February 23 at Jafrabad Metro station (the first incident of violence) by Ishrat Jahan, a former Congress party councillor, Beta said, “ …Ishrat Jahan was there. She gave provocative speeches. She said we will finish the government. The stone pelting and riots happened soon after this. I was also beaten during the violence by a mob… After watching everything I realised that all this was part of the plan.” Senior advocate Mahmood Pracha, who has also been named in the disclosure statement of many arrested persons but was not arrested or charged, said: “Police have misused the law related to the use of protected witness. This is a bogus charge sheet. This evidence in this charge sheet has more diminished value than the behaviour of the police. Delhi Police are behaving like criminals in the investigation of the riots. Let me tell you that these witnesses are ghost witnesses. Police are not acting like a neutral agency while probing the case. All these witnesses are 100% fake. The CRPC 164 statements of such witnesses will not pass the litmus test of evidence during trial.” Pracha also said that while the protected witnesses may have given statement before a judge, they will again have to pass the litmus test of a judge during trial. “The evidence that police has come up has zero value right now.”The Delhi Police has not responded to request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alpha-beta-bond-key-to-police-s-riots-probe/story-refqd9c7jDy4TNPBei1j7J.html
23-09-2020||India||Air India may soon start ‘scenic joy flights’ to bank on wanderlust||Want to travel but have nowhere to go? The lack of a destination may soon not be problem. Taking a cue from some international airlines, notably Australia’s Qantas Airways, India’s national carrier Air India is planning to start its own version of “flights to nowhere” that will take-off from and land at the same airport, taking flyers on a picturesque journey in a bid to scratch the travel itch.Airline officials familiar with the developments told HT that these “scenic joy flights” will be low-flying expeditions that give passengers an aerial tour of famous spots in India. What these spots will be is still being discussed, as is pricing and other modalities, the officials added.“Yes, we are exploring the possibility of starting a scenic flight service. Other details are to be decided,” an Air India spokesperson said, adding that wide-body aircraft such as the Boeing 747 will be used for the service. A second official, who asked not to be named, said that the idea was discussed earlier this month after Qantas announced seven-hour-long flights during which the passenger will be able to spot attractions such as the Great Barrier Reef and the Sydney Harbour. Qantas announced that the flights -- priced between $575 and $2,765 (between ₹42,000 and ₹2 lakh) depending on the cabin class -- were sold out in 10 minutes. Apart from Qantas, other airlines, including Royal Brunei, are operating similar flights.Health experts, however, warned that these flights may be an avoidable risk at a time when cases in India are still rising, and that only essential travel is recommended.Doctor RK Singhal, director, department of medicine, at Delhi’s BLK Super Speciality Hospital, said Covid-19 cases in the country are going over 90,000 a day and at least 4000 daily in Delhi. “This is the tip of the iceberg. The numbers are on a continuous rise... When cases are still to peak in the country, such unnecessary movements need to be restricted,” Singhal said.Aviation expert Mark Martin said low-level flying usually means flying aircraft at 1,000 feet above the Minimum Obstacle Clearance Altitude (MOCA), which varies from place to place depending on obstacles and visibility. “Usually this depends on the region in which an aircraft is flying. For example, for Mumbai, the MOCA is about 3,000 feet. In such cases the air traffic control takes the call and allows an aircraft the level it can fly lowest at,” Martin said.He said a Boeing 747 can fly as low as 500 to 1,000 feet for display flights, but in what regions it can be allowed to fly that low depends on the region and on the Air Traffic Control’s safety approval. Cruising speed of a normal Boeing 747 during a low-altitude flight would be around 250 knots i.e. roughly 400 km per hour.After a two-month suspension of airspace in March to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, India resumed flight operations on May 25. International flights are going only to select destinations under an “air bubble” arrangement under the Vande Bharat Mission. Domestic flights in India are operating to all routes, but with strict safety measures in place.“Of late, many flyers have taken to social media to narrate how they feel about not being able to go on vacations or fly out of their cities because of Covid outbreak. Many also spoke about how they miss flyings but cannot go to tourist destinations as tourism is also affected due to existing restrictions in the country. The ‘joy flights’ will get experience of flying back, and will also be something never experienced before. It is expected to be welcomed by the Indian flyers also,” said a third official aware of the development who asked not to be named.But experts warned that Covid safety measures will have to be considered.At least three studies have analysed in-flight transmission of Covid-19. They found that the air circulation inside the airplane cabin may have reduced the rate of transmission and that wearing masks could further reduce the risk of spread, while seat proximity increased this risk. In one of the instances, a 10-hour flight from London to Hanoi resulted in 15 people getting infected from one index patient. The second detailed in-flight transmission in two people on a 4 hour, 40 minute Tel Aviv-Frankfurt flight and the third studied transmission in two passengers and two crew members on a 15-hour flight from Boston to Hong Kong.Doctor T Jacob John, a retired professor of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore said it is crucial that airlines take all necessary precautions. “This will get people out of monotony and airlines will earn revenue at the same time. Everyone must wear a mask. Transmission inside an aircraft does occur, but at a slow pace because the air is sucked away regularly and is recycled. There’s some risk but if people will be properly screened it’s a good initiative. Im sure airline will be considering all safety precautions,” John said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scenic-joy-flights-to-bank-on-wanderlust/story-RXwp9ZuWpMVbt8DcAqQ9tN.html
23-09-2020||India||NIA may join actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death probe||The National Investigating Agency has now been cleared by the Central Government to investigate drug related cases, and senior officers in the government confirmed that this may be a precursor to the agency, originally created to deal with terror-related crimes, being asked to look at the case surrounding the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, which has since snowballed into a major probe into drug use in the film industry. If that happens, NIA will become the fourth federal agency to get involved in the case, after the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Enforcement Directorate and the Narcotics Control Bureau. Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB summons producer Madhu Mantena to join drug-related probe with Jaya Saha, Shruti ModiThe Ministry of Finance’s Revenue Department on Tuesday, issued a notification that said that the Centre after consulting with states ``invests the officers of and above the rank of inspectors in the NIA to exercise the powers and perform duties ‘’ according to section 53 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.This section allows the government to give any officer ``the powers of a police station for the investigation of the offences under this Act’’. NIA was established a year after the 2008 Mumbai serial blasts to specifically focus on terror related activities across the country. In an amendment to the NIA act last year, the agency was also given the jurisdiction to probe cases related to human trafficking, counterfeit notes and cyber terrorism but narcotics cases were still not in its purview -- till Tuesday’s order that’s been signed by under secretary Biswajit Sarkar.Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB summons Bollywood talent agency KWAN’s CEOA government official familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity that the order could “expand the ambit of the ongoing probes in the SSR case, where drugs, money laundering and national security issues have emerged.”A second government official who asked not to be named said that the importance of the notification was that even cases which were previously only the domain of the NCB could now be handled by the NIA.While Tuesday’s notification said that states had been consulted, a minister in the Maharashtra government said that he wasn’t aware of any communication to the effect.Sushant Singh Rajput case: Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s judicial custody extended till October 6 by special NDPS courtThe death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14 has become a political issue with the Bihar Government playing a significant role in the transfer of the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation, one that the Maharashtra government criticised. While the circumstances surrounding the death are being investigated by CBI, the role of drugs in the case is being handled by the Narcotics Control Bureau . Actress and Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty is in custody for her role in an alleged ”drug syndicate’’ and for allegedly procuring drugs for the actor. ED is looking into money laundering aspects of the probe. The second officer added that the need to issue this notification was because of a possible ``national interest’’ lead that the NIA needed to probe.“It’s a good step especially in light of growing linkages between terror modules and drug dealers. NIA officers can effectively investigate narco-terrorism crimes. It would not have any impact on the powers of State Police since the powers of State Police Officers to investigate the NDPS Crimes hasn’t been diluted,’’ said former NIA and presently ADG (law and order) Assam, GP Singh.Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said he is not aware about the Centre consulting the state government on this. “Even during my tenure as the additional chief secretary of the home department, I do not remember any such proposal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-may-join-sushant-case-investigation/story-NLXzlutkrnrDcL2gZtaIWI.html
23-09-2020||India||Should we cheer the fall in India’s Covid-19 cases?||The simple answer, at a time when good news is at a premium, is yes, but there is more to the fall than meets the eye.First, the facts. In the past week, the curve of new cases across the country has seen a rare dip, with the seven-day average of daily cases actually dropping for the five consecutive days to Monday — something that has never happened since the coronavirus outbreak started in the country in March. The numbers may suggest that cases in the country have started to plateau. Have they? Have cases across India hit a plateau?On September 10, there were 99,181 new cases of Covid-19 reported across the country, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. Till that day, the trailing seven-day average of daily cases ( commonly referred to as the daily case trajectory or the case curve) had been rising consecutively since August 16.The August 16 drop in the trajectory was a single day aberration, largely be explained by the decreased testing and reporting of cases due to the August 15 weekend. Before August 16, the trajectory had been rising for 81 straight days. All signs till a week ago pointed to the daily case number crossing the 100,000 mark in coming days. But this mark was never breached.The seven-day case average touched a peak (so far) on September 16, at 93,617, and dropped for five consecutive days after that. By Monday night, this number had dropped to 90,472. This is an unprecedented drop for a country, which has seen a near-steady increase of the case trajectory throughout the course of the pandemic. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();But testing follows a similar drop in trajectoryIndia set a new record for the daily tests for Covid-19 on Saturday when 1.2 million samples were tested, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex body on biomedical research. However, notwithstanding Saturday’s record, daily testing has been seeing a long plateau since the first week of September. For the week ending Monday, on average 1,001,929 tests were conducted every day. This number was 1,098,274 for the week ending September 13 (the highest it has ever touched so far).In fact, the seven-day average line for daily tests (or the daily test trajectory) has largely followed the same path as the daily cases – a week--long plateau around September 10, and a drop over the past five-six days.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Meanwhile, positivity rate is rising, againThe seven-day average of positivity rate – the proportion of tests that come back positive for Covid-19 – has started rising again. In the past week, 9.2% of all tests conducted across the country have come back positive, the highest this number has touched in 40 days, or since August 12. Over the past month, the average of positivity rate has increased 1.5 percentage points — from 7.7% for week ending August 21 to 9.2% for week ending September 21.A rising positivity rate means that more people are testing positive for Sars-Cov2 and thus, if this number is rising, it indicates a higher prevalence of virus within the community. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();So what does this mean?While cases do appear to have hit a plateau, two crucial metrics – daily testing and positivity rate – don’t present a good picture. India is conducting fewer cases today (on average) than it was a week ago, and a larger proportion of those tests are coming back positive. This would mean that there’s a good chance of the case trajectory rising again — if testing levels do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-we-cheer-the-fall-in-india-s-covid-19-cases/story-dLWpp4R5ol2cXVIR04LCrK.html
23-09-2020||India||Billionaire Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry’s daughter loses money in cyber fraud||A cyber fraudster stole Rs 90,000 between June and July from the bank account of 62-year-old Laila Rustom Jehangir, one of the two daughters of billionaire Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry, who owns one of the biggest business conglomerates Shapoorji Pallonji group. An FIR has been registered at Colaba police station. According to Colaba police station, Laila, who resides in Dubai, had authorised her father Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry to manage the account on her behalf.In 2018, Mistry authorised his company director Firoz Bhatena to look after all financial activities of Laila’s account. Bhatena, in turn, had entrusted the account to company’s deputy general manager (accounts) 60-year-old Jayesh Merchant.Merchant’s mobile number was registered with the bank for SMS alerts on every transaction of Laila’s account, said Colaba police officials. ALSO WATCH | After Chinese app ban, NSA Ajit Doval on new Cyber Security Strategy soon Since the account was quite old, transactions were done only through cheques, and no debit or credit card was issued by the bank for Laila’s bank account in question, added Colaba police official.A police officer from Colaba police station said, “Jayesh Merchant, who registered the complaint, said that on July 1 and 2 he received SMS alerts of withdrawal of money from the account of Laila. When he checked with the bank he was informed that around Rs 90,000 were spent or withdrawn in multiple transactions using a debit card in June/July months.” A copy of Merchant’s complaint is with Hindustan Times. “Merchant, who told the bank manager that there was no debit card issued on this account, was in for a shock when he was informed that a debit card was issued in the name of company director Bhatena in 2018, and the card was couriered to the company’s Colaba office. The same debit card was used to withdraw money. Merchant told Bhatena about the development who told him that he was not aware of any debit card being issued, following which a complaint was given,” added the officer. The police in its preliminary investigation have found that the card was used multiple times, once at one Lucky Restaurant, and once at a cake shop New Arife Lamoulde. Police would be checking the CCTV at these places and also make inquiries to trace the card user, said the police officer.An FIR has been registered under section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and 66C (identity theft) and 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of Information Technology Act against an unidentified suspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/billionaire-pallonji-shapoorji-mistry-s-daughter-loses-money-in-cyber-fraud/story-aNeoliM781omyTs43lYHLJ.html
23-09-2020||India||How H-1B visa helped nurture a generation of execs from India||Sundar Pichai started out on H-1B and went on to head Google, the giant of most things internet.Satya Nadella used the visa programme also, but for an entirely different reason. Not to further his career, but his personal life. He gave up his Green Card — yes, he did — and went on to a H-1B so that his wife could join in in the United States. Immigration rules then, as now, made it very difficult for foreigners to join Green Card spouses, without going through a long and uncertain process.So Nadella gave up his permanent residency and switched to H-1B in 1994, a year after he got married and four years after the new visa programme was introduced for skilled workers in 1990.“What I didn’t expect was the instant notoriety around campus,” Nadella wrote in his 2017 memoir “Hit Refresh, “‘’Hey, there goes the guy who gave up his Green card’.” H-1B can do that too, help married couples unite.But for most people like Pichai and Nooyi, H-1Bs have been a gateway to work, live and prosper in the United States.Pichai came to the US on a student visa -- from IIT Kharagpur to Stanford University, California. He went on a H-1B visa when he started at McKinsey, and then went on to Google, which he has headed since 2015. Former PepsiCo chief Indra Nooyi, who was raised in Chennai and went to the Madras Christian College, went on H-1B visa when she joined the Boston Consulting Group in 1980, according to Business Insider. It was not immediately clear if she was on H-1 at the time, instead. H-1B would be born 10 years later by the Immigration Act of 1990 by splitting H-1 into two — H-1A for nurses and H-1B for “speciality occupation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-h-1b-visa-helped-nurture-a-generation-of-execs-from-india/story-3lJUZ6m29T8eeCa46hjNaI.html
