24-09-2020||India||Request by Afghan Sikhs to settle in India rises after gurdwara attack in March||A total of 357 members of Afghanistan’s Sikh minority have arrived in India this year to escape persecution and targeted attacks by “terrorists and their sponsors”, the ministry of external affairs said on Thursday. Requests from Afghan Sikhs to be granted permission to settle in India had increased since a terror attack on a Sikh place of worship in the Afghan capital earlier this year, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual weekly news briefing. Nearly 30 people, most of them Sikhs, were killed in the attack in Kabul in March. The attack was blamed on the Haqqani Network and Lashkar-e-Taiba, which have close ties with the Pakistani military establishment. “We have been receiving requests from Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan to grant them permission to settle down in India,” Srivastava said. “These requests have specifically gone up after the attack in the gurdwara in Kabul in March,” he said, without giving details regarding the number of requests received by New Delhi. “We see a targeted persecution of the minority community members by terrorists and their sponsors, and this is a matter of serious concern,” Srivastava said. “To ensure their safety and well-being, the Indian mission in Kabul has been actively in contact with them and they are facilitated [for] their smooth arrival from Afghanistan despite the Covid-19 related restrictions,” he added. “So far, 357 members of the minority community have arrived from Afghanistan to India since the lockdown and the Indian Sikh community is assisting in making their stay comfortable in India,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/request-by-afghan-sikhs-to-settle-in-india-rises-after-gurdwara-attack-in-march/story-h6hMzk9zHCaGqghMDC8lZN.html
24-09-2020||India||India rejects Pak’s Gilgit move||India on Thursday strongly opposed any move by the Pakistan government to make Gilgit-Baltistan that country’s fifth province, saying such an action would have “no legal basis whatsoever” since the region has been militarily occupied. Pakistan’s minister for Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan affairs, Ali Amin Gandapur, recently spoke about official plans to make the region, a part of the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir, a full-fledged province with constitutional rights such as representation in both houses of parliament. The move comes ahead of the holding of local elections in Gilgit-Baltistan in November, and it reportedly has the backing of the powerful military establishment. Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party is backing the move to boost its chances of faring better in the upcoming elections.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the government has seen statements by the Pakistani leadership and media reports about the proposed changes in Gilgit-Baltistan. “Any action by Pakistan to alter the status of the militarily occupied so-called ‘Gilgit-Baltistan’ has no legal basis whatsoever and is totally void ab-initio,” he said.“Our position has always been clear and consistent. The entire territories of the union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh have been and are an integral part of India, and would remain so,” he said, adding that Pakistan has “no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters”. The Pakistan government’s move comes two years after powers of the Islamabad-controlled council for Gilgit-Baltistan were transferred to a local assembly. In 2009, the Gilgit-Baltistan Empowerment and Self-Governance Order renamed the Northern Areas as Gilgit-Baltistan and the region was given province-like status but without representation in parliament. The Gilgit-Baltistan issue also figured in recent secret meetings between Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed and top political leaders such as Bilawal Bhutto Zardari of the Pakistan People’s Party, who raised questions about the holding of free and fair elections in the region. The proposed changes in the strategic Gilgit-Baltistan region have also been spurred by the Pakistani military’s concerns related to India’s scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir last year. However, senior PML-N leader Maryam Nawaz Sharif, the daughter of former premier Nawaz Sharif, has said that issues such as Gilgit-Baltistan should be decided in Parliament and not at the military headquarters. In reply to another question, Srivastava said the ministry had summoned a senior Pakistani diplomat and lodged a strong protest through a note verbale, or unsigned diplomatic correspondence, about the recent kidnapping of a woman from the Sikh minority. “The kidnapping led to anger and worries among the Sikh community, and they conveyed this to the Indian side...There are some reports that the woman has been freed,” he said. “This is not the first incident of its kind, there were others in the past. We have told the Pakistan government to take all possible steps to ensure the security of the minorities,” he said. Replying to another query on Pakistan denying visa to diplomat Jayant Khobragade, who was proposed by India as the next acting head of the Indian mission in Islamabad, Srivastava said the Pakistani side had “some reservations” but didn’t give details. “This is an administrative issue and we are handling it,” he said. Khobragade’s name was proposed to the Pakistani side in June, days before New Delhi asked Islamabad to reduce the strength of its high commission by 50%. The move triggered a reciprocal decision by the Pakistani side. On Sunday, Pakistan contended Khobragade was too senior for the post and sought to link bilateral ties to the resolution of the Kashmir issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pak-s-gilgit-move/story-t2WP6e7i38KXSE3M2Fm93I.html
24-09-2020||India||Manipur CM inducts 5 new ministers, drops 6 in cabinet reshuffle||Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh on Thursday reshuffled his cabinet by inducting five ministers and dropping six.The newly inducted ministers include BJP MLAs S Rajen (Lamsang),Vungzagin Valte(Thanlon),Th Satyabarta (Yaiskul) and two ex-MLAs O Lukhoi (Wangoi) and Okram Henry (Wangkhei). Lukhoi and Henry were Congress MLAs who had resigned and joined BJP.The swearing in ceremony of the five ministers in the three-year-old BJP government was held at around 5 pm at the banquet hall of Raj Bhavan in Imphal as per existing Standard Operating Procedure in light of the Covid-9 pandemic. The oath of office was administered by the Governor Dr Najma Heptulla.Chief minister N Biren Singh, BJP national Vice-president Baijayant Panda, BJP North East general secretary Ajay Jamwal, Deputy Speaker K Robindro, MLA H Dingo,ex-MLA P Brojen were present during the swearing-in ceremony.“It is a routine matter as desired by national leaders to focus on development activities,” the CM said on the induction of new ministers.Earlier in the day, Governor Heptulla had accepted the CM’s proposal on dropping three cabinet ministers. The proposal from the CM came a day after he returned with BJP’s senior national Vice President Panda from New Delhi in a chartered flight on Tuesday.The three ministers are V Hangkhalian (Agriculture and Animal Husbandry), Nemcha Kipgen (Social Welfare and Cooperation) and Th Radheshyam (Education, Labour and Employment).Later, three more ministers L Jayantakumar (Health & Family welfare),K Shyam(Consumers Affairs Food & Public Distribution) and N Kayisii( Tribal Affairs & Fisheries) were also dropped from the ministry. While Jayantakumar and Kayisii are from the National Peoples’ Party (NPP), Shyam belongs to Lok Janshakti Party (LJP)The BJP’s Manipur unit president S Tikendra Singh who is still in the national capital after meeting party’s national president JP Nadda for the upcoming bye-elections, said the reshuffle was part of the party’s policy.The BJP came to power in Manipur in March 2017 with support of four MLAs each from NPP and NPF besides one MLA each from TMC, Lok Janshakti Party and an Independent in the 60- member House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-inducts-5-new-ministers-drops-6-in-cabinet-reshuffle/story-Chr0mcHyPjEhIoqpusTqjJ.html
24-09-2020||India||Does Brazil Covid study offer some clues on herd immunity?||Unchecked spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Brazilian city of Manaus offers some clues on what achieving herd immunity against the virus may take, a new study has suggested.The pandemic ripped through Manaus, a city of 2.1 million that lies at the centre of the Amazon rainforest region, in March and April with tens of thousands of infections, but the spread slowed down.Now, a study -- published on the pre-print server MedRxiv before peer review – said the results of antibody analysis of banked blood and mathematical modeling led them to estimate that between 44% and 66% of the population of the city was infected.This, the study said, was sufficiently high to have reached the threshold of herd immunity, in which enough members of a population develop immunity to a disease so as to break the chain of infection. “The unusually high infection rate suggests that herd immunity played a significant role in determining the size of the epidemic,” the researchers wrote in the study, which was first reported by MIT Technology Review. “All signs indicate that it was the very fact of being so exposed to the virus that brought about the reduction in the number of new cases and deaths in Manaus,” the study’s coordinator, University of Sao Paulo professor Ester Sabino, told the Sao Paulo State Research Support Foundation (Fapesp), which helped fund the study.Manaus recorded its first infection in March and over the next two months was ravaged by the disease in the absence of quick state response or social distancing. Media reported overwhelmed health care workers struggling to control the disease, overrun hospitals and mass graves dug to accommodate rising fatalities. But deaths started slowing down in recent weeks – from a daily high of 79 to just four in the past 14 days. The city is currently reopening after a months-long lockdown in Brazil, the country with the second-highest death toll worldwide. “The elevated mortality and the rapid and sustained drop in cases suggest population immunity played a significant role in determining the size of the epidemic in Manaus,” the study said.The authors cautioned that their results could not be extrapolated directly to other contexts due to differences in population demographics, behaviour, vulnerability to infection, as well as implementation and adherence to non-pharmaceutical measures.The concept of herd immunity has triggered vigorous debate across the world with health experts warning that any attempt to reach the threshold was a risky policy that endangered the health of thousands of people. “Community immunity via natural infection is not a strategy, it’s a sign that a government failed to control an outbreak and is paying for that in lives lost,” tweeted Florian Krammer, professor of microbiology at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-brazil-covid-study-offer-some-clues-on-herd-immunity/story-e9iylculvciKbBEvTBG0QO.html
24-09-2020||India||Manipur CM inducts five ministers in Cabinet rejig||The three-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in Manipur on Thursday inducted five new ministers and dropped six ministers in a Cabinet reshuffle that aims to bring stability to the government that was rocked by dissension in June. The newly inducted ministers include BJP MLAs S Rajen (Lamsang),Vungzagin Valte (Thanlon),Th Satyabarta (Yaiskul) and two former MLAs O Lukhoi (Wangoi) and Okram Henry (Wangkhei). Lukhoi and Henry were Congress MLAs who resigned and joined the BJP on August 11, hours after the Congress moved a no-confidence motion against Biren Singh led government , which was defeated on the floor of the house. Three other Congress MLAs have also resigned with them and joined the BJP. Henry is nephew of former chief minister and Congress leader, Okram Ibobi Singh. Political experts said the reshuffle shows the the BJP’s central leadership has imposed faith on CM Singh and has punished National People Party for rebelling against him in June, when three NPP ministers had resigned and supported the claim of former chief minister and Congress leader Ibobi Singh. The three ministers who were dropped on Wednesday are V Hangkhalian, who held the agriculture and animal husbandry portfolio, Nemcha Kipgen (Social Welfare and Cooperation), and Th Radheshyam (Education, Labour and Employment).Later, on Thursday, three more ministers L Jayantakumar (Health & Family welfare),K Shyam(Consumers Affairs Food & Public Distribution) and N Kayisii( Tribal Affairs & Fisheries) were dropped from the ministry. While Jayantakumar and Kayisii are from the National Peoples’ Party (NPP), Shyam belongs to Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The NPP and the lone LJP MLA has helped the BJP to form in the government in 2017 even though the BJP got 21 seats as against 28 by the Congress in 60 member house. Biren Singh was able to get support of all non Congress MLAs and form the government. In June, 2020, 9 MLAs including four of NPP and one TMC and independent MLA withdrew support to the BJP and decided to back Ibobi Singh’s claim to form the government. However, the BJP was quick to react and took the rebel MLAs to Delhi for a meeting with home minister Amit Shah. After the meeting, the rebels returned to the BJP fold and government was saved. On August 11, the Congress moved a no-confidence motion against the BJP government. Five Congress MLAs skipped the assembly session, thereby reducing the strength of the house and helping the BJP to win the trust vote. They later in the day resigned from the legislative assembly membership. The swearing-in ceremony of the five ministers was held at around 5pm in the banquet hall of Raj Bhavan in Imphal as per the existing standard operating procedure. The oath of office was administered by governor Dr Najma Heptulla.“The reshuffle is a routine affair as desired by national leaders for development of the state,” Biren SIngh said after the swearing in. The BJP led government in Manipur came to power in March 2017 with support of four MLAs each from NPP and NPF besides one MLA each from TMC, Lok Janshakti Party, and an Independent in the 60 member House.The effective strength of the house is 47 on account of 5 Congress and 3 BJP MLAs resigning and 5 Congress MLAs disqualified. The BJP has 18 MLAs each and has support of 11 other MLAs. The Congress also has 18 MLAs now. With by-polls to the 12 assembly elections slated with Bihar assembly elections, the BJP is confident of getting majority on its own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-inducts-five-ministers-in-cabinet-rejig/story-54MjML22N8LYVKldhedL4N.html
24-09-2020||India||‘Can of worms opened?’ Cong on CAG’s report||The Congress on Thursday attacked the central government over the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report that said the maker of the Rafale jets, Dassault Aviation, and the weapons supplier MBDA did not confirm the transfer of technology to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which was part of the contract. In its report tabled in Parliament on Wednesday, the country’s top auditor pointed out that several offset contracts built into multiple defence deals had “not yielded the desired results”. The observations were part of CAG’s scrutiny of a raft of offset contracts — including the Rs 59,000 crore Rafale deal — between 2005 and 2018.“The offset obligations should have started on 23-9-2019 and the first annual commitment should have been completed by 23-9–2020, that is yesterday. Will the government say if that obligation was fulfilled? Is the CAG report the opening of a can of worms?” asked former finance minister P Chidambaram. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the country was facing a huge loss due to the delay in the transfer of technology. India’s offset policy stipulates that in all capital purchases above Rs 300 crore, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities. In the case of the Rafale deal this was 50%.“There are two important points in the report. Firstly, it is being claimed that the work will be done in the seventh year, which is 2021. That means you won’t do anything in six years. And secondly, forget 50% not even 37% has been completed in terms of technology transfer. We are not saying this. The CAG has said it. This is complete fraud. We have been raising this issue because it is in the public interest,” he added.Congress party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said, “Chronology of biggest Defense deal continues to unfold. The new CAG report admits that ‘technology transfer’ shelved in #Rafale offsets. 1st, ‘Make in India’ became ‘Make in France’. Now, DRDO dumped for tech transfer. Modi ji will say everything is ok.” However, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who repeatedly attacked the government over the Rafale deal during the 2019 general elections, did not comment on the CAG findings. The BJP declined to comment on the Congress allegations.According to the CAG report, the defence ministry stated as recently as October 2019, (the first Rafale was handed over in France on October 8, 2019) the vendors had not yet been able to confirm their capability for technology transfer.To be sure, in case of the Rafale deal, the DRDO’s offset share worked out to 30%, while 20% has been allocated to the private sector, including Dassault Reliance Aerospace Ltd (DRAL) -- Dassault’s joint venture (JV) with Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group. CAG did not pick any loopholes as far as the 20% allocation to the private sector, and asked the defence ministry to get more details about its progress.The report said the defence ministry stated in October 2019 that the vendors had not been able to “confirm their capability to carry out the requisite upgradation”.“Thus, it is not clear if even this technology transfer (for engine) will take place, and there is need for the MoD/DRDO to identify and acquire the right technologies in order to comply with the directions of Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) given in September 2016,” the report said.The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s decision to enter a $8.7 billion government-to-government deal with France to buy 36 Rafale warplanes made by Dassault was announced in April 2015, with an agreement signed a little over a year later.This replaced a previous United Progressive Alliance regime decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd.Congress alleged that the new deal entailed buying the fighter jets at a higher price. The government denied this, and the Supreme Court said in a judgment that the deal did not require scrutiny. A February 2019 CAG report said the deal to buy the jets was kosher and cheaper than that was being negotiated by the UPA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-of-worms-opened-cong-on-cag-s-report/story-F4HALHpKvF3jib6TrFlgsM.html
24-09-2020||India||Nationwide shutdown over farm bills row on Friday: 10 points||Various farmer organisations have given a call for a nationwide protest (Bharat bandh) on Friday. These groups are protesting the passage of farm bills in Parliament. As many as 31 farmer groups, including the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), and 19 political parties have extended support to the strike.These parties include Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party, and Telangana Rashtra Samithi.Here are the 10 points about the protest:* The leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), ally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in Punjab will stage a three-hour “chakka jam” to protest against the contentious bills. The road blockage will begin from 11 am. The railways has suspended several trains and partially cancelled 20 till September 26 in view of the strike and the “rail roko” agitation called in Punjab. The “rail roko” agitation began on Thursday and will continue for three days.* In Haryana as well, several organizations have extended their support to the nationwide strike.* In Delhi, the police are on high alert and will maintain high security at all border points amid the demonstrations. It will also seal its border with Haryana to prevent any untoward incident.* In Uttar Pradesh, the Samajwadi Party workers will support the strike in the state. In Congress-ruled Rajasthan, demonstrations are expected.Also read: Farm bills are welcome, but farmers need a rights-based protection law | Analysis* The Congress had called the bills “anti-farmer” and on Thursday said it will challenge the “black laws” in court. It has termed them “unconstitutional” and against the country’s federal structure.* The SAD has also described the bills as “anti-farmer”, and wants the government to withdraw them. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had even met President Ram Nath Kovind requesting him to not give assent to these bills.* The three farm bill legislations - Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, were passed by Parliament earlier this week.* The legislations have received staunch criticism from various farmers’ bodies and Opposition parties. The agitating farmers fear that these reforms will lead to end of the “Mandi system” and are only in the “interest of big corporates”.* The government has maintained that these bills are in favour of farmers and will “revolutionise the agriculture sector”. The government also maintains that systems of the minimum selling price (MSP) and government procurement will continue unhindered and the passage of the bills do not affect them in any manner.* The Opposition parties accuse the government of pushing through the bills in Rajya Sabha while ignoring calls by many members for a division of votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nationwide-shutdown-over-farm-bills-row-on-friday-10-points/story-kaFJl5tefHcCqvP848rgOO.html
24-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Punjab, Haryana farmers to go on strike tomorrow||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana will go on a strike on Friday in protest against the contentious farm bills that were passed in the Parliament. As many as 31 farmer organisations have joined hands for the ‘Punjab Bandh’. Several organisations in Haryana, including the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said they had extended support to the nationwide strike called by some farmers’ bodies against the bills. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh appealed to the farmers to maintain law and order, and adhere to all coronavirus-safety protocols during the strike. In a statement, Singh said the state government was fully with the farmers in their fight against the bills and no FIRs would be registered for violation of Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four people. There should be no disturbance of law and order during the strike, the chief minister said. He appealed to the farmers to ensure that the citizens were not inconvenienced, and lives and property of people were not endangered due to the agitation. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh appealed to the people, including shopkeepers and commercial establishments, to keep their shop shut in support of the strike. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar also urged people to support the farmers and make the strike a success. The main opposition Aam Aadmi Party has already extended its support, while the Shiromani Akali Dal has announced to hold road blockades. Farmers started a three-day rail blockade against the bills and squatted on tracks at many places in Punjab on Thursday. The farmer outfits have also decided to go for an indefinite rail blockade from October 1. The protesters have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm reforms would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system and they would be at the “mercy” of big corporates. The farmers said they would continue their fight till the three farm bills were revoked. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed by the Parliament earlier this week. Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh said besides the outfit, some other farmer organisations had also extended their support to the nationwide strike. “We have appealed that sit-ins should be held on state highways and other roads in a peaceful manner,” Singh said. “No sit-ins should be held on national highways.” Nobody should indulge in any kind of unlawful act during the strike from 10 am to 4 pm, Singh said. The BKU leader said the commission agents, shopkeepers and transporters had also been urged to support the strike. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij held a meeting with officers of the home and police departments on Thursday to review the situation, and directed the DGP to ensure elaborate police arrangements to prevent any untoward situation, according to a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-punjab-haryana-farmers-to-go-on-strike-tomorrow/story-kMM0VeO6jeNiAyJOhC7BJM.html
24-09-2020||India||A tightrope walk for river-crossing in Odisha’s Kandhamal, video is viral||Officials in Odisha’s Kandhamal district on Thursday removed the electric cables and ropes strung across a stream of river that helped over 150 people of a village cross the river after the videos and photos of them precariously perched on aluminium ropes while crossing the stream went viral on social media.On Wednesday, the photos and videos of poor tribals of Birindipada village of Kandhamal district crossing the Kalipenu stream, tributary of Khadag river, had gone viral on social media with several people slamming the state government over its failure in building a bridge over the river.One Twitter user name Kishlay Sharma wrote: “Incredible India. Picture from Kandhamal, Odisha. After 20 years of solid development by Naveen Patnaik. Imagine , we Indians take such risks even for basics like going out to market or school. Just imagine.” Another Twitter user named Kasturi Mishra wrote: “The true picture of rural Odisha Kandhamal, when the state government always claims to be number one.”The videos and photos showed women, elderly persons and youngsters dangerously balancing themselves on the 60-metre long rope while a river was flowing down below.“It has been our only way of getting to Gunjibadi grampanchayat office for collecting our foodgrains and get several other social assistance schemes. During rainy days as well as other days we use the ropes to get across. But after the video was shown on TV, the local BDO and other officials came today and removed it. We are now helpless,” said Nakula Pradhan, a tribal farmer of Birindapada village.Sub-collector of Baliguda, Subhankar Mohapatra said as there is a well-connected permanent bridge over Kalipenu river connecting Brindapada village to Gunjibadi grampanchayat, the administration removed the rope and cable wires which the villagers used to cross the river.“The permanent bridge is only 2 km away from Brindapada. But to cut corners, the villagers are using this unsafe ropeway occasionally. Theropeway has been removed immediately and people asked to use the permanent bridge,” said the sub-collector.However, the sarpanch of Gunjibadi grampanchayat said the district administration’s advice to the people of Brindapada was not practical as they have to travel 4 km of hilly roads to reach the new bridge that has been constructed 5 years ago.“From the bridge, they would have to travel another 8 km to reach the gram panchayat office. But if they take the ropeway, they just have to cover less than 4 km to reach the gram panchayat office,” said Gunjibadi sarpanch Lingaraj Pradhan.Pradhan said it ‘s not just Brindapada, at least 4 more villages in his panchayat faced the same problem of reaching the panchayat office as they have to cross the Kalipenu river. “For over 500 people of Taperikia, Tipidinga, Bagadi and Guduripada villages under Gunjibadi panchayat, ropeway is the only means of getting across the river. Like Bindapada, we have been demanding small bridges across the river near those villages for years together,” he said.Farmer Prusty Pradhan of Brindapada village said the villagers are well aware of the perils of crossing the river on a cable. “Crossing the river on a rope is a nightmare for us. We carry agricultural and other sundry goods while crossing. At times we carry a patient across the river to the nearest healthcare centre. The government instead of removing the ropes, should build a bridge near our village as we can’t travel long distances to reach the gram panchayat office and hospital,” said Pradhan.Housewife Lubang Pradhan said she is afraid of crossing the swelling river by holding on to ropes in both her hands. “There have been several incidents of people falling and being swept away while crossing the river. We are always scared,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-tightrope-walk-for-river-crossing-in-odisha-s-kandhamal-video-is-viral/story-aLGm0Mdeb7TnD4kkZBGXwK.html
24-09-2020||India||Several BSF, Customs officers under CBI scanner in cattle smuggling case in Bengal||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing the alleged involvement of several Border Security Force (BSF) and Customs officials in the ongoing probe into cattle smuggling along the India-Bangladesh border in West Bengal, officials familiar with the probe said. The case was registered in 2018 after a BSF commandant, who served in Bengal, was booked in Kerala. The probe has revealed a nexus between government officers and cattle traders. It is alleged that cattle seized by the BSF were auctioned within 24 hours with the help of some Customs officers so that cattle traders could buy these at very low price and legally sell them again. The CBI is probing allegations that for every cow seized and sold through this nexus, BSF officials used to get Rs 2,000 and Customs officials used to get Rs 500, according to the CBI FIR that HT has seen. In addition, Customs officials used to allegedly get 10 per cent of the auction price as bribe. CBI officers suspect that a large quantity of money was sent to other states through hawala operators. On Wednesday, CBI conducted raids in 15 cities and towns in West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh and a BSF officer’s residence at Salt Lake in the eastern fringe of Kolkata was sealed. Satish Kumar, the officer named in the FIR, used to be a commandant in the South Bengal Frontier of the BSF and is now posted in a neighbouring state. His home in Gaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, was also raided, a senior BSF official of the South Bengal Frontier said on condition of anonymity. A CBI officer said on condition of anonymity that according to the agency’s FIR more than 20,000 cows were seized by the BSF when Kumar was posted as commandant of the 36th Battalion from May 2016 to May 2017. However, neither was any smuggler arrested nor the vehicles used for ferrying the cattle seized, the FIR says. The CBI is probing the alleged involvement of several BSF and Customs officials in the illegal trade involving crores of rupees. The agency is also probing if the cattle smugglers operating in West Bengal have links with terror groups in Bangladesh, especially the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB). According to the FIR, there was a nexus between some BSF and Customs officers and three cow traders; Muhammad Enamul Sheikh, Anarul Sheikh and Muhammad Gulam Mustafa. “The seizure lists of such seized cattle were prepared arbitrarily categorizing the breed and size of the seized animals with an intention to reduce the upset (minimum) price of the cattle during auctions. These cattle were then auctioned immediately (within 24 hours of seizure) with the help of the nearest Customs station in Jangipur, Murshidabad,” says the FIR. “Since the cattle were shown mostly small in size and of common breed in the seizure memo of BSF, the auction value of such cattle were reduced which were then procured at a considerably lower price by the traders due to their unholy nexus also with officials of the Customs department,” the CBI FIR reads. CBI officials said raids were conducted at several places in and around Kolkata and also in Murshidabad and North 24 Parganas district on Wednesday and Thursday. In 2017, the CBI had booked J D Mathew, a former commandant of the BSF 83rd Battalion posted in Murshidabad, for possessing assets disproportionate to income. He was charged again by the agency in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-bsf-customs-officers-under-cbi-scanner-in-cattle-smuggling-case-in-bengal/story-Q2gt3mjij4ByNvYjaEJS3O.html
24-09-2020||India||What data tells us about testing in urban and rural India||India’s rural districts, home to nearly 74% of India’s population, accounted for 65% of all Covid-19 tests conducted in August, and 55% of new cases reported that month. Urban districts, on the other hand, are home to 14% of the population and accounted for nearly 22% of all tests conducted in August, with 28% of the cases reported that month coming from them.The government this week released in Parliament data on the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in each of India’s 734 districts in August. This is the first time that district-level data on testing from across the country was made public. This analysis has divided India’s districts into three large groups – urban districts (less than 40% rural population), mixed districts (40% to 60% rural population) and rural districts (more than 60% rural population). The proportion of the rural population is based on the 2011 Census (the latest data available). Data on the number of cases has been sourced from How India Lives (11 revenue districts of Delhi have been taken as one single unit because the Delhi government does not release a district-wise breakup of confirmed infections). The number of tests conducted per million people in rural districts was 14,880, compared with 26,115 tests per million in urban districts.Nationally, about 8% tests in August came out positive. But this figure was 10.5% in urban areas and 6.9% in rural areas. Both were higher than what is recommended by the World Health Organisation, which says the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control.To be sure, the government has not given a breakup of tests by method. A Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (or RT-PCR) test, seen as the gold standard in Covid-19 testing, tends to result in a higher positivity rate because the other common method, the rapid antigen test, may throw up false negatives for people who are infected with a low viral load. The government said on August 4 that about a quarter of all Covid-19 tests across the country were rapid antigen tests. A greater share of rapid antigen tests in a region may lead to a lower positivity rate there. Anecdotally, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, which account for 18% of all rural districts in the country, depend heavily on antigen tests. Some predominantly urban areas, such as Delhi, also use a disproportionate number of antigen tests.  In August, rural areas reported 1,023 confirmed cases per million people compared to 2,736 confirmed cases per million people in urban areas. While it is possible that the infection spreads at a slower rate in the rural areas because of the low population density (people per square kilometre) there, it is equally possible that the results have been skewed by states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar (which have a large proportion of rural population) depending largely on inaccurate antigen tests. To be sure, the population density metric ought to be read with care. For example, Bihar’s Vaishali district (more than 80% rural population) has a population density of 2,164, more than Haryana’s Gurugram (1,267), which has 31% rural population. The positivity rate in Vaishali was 2.8% compared to 4.3% in Gurugram -- but this again, may be because of Bihar’s dependance on antigen tests which lower the positivity rate.  332 districts reported at least 1,000 infections in August. Of them, the positivity rate was below 5% in 96 districts and more than 30% in six districts. Maharashtra’s Nandurbar and Ratnagiri districts had the highest positivity rate (48% and 43% respectively) even though both are rural districts. Similarly, not all urban areas have a high positivity rate. Delhi, for example, had a positivity rate of 7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-data-tells-us-about-testing-in-urban-and-rural-india/story-woXp8xYNrpARnkeesAdKXI.html
24-09-2020||India||Man kills friend after fight over Rs 200 for alcohol: Cops||A man allegedly killed his friend after a fight over Rs 200 in Haridwar’s SIIDCUL industrial estate area, said police.The incident took place on September 5, but the accused was arrested on Thursday. SIIDCUL police station in-charge Lakhpat Singh Butola said the accused has confessed to committing the crime.The deceased Anuj was a resident of Fatehpur in Saharanpur and worked in a SIIDCUL-based company. His friend Monti was a resident of Kurdi in Bulandshahar. The accused was in the habit of consuming alcohol every evening, said police.On September 5, both had a brawl as Anuj asked Monti to contribute Rs 200 for buying an extra alcohol bottle, said police. At this point there was a verbal argument. As the argument turned violent, Monti smashed a brick on the head of Anuj who died on the spot, said Butola.“The decomposed body of Anuj was recovered from a nullah near a factory in SIIDCUL, along with his motorcycle. A DNA sample has been collected for ascertaining the body is of Anuj. Monti had also thrown the deceased’s mobile phone in the Ganga Canal so that no one can trace his body’s location,” said Butola.The accused has been charged with Sections 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC.After a Covid-19 test, the accused was sent to a temporary prison in Roshanabad area of Haridwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-kills-friend-after-fight-over-rs-200-for-alcohol-cops/story-OtEnWq1RTXeYshGhcmFvVM.html
24-09-2020||India||Centre’s eSanjeevani records 3 lakh out-patient consultations in 6 months||The Union ministry of health and family welfare’s tele-consultation platform, eSanjeevani, has completed 3 lakh out patient department (OPD) consultations within the past six months since its launch.The ministry started a patient-to-doctor tele-consultation facility in India to manage patient rush during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak when healthcare services were partially running.“This has helped in containing the spread of Covid-19 by ensuring physical distancing, and has simultaneously enabled provisions for non-Covid essential healthcare. The number of high tele-consultations is a testimony of its popularity among the citizens,” said the health ministry in a statement.The total number of states and union territories using eSanjeevani has gone up to 26. Around 4,600 doctors have been trained in using the platform efficiently, and on an average at least 6,000 consultations per day are recorded in its national network.With 1,29,801 digital interactions, Tamil Nadu has held the largest number of tele-consultations so far. The state had been a pioneer in the field, registering 32,035 OPD consultations by August 9, and 56,346 consultations by the 19th of the same month.Tamil Nadu had also registered nearly one lakh consultations (97,204) by September 8. The platform had provided essential healthcare to the state, one of the worst affected by Covid-19, at a critical time when conventional medicine was perceived to be risky owing to the nature of the infectious disease.Tami Nadu is followed by Uttar Pradesh (96,151 consultations), Kerala (32,921 consultations) and Uttarakhand (10,391 consultations). These four States account for almost 90% (2,69,264) of the total tele-consultations.“The aspect that makes eSanjeevani telemedicine platform special is that the operations and management of the platform has been organised in a very methodological manner. A close and an efficient connection is maintained between the states and the implementing agency (C-DAC Mohali). This enables quick feedback from the users which helps the implementing team to make quick optimisations. Accordingly, eSanjeevani is not only consistently increasing with respect to its efficiency and productivity but it is also getting enriched with newer functionalities and features as required by the users in the states,” read the health ministry statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-esanjeevani-records-3-lakh-out-patient-consultations-in-6-months/story-sadQ8qJbGzjEQOplvOT4RP.html
24-09-2020||India||Plasma therapy treatment yields mixed results in Uttarakhand hospitals||The use of convalescent plasma therapy in coronavirus-infected patients in Uttarakhand hospitals has thrown up different responses after almost two months of starting the process.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has allowed convalescent plasma to be used for moderately ill Covid-19 patients.Convalescent plasma therapy involves extraction of plasma from the blood of Covid-19 patients four weeks after they have been cured of their viral infection. The extracted plasma is injected into Covid-19 patients. The antibody that develops in a recovered patient helps other Covid-19 patients to fight the virus.Dr Shashi Upreti, in-charge for plasma therapy and blood bank at Government Doon Medical College Hospital said that since plasma therapy treatment started in the hospital around August 1, around 1200 Covid-19 positive patients have recovered, but very few patients have come forward to donate plasma. “Since the treatment started, we have called 1200 patients of which only 25 patients agreed to donate. When these 25 were screened, only eight patients tested positive for antibodies (enough antibodies for donating plasma) and seven have donated so far. But this is still very low as these are only the patients who have been discharged from our hospital. We would get more people, if antibody screening is done in containment zones as more people would test positive there and would have developed antibodies,” said Dr Upreti. In Nainital district’s Susheela Tiwari Hospital, the main referral hospital of Kumaon, which has also been conducting plasma therapy treatment, the response has been better. Dr Saloni Upadhyay, in-charge of blood bank at Susheela Tiwari Hospital, said that around 170 recovered Covid-19 patients were screened of which approximately 150 tested positive for antibodies. “We had screened around 170 patients of which around 150 tested positive for antibodies and around 20 people did not have enough antibodies. All these 150 people have donated plasma at Susheela Tiwari Hospital,” said Dr Upadhyay. In Nainital district, 89 patients have recovered so far through plasma therapy treatment, informed the district administration. Savin Bansal, district magistrate of Nainital, said that after getting cured people are being made aware and encouraged to donate plasma. “A Google spreadsheet Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping has been prepared by which recovered patients are being identified region-wise and ward-wise, after which they are being counselled and encouraged to donate plasma,” said Bansal. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, the third hospital following plasma therapy treatment in the state said that they are getting a good response but not all recovered patients have a sufficient amount of antibodies needed for plasma donation. Dr Geeta Negi, in-charge of plasma bank at AIIMS in Rishikesh, said that approximately 60 people have donated plasma through which 53 people have been treated so far. “We take plasma from recovered patients only after testing for antibodies. These have been taken from patients who recovered at the hospital, or walk-in patients, then sometimes we get calls from people willing to donate plasma; so the number of people who have been screened is scattered, but the response has been good. We have rather had to turn down people as they did not have enough antibodies,” said Negi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-treatment-yields-mixed-results-in-uttarakhand-hospitals/story-cy3Be6Q6A5m3cgiZD1C0iK.html
24-09-2020||India||No refund on lockdown flights originating outside India, Centre clarifies||Refund of air tickets for international travel during the lockdown period will be restricted only for flights originating from the country (ex-India) and will not extend to flights scheduled to arrive in India, irrespective of whether they are Indian or foreign carriers.The latest clarification from the Centre came on an affidavit filed by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in answer to queries put forth by the Supreme Court hearing a petition by Pravasi Legal Cell.On Wednesday, a three-judge bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, had asked the Centre to respond to concerns raised by the petitioner and travel agents association who were not happy with the refund scheme proposed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) and DGCA in consultation with airline operators and travel agents.The scheme, which is awaiting the nod from the apex court, proposed immediate refund for tickets booked during the lockdown period (March 25 to April 14). For tickets booked prior to March 25 for travel up to May 24 (as calibrated domestic operations recommenced from May 25), the airline was liable for refund within 15 days.In the event of financial difficulty, the scheme proposed a credit shell in the name of the passenger that could be availed for travel on any route within March 31, 2021. Interest of 0.5 per cent till June 2020 and thereafter 0.75 per cent would accrue on the credit shell that will be transferable and if unused, will be paid back to the passenger with interest after March 31, 2021.Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for the petitioner Pravasi Legal Cell, told the court that with regard to international travel, the scheme restricted the refund and credit shell benefit only to ex-India flights and not flights originating from other destinations into India.“During lockdown, many Indians stranded abroad booked tickets in India through their relatives and this scheme does not consider their plight after the flights stood cancelled during lockdown,” said advocate Jose Abraham, who filed the petition for the Pravasi Legal Cell. This group represented many such Indians working in the Gulf countries.The DGCA responded in the negative to the petitioner’s demand in its latest affidavit filed on Thursday. It said, “The ambit of the regulatory mechanism of the DGCA does not cover international flights, which originate from any foreign destination. It is stated that the said flights are governed by the regulatory mechanism of the country of origin, irrespective of the fact whether the carrier is Indian or not.”Further, the affidavit stated, “It is reiterated that the issue of refund of tickets/credit shell of such international flights would be governed by the law of such sovereign country from where such international flights originate.”The affidavit also responded to the demand made by travel agents to create the credit shell in their name as the tickets booked by them were in bulk with the passengers, most of them situated overseas, yet to make payments. The DGCA said that the Civil Aviation Requirements identifies the passenger in whose name the ticket is booked. Tickets booked by travel agents in bulk form part of a private arrangement between the travel agent and the airline which is out of the regulatory purview of the DGCA, the affidavit said.“The applicable Civil Aviation Requirements (CARs) have been issued for ensuring the protection of the passengers and emphasising the role of airlines in facilitating the same. It is humbly submitted that, the regulation of private arrangements of travel agents is not covered by these CARs, as it is beyond the regulatory purview of DGCA/MoCA….Thus it would neither be feasible nor advisable for the DGCA/MoCA to regulate and supervise such private arrangements between the airlines and the agents,” the affidavit stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-refund-on-lockdown-flights-originating-outside-india-centre-clarifies/story-CzSXcevWF7LQ387xodMuxO.html
24-09-2020||India||AgustaWestland scam: Court to pass order on cognisance of charge sheet on September 25||A Delhi Monday reserved order on whether to take cognisance of a supplementary charge sheet against British National Christian Michel James and businessman Rajeev Saxena in the AgustaWestland chopper scam.Special Judge Arvind Kumar reserved order for September 25 after the public prosecutor, appearing for the CBI, submitted his argument that there was enough material to proceed against both the alleged middlemen as well as 13 others in the case.  According to sources, the probe report filed on Friday details the alleged role played by the accused in bringing bribes for politicians, bureaucrats and Indian Air Force (IAF) officials.The sources said that the CBI, which had earlier this year sought sanction from the authorities concerned to prosecute former defence secretary Shashi Kant Sharma, has not named him as an accused since the request has not been granted yet.The agency told the court that it may file another supplementary charge sheet in the matter later.The first charge sheet in the case was filed in September 2017 naming former IAF chief SP Tyagi and others.The agency had earlier told the court that “during the course of investigation, copies of classified/ secret official documents of Indian Air Force (IAF)/ Ministry of Defence (MoD) such as Operational Requirements for VVIP helicopters before issuance of Request of Proposal and other incriminating documents running into more than one lakh pages received from Italy and Switzerland”.It had also said that a “payment sheet” recovered from Michel, prepared on his dictation, shows that an amount of 30 million euro was paid/ proposed to be paid to the officers of IAF, MoD, bureaucrats, politicians and family in India for showing favour in the VVIP helicopter deal.Michel had entered into as many as five contracts through two of his firms to legitimise the illicit commission/ kickbacks on the procurement of VVIP helicopters by MoD, India, the CBI said.“An amount of 42.27 million euro was paid by the Westland Group Companies to the firms of the applicant as kickbacks/ bribes without undertaking any work against the receipt of such amount,” it said.It said that out of the kickbacks received from AgustaWestland, Michel further made payments to various persons in India.Michel was taken into custody by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on December 5 last year after his extradition from Dubai, while the ED took him into custody on December 22 last year. He is currently in judicial custody in both cases.Dubai-based businessman Saxena was extradited to India on January 31, 2019 in connection with the scam relating to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland.ED had earlier arrested Saxena but he was later granted bail after the agency supported his plea to turn approver in the case.The agencies had told the court that Michel made 24.25 million euro and 1,60,96,245 pound from the now-scrapped AgustaWestland deal.The CBI has alleged that the deal signed in February 2010 to supply VVIP choppers worth 556.262 million euro caused an estimated loss of 398.21 million euro (about Rs 2,666 crore) to the state exchequer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agustawestland-scam-court-to-pass-order-on-cognisance-of-charge-sheet-on-september-25/story-cmjIZqJTpqgdCHJ04s5UWM.html
24-09-2020||India||NIA grills Kerala CM’s former aide for third time in gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday questioned Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary and senior IAS officer M Sivasankar, for eight hours in Kochi in the gold smuggling case before letting him off, a senior officer familiar with the probe said. This is the third time he was questioned by the NIA but he hasn’t been given a clean chit, he said. He was summoned after the NIA had retrieved some vital information from the phones and a laptop computer of one of the main accused Swapna Suresh which she had deleted before her arrest, the officer said. The NIA had recently retrieved 2,000 GB data from four of her mobiles and computer and it wanted to cross-check some of the earlier statements given by both. He said both were questioned simultaneously. Sivasankar, who was close to the CM, was suspended after his alleged proximity with Swapna Suresh surfaced. Sivasankar came under the scanner after the seizure of 30 kg gold from a consignment that came in the name of an employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. After the seizure, there were reports that some officials at the CM’s office allegedly pressurised the Customs department to release the consignment. But Sivasankar reportedly told investigators that although he knew some of the accused including Swapna Suresh he was not aware of their smuggling background. There were also media reports that he was instrumental in appointing Suresh as a business development manager with the Kerala Information Technology Infrastructure Limited and he helped her arrange a room in an apartment outside the state secretariat which the accused allegedly used for smuggling activities. After Swapna Suresh’s arrest in July, the Customs seized Rs one crore cash and two kg gold from her bank locker. Later it found that the locker was jointly operated by Sivasankar’s chartered accountant and Suresh. The chartered accountant reportedly told the NIA that he was asked to do so by Sivasankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-grills-kerala-cm-s-former-aide-for-third-time-in-gold-smuggling-case/story-YqklirBGW8CIe2pseCBWXI.html
24-09-2020||India||CBI raids 3 in 2019 Vellore Lok Sabha cash-for-vote case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case in connection with the alleged cash-for-vote scandal in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and conducted raids on a senior manager of Canara Bank and two private persons. The alleged irregularities date back to March-April 2019 during the poll campaign in the Vellore Lok Sabha constituency, where DMK member of parliament DM Kathir Anand locked horns with the AIADMK-backed Puthia Neethi Katchi candidate AC Shanmugam when the Income Tax (IT) officials held surprise checks.The Election Commission had cancelled the election at the constituency but when the re-election happened in August 2019, Kathir won the seat. After registering a case on September 22, CBI teams on Thursday raided the premises of M Dayanidhi, a former senior manager of Canara Bank, Vellore branch, and two private persons - Damodaran and Srinivasan. Srinivasan is said to be a DMK functionary and Damodaran is his relative. All three have been named as accused in CBI FIR. It is alleged that it was Damodaran who fetched a cache of Rs 11.48 crore unaccounted cash, in newly printed Rs 200 notes, kept in small bundles and that money was meant for distribution to voters in Vellore constituency during the election scheduled there on April 18, 2019.This money was recovered by the I-T department on April 1, 2019 from the cement godown of Damodaran. The money was allegedly issued from the currency chest of Canara Bank branch there. Allegedly, the CBI says, the cash in the bundles of Rs 200 denomination was obtained from Canara Bank’s currency chest in exchange for other currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 2000 denomination.The CBI FIR says that Dayanidhi facilitated the exchange by inducing another public servant and falsifying the accounts to obtain the bundles of Rs 200 notes abusing his official position as a public servant by violating the laid down rules and procedures of the Canara Bank.“Dayanidhi, being a public servant, in criminal conspiracy with other accused persons committed an act of criminal misconduct by extending undue favour to the other accused private persons Damodaran and Srinivasan. The currency was obtained for facilitating easy distribution of currency notes to the voters in the Vellore parliamentary constituency during the parliamentary election which was to be held on April 18, 2019 in turn promotes corruption,” the CBI said in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-raids-3-in-2019-vellore-lok-sabha-cash-for-vote-case/story-qbMp9iektRvAi7jPhOcnGL.html
24-09-2020||India||India underlines stability on ground ahead of fresh round of talks with China||India and China are set to hold another round of diplomatic and military talks to try and take forward the disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with New Delhi on Thursday pressing for stability at the friction points in Ladakh sector. A meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs is expected to be held before the seventh round of talks between military commanders, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The dates for both meetings are yet to be finalised, they said. The two sides had decided to have the next meeting of the corps commanders “at the earliest”, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “In parallel, the next meeting of the WMCC is also likely to take place soon,” he said, without giving details. The sixth meeting of the corps commanders, held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on September 21, ended inconclusively on the main issue of disengagement after more than 13 hours of talks. The commanders met after nearly 50 days, and the only headway was a rare joint statement from the armies of the two sides that said they had agreed to stop sending more troops to the frontline and to refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground. The external affairs ministry, which was part of the military talks for the first time on Monday, insisted that adhering to this agreement would be key for the upcoming talks. “Even as two sides work towards complete disengagement in all friction areas, it is at the same time also necessary to ensure stability on the ground,” Srivastava said. He added, “The way ahead will be to refrain from making any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, while the two sides continue their discussions to achieve complete disengagement in all friction areas and to ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” Srivastava also highlighted that this was the first joint statement issued after any meeting of the corps commanders, and it reflected the “stated commitment of both sides to disengage along the LAC”. Disengagement, he pointed out, is a “complex process that requires redeployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”, and this would require “mutually agreed reciprocal actions”. The last meeting of the corps commanders provided them an opportunity to have candid and in-depth exchanges on stabilising the situation along the LAC, he said. The two sides also decided to strengthen ground communications to avoid any further misunderstandings and misjudgements, and to avoid any actions that may complicate the situation, he said. The people cited above said India would stick to its demand for a comprehensive disengagement at all friction points, instead of a piece-meal approach suggested by the Chinese side. India will also insist on restoration of the status quo as it existed in April so that the ultimate goal of de-escalation along the LAC can be achieved, the people said. China has been asking India to withdraw its troops from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake as a prerequisite for disengagement at other friction points but this has been ruled out by the Indian side. Before the last corps commanders’ meeting, the defence ministers of the two sides met in Moscow on September 4 and this was followed by talks between the two foreign ministers, also in Moscow, on September 10. The foreign ministers had reached agreement on a five-point roadmap for comprehensive disengagement in all the friction areas. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said that with the border standoff now into its fifth month and winter about to set in, the endeavour by both sides appeared to be to prevent any further escalation. “However, I still take comfort from the desire on both sides to prevent further escalation, to ensure stability and to continue talking. It is a positive sign at the political level that there is a similar message from both sides – that there is no question of an armed conflict and peaceful negotiations are the way forward – though there is little less clarity in the messaging from Chinese side,” he said. “Combined with the onset of winter and some luck, there will be no further escalation while we await a breakthrough. Both sides need more time to resolve these complex matters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-underlines-stability-on-ground-ahead-of-fresh-round-of-talks-with-china/story-u54kjGuce1HuJEn2PPYQCI.html
24-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Will put coronavirus in lockdown and hold Durga puja, says Mamata Banerjee and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Will put coronavirus in lockdown and hold Durga puja’: Mamata BanerjeeChief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday rolled out plans on how to hold the Durga puja – the biggest festival in West Bengal – during the coronavirus pandemic, while showering sops on thousands of puja organisers and hawkers. Read moreNIA, probing Bengaluru riots cases, raids 30 locations, arrests Sayed Saddiq Ali who the agency says is key conspiratorAccording to the NIA, 44-year-old Ali is a key conspirator in the riots which ravaged the city last month. Four people were killed in the violence, including three in the police firing. Read moreKashmiri lawyer Babar Qadri shot dead in Srinagar by unidentified gunmenUnidentified gunmen shot dead Kashmiri lawyer Babar Qadri in Hawal area of Srinagar on Thursday. Qadri was rushed to the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) hospital in Srinagar where doctors declared him ‘dead on arrival’, according to a report. Read moreIPL 2020: KL Rahul breaks Sachin Tendulkar’s massive record, becomes fastest Indian batsman to 2000 runs in Indian Premier LeagueKings XI Punjab captain KL Rahul on Thursday became the fastest Indian batsman to reach 2000 IPL runs. Rahul achieved the feat in IPL 2020 match No.6 against Royal Challengers Bangalore in Dubai. Read moreUtopia review: Amazon’s hyper-violent conspiracy thriller about a pandemic is relevant, but ramblingUtopia review: John Cusack makes his full-fledged TV debut with Amazon’s hyper-violent conspiracy thriller show, about a pandemic. It’s relevant, but also rather rambling.Read moreSiddhant Chaturvedi’s sizzling warm-up in Goa will brush aside your mid-week blues | WatchFitness enthusiasts left smitten as Siddhant Chaturvedi gives fans a glimpse of his robust ‘warming-up’ ahead of shooting Shakun Batra’s next in Goa, alongside Deepika Padukone and Ananya Panday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-will-put-coronavirus-in-lockdown-and-hold-durga-puja-says-mamata-banerjee-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qrolgLaZBqJ7ERRnmCGnPP.html
24-09-2020||India||Goa Police ‘lose track’ of 366 foreigners who jumped bail since 2015||The Goa Police has lost track of 366 foreigners who were enlarged on bail between 2015 and the first half of 2020, according to data collated by the state home department and submitted in the High Court.The foreigners who have mostly been arrested under sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act have been released on bail often with the condition that they report to the police station regularly or keep the local police station informed about any trips outside the state or country. The absconding foreigners make up 90% of foreign nationals who were enlarged on bail pending trial and have fled the country or otherwise made themselves scarce and not available to face prosecution. A bulk of them are from the North Goa district. The Superintendent of Police (North) has revealed to the court that the police in his jurisdiction lost track of 32 foreign nationals in 2015, 40 in 2016, 65 in 2017, 87 in 2018, 59 in 2019 and 22 up to August 31 this year.The Anti-Narcotics Bureau of the Goa Police said it lost track of 3 undertrials in 2015, five in 2016, eight in 2017, nine in 2019 and eight in 2019.The Superintendent of Police (South) said he lost track of 16 foreigners during the same period while the Crime Branch said they had no track of 20 such foreigners facing trial since 2015.“It is evident that in almost 90% of the cases where the foreigners have been enlarged on bail, their present whereabouts are unknown meaning thereby, that in all probabilities such foreigners have fled the country or otherwise not available to face the prosecution,” the Bombay High Court at Goa division bench of Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar said. These foreigners are mainly Nigerians but also include Kenyans, Tanzanians, Ghanaians, Israelis and Russians.“If the concerned police officials were to realise that the foreigners are not attending the police stations and marking their attendance, the least that was expected was to move the courts for cancellation of bail. Besides, the police officials were required to immediately swing into action and trace such foreigners, before they succeed in fleeing from justice,” the High Court said. “From the statistics furnished, at least prima facie impression is created that the police agencies have treated this matter absolutely casually. We reiterate that if this continues, then, the administration of criminal justice in this State will be very seriously affected,” the judges noted. The High Court was initially hearing an appeal filed by the State against the acquittal of one Pavel Neuhausel, a Czech national who was arrested on charges of murdering his partner Marketa Horka in 2013. After his initial acquittal by the trial court of the murder, Neuhausel was enlarged on bail while the state challenged the acquittal in the High Court. However, during the hearing of the acquittal it came to light that Neuhausel had fled the country. Back in 2013 Neuhausel was found in an unconscious state alongside the railway tracks at Cansa Tivim in North Goa and told the police that he was kidnapped, assaulted and dumped by the railway line. When the police broke into his room at the guest house where he was staying, they found his murdered partner lying in a pool of blood. He was arrested for the murder.“We found that the police agencies were not at all serious, either in apprehending the accused or even in fixing any responsibility upon the police officials who were responsible for the accused jumping the bail and fleeing the country,” the High Court observed. “This is a serious issue affecting the administration of criminal justice. If this continues, then, it will have a very serious effect upon the administration of criminal justice in the State of Goa,” the High Court said.No one in the government was willing to come on record about the court’s observations. But Goa’s Advocate General Devidas Pangam said the government will file a reply in response to the Court’s orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-police-lose-track-of-366-foreigners-who-jumped-bail-since-2015/story-CljHcbE8sIX01FYX4KCiTK.html
24-09-2020||India||Repeat post-mortem of 3 Maoists killed in encounter, says Telangana court||The Telangana high court on Thursday directed that the state government order a repeat post-mortem of the bodies of three Maoists, including two women, who were killed in an exchange of fire with the special party police forces in Bhadradri Kothagudem district on Wednesday night.Acting on a petition filed by senior advocate P Raghunath on behalf of the Civil Liberties Committee, the high court directed that the bodies of the three slain Maoists, which were already handed over to their family members, be taken back and kept in a freezer at Kothagudem government hospital.The court directed that the government take steps for conducting a second post-mortem of the bodies by forensic experts belonging to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital, Warangal. “The entire process of post-mortem should be video-graphed and the report should be submitted to the court in a sealed cover,” the court said and posted the case to October 5 for further hearing.In the morning, the Civil Liberties Committee moved a lunch-motion petition before the high court requesting that a comprehensive inquiry be ordered into the killing of three Maoists in an alleged encounter with the police in Chennapuram forest areas of Charla block in Bhadradri Kothagudem district.Alleging that it was a fake encounter, the petitioner demanded that cases should be filed against the police involved in the killing of the Maoists under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. The committee also wanted that a revised autopsy be conducted on the bodies of the Maoists under the supervision of forensic experts either at Warangal or Hyderabad.Meanwhile, Bhadradri Kothagudem superintendent of police Sunil Dutt said the bodies of the three Maoists who were killed in the encounter were identified and their bodies were handed over to the relatives.The slain Maoists were identified as: Sodi Jogaiah (25), a local guerrilla squad member of Kishtarampadu village, Madakam Malli (22), a member of Chennapuram squad who had worked in protection team of Telangana state Maoist party member Azad alias Koyyada Sambaiah and Madakam Mangi (24) an LGS member of Bhuvanagiri village.The SP said Jogaiah was involved in as many as 26 cases including killing of four people accusing them of police informers in the last three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeat-post-mortem-of-3-maoists-killed-in-encounter-says-telangana-court/story-Y66ifOwt58WTdCdlbT7tQL.html
24-09-2020||India||Odisha man applies for Aadhaar card more than 20 times but still doesn’t get it||Six months after a man in Odisha’s Kandhamal district lodged a complaint in Lok Adalat after failing to get his Aadhaar card after more than 20 attempts, the hearing in the case is yet to begin.Jitendra Sethi, a 33-year-old daily wage labourer from Khetapaju village under Khejuripada block of Kandhamal district had first queued up for an Aadhar card six years ago at the local tehsil office along with his parents Maheswar Sethi and Balmati Sethi and wife Laxmi Sethi. While his parents and wife managed to get their Aadhaar card, he could not get it. He tried enrolling again at the Aadhaar enrolment camp in Banaskumpa gram panchayat office six months later, but still could not get it. His three daughters, the last one Ekisha born 2 years ago, too has got her Aadhar card after getting her details enrolled in the UIDAI database.But Sethi has remained unlucky as his name failed to make it to the database. “When I first enrolled for the Aadhaar number six years ago along with my father, I thought I would get it quickly which would enable me to get a bank account as it is mandatory. My parents and wife got it, but I was unlucky,” said Sethi.The lack of Aadhaar card has made Sethi ineligible for getting the food grain under National Food Security Act (NFSA) that he is supposed to get every month. While the family is supposed to get 25 kg of rice every month for five-members of his family, they get 20 kg rice only. After getting rejected about 10 times, Sethi met the sub-collector who reportedly asked him to apply again, but for inexplicable reasons his application was again rejected. “I was asked to approach the Odisha Computer Application Centre in Bhubaneswar. But I am a daily wage labourer. How can I sacrifice my day’s wage to go to Bhubaneswar?” said Sethi.Frustrated over his attempts in getting an Aadhaar card, Sethi filed a case in the Lok Adalat in March this year, but the hearing in the case is yet to take place.In Odisha, Aadhar enrolment is necessary for getting several benefits like pension as well several state welfare schemes.Officials in Kandhamal district administration said they have to look into the applications of Sethi before commenting on it. Uppara Narendranath who is in charge of UIDAI’s Aadhaar enrolment for Odisha, said he would not be able to comment on it without looking into the case records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-applies-for-aadhaar-card-more-than-20-times-but-still-doesn-t-get-it/story-WhoVUjdPpG5LpM2fcJEUwN.html
24-09-2020||India||‘Will put coronavirus in lockdown and hold Durga puja’: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday rolled out plans on how to hold the Durga puja – the biggest festival in West Bengal – during the coronavirus pandemic, while showering sops on thousands of puja organisers and hawkers.“We will surely organise the Durga puja this year. We have to avoid crowds at any cost because vultures are sitting out there to blame us if we don’t allow the puja or if any spike occurs after the puja. They have no responsibility,” she said while launching a veiled attack against the opposition.“We will put coronavirus in lockdown and hold the puja this year,” the CM said. This year more than 37,000 pujas would be organised across the state, including more than 2,500 in Kolkata and around 1,700 pujas which are organised by women. The list doesn’t include those organised inside housing societies and houses. “We are facing hardships and are running short of funds. We have spent more than Rs 2,500 crore. But I know puja committees are in problem and the state would provide you a grant of Rs 50,000 each. I know the finance secretary would be angry. But I would request him to give 81,000 hawkers Rs 2,000 each for the puja month,” said Banerjee.Here is a list of what you can expect this time: * No Immersion Carnival on Red Road this year. * No cultural programs during puja days * Masks, sanitisers to be made mandatory within a radius of 500 metres of every pandal. * More airy and open pandals with special stress on physical distance. Clubs to deploy more volunteers. * Process of selecting the best pujas and awarding them to be done virtually. * Permission for pujas to be done online* Puja organisers need not pay the fees to the civic body and fire brigade. Power supply fees slashed to 50%* Pandal hopping allowed at night for nine days* Puja inauguration to be done in a small scale and mostly virtually The chief minister also announced a few sops for the civic volunteers and ASHA workers. While the festive season has already started with the Mahalaya and Viswakarma puja on September 17, the Durga puja would be held between October 22-25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-put-coronavirus-in-lockdown-and-hold-durga-puja-mamata-banerjee/story-wOoP9dzeInfPWupVl9YsbL.html
24-09-2020||India||Covid-19: 4,517 patients identified under Maharashtra’s ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed confidence that his government has launched My family- My responsibility campaign to strengthen the fight against Covid-19 in the state.Maharashtra CMO also posted the progress report of the “My Family My Responsibility” Campaign stating, 4,517 Covid positive patients have been identified from 37,733 suspected cases.“My Family My Responsibility campaign entails door-to-door survey for tracing & treating Covid-19 patients, identifying people with co-morbidities, raising awareness and educating citizens on safety measures to break the chain of transmission,” Chief Minister’s Office, Maharashtra tweeted. Moreover, 55,268 teams have been formed, 69.94 lakh households have been reached while 2.24 crore people have been checked.Maharashtra has reported 2,73,883 active Covid-19 cases, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-4-517-patients-identified-under-maharashtra-s-my-family-my-responsibility-campaign/story-i3QZAobiaF6yy3EPgoIP1L.html
24-09-2020||India||4, including 3 migrant labourers, killed in building collapse in Punjab town||Four people were killed in Punjab’s Mohali after a building collapsed on Thursday. The incident took place in Dera Bassi town, the district information and public relations office said.According to police sources, the two-storey building was under construction in the Mira Malli area of the town and its roof collapsed. The cave-in happened at around 9:30 am, they added.Three migrant labourers who were working inside the building are among the people who lost their lives. The building owner was also killed in the incident.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has announced ex-gratia of Rs two lakh to the kin of the deceased people.“District Administration along with @NDRFHQ team reached the spot but unfortunately, all 4 people trapped had succumbed to injuries,” Singh said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-including-3-migrant-labourers-killed-in-building-collapse-in-punjab-town/story-CPAdZrd9s5BQuhzhQZ3HHO.html
24-09-2020||India||Kashmiri lawyer Babar Qadri shot dead in Srinagar by unidentified gunmen||Unidentified gunmen shot dead Kashmiri lawyer Babar Qadri in Hawal area of Srinagar on Thursday. Qadri was rushed to the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) hospital in Srinagar where doctors declared him ‘dead on arrival’, news agency PTI reported.Qadri was recently suspended from the bar association. He sought his suspension to be revoked after the bar association president was released from his detention, which was in place since the abrogation of Article 370 in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.However, the bar association did not agree to his demand.Qadri was frequently seen on television, participating in debates. He never hesitated to take on prominent people of Kashmir.Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah condemned Qadri’s murder. “The assassination of Babar Qadri this evening is tragic & I unequivocally condemn it. The sense of tragedy is all the more because he warned of the threat. Sadly his warning was his last tweet,” Abdullah wrote on Twitter.Just hours before his death, the lawyer, during a Facebook live, had said that he had been receiving intimidating messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmiri-lawyer-babar-qadri-shot-dead-in-srinagar-by-unidentified-gunmen/story-wy0GUGnHhZUB5jmv7h9juL.html
24-09-2020||India||PM Modi, President Kovind and others mourn veteran nuclear scientist Sekhar Basu’s demise||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to veteran nuclear scientist Dr Sekhar Basu, who died due to the coronavirus disease.Dr Basu was the former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC).“Demise of veteran scientist Padma Shri Dr Sekhar Basu is a huge loss to the nation. A former chairman of Atomic Energy Commission, he was a stalwart of nuclear science research & immensely contributed to nuclear powered submarine INS Arihant. Condolences to his family & friends,” President Kovind tweeted, mourning Dr Basu’s demise.PM Modi said that Dr Basu played a key role in establishing India as a lead country in nuclear science and engineering.“I join the atomic energy fraternity in grieving the passing away of Dr. Sekhar Basu, a renowned nuclear scientist who played a key role in establishing India as a lead country in nuclear science and engineering. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends. Om Shanti,” he tweeted.The Padma Shri awardee had turned 68 just three days ago. Dr Basu was undergoing treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Kolkata, West Bengal.“Dr Basu was suffering from Covid-19 and other kidney ailments. He died at 4.50 am,” news agency PTI quoted an official of the hospital as saying.“Grieved to hear about the passing away of veteran nuclear scientist and former Atomic Energy Commission chairman, Dr Sekhar Basu. My condolences to his family and colleagues,” West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted.Dr Basu, a mechanical engineer, is known for his contribution to India’s atomic energy programme.Dr Basu is credited for pioneering the extremely complex reactor for India’s first nuclear-powered submarine INS Arihant. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-president-kovind-and-others-mourn-nuclear-scientist-sekhar-basu-s-demise/story-ODXVDokCxaaV31VRV8486I.html
24-09-2020||India||Assam launches gold scheme for brides from weaker section||The Assam government on Thursday launched a scheme to provide cash value of ‘tola’ (nearly 10 gm) of gold to newlywed brides from economically backward families. As per provisions of the Arundhati Gold Scheme, the state government provides Rs 40,000 to girls from families with an annual income of less than Rs 5 lakh, provided the marriage is registered under Special Marriage Act, 1954. Both the bride and groom have to attain legal age of marriage i.e. 18 for girls and 21 for boys and must have passed at least Class 10 to be eligible for the scheme. The bride can avail the benefit only for her first marriage. “The objective of this scheme is to facilitate the parents of the girl child who are economically not very sound, but like all other parents desire to give some gold, which is considered auspicious, to their daughters as gift at the time of marriage,” chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said while launching the scheme. The CM urged newlywed couples to get their marriages registered in order to uphold the dignity of the institution of marriage. Nearly 100 couples from 30 districts of the state were present at the launch ceremony on Thursday.According to government figures, a total of 1121 couples who had got married this year and had registered their marriages had applied for the scheme out of which 587 were found eligible. “I announced this scheme in my budget with the sole intention of empowering our sisters. Marriage registration can go a long way in securing the future of our sisters in their married life,” finance and health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-launches-gold-scheme-for-brides-from-weaker-section/story-kwuKUaiMsEGGCpvasuyQrK.html
24-09-2020||India||Bengal farmers to block highways on Friday to protest farm bills||Farmers in West Bengal will block roads and highways on Friday in protest against the farmers’ bills passed by the Parliament while the Congress and Left parties have demanded a special session of the state assembly to pass a resolution against the proposed laws. Several farmers’ organizations in different parts of the country have called for a Bharat Bandh call Friday in protest against the two bills.The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), the farmers’ arm of the CPI(M), has condemned the BJP government saying Parliamentary procedures, federal principles and rights of the states and farmers have been violated since the bills were passed without any debate or consultation. AIKS will organize mass resistance on September 25 in Bengal by blocking roads and highways at several locations Ashok Dhawale, the AIKS president has said in a statement that the bills were passed to please big corporate houses.Tapan Sen, general secretary of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), the trade union arm of the CPI (M) said, the organization will join the struggle of the peasants and agricultural workers. Industrial workers and unions of all affiliations will join the movement. Congress’s Abdul Mannan, leader of the opposition in the state assembly and CPI(M)’s Sujan Chakraborty, leader of the Left parties in the assembly, wrote a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday, asking her to convene a special session of the House and pass a resolution against the bills. “Let the government place the resolution. We will support it. The Trinamool Congress is holding agitation on this issue with other parties inside the outside the Parliament. We hope it will take a serious stand against the BJP in West Bengal as well on this,” said Mannan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-farmers-to-block-highways-on-friday-to-protest-farm-bills/story-m7JnVomDdNCOmpS4YmlHfK.html
24-09-2020||India||‘Witch-hunt by 3 central agencies’: Rhea Chakraborty to court||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, in jail for alleged offence of procuring drugs for her late boyfriend, on Thursday claimed before the Bombay High Court that a “witch hunt” has been unleashed against her by three central investigating agencies. She also argued that the investigation conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) was illegal as it had no jurisdiction to investigate the drug link to the untimely death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Counsel for the 28-year-old actor and her brother Showik, advocate Satish Maneshinde, submitted that the drug related case should also have been entrusted to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after the Supreme Court order of August 19 that allowed the Central agency to take over the case.Arguing Rhea and Showik’s bail applications, Maneshinde pointed out that on August 19 the apex court had directed that all cases relating to the death of the late actor should be transferred for investigation to the CBI, and since the drug trail being probed by the NCB was also linked to Rajput’s death, this case should also have been transferred to the said agency.Maneshinde maintained that the offences attributed by the NCB to Rhea and her brother were bailable, as admittedly those are related to small quantities and stringent provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS), 1985, like section 27A (financing illicit trafficking of drugs or harbours offenders), were not applicable to the case.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who represented the NCB, said they will reply to all the arguments advanced on behalf of the siblings. He, however, sought time to file an affidavit in reply to the bail applications by Rhea and Showik.Accordingly, justice Sarang Kotwal posted the bail applications for further hearing on September 29, when the court has posted applications of three other accused arrested by the NCB in the same case.In her application, Rhea has claimed that a witch-hunt has been started against her by engaging three central agencies for investigating cases, but two of those agencies have till date found no evidence against her or her family.“The applicant states that the respondents (read the Centre) have started a witch-hunt against her by the investigations at the behest of three Central agencies,” stated the bail plea of the actor.“The CBI and the ED till today have found no evidence against the applicant and her family members. The allegations have made no headway,” it said further, adding that the Narcotics Control Bureau, which is supposed to prevent international illicit trafficking of drugs, has been “brought specifically to somehow implicate her and her family.”The NCB started investigation into purported drug angle to the untimely death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput - who was found dead at his Bandra flat on June 14 - after WhatsApp chats revealed that ganja was regularly procured for consumption of the deceased actor.A long trail of drug peddlers and suppliers led to Rhea’s arrest by the anti-drugs agency on September 8. Her brother Showik is also arrested in the case. Both of them have moved the high court after their bail pleas were rejected by a special NDPS court on September 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/witch-hunt-by-3-central-agencies-rhea-chakraborty-s-lawyer-to-court/story-MIo45kv645vtXXjrrXjppK.html
24-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Mamata Banerjee announces guidelines for Durga Puja celebrations in Bengal||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced guidelines for the upcoming Durga Puja festival amid the Covid-19 spread in the country.According to the guidelines, the pandal needs to be open from all four sides for proper ventilation. Hand sanitisers will have to be mandatorily placed at entry points of pandals, and wearing of face masks will be binding.“Durga Puja Carnival will not be organised this year,” the chief minister announced. “Physical distancing needs to be maintained,” said Banerjee.Cultural programs inside the pandals are also not allowed in this year’s celebration.“Durga Puja committees to get Rs 50,000 each as a grant from the state government. 80,000 hawkers to receive one-time grant of Rs 2000 ahead of Durga Puja,” Banerjee also announced. Durga Puja is celebrated widely in India but in West Bengal especially, it is one of the biggest festivals. The week-long festivities will begin from October 22.Meanwhile, India recorded 86,508 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally to 57,32,518. The number of recoveries reached 46,74,987 while deaths cross 90,000 mark to reach 91,149.In West Bengal, there are 2,34,673 people infected with the deadly virus as of Wednesday, according to the figures published by the state health department. The number of fatalities stood at 4,544.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mamata-banerjee-announces-guidelines-for-durga-puja-celebrations-in-bengal/story-eh27VgXfjoipxQ3Yhl2wlN.html
24-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Bombay HC to hear Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik’s bail pleas on Tuesday||The Bombay High Court on Thursday adjourned hearing in bail petitions filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik in a drug case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The court will now conduct hearing on the bail requests on September 29, according to news agency ANI.Chakraborty had on Tuesday filed an application in the high court seeking bail in the drug case. On Wednesday, the court deferred the hearing for today due to incessant rains and flood-like situations in Mumbai, which continues to get worse.Chakraborty and her brother Showik were arrested earlier this month by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the drugs link in the Rajput’s death on June 14. According to the NCB, Chakraborty and Showik financed and arranged drugs for Rajput.The NCB has so far arrested over 10 people in the case. The agency on Wednesday served summons to four other actors - Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh. They have been named in NCB’s ongoing investigation into the drug angle in Rajput’s death. Khan, who flew in to Mumbai from Goa on Thursday, and Shraddha Kapoor will appear before the NCB on September 26, while Padukone has been summoned on September 25.The NCB, which started its investigation almost a month back, is the third central agency to launch a probe in connection with Rajput’s death. The case is also investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED), which are probing Rajput’s death and the money laundering allegations, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-bombay-high-court-to-hear-rhea-chakraborty-her-brother-showik-s-bail-pleas-in-drug-case-on-september-29/story-uTB8GzXsTxfxm2BDcQ8IKK.html
24-09-2020||India||Assam Police probing role of former IPS officer in question paper leak||Police in Assam are probing the role of a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer for his alleged involvement in leaking question paper for a written examination for the post of sub-inspectors (SIs). The examination to recruit 587 SIs was cancelled in 154 exam centres across the state on September 20 after the question paper was leaked and was found circulating on Whatsapp. Nearly 64,000 applicants were scheduled to appear for the examination. Immediately after the matter came to light, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who holds the home portfolio, directed the police to conduct a detailed inquiry and nab the culprits responsible for the leak. The criminal investigation department (CID) of police has lodged an FIR and is investigating. On Wednesday, police teams conducted raids at five hotels in Guwahati reportedly owned by retired deputy inspector general (DIG) of Assam Police PK Dutta as well at his residence at Hengrabari area of the city. The raids continued on Thursday as well. It is alleged that Dutta, who is absconding with his family, had some role in the leaking of question paper as well in conducting a secret exam for nearly 100 applicants at two separate places in Guwahati a day ahead of the actual exam. Police are also investigating the roles of a senior Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) functionary and a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader as well for their roles in the question paper leak. Both parties are part of the ruling coalition in Assam. “No one involved in this conspiracy will be spared and exemplary punishment will be meted out. My instructions to the police have been clear - nab the culprits and ensure a free and fair recruitment process,” Chief Minister Sonowal told journalists on Thursday. Till Wednesday, the CID had arrested three persons for their involvement in the question paper leak. Several others were picked up for questioning . Seven more people were arrested on Thursday in connection with the case taking the total number of arrests to 10.The written exam, which was cancelled following the question paper leak, will be held next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-probing-role-of-former-ips-officer-in-question-paper-leak/story-serGqfgwfijSHI8uUW6cFL.html
24-09-2020||India||Six months since lockdown: Strides in testing, vaccine devt but Covid crisis far from over, say scientists||From 500 cases to 57 lakh. Six months after a nationwide lockdown, Covid-19 is spreading fast across the length and breadth of India with more testing and developments on the vaccine front but no clarity on when the disease will be controlled, say scientists.  On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown for the entire country, stating it was the only way to break the chain of infection. At the time, the number of people infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus was a little over 500 and the death toll 12.  Six months on, India has the second highest number of cases in the world after the US with a tally of 57.32 lakh cases, 86,508 people testing positive in a day and a total of 91,149 fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry figures on Thursday. As COVID-19 rages -- and even laypersons get conversant with the complexities of RT-PCR tests versus the cheaper but not so reliable rapid antigen tests -- US-based economist and epidemiologist Ramanan Laxminarayan said there is a “hidden epidemic” happening even as the pandemic spreads.He noted that the infection is spreading widely across all parts of the country, including into rural India, although the visibility is lower in places where testing is weak or inadequate.  “We will likely see some increases in states like UP and Bihar but only if RT-PCR testing increases. Right now, we have a hidden epidemic in many parts of the country which have weak health systems,” the director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy in Washington told PTI. “While the infection is spreading at a slower rate than if people were not taking precautions, it is definitely not under control,” Laxminarayan added.However, he expects the number of cases to start coming down in the next month or two as India approaches some sense of “population immunity”. As a substantial number of the population is infected and recovers from the disease, they are unlikely to spread the virus.“Given the precautions that are being taken both by the government and individuals, the epidemic has slowed down. This would mean that we would see a sustained plateau for a while before the cases start coming down,” Laxminarayan said. On March 23, a day before the prime minister announced the lockdown and two days before it came into force, India had tested 18,383 samples. Till September 22, this had gone up to at least 6,62,79,462 tests, both RT-PCR and rapid antigen.The recoveries have gone up to over 46 lakh people, pushing the national recovery rate to 81.55 per cent.  Immunologist Satyajit Rath sounded a note of caution and said India is still at the stage of spreading viral infection across communities.  “With global, international travel as the point of origin, the infection was first established in urban high-density localities, and is now spreading from those into the rest of the country, at widely varied speeds,” Rath, from the National Institute of Immunology (NII) in New Delhi, told PTI.The infection has never really been under control in India, he said.“The early harsh prolonged lockdown somewhat delayed the large-scale establishment of the infection. But ‘control’ has never been a possibility. So we are certainly going to see growth in the infection numbers for quite a long while yet,” Rath added.Immunologist Vineeta Bal concurred with Rath, saying the Indian government did not learn much despite experiences from other parts of the world and announced complete “draconian lockdowns” that were extended for long periods. “Leadership in the country lacked in its vision and could not get a sense of the ground realities for poor people; or maybe did not care,” Bal, from Pune’s Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, told PTI.“Because of major undermining of public health infrastructure for decades, our epidemic handling preparedness was very, very poor. That could have been the only justifiable reason for imposing the lockdown,” Bal added.Laxminarayan took a different view. He said there were many positives about the control strategy, including an early recognition of the threat faced by India, and an early lockdown though the implementation and planning could have been much better.    “The lack of early testing really cost the country. With better and more expanded testing early on, that India was fully capable of, the lockdown could have been more targeted rather than been nationwide.    “Since then, there has been much confusion on the scientific communication, including on the prospects for a vaccine and the utility of hydrochloroquine. The performance across different states has been very varied depending on their health system capacity,” he noted.Rath said the early harsh prolonged lockdown created more problems than it solved.“It somewhat delayed the large-scale establishment of the infection, but it did that at the disproportionately massive cost of disruption of already fragile livelihoods, of the economy, and of healthcare systems,” he explained. Bal also pointed out that India has been paying for its long-term neglect of healthcare infrastructure that should accessible to the poor and the needy.“While there have been serious efforts to build infrastructure, upgrade facilities in the past six months, what has been done is still not enough,” she added.Discussing the vaccine, on which rest the hopes of billions of people globally, the experts said there are almost 200 efforts across the world to build and test candidates. A large number, growing by the week, are in clinical trials of actual efficacy.In India, there are at least eight vaccine candidates being developed, two of which have entered Phase 2 trials or the penultimate stage.“In all likelihood, a number of vaccines will emerge. Optimistically, the first vaccines will probably be licensed by the end of this calendar year,” Rath said.   “Further, the first-generation vaccines are likely to provide significant but not complete protection, and it will not be clear how long protection will last and how well booster vaccination will work,” he said.Laxminarayan, also an affiliate professor at the University of Washington, added that it is too early to know if any of the vaccine candidates under development in India will play a major role in Covid-19 control in the country. “However, one should hope that,” he said.  “This is the first disease in human history, to the best of my knowledge, where candidate vaccine trials began in less than eight-nine months from the day the virus was identified and its sequence published. This is a major technological achievement,” Bal added.  The expert noted that in India the pandemic is unlikely to be over in the months to come, and the number of people getting infected will continue to rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-months-since-lockdown-strides-in-testing-vaccine-devt-but-covid-crisis-far-from-over-say-scientists/story-kg4PqcNMNTUWm089lsUamJ.html
24-09-2020||India||Ex-Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi in ICU after drop in oxygen level||Veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi was on Thursday admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH), following a drop in his oxygen saturation level. He had tested coronavirus positive last month. According to reports, the 85-year-old, who was admitted at a private cabin of the hospital, was shifted to ICU to monitor him effectively. His condition is stated to be stable now. “Visited the new ICU of GMCH to see ex-CM Tarun Gogoi, enquired about his health and prayed to God for his speedy recovery,” Assam Congress unit president Ripun Bora tweeted after visiting GMCH on Thursday. Gogoi, who was CM for three consecutive terms from 2001 till 2016, was tested as Covid-19 positive on August 26, following which he was admitted to GMCH. The Assam government constituted an eight-member team of doctors to monitor his health parameters regularly. There was a sudden drop in oxygen saturation level on August 31, but it again returned to normal after immediate intervention of doctors. Gogoi was tested negative for Covid-19 last week, but has been staying at GMCH till his health recovers completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-assam-chief-minister-tarun-gogoi-in-icu-after-drop-in-oxygen-level/story-2tgGevHl2N4wV54YD2UiVP.html
24-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Experts say second wave of Covid-19 at peak in Delhi, says CM Kejriwal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Experts say second wave of Covid-19 at peak in Delhi, says CM KejriwalThe second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is at its peak in Delhi right now, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday. He also said that “experts feel that number of cases will decline in the coming days”. Read moreJaishankar, NSA, Naqvi attend Saudi Arabia’s national dayAt a time when diplomatic receptions are a rarity, both External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval attended Saudi Arabia’s national day, reflecting the importance attached by India to its ties with the kingdom. Read moreB Narayan Rao, sitting Congress MLA from Bidar in Karnataka, dies due to Covid-19Basvakalyan Narayan Rao, the sitting Congress legislator from Bidar in Karnataka, died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was 66. Read moreDean Jones, former Australia cricketer and renowned commentator, passes away at 59Former Australia cricketer and renowned commentator Dean Jones passed away on Thursday following a massive cardiac arrest in Mumbai. He was 59. Read moreThe Taste with Vir | Supreme Court vs Sudarshan TV: Free speech isn’t setting fire to a communally complex nationWhen the Supreme Court first stopped the telecast of a Sudarshan TV programme which purported to show how Muslims were “infiltrating” government services, various people who might loosely be termed supporters of the government took to social media to express support for Sudarshan TV on grounds of freedom of speech. Read moreKia Sonet GTX+ variants’ price revealed, to offer style and plethora of featuresKia Sonet GTX+ variants will cost ₹12.89 lakh (ex showroom, pan-India). Read moreMan paraglides while sleeping in bed, takes nap mid-air. WatchHasan Kaval, a paraglider who captured people’s attention while soaring high on a sofa has again created a chatter on the Internet with his daring – and amusing – stunt. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-experts-say-second-wave-of-covid-19-at-peak-in-delhi-says-cm-kejriwal-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sSDR4f06960deV8z0GSBYO.html
24-09-2020||India||Covid +ve man finally operated 2 weeks after stabbing, thanks to Odisha rights body||A 21-year-old victim of stab wound, who was denied treatment in at least 10 private and government hospitals in Bhubaneswar over the last 12 days, was finally operated in a private hospital on Tuesday night following interventions by Orissa human rights commission.Ranjit Nayak, 21, of Chandrasekharpur area of Bhubaneswar was left seriously injured after his neighbours stabbed him on September 8 evening following a fight over theft of a mobile phone. As his anxious parents carried him to a private hospital in the city, their nightmare began as each of the hospitals they approached refused to treat him and kept him referring to another one.Finding no help from hospitals, Nayak’s brother approached the OHRC on Tuesday seeking prompt action following which the commission asked the Kalinga institute of medical sciences hospital in the city to immediately conduct surgery on the wounded youth while asking the authorities to explain why they failed to render treatment to a patient. He was finally operated on late Tuesday evening.In his petition, the injured youth’s brother, Pabitra Nayak had alleged that the victim was refused treatment by private and government hospitals in Cuttack and Bhubaneswar such as KIMS, SUM hospital, Vivekananda hospital, AMRI hospital, KIDS hospital, Shriram hospital, Ashwani hospital, Capital hospital, SCB medical college & hospital and AIIMS Bhubaneswar as Nayak had tested positive for Covid-19.Also Read: Orissa high court turns down rape survivor’s plea for medical termination of 25-wk pregnancyThe OHRC observed that the patient cannot be denied surgery citing Covid infection. The commission also asked the state health secretary to probe the alleged medical negligence and submit a report during its next hearing on October 15.Also Read: Covid awareness week to be observed in Odisha’s Ganjam district The petitioner in his complaint alleged that denial of treatment to a patient was a violation of his human rights that was guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution. He further alleged that the hospitals refused to conduct the surgery though the patient was free from Covid subsequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-ve-man-finally-operated-2-weeks-after-stabbing-thanks-to-odisha-rights-body/story-s2npEsdVLgn4KZWTlPWb8K.html
24-09-2020||India||Monsoon likely to begin withdrawing from west Rajasthan Monday onwards||Monsoon is likely to begin withdrawing from west Rajasthan Monday onwards, India Meteorological Department said on Thursday. It’s been delayed by a week compared to the normal date for commencement of monsoon withdrawal, they added. Widespread and heavy rain will continue in parts of Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and some northeastern states till September 26.The hot and humid conditions are also likely to reduce thereafter. “We are expecting rainfall to stop and moisture to reduce from next week because the low-pressure area over east Uttar Pradesh is likely to move further east. We don’t see the possibility of the development of any other system which could bring rain next week to the northwestern region,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre. Northwest India has a 15% rain deficiency as on Thursday since June 1; Delhi has a 19% rain deficiency. Also Read: Delhi sees driest September in 16 yearsThis year, monsoon rain over the country is 9% in excess as on Thursday.The monsoon season will officially end on September 30, but for IMD to declare commencement of monsoon withdrawal, rain should stop completely; water vapour should reduce and an anti-cyclonic wind pattern should be established, according to Sathi Devi.In September, northwest India recorded a 46.8% rain deficiency while south peninsula received 67.7% surplus rain; east and northeast India received 12.8% surplus rain; central India recorded a 6.1% rain deficiency.A low pressure area is lying over central parts of east Uttar Pradesh. It is likely to move east-northeastwards towards Bihar in the next three days. There is likely to be convergence of strong moist southerly/southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal over northeast and adjoining east India till September 26.There is a trough (area of low pressure) from north Madhya Maharashtra to the cyclonic circulation associated with low-pressure area over central parts of east Uttar Pradesh.Also Read: With 395 mm rain in 48 hrs, Mumbai monsoon its second wettest everUnder the influence of the above systems, widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh on September 24 and 25.Extremely heavy rain is also very likely over Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh on September 24; over Arunachal Pradesh and Assam and Meghalaya on September 24 and 25.In UP, Azamgarh recorded 30 cm of rain; Siddharthnagar 26 cm; Turtipar 20 cm; Jaunpur 18 cm; and Cherrapunji in Meghalaya recorded 27 cm between Wednesday morning and Thursday morning.The normal date for commencement of monsoon withdrawal from northwest India is September 17 and for complete withdrawal from the country is October 15, as per the new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates issued by IMD in April this year. Until last year, the normal dates for the commencement of withdrawal were September 1 and October 15 for complete withdrawal. The new onset dates are based on monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based on data from 1971 to 2019 analysed by scientists in IMD, Pune.Last year, the monsoon started withdrawing only on October 9 against the normal date of September 1 and prolonged rains brought a deluge to parts of Maharashtra, Kerala and Bihar in August when rainfall usually reduces. Monsoon withdrew completely only by October 17.In September, the country is 0.6% rain deficient. Since June 1, the country has experienced 8.1% excess rain, according to the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-begin-withdrawing-from-west-rajasthan-monday-onwards/story-azOkuovTzuOBXgl8pgKKmO.html
24-09-2020||India||Cross-border terror among key challenges for Saarc: Jaishankar||Cross-border terror, blocking connectivity and obstructing trade are the key challenges that the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) must overcome to ensure lasting peace and security in the region, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. Jaishankar made the remarks while addressing an informal virtual meeting of foreign ministers of the eight-member grouping, whose functioning has stalled because of differences between India and Pakistan. The meeting of the foreign ministers is an annual event held on the margins of the UN General Assembly (UNGA) in New York that has been marked by testy exchanges between India and Pakistan in recent years. Also read: India needs to invest in regional disaster relief mechanisms | Opinion“Cross-border terrorism, blocking connectivity and obstructing trade are three key challenges that SAARC must overcome,” Jaishankar said in a string of tweets highlighting the contents of his speech. “Only then will we see enduring peace, prosperity and security in our South Asia region,” he added.In his speech, he said: “Over the last 35 years, Saarc has made significant progress. But our efforts towards collective collaboration and prosperity have been hampered by acts of terrorism and threats to national security. “Such an environment impedes our shared objective of realising the full potential of our collective endeavour. It is, therefore, crucial that we collectively resolve to defeat the scourge of terrorism, including the forces that nurture, support and encourage it. “This will generate the much needed trust and confidence to collectively build a stronger and prosperous Saarc.”  Though he didn’t name any country, it was obvious he was referring to Pakistan. India has accused Pakistan of backing cross-border terror, especially in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K). After India created an emergency coronavirus disease (Covid-19) fund for Saarc states earlier this year, Pakistan asked for it to be placed under the grouping’s secretariat. Jaishankar said he had also reaffirmed India’s commitment to its “neighbourhood first” policy and towards building a connected, integrated, secure and prosperous South Asia. He also highlighted India’s Covid-19-related cooperation efforts, including a commitment of $10 million to the emergency fund for the region, the supply of essential drugs, medical consumables, and protection and test kits to the region, and a video conference of health professionals from the region to share information and best practices on the pandemic. India had also launched a Covid-19 Information Exchange Platform (COINEX) to facilitate exchange of specialised information, helped the development of an innovative website by the Saarc Disaster Management Centre to provide reliable information and updates on the evolving situation, and activated the Saarc Food Bank mechanism to mitigate the impact of the pandemic, he said. “And where we brought back our own people from afar, we had space both on the plane and in our hearts for our neighbours,” Jaishankar said. He also pointed to India’s support for neighbours, such as the extension of $150 million (m), $200 m and $400 m foreign currency swap support for the Maldives, Bhutan and Sri Lanka, respectively. In his address, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi spoke of his country’s “willingness to host the 19th SAARC Summit and for obstacles created in its way to be removed for SAARC to function as an effective instrument of regional cooperation”. The summit was scheduled to be held in Islamabad in November 2016 but was called off after an attack on an Indian Army camp at Uri in Kashmir that was blamed on Pakistan-based terrorists. Since then, Saarc has largely been dormant. Qureshi said Pakistan attaches great importance to Saarc and its charter, which upholds the principle of sovereign equality as the basis for meaningful regional cooperation. He also reiterated the need for a regional approach to stop the spread of Covid-19. In March, the Pakistani representative at a video conference of Saarc leaders on the Covid-19 situation had triggered a controversy by raising the Kashmir issue. That event had been organised at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s suggestion. At the time, Indian officials had said Pakistan’s move was unwarranted and an attempt to politicise a humanitarian issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cross-border-terror-among-key-challenges-for-saarc-jaishankar/story-8I4QKgOgqs50ktaa9BElPK.html
24-09-2020||India||B Narayan Rao, Congress MLA from Bidar in Karnataka, dies due to Covid-19||Basvakalyan Narayan Rao, the sitting Congress legislator from Bidar in Karnataka, died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was 66.Rao was admitted to Manipal hospital in Bengaluru on September 1. His condition deteriorated in the last few days.The hospital said that the MLA breathed his last at 3:55 pm on Thursday.Rao was critically ill with multi-organ failure and was in ICU (Intensive Care Unit) on multiple supports including ventilator, the hospital said in a statement. The lawmaker was under constant observation by an expert panel of doctors, the hospital said.“We deeply regret the loss and express our condolences to his family and friends,” said Manipal Hospital Director Dr Manish Rai, as quoted by PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/b-narayan-rao-sitting-congress-mla-from-bidar-in-karnataka-dies-due-to-covid-19/story-c8mA9fA9mY34iVB1JNqSZK.html
24-09-2020||India||Controversy around Sudarshan TV show ‘Bindas Bol’: All you need to know||The Supreme Court is hearing a case involving private TV channel Sudarshan News for a controversial show on alleged infiltration of Muslims into civil services examination conducted by Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).The Centre told the top court that it has issued a showcase notice to the news channel for the programme “Bindas Bol” where the focus is sudden rise in the number of Muslims in civil services; the channel calls it “UPSC Jihad”. Sudarshan News has been given time to file its reply by September 28.Here is everything you need to know about the issue:• Sudarshan News aired four episodes in the programme on September 11, 12, 13 and 14, 2020, and there are around six more episodes remaining to be broadcast in the programme series. The Supreme Court has put a pre-broadcast ban on the remaining episode till the time the case is decided.• The petition against the programme has been filed by a lawyer, Firoz Iqbal Khan, who submitted that “Bindas Bol” contained statements which were derogatory about the entry of Muslims into the civil services. In the programme’s trailer, which was widely shared on social media platforms, the anchor and editor-in-chief of Sudarshan News, Suresh Chavhanke, was seen questioning how there had been a sudden increase in the number of Muslims succeeding in Indian Administrative Service and Indian Police Service exams.• Khan has contended in his petition that such views were derogatory to Muslims, had a divisive potential and was in violation of the programme code spelled out under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act of 1995 which regulates television content.• Sudarshan News has maintained that the intention of the programme is not to vilify the Muslim community but to highlight the allegedly dubious sources of foreign funding received by an organisation that supports and provides coaching for civil service aspirants.• On September 21, the top court had pondered over the nature and extent of its order regulating “Bindas Bol” saying it did not want to “curtail” freedom of speech as the programme has “public interest” involved on issues of “foreign funding” and “reservation”.• The channel has urged the apex court to lift the stay on the telecast of the remaining six episodes of the controversial programme, saying the channel would abide by laws.• But the Centre tol the bench of justices DY Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and KM Joseph that it has served a four-page notice seeking a written submission from the channel regarding violation of programme code and why action should not be taken against it.• The bench has adjourned the hearing in the case till October 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-controversy-around-sudarshan-tv-show-bindas-bol-all-you-need-to-know/story-jDFY7NQjrpJlXmIDDTFv1H.html
24-09-2020||India||Haryana farmers, commission agents back Bharat Bandh against farm reform bills||Despite the passage of agriculture reform bills in Parliament, the protests in Haryana continue with several organizations gearing up to support the Bharat Bandh call on September 25.Farmer leaders said that several farmer organizations like Bharatiya kisan union (BKU), all India farmers union (AIFU), all India kisan sangharsh coordination committee (AIKSCC), all India kisan mahasangh (AIKM) have come on a common platform for the nationwide shutdown. Farmer leaders in Haryana are considering blocking the rail and road traffic in various districts of the state on the day, said leaders familiar with the developments.Farmer union leaders, including the BKU (Charuni) and BKU (Tikait) were holding meetings with leaders of different organizations like Ahritia’s (commission agents) association, transporters and shopkeepers to support the Bharat Bandh by keeping their shops shut from 10am to 4 pm. They claimed that all the mandis in the state had decided to remain shut and there will be no business on Friday.“In Haryana we have asked the farmers organizations, ahrtias and transporters to support the Bharat Bandh against the three agriculture bills passed by the centre by blocking the roads and taking out protest march in all the districts of the state,” said a BKU (Charuni) leader, who didn’t wish to be named. On reports that farmers may also block the railway lines, he said, “This is not yet confirmed where we will block the roads or railway lines but the protest will be successful as we have got huge support from several farmer organisations and ahrtia associations of the state”.BKU (Tikait) state president Ratan Mann said, “We will support the Bharat Bandh call for the fight of farmers of the country. The farmers and ahrtias will be on roads against the bills on Friday”.Also Read: Punjab farmers organise ‘rail roko’ agitation in protest against farm billsMann said that they are also requesting the shopkeepers, trade unions and employees unions to join the protests to protect the interests of the farmers and their coming generations.This will be the third such protest in the state in the past two weeks after the first protest was held in Pipli of Kurukshetra on September 10.The district administrations have been put on alert and deputy magistrates will be appointed to monitor the situation. “We will ensure that the protests remain peaceful and the movement of traffic on important roads like NH 44 does not get affected,” said Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.Also Read: ‘Those opposing agriculture bills are enemies of farmers’: Shivraj Singh ChouhanFarmers organizations are demanding amendments in the agriculture bills to provide a legal guarantee for minimum support prices (MSP).The BJP led Union government has assured farmers that the legislations are in their interest and the MSP regime is not being dismantled. Members of the ruling BJP were also taking out tractor rallies in their respective areas to tell the farmers that the legislations will not have any impact on the old mandi and MSP system but will give them greater freedom to discover the best price for their produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-farmers-commission-agents-back-bharat-bandh-against-farm-reform-bills/story-mh8GdTldi0sNPqfcUNJ0sN.html
24-09-2020||India||Experts say second wave of Covid-19 at peak in Delhi, says CM Kejriwal||The second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is at its peak in Delhi right now, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday. He also said that “experts feel that number of cases will decline in the coming days”.“From July 1 to August 17, cases were in control. We noticed that cases increased and it reached 4,500 new Covid-19 cases on September 17 and are now coming down. So experts are believing that the second wave of coronavirus which had hit Delhi is now on peak and its intensity will be less in the coming days,” news agency ANI quoted the Delhi chief minister as saying.Kejriwal also said that the daily testing of samples for Covid-19 has been increased in the national capital to 60,000 from the earlier 20,000 a day mark.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“When new Covid-19 cases were reported in the large number, we had controlled the coronavirus cases with the help of the central government, NGO, and Delhites. I want to thank everyone for their efforts,” Kejriwal said.Speaking about a high-level virtual meeting to review Covid-19 management with the Prime Minister, the chief minister said that it was fruitful.As of Wednesday, Delhi’s Covid-19 caseload is at 2,56,789, including 2,20,866 recoveries and 5,087 deaths, according to the figures published by the state health department.Since the last week of August, there has been a resurgence of Covid-19 infection in the city. However, for the last four days, the number of daily cases has been below the 4,000 mark, indicating a drop in the spread.The daily average test positivity rate for the infection too has dropped to 6.89 per cent in the seven days ending Wednesday, from 7.18 per cent recorded over the seven days before that.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 3,714 new Covid-19 cases and 36 deaths in the 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-say-second-wave-of-covid-19-at-peak-in-delhi-says-cm-kejriwal/story-iv8rjn3Dbsqz5Ba8HxikPM.html
24-09-2020||India||Jaishankar, NSA, Naqvi attend Saudi Arabia’s national day||At a time when diplomatic receptions are a rarity, both External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval attended Saudi Arabia’s national day, reflecting the importance attached by India to its ties with the kingdom. Besides Jaishankar and Doval, the event held at the Saudi embassy on Wednesday evening was also attended by minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi. Also read: Countries where Indians can’t travel and whyThis was only the second diplomatic reception held by a major embassy in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions, with the other being the national day event hosted by the Afghan embassy. While the NSA has attended both the Afghan and Saudi national day receptions in recent years, it is rare for both him and the foreign minister to join the same reception. The last time an external affairs minister had attended a diplomatic reception was in 2018, when late Sushma Swaraj had joined an event at the Russian embassy as the chief guest. In a message posted on Twitter, Jaishankar had extended greetings to his Saudi counterpart Prince Faisal bin Farhan al-Saud and the government on the national day. “Our expanding cooperation across so many sectors reflects the intrinsic strength of our ties. Look forward to further advancing our Strategic Partnership,” he said. Addressing Wednesday’s reception, Saudi envoy Saud Al-Sati said the kingdom valued India as a “close friend and an important strategic partner”, and the socio-economic engagement and strategic partnership between the two sides is based on mutual respect and shared interests. “Through the mechanism of the Strategic Partnership Council (SPC), we are working on further strengthening our partnership and deepening our friendship ... In the beginning of 2020, the kingdom of Saudi Arabia had awarded 41 new foreign investment projects to Indian investors,” he said. The ambassador said there is huge untapped potential in merchandise trade, particularly non-oil trade, and the two sides are enhancing cooperation in the commercial, investment and technological fields. “Current bilateral trade of approximately $34 billion will surely continue to grow,” he said. In recent years, India has ramped up its cooperation with Saudi Arabia, one of the country’s top two suppliers of energy, in fields ranging from security to technology. Saudi Arabia is home to 2.6 million Indians, the largest expatriate community in the kingdom. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-nsa-naqvi-attend-saudi-arabia-s-national-day/story-0av8L1dQLxiEFctwSgz52K.html
24-09-2020||India||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre and UPSC on plea filed by civil services aspirants seeking postponement of exam||Supreme Court on Thursday issued a notice to Centre and Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on a petition filed by civil services aspirants seeking postponement of exam in the wake of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and floods in the country.A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna will now hear the matter on September 28, according to a PTI report. The aspirants in their plea have sought the postponement of civil services 2020 examination for two to three months, citing incessant rains and flood situations in the country and the rising cases of Covid-19.The petition has been filed by 20 UPSC aspirants against the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination, which is scheduled to be held on October 4.“Conducting the aforesaid examination across India at such perilous time, is nothing else but putting lives of lakhs of young students (including Petitioners herein) at utmost risk and danger of disease and death,” the plea stated, according to PTI.The plea further said that since civil services exam is a recruitment examination, there would not be any delay or loss of any academic progress. The petition urged for the postponement of the exam stating that many aspirants are facing “unimaginable hardship” or “unsafe health conditions”.“Despite alarming spurt in Covid-19 pandemic, UPSC did not increase the number of Examination Centres, resulting into a situation where many candidates from rural areas will be forced to travel for around 300-400 Kilometres, in order to reach to their Examination Centres and there will be high probability of such aspirants, getting affected while using public transportation for such travel,” the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-s-notice-to-centre-and-upsc-on-plea-filed-by-civil-services-aspirants-seeking-postponement-of-exam/story-ej7Bl9wdFXx6Qo78iI6gRN.html
24-09-2020||India||College reopening: How UGC and state governments are planning to reopen campuses||After the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued a new academic calendar according to which the session for freshers in colleges and universities would begin from November 1, the Haryana government has allowed its colleges and universities to open from September 26 on a trial basis. In a communication to all colleges and universities, the state higher education department has directed them to complete all safety protocols related to Covid-19 and communicate the same by Friday.Schools partially reopened in a few states of the country on September 21.Here is what we know so far about the reopening of the colleges* Apart from Haryana, no state has yet declared any new date for the reopening of the colleges and universities. Assam reopened its schools and colleges on September 21.* The UGC had earlier mandated that all college and university final year examinations have to be held within September 30. As the respective state governments are looking for a way to conduct examinations in September, the West Bengal government urged the UGC to allow it more time. In West Bengal, final year examinations will be held in October and results will be out by October end so that new sessions can be started from November.* The last date for completing the college, university admission process is October 31. The last date for filling up all the vacant seats is November 30 — thus keeping time for Class 12 compartmental exam results. Admission process in many colleges is already on.* If state governments are not ready for reopening college campuses, classes will start online, UGC said.* There will be no summer, winter breaks — not for this academic session only. As the delay will affect the next session too, there will be no breaks in two academic sessions.* Schools in Bihar will reopen from September 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/college-reopening-how-ugc-and-state-governments-are-planning-to-reopen-campuses/story-SDKCP2iFaCxloyBS9PxvnN.html
24-09-2020||India||Telangana cop had Rs 70 crore in illegal wealth, unearth raids||The Anti-Corruption Bureau authorities in Hyderabad on Thursday arrested an Assistant Commissioner of Police, a day after conducting searches in his house that unearthed assets worth Rs 70 crore, which were disproportionate to his known sources of income. The ACB authorities produced Yelamakuri Narasimha Reddy, presently working as ACP in Malkajgiri under Rachakonda police commissionerate, before a special court for ACB cases in the Nampally criminal court complex. After medical tests, he would be remanded in judicial custody. According to an official release from ACB director general J Purna Chander Rao, the ACB authorities on Wednesday conducted searches simultaneously in about 25 locations in Hyderabad city, various places in Warangal, Jangaon, Nalgonda, Karimnagar districts, and also in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. During these searches, the authorities detected documents that showed that Reddy owned 55 acres of agricultural lands at Anantapur, four plots measuring 1960 square yards of land near Cyber Towers in Madhapur in Hyderabad, two other house plots, a four-storeyed commercial complex at Hafeezpet and two houses. “The searches also found unaccounted Rs 15 lakh in cash, two bank lockers and investments in real estate and other businesses at Reddy’s residence,” the director general said. He said the ACB had conducted searches based on the reliable information that Reddy had acquired assets disproportionate to his lawful sources of income by indulging in corrupt practices and dubious means during his service as a public servant. The searches went on till late on Wednesday night and the officials had examined and evaluated the documents recovered from the police officer. “The present market value of the properties detected by the authorities was around Rs 70 crore,” the ACB official said, adding that a case of DA was registered in this regard and investigation was going on. Narsimha Reddy, who joined the police department in 1991, had worked as inspector of police at Uppal, before being promoted to the rank of ACP only recently and posted at Malkajgiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cop-had-rs-70-crore-in-illegal-wealth-unearth-raids/story-xeplhC4Maog9M6CIbcDHGO.html
24-09-2020||India||‘Can’t leave demolished house the way it is’: Bombay HC to BMC on Kangana Ranaut’s plea||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut to file his reply to actor Kangana Ranaut’s petition against the demolition of a part of her bungalow in Mumbai by the BMC.A bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla also directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) H-ward officer Bhagyawant Late to file his reply to the plea.Late had signed the demolition notice served to Ranaut on September 7.On Tuesday, Ranaut’s lawyer senior counsel Birendra Saraf submitted in the court a DVD containing a speech in which Raut allegedly made a comment threatening the actress.Following this, the HC bench had permitted Ranaut to make both Raut and Late parties to the case.On Thursday, the bench said it will begin final hearing in the case on Friday.ALSO WATCH | Kangana’s ‘Bullywood’ jibe as NCB summons Deepika, others in Sushant’s case BMC’s senior counsel Anil Sakhre also sought more time for Late to file his reply.Justice Kathawalla said the bench will begin hearing the petitioner (Ranaut) on Friday and Raut could file his reply anytime before his turn to put forth his arguments in the court.The bench, however, directed the BMC to file the reply on Late’s behalf by Monday, saying it could not delay the hearing.‘Can’t leave demolished house the way it is’“We cannot leave the demolished house the way it is. The building is demolished partly, and in the heavy monsoon, we cannot leave it in this state. We will start hearing the petitioner tomorrow,” the bench said.Ranaut, in her plea filed in the HC on September 9, sought that the demolition carried out by the BMC at her Pali Hill bungalow be declared illegal.She subsequently amended her plea to demand Rs two crore as damages from the civic body and its officials.In her plea, she alleged that the BMC had demolished the bungalow out of personal vendetta, since she had made some comments adverse to the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government.The BMC in its affidavit filed in the high court denied the allegation.In the affidavit filed through advocate Joel Carlos, the BMC said Ranaut had carried out illegal structural changes and repairs at the bungalow, and the civic officers were merely following the law in demolishing unauthorised portions of the structure.The civic body had urged the high court to dismiss Ranaut’s plea and to impose a cost on her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-leave-demolished-house-the-way-it-is-bombay-hc-to-bmc-on-kangana-ranaut-s-plea/story-6Rz9vgqMSgXKN0FSNwLJdJ.html
24-09-2020||India||Airlines can decide baggage limitations for domestic flights, says civil aviation ministry||The Ministry of civil aviation on Thursday issued revised guidelines for domestic air travel, giving airlines permission to decide baggage limitation as per their respective policies.“The matter with regard to check-in baggage has been reviewed based on the feedback/inputs received from concerned stakeholders. Considering the convenience of the passengers, it has been decided to amend the existing provisions in this regard and baggage limitation would be as per the airlines’ policies,” the ministry noted in an official order.When domestic flight resumed operations from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, the ministry had allowed only one check-in baggage and one hand baggage per passenger. Currently, airlines have been allowed to operate not more than 60% of their pre-Covid domestic flights.International flights, meanwhile, have been under suspension since March 22. Only flights under the Vande Bharat mission and air transport bubbles are operating.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airlines-can-decide-baggage-limitations-for-domestic-flights-says-civil-aviation-ministry/story-dy2I1NrTPys0i6lwtbzkNO.html
24-09-2020||India||Oppn ‘directionless’, it boycotts Parl and protests outside, says Javadekar||The ruling BJP on Thursday termed the opposition’s politics “directionless” as it took a dig at its rivals for complaining to President Ram Nath Kovind over the passage of some key bills while “abdicating” the right to speak in Parliament.Senior party leader and union minister Prakash Javadekar took a swipe at the opposition parties, saying they boycotted Parliament when “revolutionary” labour bills were being debated and did not follow the Chair’s direction to return to their seats for division of votes in Rajya Sabha during the passage of two farm bills.“They (opposition) shamed Rajya Sabha,” the information and broadcasting minister told reporters about the ruckus in the House on Sunday following which eight opposition members were suspended.“The opposition’s politics has become directionless. They had the right to sit in Parliament and express their views but they instead abdicated it and staged a walkout. They began protests and dharna outside and are now meeting the President,” he said.There are nearly 300 days for these things, Javadekar said, adding that Parliament meets for 70-80 days so that its members could express their views there.The opposition boycotted Parliament and is now complaining everywhere, he said.The opposition parties have been up in arms against the passage of farm bills, and their delegation on Wednesday urged President Kovind not to give his assent to the same. They also called the passage of the bills “unconstitutional”.Javadekar said farmers have received a “boon” in the form of these proposed laws and asserted that the opposition’s allegations about the minimum support price (MSP) and agriculture ‘mandis’ have been proved “wrong”.The government has just hiked MSPs of rabi crops and will now procure them, he said.The new labour laws will give “salary, social and health” rights to farmers and ensure equal wages for women for the first time since independence, the minister said, adding that the opposition is now complaining after not taking part in the debate on the same.“This is wrong,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-directionless-it-boycotts-parl-and-protests-outside-says-javadekar/story-7t0kN5FSeHQ9xBFIdHLf6J.html
24-09-2020||India||Activist Sudha Bharadwaj seeks bail on medical grounds, SC advises this||The Supreme Court on Thursday observed that Bhima Koregaon accused Sudha Bharadwaj, has good grounds to seek bail on merits of her case while it declined to entertain her bail plea filed on medical grounds.A bench headed by justice UU Lalit said that the court was not inclined to grant bail to her on medical grounds but suggested that she moved a plea for bail on merits of the case.“We are not with you on medical grounds. You have a good case on merits. Why are you not filing for bail on merits,” the bench comprising justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi asked.Bharadwaj’s counsel, Vrinda Grover then agreed to withdraw the bail plea on medical grounds saying they will try for bail on merits of the case.Bharadwaj had sought bail citing vulnerability to Covid -19 due to co-morbidities.The Bombay high court had rejected her plea on August 28 after which she moved the Supreme Court in appeal.Bharadwaj was arrested by Maharashtra police in 2018 for allegedly inciting violence during the celebration of 200th anniversary of the battle at Bhima Koregaon between the British East India Company and the Peshwas. The company army was comprised largely of persons from Dalit community and the event is celebrated by them.Bharadwaj along with activists Varavara Rao, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Anand Teltumbde, and Gautam Navlakha have been charged with offences under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for their alleged role in inciting the violence.Bharadwaj was initially lodged at Yerawada jail in Pune before she was shifted to Byculla jail.After the change of government in Maharashtra in 2019, the central government had intervened and transferred the investigation to National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Maharashtra police.Grover, on Thursday, argued that Bharadwaj had developed two new diseases while in custody - ischemic heart disease and arthritis.“Ischemic heart disease is a ticking time bomb. Anytime, her condition can deteriorate,” Grover said, seeking bail so that Bharadwaj can be subjected to a detailed medical examination.Also Read: Elgar Parishad case: Anand Teltumbde moves court against NIA’s extension of his custodyGrover also submitted that Bharadwaj was a lawyer in Chhattisgarh who used to fight cases on behalf of marginalised sections of the society.“No incriminating material was recovered from me or my electronic devices. I was teaching at National Law University, Delhi when I was arrested,” Grover argued.“Why are you not filing for bail on merits,” asked justice Lalit.Also Read: Elgar Parishad case: Custody of 3 Kabir Kala Manch members extended till September 19“You have a good case on merits,” said justice Rastogi while also taking exception to certain submissions made by Bharadwaj before Bombay high court regarding the medical report submitted by jail authorities on August 21 which did not mention Bharadwaj’s condition of ischemic heart disease.The court made it clear that it will not grant bail on medical grounds.Bharadwaj’s bail plea on medical grounds was earlier rejected by a special NIA court on May 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-case-on-merits-sc-asks-bhima-koregaon-accused-to-file-fresh-bail-plea/story-50UgMTLTtYeRdTuSKcAm5H.html
24-09-2020||India||Umar Khalid sent to judicial custody till Oct 22 in UAPA case||A Delhi court Thursday sent former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in a case related to the communal violence in north east Delhi in February, to judicial custody till October 22.Khalid was present before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat through video conferencing at the end of his police custody.Khalid was arrested on September 13 in the case.Police did not seeks his further custody.In the FIR, police has claimed that the communal violence was a “premeditated conspiracy” which was allegedly hatched by Khalid and two others.He has also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting.Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to the citizens to come out on streets and block the roads during the visit of US President Donald Trump to spread propaganda at international level about how minorities in India are being tortured, the FIR alleged.In this conspiracy, firearms, petrol bombs, acid bottles and stones were collected at numerous homes, FIR claimed.Co-accused Danish was allegedly given the responsibility to gather people from two different places to take part in the riots, police alleged. Women and children were made to block the roads under the Jafrabad metro station on February 23 to create tension amidst the neighborhood people, the FIR said.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/umar-khalid-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-oct-22-in-uapa-case/story-1OOiKjJB8Yeo2GPrYDdhaN.html
24-09-2020||India||Rail roko agitation: Freight trains to be hit, passenger train services suspended||As farmers in Punjab began their three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation to protest against the three farm bills, freight movement is likely to be hit largely. Punjab loaded 990 rakes in August and 816 till September 23. The Food Corporation of India is loading over 35 rakes of food grains daily from Punjab, the movement of which is likely to be stalled. Railway authorities said 14 pairs of special trains will remain suspended from September 24 till 26. The decision has been taken keeping in mind the safety of passengers and protection of railway property from any damage, officials said. Among the trains which will remain suspended are Golden Temple Mail (Amritsar-Mumbai Central), Jan Shatabdi Express (Haridwar-Amritsar), New Delhi-Jammu Tawi, Karambhoomi (Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri), Sachkhand Express (Nanded-Amritsar) and Shaheed Express (Amritsar-Jaynagar), officials said.      According to the schedule, the Amritsar-Haridwar train will be cancelled from September 25 to 26 and the New Delhi-Jammu Tawi Express from September 24 to 26.The Hazur Saheb Nanded-Amritsar train will not go to Amritsar and end its journey in Old Delhi. Train number 02716 will run from Old Delhi instead of Amritsar on September 25 and 26.The Dhanbad-Ferozepur Cantt train will not go to Ferozepur Cantt and end its journey at Ambala Cantt. Train number 03308 will run from Ambala Cantt from September 24 to 26 instead of Ferozepur Cantt.    Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have decided to squat on rail tracks near Devidaspur village in Amritsar and Basti Tanka wala in Ferozepur.The Rajya Sabha has passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, in the monsoon session which concluded on September 23.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-agitation-freight-trains-to-be-hit-passenger-train-services-suspended/story-MQoRFSG3SPWKuKaAdMcuVL.html
24-09-2020||India||Union Cabinet mourns demise of ‘able administrator’ Suresh Angadi||The Union Cabinet on Thursday condoled the demise of Minister of State for Railways Suresh C Angadi, who passed away on Wednesday because of Covid-19.The Cabinet also observed silence for two minutes to honour the memory of Angadi, who breathed his last at AIIMS in New Delhi.The Cabinet also passed a resolution expressing profound sorrow.Also Read: MoS railways Suresh Angadi dies of Covid-19“In his passing away, the nation has lost an eminent leader, an educationist, a distinguished parliamentarian and an able administrator,” the resolution read.Born on June 1, 1955 at KK Koppa village in Belagavi district of Karnataka, Angadi graduated from SSS Samiti College and obtained a degree in law from Raja Lakhamgouda Law College.A member of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he became vice-president of the party’s Belagavi district unit in 1996. He was nominated as president of the Belagavi district unit in 2001 and continued to hold that post until he was nominated as Party’s candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha Constituency in 2004. He won by a large margin and became a member of the 14th Lok Sabha. He was re-elected to the Lok Sabha from Belagavi in 2009, 2014 and 2019.Also Read: Suresh Angadi: A giant killer who never lost an electionHe served as member, Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution; Human Resources Development and Defence as well as Member, Consultative Committee, Ministry of Finance. He also served as member of the Joint Committee on Pension, Salaries and Allowances for Members of Parliament, the Advisory Committee on Central Direct Taxes, the House Committee and the Committee on Petitions. In May, 2019, Angadi became Minister of State for Railways, the resolution read.“He was involved in many social and cultural activities with special interest in Industry, Agriculture and Education of the poor. He was also Chairman, Suresh Angadi Education Foundation, Belgaum since 2009. He was fond of reading and travelling. The Cabinet extends its heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family on behalf of the Government and the entire nation,” the resolution read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-mourns-demise-of-able-administrator-suresh-angadi/story-MmXi6qXu4SkKE3ZhaKhwhO.html
24-09-2020||India||Congress leader asks why Kangana Ranaut wasn’t quizzed for alleged drugs abuse||For the second day in a row, Maharashtra Congress has posed a few questions to the central agencies probing Sushant Singh Rajput death case and the alleged drug dealings in Bollywood.The Congress has asked why the narcotics control bureau (NCB) did not question actor Kangana Ranaut despite the surfacing of her alleged link to drugs abuse and also alleged that those booked in Sandalwood drugs case were not being probed properly since they were related to the Bharatiya Janata Party.“And lastly: despite having a video proof of @KanganaTeam, why has she not been called by NCB for a probe since she was in Mumbai especially when even whatsapp chats are considered proof ? Is Kangana not from Bollywood?,” the last of Sawant’s tweets on the subject said.BJP responded by saying that the Congress was raking up non issues and its government should instead concentrate on real issues in Maharashtra.Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant, in a series of tweets, wanted to know the status of an alleged case of drug recovery from a BJP worker and the case against Ragini Dwivedi, arrested in the Sandalwood drug racket case, earlier this month, in Karnataka.Also Watch: Kangana’s ‘Bullywood’ jibe as NCB summons Deepika, others in Sushant’s caseSawant also referred to film producer Sandip Ssingh’s alleged link to drug dealings and a relative of a Bollywood actor considered to be BJP leaning.“NCB has established a big narrative on the capture of 59 gms of Ganja and summoned leading Bollywood stars in that connection. Let it do it, but we would not allow NCB to overlook BJP drug nexus in Bollywood, Sandalwood and Goa,” Sawant tweeted, while naming several people allegedly linked to the BJP.Also Read: Jaya Saha names four male actors during NCB questioning: reportBJP has invited Sawant to hand over any evidence against the people he named or to move court if he sees any lapses in the probe.“Instead of making noise on non issues, Congress and its leaders should concentrate in Maharashtra where the governance is in shambles. The central agencies are probing the cases on the basis of the proofs they have come across and the investigation is on the right direction,” said Madhu Chavan, adding that “If the Congress has evidence against any BJP worker in any of the cases, it should hand it over to the agencies probing the cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-asks-why-kangana-ranaut-wasn-t-quizzed-for-alleged-drugs-abuse/story-tWmzEiHzfNcc9uL21ZjJ6N.html
24-09-2020||India||Dubai bizman Somesh Prasad gets bail in case that triggered CBI vs CBI||A Delhi court has granted bail to Dubai-based Somesh Prasad who is accused of extorting crores of rupees from a Hyderabad businessman Sana Sathish Babu claiming that he could shield him in the CBI probe against millionaire meat exporter Moin Qureshi.The extortion case was at the heart of the CBI vs CBI drama that played out in 2018 and led to the exit of then CBI chief Alok Verma and his deputy, Rakesh Asthana.The case was initially registered as a bribery FIR against Asthana who had been overseeing the probe against Moin Qureshi in which Sana Sathish Babu was also being probed. Asthana’s name was cleared by the CBI earlier this year and heads the Border Security Force and the Narcotics Control Bureau. According to the CBI, Babu had reached out to Somesh Prasad who made him believe that he had spoken to Asthana and his team would spare Babu if he paid Rs 5 crore.“...due to the registration of the present FIR, there was huge bickering in the higher echelons of the CBI i.e. amongst the top officers and due to which the IO as well as the said Special Director (Asthana) had to endure agony for a long time,” Special Judge Sanjeev Aggarwal said in his detailed order granting bail to Somesh Prasad and associate Sunil Mittal.Prasad and Mittal were granted bail on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh each and two sureties of like amount.In his order granting bail to the two, the court noted that the CBI, which was opposing bail, had not arrested the two accused who faced “serious allegations” according to the charge-sheet filed against them.“The stand of the CBI/Investigating agency is most ambivalent with regard to the matter in hand, on the one hand, they did not arrest the accused persons at any point of time when they appeared before them during the investigations and on the other hand they are opposing their bail applications to tooth and nail. The said stand can be described by way of English idiom “Run with Hare and Hunt with the Hounds’ i.e to be good on terms with both the sides” the court said.The court noted that the accused have been substantially cooperating in the investigation.The FIR against former special director Rakesh Asthana, filed on a complaint by Sana, had stated that Manoj Prasad, a Dubai-based businessman told Satish Babu Sana about his “good connections” in CBI and that his brother Somesh Prasad would help save him in the Moin Qureshi case, being investigated by a special investigation team (SIT) led by Asthana since 2017.Sana claimed that when he met Somesh Prasad in Dubai, he was told that Asthana would surely save him in this case. Somesh Prasad claimed that he had been managing the CBI officer’s investments in Dubai and London for many years.At an earlier hearing in August, the judge had frowned at the lack of forward movement in the February 2017 case registered against millionaire meat exporter Moin Qureshi. In this FIR, the CBI had alleged that Moin Qureshi, apart from his day job of a meat exporter, also worked as a middleman for “certain public servants” and was helped by AP Singh who retired as CBI chief in 2012.On February 11, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had exonerated its former special director Rakesh Asthana and deputy superintendent of police Devender Kumar in the 2018 bribery case registered by then agency chief Alok Verma.The agency had concluded there was “no evidence” whatsoever to suggest that Asthana had ever demanded or been paid any bribe to save Hyderabad-based businessman Sathish Babu Sana, the complainant in the case, in its probe against controversial meat exporter Moin Qureshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dubai-bizman-somesh-prasad-gets-bail-in-case-that-triggered-cbi-vs-cbi/story-Sd9sQwIqZvivMsVPXZ1ugM.html
24-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: What are local lockdowns and micro-containment zones?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged the chief ministers of seven states, which are contributing maximum number of Covid-19 cases, to reassess if local lockdowns are effective. The chief ministers of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab attended the meeting.About 60 districts in these seven states are “a cause of worry”, the PM said. The PM also emphasised that micro-containment zones might be the way out of the situation.What are local lockdowns?Though India is now in the fourth phase of unlocking, local lockdowns are going on at several places. Local lockdowns are restrictions for one or two days when all economic activities, exempting the essential one, are shut. West Bengal, for example, imposed such local lockdowns in August during Unlock 3. In September, the states mostly discontinued with local lockdowns as economic activities have started to pick momentum. section 144, which bars the gathering of four and more people, are in place in some cities, including Mumbai, Noida etc. Chattisgarh has recently imposed lockdowns in 10 districts.What are micro-containment zones?Micro-containment zones are specific areas where a number of Covid-19 cases have been reported in the recent times. Identifying these areas — which might be as small as a building — and isolating them instead of a bigger area will not stop economic activities as well. In its Unlock 4 guideline, the ministry of home affairs specifically mentioned that states would not be able to impose local restrictions without consulting the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-what-are-local-lockdowns-and-micro-containment-zones/story-mzBs1RzaatNKaM8BJdL1fP.html
24-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey hints at entering politics and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘If people want me to’: Former Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey hints at joining politicsFormer Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey on Thursday hinted at entering politics, saying if people want him to contest elections, ‘then I may enter politics.’ “People are coming to me in large numbers, telling me that if I wish to enter politics then I should contest election from their district. Everyone is very close to me. It’ll be a decision by the public. If they want me to, then I may enter politics,” Pandey told news agency ANI. Read moreMP minister regrets stance against wearing mask, invokes PM Narendra ModiMadhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra (60) has expressed regret over his statement made in Indore on Wednesday that he doesn’t need to wear a face mask. He also acknowledged that his stance was against the “sentiments” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read moreCovid awareness week to be observed in Odisha’s Ganjam district from todayAmid the surge of Covid-19 cases in Odisha, an official said the Ganjam district administration has decided to abserve a Covid awareness week starting from Thursday in an attempt to make people aware of the importance of social distancing and wearing a mask. Read moreNew Japan PM Yoshihide Suga calls for ‘repairing’ ties with South KoreaJapan’s new prime minister, Yoshihide Suga, spoke to South Korea’s president for the first time on Thursday, calling for both countries to repair their frayed ties and cooperate to counter any threat from North Korea. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Not buying that nonsense,’ Kevin Pietersen disagrees with Dhoni’s justification behind batting at No. 7Fans and experts talking about MS Dhoni’s batting after CSK fail to chase down a total is nothing new but what was a bit surprising was the fact that Dhoni’s captaincy also attracted a fair amount of criticism after CSK’s loss to Rajasthan Royals. Read moreIndian man creates record for most skips on roller skates in 30 seconds. WatchEvery now and then, the Guinness World Records takes to their official Instagram account to share videos of people creating records which usually leave netizens intrigued or amazed or all at the same time. Now they’re back with a video of an unusual, yet absolutely entertaining, record. Read moreMaruti and chill: India’s largest car maker rolls out Netflix-like subscriptionMaruti Suzuki on Thursday announced the start of its subscription plans for the large number of vehicles it offers in the Indian market in a bid to offer the flexibility of driving without the need to actually own the car. Read moreGigi Hadid and Zayn Malik welcome their first child together. Here are the details of their roller coaster relationshipThis is the year of celebrity babies, and Zayn Malik and Gigi Hadid just welcomed their little baby girl into the world. The couple welcomed their baby on Wednesday, with Zayn taking to his social media to share a cute photo of his tattooed finger being held by a tiny hand, which he captioned, “Our baby girl is here, healthy and beautiful. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: Why cases surged during monsoons in Delhi, Mumbai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-former-bihar-dgp-gupteshwar-pandey-hints-at-entering-politics-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hi1WgAtcW9YloaGWhMvVzN.html
24-09-2020||India||Govt should’ve taken farmers into confidence before deciding on farm bills: Mayawati||Amidst protests over farm bills, BSP president Mayawati on Thursday said it would have been better if the Centre had taken the decision on bringing the legislation after consulting farmers. The former UP chief minister recalled that during her regime, the BSP government in Uttar Pradesh used to take decisions relating to agriculture by calling a panchayat of farmers and “consulting them properly”.In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, “It would have been better had the Central government also taken farmers into confidence before taking the decision” on farm bills. Opposition parties and farmers in some states have been protesting the farm bills passed by Parliament recently. The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, have been passed by both Houses and await presidential assent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-should-ve-taken-farmers-into-confidence-before-deciding-on-farm-bills-mayawati/story-ls12l6ljvqh6GTgAQnTUTP.html
24-09-2020||India||Bilkis, ‘dadi of Shaheen Bagh’, on TIME’s list of 100 influential people||With prayer beads in her right hand, covered in layers of cardigan, and a shawl thrown around her, 82-year-old Bilkis was a permanent face at the controversial roadblock agitation against Citizenship Amendment Act in Shaheen Bagh. On Wednesday, the TIME Magazine named her as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020.Bilkis and her two friends—the group of three elderly women protesters —more popularly known as “dadis” (grandmothers) of Shaheen Bagh participated in the agitation since the first day and continued till the protesters were evicted on the morning of March 24 following the Covid lockdown. Bilkis was among the few who would reach the protest site at 8am and leave only a little before midnight with prayer breaks throughout the day.When asked what motivated these women to sit on the arterial road no. 13 A in Shaheen Bagh through rain and coldest Delhi winter of the century, Bilkis, 82, told HT in January: “This protest is for our rights and mainly our children. We will not give up till the CAA is repealed.”Also Read: Indians in TIME’s 100 most influential people list 2020: PM Modi, Ayushman Khurrana, Bilkis and othersShe was among the many women from Shaheen Bagh, who had stepped out of their houses to agitate against the CAA law which they called “unconstitutional.” For nearly four months, these protesters, most of them residents of the locality, spent their days and nights under a tent on road No.13 A participating in open-mics to express their fears about the new law and discuss various constitutional themes. On TIME magazine listing the elderly woman in their list of 100 most influential people, Hena Ahmed, who protested at Shaheen Bagh for three months, said, “We are happy that at least someone understood our intentions. The authorities always tried to paint the protests as something wrong. Truth always wins. Bilkis dadi’s name was in the same list as that of our Prime Minister. This means that there was some legitimacy to our movement. Locals who I have been in touch with are happy because of this development and relieved that Shaheen Bagh’s spirit has been recognised.”On the evening of December 15, 2019 a group of around 50 women occupied road 13A at Shaheen Bagh and demanded the roll back of the amended citizenship law. The numbers increased gradually and more protesters poured in, while police was unable to convince the protesters led by elderly women such as Bilkis to vacate the road. Also Read: Violence began with stone-pelting at Maujpur Metro station: Riots charge sheetThe sit-in road blockade had led to massive traffic jams in parts of the city because the protesters had blocked an important arterial road between Delhi and Noida, Uttar Pradesh. For nearly four months the Delhi traffic police issued an advisory every morning informing people to avoid the Delhi-Noida road via Shaheen Bagh and also plan their journey after checking the road diversion and traffic on the road.Bilkis and her two friends also interacted with the Supreme Court-appointed interlocutors in February voicing their concerns over the controversial law and demanding government representatives to speak with them on the issue. The protesters could not be persuaded to vacate the road, until the morning of March 24, when the social distancing norms were in force because of Covid-19. Delhi Police in their charge sheet on the case of conspiracy behind the Delhi riots have claimed that the protest was not a spontaneous but planned and funded by a section of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protesters. Police have alleged that the road blockades such as the one in Shaheen Bagh, later replicated in other parts of the city, was the spot to make inflammatory speeches against the government and mobilise people for the riots. Police have also said that the alleged conspirators of the riots choose women and children as the faces of the protest to ensure that police found it difficult to evict the protesters by force.On Monday, while hearing a petition over the Shaheen Bagh blockade, the Supreme Court observed that the right to protest in public place should be balanced with the right of the general public to move freely without hindrance.Road 13A at Shaheen Bagh is now clear. The anti government messages on the roads and walls have been whitewashed by civic agencies. The shops are finally open. But police are more careful. A group of paramilitary force personnel still patrol road 13 A keeping a careful watch to ensure that no one sits on the road again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bilkis-dadi-of-shaheen-bagh-on-time-s-list-of-100-influential-people/story-WxcXIuH1ApLLKxuc13p8AN.html
24-09-2020||India||MP minister regrets stance against wearing mask, invokes PM Narendra Modi||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra (60) has expressed regret over his statement made in Indore on Wednesday that he doesn’t need to wear a face mask. He also acknowledged that his stance was against the “sentiments” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Sometimes we speak something inadvertently which doesn’t go in accordance with our feelings. The words I used yesterday regarding (wearing) the mask were completely wrong. I felt deeply anguished with my own words which were just opposite to the sentiments of the respected Prime Minister. I regret my statement,” Mishra said in a video message posted on his Twitter page on Thursday. Mishra, who appeared in the video with a mask around his neck, went on to add, “I request all the people to wear face masks and follow all Covid-related safety norms.” Also Read: Congress-BJP war on farm loan waivers intensifies ahead of key MP by pollsNotably, during his visit to Indore, Mishra, while responding to questions from journalists as to why he didn’t wear a mask, said, “I don’t wear a mask in any programme. How does it matter?” Narottam Mishra had held the portfolio of health department for more than 3 months this year from March onwards. He was often seen either not wearing a mask at all or not wearing it properly, leading to attacks from the Opposition Congress which even demanded his sacking from the cabinet. Also Read: BJP, Congress spar over audio clip alleging mining mafia-officials nexus in MPState Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “Despite his regret over his statement, the fact remains that the home minister didn’t wear a face mask in all these months despite the state witnessing the outbreak of coronavirus. This is despite the fact that more than 12 ministers of Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet and the chief minister himself have tested positive for coronavirus so far. Congress has been saying right from the day one that the BJP didn’t take coronavirus seriously and this very attitude of the party and its government is responsible for the spread of the virus in the state.” (With input from Neha Jain in Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-minister-regrets-stance-against-wearing-mask-invokes-pm-narendra-modi/story-GNq4oWHh2S3tjiGLyuKO4O.html
24-09-2020||India||‘Families that play together, stay together’: PM Modi at Fit India Dialogue 2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with fitness experts and influencers from across the country to mark the one-year anniversary of Fit India Movement on Thursday.PM Modi launched the ‘Fit India Age Appropriate Fitness Protocols’ during the online Fit India Dialogue.“I am glad that healthy eating is becoming a part of our way of living. Becoming fit is not as difficult as most think. It just requires a little discipline,” he said, adding that we need to inspire one another to stay fit. “Families that play together, stay together,” he said.“Fitness ki dose, aadha ghanta roz,” the PM introduced the nation to his latest slogan for a fit India.Cricketer Virat Kohli, model, actor and runner Milind Soman, and nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar were among the fitness influencers who will participated in the event.Paralympic javelin gold medallist Devendra Jhajharia and footballer from Jammu and Kashmir Afshan Ashiq were the first ones to speak at the event. Jhajharia stressed on the importance of not giving up in the face of hardships and Ashiq said she ensured her physical fitness by waking up early and working out to become an inspiration for all women of the country.Milind Soman said walking for hundreds of kilometers was not a difficult task if one had the mental strength to do it. ‘Fitness knows no limit,’ he said.“One does not require a lot of space or a gym to become fit. We can become fit without supplements and energy drinks,” he said.Nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar said healthy living means sticking to simple, home-made food. “We should not lose health, but weight. We should eat home-made food and avoid packaged food. This is the secret to good health,” she said.Swami Shivadhyanam Saraswati, also among the speakers, stressed on the importance of yoga and discipline. He talked about the concept of ‘yoga-capsule’, which has ‘mantra’, ‘aasan’, ‘pranayaam’, ‘chitrikaran’ and ‘dhyaan’ as its components.Cricketer Virat Kohli said his fitness was a priority to him. “Even if practice is missed for a day, I make sure I do not skip my fitness session on any day,” Kohli said.Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal’s Mukul Kanitkar said it is important to keep one’s mind, body, and sentiment fit. “The whole society needs to develop the culture of fitness, only then will a change be brought about,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fit-india-dialogue-2020-pm-modi-interacts-with-fitness-enthusiasts-to-mark-one-year-anniversary-of-fit-india-movement/story-RY4oi3KT5PgvQmNObVS4yL.html
24-09-2020||India||Covid awareness week to be observed in Odisha’s Ganjam district from today||Amid the surge of Covid-19 cases in Odisha, an official said the Ganjam district administration has decided to abserve a Covid awareness week starting from Thursday in an attempt to make people aware of the importance of social distancing and wearing a mask. Ganjam district logged 71 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which pushed the overall tally to 19,781. Drives on mask distribution, sanitation, identification of plasma donors will also be conducted during the week. District collector V A Kulange said door-to-door screenings to identify suspected virus patients, ramping up of Covid-19 tests, awareness rallies will be organised at panchayat level adding that social distancing and Covid awareness chariots will move across the Ganjam district during the week. Kulange pointed out the awareness week is necessary as different activities have commenced under the provisions of Unlock 4. He also said it is noticed that people are not following the regulations, which pose a threat to the Covid-19 situation of the state.“Apart from these, we have also planned to organize health and nutrition webinars, an online competition for school children, the district collector added.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 Kulange has directed all block development officers and tehasildars to observe the week at the block level. “The battle is still continuing and we will have to fight till the end,” he said.Odisha, along with states such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Delhi, continues to be a worse-hit state by the pandemic. According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard, Odisha has registered over 192,000 Covid-19 cases till now, which include 34, 547 active cases, 157,265 recoveries/discharges and 736 deaths. On Tuesday, the Naveen Patnaik-led government directed all hospitals in the state to set up 24x7 dedicated helpdesks to assist family members of Covid-19 patients with regard to the health status of the patients. The health department in a fresh guideline has said that the helpdesk should consist of a dedicated toll-free number with notifications. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-awareness-week-to-be-observed-in-odisha-s-ganjam-district-from-thursday/story-7xmKYvVhE8j2e2jV5IiDoJ.html
24-09-2020||India||British woman rape case accused vanishes from Goa jail, it’s his 3rd escape||More than 48-hours after Ramchandran Yellappa, a prisoner facing trial for allegedly having raped a British tourist in Goa in 2018, went missing, jail authorities are none the wiser over his whereabouts and whether he has escaped from the jail and if so, how he managed to pull it off. Ramchandran Yellappa, 32, was last seen at around 6:10 on Tuesday morning when he complained of a stomach ache and was referred to the dispensary within the jail premises. However, instead of going to the dispensary, he went missing en-route. He was noticed missing 20 minutes later after he didn’t report to the mess. It’s the third time he has given the police the slip.“We are also confused over what happened to him and if he has escaped, how he managed to pull it off,” a jail official said, on condition of anonymity.“We have searched every nook and corner of the jail and have not been able to find him. Neither is there any evidence of tunnelling or him having scaled the walls,” the official said. The Central Jail at Colvale, a village in North Goa, is a newly constructed correctional facility. A prisoner who seeks escape will not only have to manage to get out of his cell, leave his cell block and then get past two concentric boundary walls both of which are believed to be unscalable.“Even if a prisoner seeking to escape manages to get through one wall, he will only end up staring at the second wall that is even higher and believed to be impossible to climb over,” the official said. The outer boundary wall is watched from watchtowers and has only one way to get across -- the main gate. Another official speaking to HT, said he believed that Yellappa could have escaped with the help of an insider who either smuggled him out or helped him escape.Authorities initially believed that Yellappa was hiding within the complex but a search failed to find him or traces of his escape. While the inner wall is manned by armed guards of the Indian Reserve Battalion, the outer gate is manned by civilian security guards. These guards are set to be replaced now. Also Read: Concerned over tar balls sullying beaches, Goa writes to CentreAdditional Inspector General (IG) of prisons, Ashutosh Apte, said that a preliminary inquiry into the incident has found three persons -- one jail guard and two jailors -- guilty of dereliction of duty and have placed them under suspension. “They allowed the prisoner to walk unaccompanied. They have been suspended on account of the lapses. We are viewing this incident very seriously and if others are found to be at fault during the course of the inquiry, action will be taken against them too,” Apte said. A native of Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu, Yellappa was arrested in 2018 after a 42-year-old British woman complained that she was waylaid, robbed of Rs 20,000 and later raped. Also Read: Goa to approach SC to modify Tarun Tejpal trial timelines in view of Covid-19This is the third time Yellappa has given the police the slip. Last June, on a visit to the court, Yellappa sought the leave of his police escort to visit the toilet within the court complex but made good his escape by removing the glass panels that covered the ventilator at the court complex.Ramchandran Yellappa was first arrested by the Goa police on December 6, 2018 in North Goa in connection with two separate incidents of robbery, including one case where a young couple from Mumbai were relieved of Rs 35-lakh during their holiday in Morjim in North Goa. He however, slipped from their custody, and went on to commit the robbery and rape of a British woman in South Goa a few weeks later.This is the second incident of a prisoner escaping from the jail this year. In late August, a prisoner Hemraj Bharadwaj, who is facing trial in a narcotics case made good his escape taking advantage of the fact that he was given some prison chores and allowed outside the gates for the purpose. He was later apprehended while attempting to cross the border.Earlier this month a jail guard was suspended for trying to smuggle narcotics into the prison complex and placed under arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-woman-rape-case-accused-vanishes-from-goa-jail-it-s-his-3rd-escape/story-MivKsdjFUvUz6nYqc5CWcJ.html
24-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: Here’s what progress Narcotics Control Bureau has made so far||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the central agency probing a drugs case linked to the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, will question Deepika Padukone and Shraddha Kapoor. The NCB, which started its probe almost a month back, is the third central agency investigating a case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The Enforcement Directorate is looking into allegations of money laundering while the Central Bureau of Investigation is probing the actor’s death. Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at home on June 14.Here is what NCB has done so far:* The NCB started its probe in late August after the Enforcement Directorate reportedly found some evidence about Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty’s links to banned drugs.* As it started investigating, the drug law enforcement agency interrogated Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty and manager Samuel Miranda. Both of them were arrested.* Next, the agency interrogated Rhea Chakraborty for three days and arrested her on September 8.* In the following days, NCB made a series of arrests, including Rajput’s domestic aide Dipesh Sawant, alleged drug peddler Abdul Basit Parihar, Goa resident Chris Costa, Showik’s friend Suryadeep Malhotra, and Dwayne Anthony Fernandes (from Dadar), Ankush Arenja (from Powai) among others.* NCB seized a car belonging to Karamjeet Singh Anand, alias KJ, who is allegedly the main supplier of banned drugs to Bollywood, and arrested him.ALSO WATCH | NCB summons Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, other actors | Sushant death case * Meanwhile, the NCB conducted raids at several places in Bandra, Khar, Lokhandwala and Powai area.* NCB interrogated Jaya Saha, Sushant Singh Rajput’s former talent manager. It has also summoned Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash, who has sought exemptions till September 25 on the grounds of ill health.* As far as its probe into international drug channels in India is concerned, the NCB has sought the help of the US, UK, Canada and Australian drug enforcement agencies to unearth suppliers of cocaine to Mumbai. * In the latest development, the agency has issued summons to actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh. Amid various reports surfacing that Rakul Preet may not join the probe as she is in Hyderabad, NCB has confirmed that the actor has acknowledged the summon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-here-s-what-progress-narcotics-control-bureau-has-made-so-far/story-GdsVaJg9FL8z2yIUUzwcsI.html
24-09-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra apologises after saying he never wears masks||Madhya Pradesh home minister and BJP leader Narottam Mishra apologised after he showed up at an event in Indore without a mask on Wednesday and told reporters he never wore it in any programmes.“I don’t wear it, so what?,” he had said when asked why he was not wearing a mask. After backlash from Congress over his statement, the BJP leader expressed regret and urged everyone to wear masks and observe social distancing.“My statement over wearing a mask appears to be a violation of law. It wasn’t in line with sentiment of the PM. I accept my mistake and express regret. I’ll wear mask. I also appeal to everyone to wear mask and observe social distancing,” Mishra said. #WATCH Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra says, "I don't wear it" when asked why is he not wearing a mask at an event in Indore. (23.09.2020) pic.twitter.com/vQRyNiG3ESThe leader was in Indore to participate in a programme for distribution of assistance under the state government’s Sambal Yojana, which provides social security cover to the poor and the SC and ST communities.Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja had launched a staunch attack on the leader, asking him whether the Covid-19 norms were to be followed only by the common people and not leaders.“Is there anyone who has the courage to take action against him (Mr Mishra). Are rules only for common people?” Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-sentiment-seems-to-be-violation-of-law-mp-s-narottam-mishra-apologises-after-remark-undermining-masks/story-FQbaOr7GJ9m1CeEEqvR4pN.html
24-09-2020||India||CAG picks holes in chopper upgrade, flags concerns about navy vessels||The modernisation of the Indian Air Force’s Mi-17 medium-lift helicopters—proposed in 2002—has not been achieved, compromising the fleet’s operational readiness, India’s top auditor said in a report tabled in Parliament on Wednesday. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) said the choppers were flying with limited capability, attributing the situation to “poor planning and indecision.” “The defence ministry due to poor planning and indecision at various stages of procurement took 15 years to enter (January 2017) into the upgradation contract of 90 Mi-17 helicopters with an Israeli company. The contracted delivery of these upgraded helicopters was to start from July 2018 and be completed by 2024. Audit, however, noted that after upgradation, 56 of these helicopters would be left with less than two years of life and would be phased out by 2024,” the CAG said in a report on the Air Force—one of three reports tabled in Parliament. Also Read: Military offset part of Rafale deal still pending, flags CAGThe report also highlighted irregularities in the purchase of aero engines for unmanned aerial vehicles, citing a case where a foreign vendor—Israel Aerospace Industries—supplied such engines at more than three times the market price. In another report on the management of defence offsets, the CAG said that the French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation and weapons-supplier MBDA have not confirmed the transfer of technology (ToT) to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which was part of the Rs 59,000-crore Rafale contract, as reported by Hindustan Times on Thursday. Also Read: Officer from Varanasi set to be first woman pilot to fly RafaleThe auditor doubted if the ToT for a key engine would even take place, and pointed out that several offset contracts built into multiple defence deals have not yielded the desired results. India’s offset policy stipulates that in all capital purchases above Rs 300 crore, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities. In the case of the Rafale deal this was 50%. In a third report, the CAG flagged concerns about the Indian Navy’s auxiliary vessel strength not increasing proportionately with its combat fleet. “In fact, it was declining,” the CAG said, attributing it to inordinate delays in acquisition process and non-adherence to the prescribed timelines in conclusion of contracts. The CAG found the navy’s existing capability of landing platform docks (LPDs) to be inadequate to meet requirements for amphibious/expeditionary operations. Such warships are used to transport troops, defence equipment and helicopters into the war zone by sea. Also Read: Invest in maritime sector for security | Opinion“The Indian Navy, therefore, decided to acquire this vital warfare ship in October 2010 at a cost of Rs 16,000 crore. However, even after a lapse of nine years, contract has not been concluded. This was due to failure to fix a specified time frame for obtaining corporate debt restructuring exit certificate by one of the participating firms,” the CAG said. The auditor said that inadequate availability of fleet tankers with Indian Navy forced it to hire ships from trade. Tankers provide water, ammunition and stores to warships at sea. “The approval for acquisition of fleet tankers at a cost of Rs 9,045 crore was accorded in 2014. However, the contract was yet to be concluded till August 2019,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cag-picks-holes-in-chopper-upgrade-flags-concerns-about-navy-vessels/story-A4j6SWi7mRtWYLdMFzx9NK.html
24-09-2020||India||Fire breaks out at east Delhi’s Aditya mega Mall, no casualty reported||A fire broke out in a medical shop and godown located on the second floor of Aditya Mega Mall in east Delhi’s Karkardooma on Thursday morning, the fire department said.The shop was locked and there was no one inside; no casualty was reported, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services.The absence of traffic on the road leading to the mall in the morning helped the fire department reach the place quickly and douse the flames, said Garg.Also Read: Over 101k recoveries, 40 deaths in home isolation in Delhi so far, data shows“We received a call about the blaze at 7.50am. We sent eight fire tenders. They controlled the blaze by 8.50am,” said Garg.He said that the firefighters had to break open the shutter of the shop to enter and fight the fire. “There was a lot of packaging and chemical items inside, and that led to a lot of smoke. But we have controlled the situation,” said the officer.The trigger for the blaze remains unknown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-east-delhi-s-aditya-mega-mall-no-casualty-reported/story-ckEFV9dsgjVf9pF9VbdXtM.html
24-09-2020||India||India will be able to end tuberculosis by 2025: Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare||Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India has accorded high priority for ending tuberculosis by 2025, five years ahead of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), said Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare. Addressing ministers of Member Nations of WHO, Heads, and Representatives of UN Agencies and partner organisations, Dr Vardhan said, “In India, under the guidance of Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, India has accorded high priority for ending tuberculosis by 2025, five years ahead of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).” “Tuberculosis has been in existence since time immemorial and continues to remain a major global public health problem. Despite the progress made over the last decade, TB remains the leading infectious killer disease worldwide,” he said. Lauding India’s efforts towards eradication of TB, Harsh Vardhan said, “With bold and innovative policies supported by commensurate resources, India has taken several critical steps towards ending TB. We have significantly reduced the number of missing TB patients from one million in 2016 to less than 0.5 million in 2019, with 2.4 million cases notified during the year. Most importantly, a third of these notifications were contributed by the private sector. With the scale-up of rapid molecular diagnostics in every district of the country, we were able to identify over 66,000 drug-resistant TB patients in 2019.”He pointed out that poverty is a powerful determinant of tuberculosis and undernutrition an important risk factor of developing active TB disease. “To address this, we are providing cash incentives through Direct Benefit Transfers for nutritional support and since April 2018, Rs 7.9 billion (around USD 110 million) have been distributed to over 3 million beneficiaries. Affordable and quality TB care is a priority for our Government”, he stated. The Minister further spoke about India’s fight against COVID-19 and said: “We reached a historic low in the month of April with lockdown in full force, but through sustained efforts, we have managed an increase of 43 per cent in May and another 25 per cent in June.”To mitigate the impact, the government has been issuing constant advisories to the States to ensure convergence of TB case finding with COVID-19 efforts, he said adding that “we have initiated bi-directional screening among TB and COVID patients, and screening for TB among influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI).” (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-be-able-to-end-tuberculosis-by-2025-union-minister-for-health-and-family-welfare/story-VgVv3DUatZ46FlyJNNvwQO.html
24-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tests per million increase; 14 states perform better than national average||At least 14 states have demonstrated better coronavirus disease (Covid-19) response on the basis of higher tests per million (TPM) population and corresponding lower positivity rate than the national average, according to the latest data of the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW).The national cumulative positivity rate stands at 8.52%.The ministry’s data showed that national TPM is 48,028 until Wednesday.Mizoram is the best performing state as it has the lowest Covid-19 lowest positivity rate at 2.4%, followed by Manipur (4.3%) and union territories (UTs) of Daman-Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli with 4.6%.Mizoram has conducted 51,535 Covid-19 TPM. Also Read: Covid-19: Recoveries surpass fresh cases for 6th consecutive day, total tally surpasses 57 lakh-markWhile the corresponding TPM figure for the Andaman and Nicobar islands is 95,085. India’s testing capacity has seen a significant uptick in the past one month. Around 1,800 laboratories, including both government and private facilities, are conducting over 1.2 million tests daily.The total number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the country in the past eight months has gone up to 60.6 million.The first Covid-19 test in the country was conducted on January 23 at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) apex virology laboratory, National Institute of Virology (NIV), in Pune.On Wednesday, 86,941 new Covid-19 cases were reported from across the country. India has reported 57,30,139 Covid-19 cases to date.Also Read: Coronavirus: Retirees kept apart by Covid-19 defy an isolated and lonely futureThe ministry data showed that about 74% new cases are largely restricted to 10 states in India.The worst-hit states are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh (AP), Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh (UP), Tamil Nadu (TN), Odisha, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal (WB) and Chhattisgarh.On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 21,029 Covid-19 positive cases, followed by AP and Karnataka with 7,228 and 6,997 cases of the viral infection, respectively.Covid-19-related deaths are largely limited to 10 states. At least 83% of the 1,123 new deaths have been reported from 10 states across the country.“The numbers may be rising, but our recoveries are also steadily improving. Our testing capacity has also vastly improved. All necessary measures are being taken to prevent the transmission of the viral disease. The government is effectively implementing its test, track and treat policy, which includes rushing central teams of experts to states that are worst-hit,” said a MoH&FW official, who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tests-per-million-increase-14-states-perform-better-than-national-average/story-kggZBQudjosPVQJYpDTc7I.html
24-09-2020||India||Monsoon session: Govt supporting 8 Covid-19 vaccine candidates, minister tells LS||The Department for Biotechnology (DBT), under the Union Ministry of Science and Technology (MoST), is supporting the development of eight vaccine candidates against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country at a cost of Rs 75 crore, 17 proposals for diagnostic devices at a cost of Rs 10 crore and 13 possible therapeutic interventions at a cost of Rs 9.6 crore, according to a reply given by Union Minister for Science and Technology minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in the Lok Sabha (LS) on Wednesday. The department has also allocated Rs 86 lakh for five other interventions against the viral infection that is raging across the country. Also read: MoS railways Suresh Angadi dies of Covid-19The DBT, in collaboration with Union Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) and National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB), is working on identifying medicinal plants and classical formulations that may have anti-Sars-CoV-2 properties in cell culture models at an estimated budgetary allocation of Rs 5.9 crore. SARS-CoV-2 is the virus that causes Covid-19.Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), a public sector undertaking (PSU), has invited proposals for botanical ingredients and traditional formulations that can work against SARS-CoV-2. The government has also set up five bio-banks that will collect viral and clinical samples for research at a cost of Rs 10.9 crore. These bio-banks have been set up at Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI) and Regional Centre for Biotechnology (RCB) in Faridabad; Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (inStem) in Bengaluru; Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneswar; National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS) in Pune; and Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in New Delhi. The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has supported six projects for Covid-19 under one of its existing schemes at a cost of Rs 9.6 crore and 36 other projects under a special category at a cost of Rs 25.4 crore. The projects include developing various diagnostic techniques such as the CRISPR Cas9 gene editing technology-based Feluda kit developed by a team from CSIR’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB). The Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT) has also worked on developing processes for synthesising drugs such as Favipiravir and Remdesivir and the findings have been shared with the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-govt-supporting-8-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-minister-tells-ls/story-AAJ9ziSS62FXw3oMBOZFcN.html
24-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Recoveries surpass fresh cases for 6th consecutive day, total tally surpasses 57 lakh-mark||India in the last 24 hours recorded 86,508 new Covid-19 cases, marking a slight increase in the number of daily cases. The total tally stands at 57,32,518. The number of recoveries reached 46,74,987 while deaths cross 90,000 mark to reach 91,149.Number of recoveries looking upFor the sixth consecutive day, the number of recoveries surpassed the number of fresh cases on Thursday with 87,374 people recovering from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.Do local lockdowns work?Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his meeting with the CMs of 10 states emphasised on the necessity to reassess the effectiveness of local lockdowns. Instead, micro-containment zones will be the way forward to contain Covid-19, the PM said to the CMs of the states that are contributing largely to the Covid-19 figures.States with maximum recoveriesMaharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, J&K, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Goa, Chattisgarh, Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh, Daman and Diu are the 17 states/UT reporting a higher number of recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recoveries-surpass-fresh-cases-for-6th-consecutive-day-total-tally-surpasses-57-lakh-mark/story-mDfF2mzvyAAMFuC1yYM0dJ.html
24-09-2020||India||Six Union ministers, MPs to lead BJP’s outreach plan in West Bengal||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is planning a massive outreach headed by at least six union ministers and MPs to counter the misgivings about the recently passed farm bills in West Bengal where the party is gearing for a bitter contest against the ruling Trinamool Congress. On Wednesday, a core team of the party from the state unit met BJP president J P Nadda in Delhi to draw up the plan for the outreach with an eye on the electoral battle for 294 seat assembly that is scheduled for May 2021. Also read: BJP outshines ruling TMC in race for social media advertisement campaignsThe state team will also move the high court in West Bengal to seek a CBI probe into the alleged killings of its political workers. As per a functionary privy to the details, the core team, which included state unit president Dilip Ghosh; has asked the central team to spare Union ministers Smriti Irani, Piyush Goel, N S Tomar, Dharmendra Pradhan, Kiren Rijiju and Prahlad Patel to counter the TMC’s campaign against the farm bills passed in Parliament. TMC MPs in the Rajya Sabha had objected to the bills not being sent to a select committee for further scrutiny and were part of the group that created a ruckus in the House. TMC’s Derek O’Obrien and Dola Sen were among the eight who were suspended subsequently for the remainder of the session that ended on Wednesday. These ministers have been specifically chosen because of their familiarity with the region and the language and they will be fielded to counter the narrative on the ground such as the outcry over the recently passed farm bills. “The opposition has been trying to mislead the masses that the farm bills passed in Parliament are anti-farmer and will lead to their lands being usurped. We will counter this through rallies, which will be held virtually as well as a few on the ground where the norms of social distancing will be followed,” said the person quoted above. Pamphlets in Bengali will also be distributed to reach out to a maximum number of people across the state. “The meeting was essential to discuss organisational issues. We will counter the chief minister’s campaign to deliberately distort bills passed by Parliament,” said union minister and MP from the state Babul Supriyo. Wednesday’s meeting was attended by party general secretary Kailash Vijayvargia, Arvind Menon, in-charge of departments and projects, and Mukul Roy. The issue of political killings was discussed in depth, said a second functionary aware of the details. “The police have been trying to cover up the deaths as suicides or accidents, so we will push for a CBI probe,” the second person aware of the details said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-union-ministers-mps-to-lead-bjp-s-outreach-plan-in-wb/story-Icj4VEJURMVtucguWKiNSI.html
24-09-2020||India||BJP, Congress spar over audio clip alleging mining mafia-officials nexus in MP||A forest ranger in Madhya Pradesh was shifted after an audio clip, allegedly containing her conversation in which she is purportedly talking about providing protection to illegal mining in Shahdol district-- 592km east of Bhopal-- went viral, said a senior forest official. According to the forest official, the audio is stated to be more than a year old. HT couldn’t independently verify the authenticity of the audio clip.However, Shahdol’s Gohparu forest range officer Pushpa Singh, who was shifted, called it a conspiracy against her. In the audio the woman officer is heard saying “We always support you and never visited the mine. We shared information with you. But we do have a system and have to give … to the upper level in the area where mine was sanctioned.” “The amount is divided among senior officers. Lower staff also expects some amount. We want you to make progress. Even, I have asked…… that all the nearby illegal mining is accessed by you so that you get more vehicles for (sand transportation). We discussed that and are following the same,” the officer purportedly says on the tape. Chief conservator of forest (CCF), Shahdol division, Prabhat Kumar Verma ordered an inquiry into the matter and attached the forest ranger Pushpa Singh to Umaria forest range office till the completion of the inquiry. “The district forest officer, Shadol (south) will conduct the inquiry. We were told that the voice in the audio is of range officer Pushpa Singh. We have sent the audio clip to a forensic laboratory for an examination. The miners, whose names are heard in the audio, too, will be called for questioning during the inquiry to know the truth,” said Verma. Also Read: Congress-BJP war on farm loan waivers intensifies ahead of key MP by pollsPushpa Singh has denied any truck with the sand minors. “I don’t have any link with miners. The mine in Suntola was shut down about 10 months ago. The mine was legal and it was shut down on my recommendations as the miners started mining in the forest area. This is a fabricated audio and I don’t know who hatched this conspiracy and why.” After the video went viral, the Opposition Congress attacked the BJP-led state government alleging a nexus between bureaucrats and illegal miners.“Since the BJP has come to power, illegal mining is going on at a large scale across the state and we all know who are patronising the mining mafia,” said JP Dhanopia, spokesperson MP Congress committee. Also Read: ‘Those opposing agriculture bills are enemies of farmers’: Shivraj Singh ChouhanBJP alleged that since the audio clip was more than a year old, it pertained to the state of affairs during the Congress rule.“The Audio is stated to be more than a year old when the Congress was in power. Then some cabinet ministers themselves had raised the issue of illegal mining going on in the state. They raised accusing fingers against their own government,” said BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-spar-over-audio-clip-alleging-mining-mafia-officials-nexus-in-mp/story-EYkgRBj8g7xh58TjOsjRUK.html
24-09-2020||India||Centre to ramp up AIR reach including in border areas||The Centre is planning to expand the reach of public broadcaster All India Radio (AIR), especially in border areas.In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha (LS) on Wednesday, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said that AIR’s broadcasting network provides extensive coverage throughout the country, including rural and border areas.AIR transmitters cover 99.2% of the country by population and 92 % by area.Doordarshan (DD) through its DD FreeDish direct-to-home (DTH) Platform provides DD and AIR channels along with many private TV and frequency modulation (FM) channels throughout the country, except for the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.Also Read: Turkish President Erdogan’s J&K remark riles IndiaPrasar Bharati has also made DD and AIR channels available in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in C-band through satellite, he said.Prasar Bharati is also providing its AIR and DD channels digitally through the internet and also on the NewsOnAir application (app) available for Android and iOS platforms for mobile phone users, the minister said.He added that in a bid to improve the coverage of AIR in the country, it had been decided to implement some key projects.Also Read: India prepared for a long haul over disengagement but not yield an inch in LadakhThe installation of 32 FM transmitters – ranging from one kilo-watt (kW) to 10 kW – in uncovered locations was one of the initiatives, the minister informed the LS.Other projects included installation of 100W FM transmitters at 111 locations for localised coverage and installation of five mobile 5 kW FM transmitters along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K).Installation of a 50 kW SW digital transmitter at Kurseong in West Bengal is another such project.“To supplement terrestrial TV coverage in border areas, it has been decided to set up five new High Power TV transmitters at Green Ridge, Patnitop and Rajouri (two) in J&K and Himbotingla in Ladakh,” Javadekar said in his reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-ramp-up-air-reach-including-in-border-areas/story-giccqDKgqVsge9wBtkAiQJ.html
24-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Uttar Pradesh records highest employment under PMEGP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UP gave maximum number of jobs during Covid-19 lockdown: ReportDuring the Covid-19 lockdown, Uttar Pradesh emerged as the state which gave employment to the highest number of people in the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, under the PMEGP. A total of 14,616 people were given jobs in the state. Read moreFit India Dialogue 2020: PM Modi to interact with fitness influencers todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with fitness experts and influencers from across the country to mark the one-year anniversary of Fit India Movement on Thursday. PM Modi will talk about his idea of a healthy lifestyle and discuss with the influencers the virtues of a healthy routine as part of the virtual dialogue, according to an official statement issued on Tuesday. Read moreIndians in US raise $3.3mn for Biden in one night, seek moderate positions on Kashmir, CAAIndian Americans raised $3.3 million on a single night for Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, a possible record, and pressed his campaign to moderate its positions on Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, as also to add an agenda for the Hindu community on its web platform. Read moreEvery team hopes their wicketkeeper turns up to be like MS Dhoni: Sanju SamsonIn this interview after Tuesday’s match-winning knock and four victims with the gloves, Samson talks about his effortless hitting, hopes for a regular India spot, the Dhoni comparison young wicketkeepers face and chances this year for the 2008 champions. Read morePoonam Pandey to end marriage with Sam Bombay: ‘I don’t think it’s smart to return to person who has beaten you up like an animal’Actor Poonam Pandey has broken her silence after filing a police complaint against her husband, film producer Sam Bombay. Poonam, who married Sam earlier this month in a private ceremony, was on her honeymoon in Goa when she filed a complaint of assault against Sam. Read moreSpeak into my DMs: Twitter is going to start testing voice DMs soon and Brazil will get to test this firstTwitter had rolled out audio tweets for iOS earlier in June this year and is now looking to take voice usage to another feature on the platform - direct messages or DMs as they are popularly known. Twitter is experimenting the use of voice messages for DMs. Read moreVideo of people rafting in Nubra Valley may speak to every travel lovers’ soulVenturing out in the waters on a raft can turn out to be an exhilarating experience for many. If you’re someone who loves taking off on an adventure, this video shared on Twitter will speak to the travel bug in you. Even if you’re not into rafting, the beauty of nature captured in this video may leave you amazed. Read moreIPL 2020: Mumbai Indians thrash Kolkata Knight Riders by 49 runsRohit Sharma’s sparkling 80-run innings set the tone and then Jasprit Bumrah and the other MI pacers did a commendable job with the ball as defending champions shrugged off their defeat against CSK with a crushing 49-run victory over Kolkata Knight Riders in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-uttar-pradesh-records-highest-employment-under-pmegp-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fdLILEQBLtQl1Kenf5tBjI.html
24-09-2020||India||Railways extends pact with IIT Kanpur for infrastructure modernisation research||The Indian Railways has extended the memorandum of understanding signed with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur for encouraging a state of the art collaborative research for modernisation of railway infrastructure and efficient utilisation of its scientific assets through the centre for railway research (CRR).The MoU was signed between Alka Arora Misra, principal executive director (T&MPP), ministry of railways and Prof AR Harish, dean, R&D, IIT-Kanpur in the presence of chairman and CEO, Railway Board, Vinod Kumar Yadav and IIT- Kanpur director Prof Abhay Karandikar. Prof Abhay Karandikar spoke on the importance of this collaboration in the context of modernisation of Indian Railways for the development of cutting edge technologies in electronics, sensor networks, power electronics and electrical safety. He also spoke on related research and development activities being carried out at IIT-Kanpur in the domain areas of relevance to Indian Railways. Also Read: CAG pulls up Railways for ‘dressing up’ financesThe MoU would facilitate research in the core areas of electrical locomotive, locomotive control and communication systems, traction installation, condition-based monitoring, train and track safety using signal processing, power and vehicle control electronics, driver interface systems, train level sensor networks and IoT, electrical safety, network control and staff training in related technical areas through the CRR at IIT-Kanpur, Prof Karandikar said. Also Read: MoS railways Suresh Angadi dies of Covid-19Currently, CRR, which has its administrative unit in the department of electrical engineering in IIT-Kanpur, has been assigned the broad research domain of loco research and propulsion technologies, traction installation/OHE and associated electronics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-extends-pact-with-iit-kanpur-for-infrastructure-modernisation-research/story-E2pXBYImsfFEwggBnoKkGJ.html
24-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Congress begins its nationwide mass movement against government||The Congress will launch from Thursday its nearly two-month-long “mass movement” against the government for passing “anti-farmer and anti-poor” bills during the monsoon session of Parliament. The party will also collect two crore signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed laws. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, have been passed by both the Houses of Parliament during the monsoon session and await Presidential assent. The Rajya Sabha (RS) witnessed ruckus during the passage of two of the three bills on Sunday following which eight members – Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of the Congress, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) – were suspended for the remainder of the monsoon session.Also Read: 28 trains cancelled as Punjab farmers begin three-day rail roko agitationThe session ended on Wednesday, which was eight days ahead of the October 1 schedule, amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The decision by the Congress to hit the streets was taken at a meeting of general secretaries and in-charge of states at the party headquarters in Delhi on Monday. The six-member special committee formed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to help her in organisational and operational matters chaired the meeting in her absence. AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala are members of the special committee. Accompanied by her son and Congress Member of Parliament (MP) Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi had left for the United States on September 12 for a routine health check-up. Both of them returned home on Tuesday morning. “The nationwide agitation will continue till the government repeals the black laws,” Antony had said after the meeting. Also Read: ‘Those opposing agriculture bills are enemies of farmers’: Shivraj Singh ChouhanBy announcing nearly two months of protest calendar, the main opposition party is seeking to regain some of the political space it has lost over the years by targeting the 146-million farmers going by their operational land holdings, according to the agriculture census of 2015-16. The Congress is also seeing the issue as a 2015 moment when Sonia Gandhi had played a key role in bringing 14 opposition parties together against the proposed land acquisition bill that had forced the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government to withdraw the controversial ordinance and shelve the idea of bringing a new legislation to replace the 2013 Act. “It is going to be a people’s movement, a mass movement against this government,” Patel had said. Venugopal, who is the Congress’s general secretary in-charge of organisation, said the party would have a series of programmes across the country in support of farmers. Apart from a chain of press conferences across the country starting from Thursday, Venugopal said senior leaders from states would walk to respective Raj Bhavans on September 28 and submit a memorandum on the farms bills to Governors to be handed over to President Ram Nath Kovind. Also Read: Productive but divisive monsoon session endsOn October 2, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Congress will observe Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Farm Labourers Day). There will be protests and demonstrations in every district across the country demanding immediate withdrawal of the farm bills. On October 10, state-level conferences will be held and from October 2 to October 31, the party will collect signatures from two crore farmers from across the country. On November 14, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of India’s first PM Jawaharlal Nehru, a memorandum along with signatures of two crore farmers will be submitted to President Kovind. “First this government did notebandi, then with GST brought vyaparbandi, then with lockdown did deshbandi and is now planning khetbandi,” Surjewala had said. Surjewala will address a press conference in Patna on Thursday. Bihar is slated to go to polls by end-November. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-Congress combine is expected to step up its attacks on the ruling Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) coalition by raising the farmers’ issue. While the JD(U) and the BJP will try to counter that by highlighting the “unruly behaviour” of some of the opposition members as an “insult” to RS deputy chairman Harivansh, who hails from the state, and an attack on Bihar’s pride.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-congress-begins-its-nationwide-mass-movement-against-government/story-Q0Xl10QaHNHPT25vNST32O.html
24-09-2020||India||Intense rainfall to continue over sub-Himalayan WB, Bihar and UP: IMD||Several parts of the west coast, including Mumbai and Konkan, and sub-Himalayan West Bengal were pounded by exceptionally heavy rainfall on Tuesday and Wednesday, triggering severe urban flooding and landslides in the hills as the monsoon nears the start of its withdrawal phase.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted very heavy rainfall in parts of north-east India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Konkan. Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) for the next two-three days.For example, in Mumbai, the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) recorded 37 centimetres (cm) of rainfall on Tuesday night; Dharavi (36 cm); Panvel (31 cm); and Santacruz (29 cm), triggering flooding in the city and disrupting traffic. In West Bengal, Jalpaiguri and Bagdogra recorded 18 cm of rainfall each. IMD takes into account a 24-hour rainfall data.However, according to IMD scientists most of the rainfall was recorded within 12 hours – between Tuesday night and Wednesday early morning. Updated rain data for Wednesday will be available later on Thursday. “There is a convergence of strong moist southerly and south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal over the north-east and adjoining eastern India. This is the reason behind the region receiving heavy rainfall. There is a low-pressure system lying over central parts of western Madhya Pradesh (MP) which is likely to re-curve towards UP in the next couple of days and bring in widespread rainfall,” said K Sathi Devi, head of the IMD’s national weather forecasting centre.There are no indications of the commencement of the monsoon’s withdrawal from north-western India because of moisture incursion into the region, Devi said. IMD is not seeing any parameters of monsoon withdrawal being met until September 28, according to a statement by the department on Wednesday.The monsoon season will officially end on September 30.Rainfall should stop completely; water vapour should reduce and an anticyclonic wind pattern should establish itself before the monsoon’s withdrawal is officially announced, according to Devi.A low-pressure area is lying over central parts of western MP. It is likely to become less marked by Thursday. However, the cyclonic circulation, which is associated with it, is likely to re-curve north-eastwards to Bihar across UP over the next three days.Convergence of strong, moist southerly and south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal over the north-east and adjoining eastern India is very likely until Saturday (September 26). A trough, which means a low-pressure area, is running from north-east UP to northern Maharashtra. Heavy-to-very heavy rainfall will continue over sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, parts of Konkan, UP and Bihar until Saturday, according to IMD.The normal date for commencement of monsoon withdrawal from north-west India is September 17 and for complete withdrawal from the country is October 15, as per the new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates issued by the IMD in April. Until last year, the normal date for commencement of withdrawal of monsoon was September 1 and October 15 for a complete withdrawal. The new onset dates are based on monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based on data from 1971 to 2019 analysed by scientists in IMD, Pune.In 2019, the monsoon had started withdrawing only on October 9 against the normal date of September 1 and prolonged rainfall had brought a deluge to parts of Maharashtra, Kerala and Bihar in August when rains usually reduce. The monsoon had withdrawn completely only by October 17.In September, rains are 0.6% deficient across the country. Since June 1, the country has recorded 8.1% excess rainfall, according to the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intense-rainfall-to-continue-over-sub-himalayan-wb-northeastern-region-bihar-and-up-imd/story-kWLpPjngYPmmMhFMc0xqML.html
24-09-2020||India||UP gave maximum number of jobs during Covid-19 lockdown: Report||A total of 110,000 people were given employment under the Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) during the coronavirus lockdown, from April to August, Live Hindustan has reported. During this time, Uttar Pradesh emerged as the state which gave employment to the highest number of people in the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, under the PMEGP. A total of 14,616 people were given jobs in the state. Jammu and Kashmir generated the second-highest number of jobs--11,064 people in the Union territory were given jobs.Here are employment figures of some other states, till August 31: Bihar (3,168), Haryana (3,008), Uttarakhand (2,344), Jharkhand (1,336) and Delhi (72).The employment figures from last year are as follows: Uttar Pradesh (48,960), Jammu and Kashmir (42,840), Bihar (17,768), Haryana (16,232), Uttarakhand (14,752), Jharkhand (12,352) and Delhi (744).The figures were given by the Union MSME ministry in Lok Sabha. While 110,000 jobs have generated thus far in the financial year 2020-21, 533,000 lakh jobs were generated in 2019-20. 587,000 and 387,000 people got jobs in 2018-19 and 2017-18 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-gave-maximum-number-of-jobs-during-covid-19-lockdown-report/story-XhpJNIIH4AcEdWpL437XuM.html
24-09-2020||India||Fire at Hazira gas processing plant in Surat under control: ONGC||A fire broke out at an Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) plant in Surat in early hours of Thursday. It was brought under control and no casualties or injuries were reported, ONGC tweeted.“Around 3am, three consecutive blasts took place at ONGC Hazira Plant which led to the fire. Firefighters are present at spot. No casualty has been reported so far. The activity of depressurizing the pressurized gas system underway by ONGC officials,” said Dr Dhaval Patel, Surat’s collector had said.“The fire has been brought under control. There were no casualties or injuries reported,” ONGC tweeted.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-ongc-plant-in-gujarat-s-surat/story-YykCkpVubh62dTFM8BJ8xI.html
24-09-2020||India||International flights: Countries where Indians can’t travel||The civil aviation ministry has entered into air bubbles with 14 countries where Indians can fly. Talks are on with several other countries to facilitate two-way international travel. But there are some countries where Indians are not allowed to fly at this moment, implying that no air bubble can be set up with these countries as of now.What are air bubbles?Air bubbles are temporary arrangements between two countries aimed at restarting commercial passenger service at a time when regular international flights across the world are suspended. International flights were suspended in March as all countries imposed lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19. Repatriation flights resumed in May, but these flights are different from air bubble flights as repatriation flights can’t carry passengers both ways.Also Read | International flights: Who are eligible to fly to these 13 countries?Where Indians can’t fly to and whyAs the countries are opening international travel gradually, the governments are in the process of identifying high-risk and safe countries. The European Union didn’t identify India as a safe country. However, India has air bubble with Germany and France.South Africa: From October 1, South Africa will resume international travels. It is likely that the government will not allow Indians to travel to the country. Saudi Arabia: Saudi Arabia has barred all flights to and from India in its effort to check the Covid-19 situation there. Hong Kong: This month, Hong Kong placed a bar on Air India flights blaming Indian travellers for an uptick in the number of Covid-19 cases in Hong Kong. This bar will be lifted soon. And there are other airlines operating to Hong Kong.14 destinations where Indians can fly toAfghanistan, Bahrain, Bhutan, Canada, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Maldives, Nigeria, Qatar, the UAE, the UK, the US are the 14 countries where Indians can fly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-countries-where-indians-can-t-travel/story-PJ5QMZALZDIw97GxmDj7VK.html
24-09-2020||India||‘Those opposing agriculture bills are enemies of farmers’: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Stressing that agriculture bills will double farmers’ income, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday said that those are opposing the legislations are “enemies of farmers” as they are misleading them.“Farm bills will double the income of farmers and empower them. Those who are opposing the bills are enemies of the farmers and are misleading them. Why are they (Opposition) supporting the middlemen?” Shivraj said while talking to reporters here.During the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament, the two Houses passed Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.A bill to amend the Essential Commodities Act was also passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-opposing-agriculture-bills-are-enemies-of-farmers-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-NWMEtSHeyrVmIeTeg30rPP.html
24-09-2020||India||Fit India Dialogue 2020: PM Modi to interact with fitness influencers at 12pm||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with fitness experts and influencers from across the country to mark the one-year anniversary of Fit India Movement on Thursday.PM Modi will talk about his idea of a healthy lifestyle and discuss with the influencers the virtues of a healthy routine as part of the virtual dialogue, according to an official statement issued on Tuesday.Cricketer Virat Kohli, model, actor and runner Milind Soman, and nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar will be among the fitness influencers who will participate in the event.The Fit India Dialogue is an effort to make citizens of the country draw out a plan to make India a fit nation. “The basic tenet on which the Fit India Movement was envisaged, that of involving citizens to imbibe fun, easy and non-expensive ways in which to remain fit and therefore bring about a behavioural change which makes fitness an imperative part of every Indian’s life, is being strengthened by this dialogue,” the statement said.Anyone can join the dialogue on the website https://pmindiawebcast.nic.in/ at 12pm on September 24, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fit-india-dialogue-2020-pm-modi-to-interact-with-fitness-influencers-today/story-Cr4F7KKs8Hu1OCRVegmffJ.html
24-09-2020||India||Punjab farmers organise ‘rail roko’ agitation in protest against farm bills from today||In protest against the Centre’s farm bills, farmers in Punjab will organise a three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation starting Thursday.After being cleared the Lok Sabha, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 were passed by voice vote in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. Now they await the President’s nod to become laws.“We have decided to hold a ‘rail roko’ agitation from September 24 to 26 in the state against the farm bills,” Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said last week. The state’s farmers, along with farmers of Haryana and Opposition parties across the country, have been in staunch protest against the bills ever since they were slated to be tabled in the Lok Sabha.Another farmers’ organisation has called for a state-wide ‘bandh’ on September 25.The protesters worry that the bills will dismantle the current Minimum Support Prince (MSP) system and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates. However, the government claims that the MSP system will continue unchanged and the new bills will result in higher profits for the farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also assured the farmers on multiple occasions that the “very historic” bills will benefit them as they will take away the power from the hands of middlemen and give them the freedom to sell their produce where they see more profit.After the passage of the bills in the Upper House, Opposition leaders including Trinamool Congress’ Derek O’Brien and Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh entered the well of the Rajya Sabha while the session was in progress, demanding that the bills be referred to a select committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmers-organise-rail-roko-agitation-in-protest-against-farm-bills-from-today/story-OpeuJGVWwM45uv0oqiVu6L.html
24-09-2020||India||Productive but divisive monsoon session ends||Parliament’s monsoon session ended ahead of schedule on Wednesday, setting a new mark for productivity even as several parties sat out large parts of the legislation process, revealing heightened acrimony between the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government and the Congress-led Opposition.The session — which was held with unprecedented social distancing norms — also opened a new political front in the form of farmers’ protests, and reinforced the danger posed by Covid-19 as 32 members (including two ministers) tested positive, eventually cutting down the already truncated session by eight more days.Both Houses approved a total of 25 bills, including three contentious bills for farm liberalisation and three for labour reforms, in the face of protests, walkouts and boycotts by opposition parties that accused the ruling side of denying them their parliamentary rights by pushing legislations without review. The Lower House clocked 167% productivity in the session — the highest in the history of Parliament (and broke the 1967 record of 163% productivity in the fourth Lok Sabha), according to Speaker Om Birla, who also announced that on September 21, when the House ran till 12.35am, the productivity stood at 234%, another record.To be sure, both Houses were allotted four hours daily instead of the normal seven-hour schedule as they had to convene on two different shifts in morning and afternoon due to social distancing norms in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Birla said that 370 MPs could participate in the Zero Hour and Under Rule 377, and that this level of participation was almost double of that in the 15th and 16th Lok Sabha.While Question Hour was suspended, the Lok Sabha saw 2,300 written answers while the Upper House 1,567 replies.“The situation was extraordinary. We are also a big Parliament, in numbers. But the way the Houses were run both by the Rajya Sabha Chairperson and the Lok Sabha Speaker was outstanding. The political situation was also very tense,” parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said.Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, said: “We are shocked to see how bills are passed since this government came to power in 2014. No bill is sent either to a standing committee or a select committee for further scrutiny. This is not good for democracy.”The acrimony was evident even on the last day of the session with leaders of 18 opposition parties visiting President Ram Nath Kovind and requesting him to withdraw the farm bills, even as the Rajya Sabha pushed through the labour reforms with no opposition to any legislative activity.Amid a boycott by opposition parties, Parliament approved the three key labour reform bills on industrial relations, social security and occupational safety with the Rajya Sabha passing them by voice vote.Fierce protests led to nearly two days of the Rajya Sabha being washed out, yet the Upper House utilised 100.5% of its allotted time in what was its second-shortest monsoon session since 1952. Instead of the scheduled 18 sittings, only 10 sittings were held between September 14 and 23.The Rajya Sabha has consistently recorded its highest productivity in the last four sessions and spent a record 58% of the business hours on passing bills during the session, against an average of 28% over the years.But the ill will on display between the treasury and opposition benches bore testimony to a widening fracture in Indian polity, casting a shadow on the session and prompting the Opposition to contend that the productivity achievements being listed were meaningless.One of the key flash points was the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha MPs over their unruly conduct during the passage of two of the three crucial farm bills in the Upper House on Sunday. The members heckled the deputy chairman, tried to uproot microphones and tear rule books and stood on the table.On the last day of the session, members of opposition parties protested in different ways against the contentious farm bills, from holding a silent march in the Parliament complex to carrying bundles of paddy crop in their hands to rushing to the President’s House.They made a representation to President Kovind and requested him not to give his assent to the bills. They conveyed to the President that the passage of the bills in Rajya Sabha was “unconstitutional”.The session, held after a gap of six months due to the coronavirus pandemic, was marked by several new initiatives such as both Houses working in shifts; MPs from one House sitting in the chamber of the other and in the galleries; members working though the weekend and speaking while remaining seated; and plexiglass sheets on every seat as well as strict social distancing norms.Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu said in his valedictory speech: “For the first time in this history of this august House, a notice of motion for removal of the Hon’ble Deputy Chairman has been given. It had to be rejected for the reasons I have elaborated while doing so. The developments in the House surrounding this unprecedented move have been deeply painful for all those who hold the stature and the dignity of this august House dear to their hearts.”Naidu also added, “I would like to remind all of you that in 1997 and 2012, this august House had resolved that all the members will uphold the dignity of the House by complying with the Rules and Procedures laid down. If we adhere to these resolutions there will be order in the House and when there is order in the House, the House can function as the country expects it to function.”Afzal Amanullah, former parliamentary affairs secretary said Parliament functioned during a very challenging time and proved once again that it can withstand any challenge.“At the same time, the government should have walked an extra mile to take the Opposition into confidence on key issues and ensure a smooth process of parliamentary discourse. The latter, unfortunately, didn’t happen,” Amanullah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/productive-but-divisive-monsoon-session-ends/story-9p11xe8pTgoXrIHCuq2ChL.html
24-09-2020||India||Military offset part of Rafale deal still pending, flags CAG||Two weeks after the Indian Air Force (IAF) formally inducted five of the 36 Rafale jets ordered from France under a Rs 59,000-crore deal, the country’s top auditor on Wednesday said that the plane’s maker Dassault Aviation and weapons-supplier MBDA have not confirmed the transfer of technology (ToT) to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which was part of the contract.The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), in a detailed report tabled in Parliament, doubted if the ToT for a key engine would even take place, and pointed out that several offset contracts built into multiple defence deals have “not yielded the desired results”.The critical observations were part of CAG’s scrutiny of the status of a raft of offset contracts — including the September 2016 Rafale deal — between 2005 and 2018.India’s offset policy stipulates that in all capital purchases above Rs 300 crore, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities. In the case of the Rafale deal this was 50%.According to the CAG report, the defence ministry stated as recently as October 2019 (the first Rafale was handed over in France on October 8, 2019) that the vendors had not yet been able to confirm their capability for technology transfer.“In the offset contract relating to 36 Medium Multi Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA), the vendors M/s Dassault Aviation and M/s MBDA initially proposed (September 2015) to discharge 30% of their offset obligation by offering high technology to DRDO.The DRDO wanted to obtain Technical Assistance for the indigenous development of engine (Kaveri) for the Light Combat Aircraft. Till date the Vendor has not confirmed the transfer of this technology,” said the report.HT has reviewed parts of report and a press release issued by CAG.CAG also said that DRDO should identify the right technologies for transfer, while sharply criticising foreign vendors who made several offset commitments to qualify for a contract but were later not earnest about fulfilling their commitments.Foreign vendors have to select Indian firms as their offset partners to fulfil their obligations.To be sure, in case of the Rafale deal, the DRDO’s offset share worked out to 30%, while 20% has been allocated to the private sector, including Dassault Reliance Aerospace Ltd (DRAL) -- Dassault’s joint venture (JV) with Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group. CAG did not pick any loopholes as far as the 20% allocation to the private sector, and asked the defence ministry to get more details about its progress.The report said the defence ministry stated in October 2019 that the vendors had not been able to “confirm their capability to carry out the requisite upgradation”.“Thus, it is not clear if even this technology transfer (for engine) will take place, and there is need for the MoD/DRDO to identify and acquire the right technologies in order to comply with the directions of Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) given in September 2016,” the report said.The defence ministry and DRDO declined to comment on the matter. The response to an e-mail sent to Dassault Aviation was awaited when this report was filed.However, French industry officials said they had given a detailed list of 10 to 15 technologies that could be transferred to the DRDO and the “ball was in the latter’s court”.The officials said that the offset obligations as part of the 36 jet deal were progressing as per the timeline in the case of the private sector JV (with Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group) despite the challenges posed by Covid-19.“The DRDO has to figure out what technologies it wants to take and can absorb,” the officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.In the case of private offset partners, CAG said since the discharge period had started — September 23, 2019, to September 23, 2020 — the defence ministry “needs to get the details of the specific products/services being offered for discharge of offset, to monitor and ensure that the objectives of the offset are achieved”.The Comptroller and Auditor General of India said that the aim of the offset policy was to develop the Indian defence sector to achieve self-reliance and cut dependence on imports.However, the audit found that the several vendors were not discharging their obligations as per their commitments.“From 2005 till March 2018, 46 offset contracts had been signed with foreign vendors, valued at ₹66,427 crore. Under these contracts, by December 2018, ₹19,223 crore worth of offsets should have been discharged by the vendors. However, the offsets claimed to have been discharged by them was only ₹11,396 crore, which was only 59% of the commitment. Further, only 48% (₹5,457 crore) of these offset claims submitted by the vendors were accepted by the ministry. The rest were largely rejected as they were not compliant to the contractual conditions and the Defence Procurement Procedure,” CAG noted.The auditor said the remaining offset commitments of about ₹55,000 crore would be due to be completed by 2024.“The rate at which the foreign vendors have been fulfilling their offset commitments was about ₹1,300 crore per year. Given this situation, fulfilling the commitment of ₹55,000 crore by the vendors in the next six years (CAG observation is of 2018) remains a major challenge,” the report said.CAG said there were no effective means of penalising the vendors on account of failure to meet the offset commitments.Experts said discharge of offsets by vendors was unsatisfactory and some changes were necessary.Inter-government agreements and foreign military sales have to be brought under the purview of offsets, said Lieutenant General Subrata Saha (retd), a member of the National Security Advisory Board and a former army deputy chief.“In 2016 with some deft application of policy, offset was associated with the ultra-light howitzer (ULH) procurement from the US. The number of industries that have successfully discharged offsets are very limited. The major issue here is the fact that we have not mapped industries working in defence sector and their capabilities. The number of MSME’s engaged in defence quoted by different agencies widely vary. Proper mapping of defence industries will help in utilising the offset facility much better,” said Saha, who was closely associated with defence procurement as the deputy chief.He said ToT must be given the highest priority with due incentives.“In addition to tightening the avenues for discharging offset, with the aim of improving India’s defence industrial capability, there has to be simplification of process as the multiplicity of agencies involved and sequential process takes too long,” Saha added.The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s decision to enter a $8.7 billion government-to-government deal with France to buy 36 Rafale warplanes made by Dassault was announced in April 2015, with an agreement signed a little over a year later.This replaced a previous United Progressive Alliance regime decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd.Congress alleged that the new deal entailed buying the fighter jets at a higher price. The government denied this, and the Supreme Court said in a judgment that the deal did not require scrutiny.The deal also become controversial on account of the fact that one of the offset deals signed by Dassault was with the Reliance Group of Anil Ambani.The Congress claimed that the earlier deal was scrapped and a new one signed to provide Ambani this opportunity for an offset deal. Both the government and Reliance have repeatedly denied this.As mentioned above, the problems flagged by CAG are not this part of the offset deal. A February 2019CAG report said the deal to buy the jets was kosher and cheaper than that was being negotiated by the UPA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-offset-part-of-rafale-deal-still-pending-flags-cag/story-buaMwr182Gkuhjt2pGwcpK.html
24-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||There’s a week to go before Unlock 5.0, which some believe will be the last phase of the restart of activities halted when the country went into a lockdown on March 25 to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The lockdown lasted 68 days, till May 31; a few establishments and activities were allowed to restart even in this period. Since June 1, there have been four sets of guidelines issued by the home ministry, Unlock 1.0 through Unlock 4.0, each detailing a new dimension of opening up. Restaurants have opened up, Metro services have resumed in all but two of the Indian cities that have Metro services, the number of scheduled flights has increased, as has the number of people attending offices (although many still continue to work from home). The latest iteration of the Nomura India Business Resumption Index was at 82.3 for the week ended September 20 (where 100 reflects pre-pandemic level business activity). This is higher than 81.3 the previous week, so the index is clearly on an upswing. This is the highest the index (which was stuck in the 70s for months in between, after falling to the 40s during the hard lockdown) has ever been since the lockdown. Google’s Mobility Trends for workplaces, according to the latest iteration, are 26% below baseline, again, an improvement (they were 30.4% below baseline in June).Guidelines for Unlock 5.0 could come as early as the end of this week. They come against the backdrop of a high number of daily new cases (India continues to lead the world in the number of new cases, although Europe is in the midst of a very strong second wave of infections), but also at a time when most states have moved out of lockdown mode, at least for most establishments and activities. The big announcement everyone is either looking forward to, or not looking forward to, is about the reopening of schools. Lockdown 4.0 allowed high-schoolers to attend school for up to a few hours a day, on rotation (with the teachers too being rotated), with the permission of the parents – and only for “guidance” or “counselling”. The rationale was that these were important school-years and students needed some interaction with their teachers. This wasn’t exactly a “school reopening” as some insisted on calling it. It is likely that Unlock 5.0 guidelines will allow more of this (perhaps for more classes, or for longer durations). With almost half the academic year over, it is also likely that the guidelines allow a more formal reopening of schools. After all, online classes put underprivileged students at a disadvantage although a recent Delhi high court ruling on schools in the Capital having to provide devices and connectivity, and be reimbursed by the state and central governments, could serve as a precedent in other parts of the country as well.I’d rather that governments focus on this (devices and connectivity for all students; and a proper online curriculum to boot) than rush into reopening schools. Cases are yet to peak in India, and experience from around the world suggests that school (and college) reopenings do cause flare-ups in infections.On Tuesday, The Wall Street Journal, citing a study by researchers from the University of North Carolina, Indiana University, the University of Washington, and Davidson College, that it said would soon be posted on pre-print server medRxiv (it wasn’t at the time of writing this column) reported that the US saw 3,200 more cases a day on account of college reopenings. The study covered the period between mid-July and mid-September and tracked GPS data of mobile phones to measure infection rates in and around colleges at two points in time – before students arrived, and after they did. The highest increase was in colleges with physical or in-person classes, and the lowest in those with online classes. The UK reopened schools in September but with a sharp increase in cases (a natural consequence of reopening, and not just schools); absenteeism and partial closures of schools have increased over the course of the month. The UK, like continental Europe, is in the midst of a second wave with the seven-day average of daily cases only a thousand below peak-levels last seen in May.Policymakers in India have the case-study of how Covid-19 roiled (and eventually cut short) the monsoon session of Parliament before them – it would be unfortunate if they make students face the risks that lawmakers themselves want to avoid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-7oL83ujBFgVn8KS0SOoLIP.html
24-09-2020||India||PM Modi relaxes SDRF cap to help states fight virus||States can dip further into their disaster relief funds, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a meeting with the chief ministers of the seven states hit hardest by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, while also urging them to consider whether intermittent lockdowns help or are coming in the way of restarting economic activity. The Prime Minister held a video conference with the CMs of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab – regions that the Union health ministry said together account for at least 63% of active cases and 77% of fatalities due to the viral disease. For Covid-19, all states can use up to 50% of their state disease relief fund (SDRF), up from a cap of 35% set in April. “Because of this decision the states will get more money to fight Covid 19,” the Prime Minister said, according to the text of his speech released by the government. The Union government has in all allocated ₹11,902 crore as SDRF to all states, as per recommendations of the Finance Commission. Several states have of late flagged to the Union government shortage in funds, particularly due to delayed payments of the Goods and Services (GST) compensation due to a slump in tax collections. At Wednesday’s meeting, the Union health ministry made a presentation where it said Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi have seen higher deaths with the case fatality rate (the proportion of deaths as per confirmed cases) above 2%, officials said.The Prime Minister and the CMs discussed several issues and shared notes about their economic recovery. The leaders of Karnataka and Punjab flagged potential shortages of oxygen cylinders. Uttar Pradesh chief minister said the state’s tax collections in August had climbed back to levels in the corresponding period last year. Economic recovery was among the key areas of discussions, with the PM recommending the states follow a ‘micro containment zones’ strategy. “The nationwide lockdown in the initial phases yielded very positive results and our focus now should be on micro-containment zones,” he said.The PM also asked the states to take a relook at whether intermitted lockdowns help in controlling spread of Covid. “Is it because of this reason that starting of economic activities in your state is facing problems?” the PM asked. Some states such as Punjab and Uttar Pradesh implemented weekend lockdowns and West Bengal shut down on two consecutive days in a week. Chhattisgarh has gone for a longer lockdown of 10 days in 14 districts.Overall, the PM said states must further enhance their focus on effective testing, tracing, treatment, surveillance and clear messaging to curb the pandemic. “Some people even make the mistake of undermining the seriousness of the disease,” Modi said, while pitching for the need of an effective messaging especially with regard to use of masks.Prime Minister Modi said it has to be ensured that medicines move unhindered from one state to another and noted that India has also been able to supply medicines across the world during such hard times.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh sought adequate supplies of medical oxygen from other states and release of ₹200 crore of the next tranche of central aid for Covid management. The chief minister said that with no manufacturers of medical oxygen, the state was dependent largely on three big manufacturers for liquid oxygen in Himachal and Haryana.India has over 5.7 million coronavirus cases and more than 90,000 deaths, and is the nation second worst-hit in the world after the US. Over the last 24 hours, 86,941 new cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-relaxes-sdrf-cap-to-help-states-fight-virus/story-DOOlHSsDrzqwHaGXXGfLTL.html
24-09-2020||India||Better infra may boost cycle use post-Covid, projects study||Dependence on public buses and private vehicles for short trips (6km or less) can be reduced by up to 40% if adequate cycling infrastructure is provided in Delhi within the next three years, according to a study by the Central Road Research Institute (CSIR-CRRI). It can also help reduce vehicular congestion and pollution, the four-month-long study says, using projections on commuting patterns and use of different modes of transport after comparing data from before and after the lockdown.The study was conducted April onwards. The study used secondary data from different sources to project at least 15% increase in the cycling trips from pre-Covid months. It says that vehicular traffic on city roads is gradually increasing ever since the Centre announced the gradual relaxation in the restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease under the Unlock guidelines. Before the traffic volume hits the pre-Covid level, the government should scale-up infrastructure to encourage non-motorised vehicles for shorter commutes, the study advocates. The research body said six kilometres is a “cycleable distance”, and efforts should be made to convert short trips by cars and other motorised modes of transport into cycling trips. Mukti Advani, principal scientist of the transportation planning division at CSIR-CRRI, said it is the ideal time to push for cycling because traffic is lower than usual, with a substantial percentage of people still working from home.“We should make the most of this time when the traffic on road is far less as compared to before Covid. Currently, a large percentage of the working population is at home. If we can provide the cycling infrastructure now, it will help people gradually get used to it. By second or the third year when the workforce will be back in full strength, cycling, especially for short distances, would have become normal,” said Advani, who conducted the study. As per the study, it is estimated that there could be a 21% reduction in the use of two-wheelers, 14% in cars and 11% of Metro and 40% of buses. “This will help in a big way to bring down traffic on roads and in turn reduce pollution due to vehicles,” she added. Cities such as Berlin, Milan, London, Rome and Paris have created pop-up bike lanes during the pandemic, either by painting the lane or by placing bollards along the length of the roads to encourage people to use bicycles. Transport experts said not much has to be done in Delhi to ensure a “decent network” for cycling. Anuj Malhotra, knowledge partner to the high-powered committee under the Union ministry of home affairs, said this can be easily done by completing the missing cycling links in existing infrastructure. Nearly 40km of cycling infrastructure around games venues was constructed during the Commonwealth Games in 2010, but it was all disconnected.“Protected tracks are needed only on those roads where vehicular traffic speed or traffic volume is high. Prioritising Metro access and to schools is a start. There are several stretches in Delhi which have cycling tracks. The first thing we should do is to connect these tracks and provide proper signages,” said Malhotra. Malhotra’s firm, Centre for Green Mobilities, has done two studies---one in Dwarka and the other around Metro stations -- in Delhi to assess the demand for cycling and how the infrastructure can be provided. “It is easy to cycle for 9-10 minutes, which covers a distance of three kilometres. If infrastructure in the area of three-kilometre radius around Metro stations is improved, then nearly 80% of Delhi’s will have access to Metro on a cycle. In the Dwarka survey, we found that a majority of trips were educational and to work. A majority of the trips were within five kilometre distance, which is covered within 20 minutes,” he said. Transport expert Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said that as per data from Census 2011, nearly 48% of the daily trips in Delhi are made within a five-kilometre range.She said these trips can easily be converted into walking or cycling trips by creating safe infrastructure with temporary arrangements. “Cycling is a good option for people who have to travel short distances. It will also take the load off the public transport system. While providing infrastructure, we should ensure that the roads, including the ones in residential colonies, form a network so that people can use it,” said Roychowdhury.With a larger number of people taking to cycling across the world, Amit Bhatt, director transport, WRI India, said, “These pop-up bike lanes can be easily created. We, too, have been creating these dedicated pathways for years during monsoon for the Kanwar pilgrims. All we have to do is to make it a permanent feature on our roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/better-infra-may-boost-cycle-use-post-covid-projects-study/story-o6vD70wmjCz4U6fxK4g8SN.html
24-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha bids farewell to 11 MPs||Rajya Sabha on Wednesday bid farewell to 11 members whose tenure will end in November. Of the members who will not be present when the House resumes for the winter session, three are from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), four from Samajwadi Party (SP), and two each from the Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). They members who retired include civil aviation minister and BJP leader Hardeep Singh Puri, BJP’s Neeraj Shekhar and Arun Singh, SP leaders Ram Gopal Yadav , Javed Ali Khan, Ravi Prakash Verma and Chandrapal Singh Yadav , BSP’s Veer Singh and Rajaram and Congress’s Raj Babbar and P L Punia.While the opposition members were not present inside the House, only BJP’s Neeraj Shekhar made a farewell speech. “As a kid, I used to come to Parliament House with my father (former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar) and we used to play in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha... There wasn’t much security in those days. Since then, I aspired to become an MP,” he said.Stating that bringing legislations that will change the future of children should be a priority, he said he prays for a clean, educated, and strong country.The vacancies will bring down the SP and the BSP’s strength in the House, while the BJP will add to its tally when the re-elections are held. The party is in power in Uttarakhand and UP.“The retiring members have contributed significantly to the deliberations of this House and the parliamentary committees. I place on record my appreciation for the valuable contributions and service rendered by them with utmost dedication and fervour to further the cause of democracy,” Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said. Naidu said some of the members will return to the House after re-election.Wednesday is the last date of the current monsoon session after the government decided to curtail the 18-day session in view of the pandemic.The session that started on September 14 was to continue till October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-bids-farewell-to-11-mps/story-lB3nsHHL2p1FkEV3j1slFM.html
24-09-2020||India||Oppn meets Kovind, urges him not to approve three farm bills||Opposition parties on Wednesday requested President Ram Nath Kovind to withhold his assent for the contentious farm bills, alleging that the government had “undermined rules, regulations and procedures” in pushing the bill through the Rajya Sabha on Sunday.“The Constitution of India was torn to shreds in the temple of democracy” by the government, leader of the Opposition in the RS, Ghulam Nabi Azad, said.On behalf of 18 opposition parties, the senior Congress leader met the President and told him that the passage of the farm bills in the Rajya Sabha was “unconstitutional”, and that he should return the bills without signing them. The parties included the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Rashtriya Janata Dal, Aam Aadmi Party , Samajwadi Party, Nationalist Congress Party, Indian Union Muslim League, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, the Shiv Sena, and six others.Two of the three bills were passed through a voice vote amid opposition protests, with members storming the well of the House and rushing towards deputy chairman Harivansh, who was presiding over the proceedings. They alleged that the bills, which they said would benefit corporate houses and not farmers, should have been sent to a select committee, and that their demand for a division of votes was rejected. Eight members were suspended for the remainder of the session. Most of the other opposition parties also boycotted the rest of the session in both Houses. The third bill was passed on Tuesday, when the Opposition boycotted the session, which ended on Wednesday, eight days ahead of schedule, amid the Covid-19.The bills -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- have been passed by both Houses of Parliament and await Presidential assent to become law.Azad told reporters after meeting Kovind that the government should have consulted all the political parties and farmer unions and leaders before introducing the farm bills in Parliament.“The government has crossed all the limits. The Constitution of India was torn to shreds in the temple of democracy. All the rules, regulations and procedures were undermined during the passage of the bills in the Rajya Sabha. We have told the President that these bills have been passed unconstitutionally,” he said.A Congress functionary said leaders of the 18 parties met twice during the day to chalk out their future course of action on the farmers’ issue. It was after the first meeting that the leaders decided to call on the President, this person added on condition of anonymity. The parties also requested Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to revoke the suspension of the eight members, but the government insisted that they first apologise for their conduct. The standoff between the government and the Opposition over the farm bills has escalated with both sides taking a hardline on the issue. While the Congress has decided to hit the streets across the country from Thursday, other regional opposition parties are planning campaigns in their respective states. Oppositions parties also marched from from Gandhi statue to Ambedkar statue in Parliament complex protesting the anti-Farmers, anti-Workers Bills. Opposition leaders also wrote to Naidu urging him not to pass the three labour codes in the Upper House in the absence of opposition parties. “It will be a blot on democracy if bills are passed unilaterally,” they wrote. The Rajya Sabha passed the three labour codes on Wednesday before adjourning sine die. Hailing the passage of key labour bills, prime minister Narendra Modi said, “Long due and much awaited Labour reforms have been passed by Parliament. The reforms will ensure well-being of our industrious workers and give a boost to economic growth.”The Lok Sabha was also later adjourned amid boycott by the opposition. Though Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi returned from the US on Tuesday, a party leader said they did not attend the LS on Wednesday in view of the Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-meets-kovind-urges-him-not-to-approve-three-farm-bills/story-5p0ENyxFVU3PLjJx0LiqLO.html
24-09-2020||India||Terrorists kill BDC chairman in Kashmir||Suspected terrorists killed a Block Development Council chairman at Khag in central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Wednesday evening. Officials said that unidentified gunmen attacked Bupinder Singh at a time when he was not accompanied by his personnel security officers (PSO’s). Singh later succumbed to his injuries. “Singh left his two PSOs at Khag police station and left ancestral home alone,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said. Condemning the killing, BJP state spokesperson Altaf Thakur said, “Singh was an independent chairman and was killed at Khag. Our party condemns the killing.” Since June five BJP leaders including two sarpanches have been killed in different parts of Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-kill-bdc-chairman-in-kashmir/story-70Dzm2JQpqv9OE4JxUiVyO.html
24-09-2020||India||Turkish President Erdogan’s J&K remark riles India||India on Wednesday rejected Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s comments that Kashmir is a “burning issue” for the stability of South Asia, saying the remarks were tantamount to “gross interference” in the country’s internal affairs. This was not the first time that India and Turkey have engaged in a terse exchange on the Kashmir issue – Erdoğan has repeatedly raised the matter after the Indian government scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August last year, and India has pushed back on each occasion. In a video message for a special session marking the 75th anniversary of the UN, Erdoğan said: “The Kashmir conflict, which is also key to the stability and peace of South Asia, is still a burning issue. Steps taken following the abolition of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir further complicated the problem. “We are in favour of solving this issue through dialogue within the framework of the UN resolutions and especially in line with the expectations of the people of Kashmir.” Soon after, TS Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, tweeted that Erdoğan’s remarks were “totally unacceptable”. “We have seen remarks by President of Turkey on Indian [union territory of} Jammu & Kashmir. They constitute gross interference in India’s internal affairs and are completely unacceptable. Turkey should learn to respect sovereignty of other nations and reflect on its own policies more deeply,” Tirumurti said. Erdoğan’s remarks were welcomed by his ally, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, who said in a tweet: “Deeply appreciate President Erdoğan once again raising his voice in support of the rights of the Kashmiri people during his address to UNGA. Turkey’s unwavering support remains a source of strength for the Kashmiris in their legitimate struggle for self determination.” Erdoğan was among the few leaders who had raised the Kashmir issue at last year’s UN General Assembly session and he subsequently also raised it during a visit to Pakistan in February. He raised the matter despite India’s external affairs ministry warning that such remarks would affect bilateral ties. In February, India made a strong demarche with the Turkish government on Erdoğan’s remarks on Jammu and Kashmir during his visit to Islamabad. “These remarks reflect neither an understanding of history nor of the conduct of diplomacy. They distort events of the past to advance a narrow-minded view of the present,” the external affairs ministry spokesperson had said at the time. The remarks in February were also described as “one more example of a pattern of Turkey interfering in the internal affairs of other countries”, and India also rejected the “repeated attempts by Turkey to justify the cross-border terrorism practised so blatantly by Pakistan”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turkish-president-erdogan-s-j-k-remark-riles-india/story-trWBqv4H5eWhzvQy4BqL8J.html
24-09-2020||India||MoS railways Suresh Angadi dies of Covid-19||Union minister of state for railways and four-time Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament (MP) from Karnataka’s Belagavi constituency, Suresh Angadi, died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi on Wednesday evening. He was 65.Angadi, a lawyer and education baron who rose through the ranks in the BJP after being appointed the vice-president of the party’s Belagavi district unit in 1996, is the fourth MP to succumb to the disease that has claimed around 90,000 lives in India. “Shri Suresh Angadi was an exceptional karyakarta, who worked hard to make the party strong in Karnataka. He was a dedicated MP and effective minister, admired across the spectrum. His demise is saddening. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.The national flag will be flown at half mast on Thursday in government offices in Delhi due to Angadi’s demise, said a senior home ministry official.Angadi announced on September 11 that he tested positive for the disease. He was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi soon after for treatment. Angadi is survived by wife Mangala, and daughters Spoorthi and Shraddha.“Shocked to know the passing away of Shri Suresh Angadi, Union minister of state of railways. An amiable leader Shri Angadi worked tirelessly for the people of his constituency, Belagavi and Karnataka,” President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal said Angadi was like a brother. “Words fall short to describe his commitment & dedication towards the people. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends in this hour of need. Om Shanti,” Goyal tweeted.“He will always be remembered for his selfless service to the nation and party. My deepest condolences are with his family. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti,” Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted.BJP president JP Nadda also condoled the death. “Extremely saddened by the passing away of central minister Shri Suresh Angadi Ji. He was a remarkable leader who dedicated all his life for organisation and went on to serve society with utmost diligence and compassion,” he tweeted.YSR Congress MP from Tirupati, Balli Durga Prasad Rao, Congress MP from Kanyakumari, H Vasanthakumar, and BJP Rajya Sabha MP, Ashok Gasti, have also died of Covid-19 so far.A relatively late entrant to politics, Angadi was considered a BJP strongman from the Mumbai-Karnataka region of Karnataka and was instrumental in the BJP winning 25 of the state’s 28 seats in the 2019 general elections. He first won the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat in 2004 and remained undefeated. He was appointed the junior railways minister in 2019.Angadi also ran a clutch of educational institutions under the Suresh Angadi Education Foundation including an engineering college, arts and commerce college, architecture college and international school.His death was condoled by leaders across the political spectrum in Karnataka. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa expressed his shock and said Angadi was a “people’s leader”. Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) chief, HD Deve Gowda, said Angadi was like a younger brother to him. “I feel terrible losing him. This is an unbearable loss to our nation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mos-railways-suresh-angadi-dies-of-covid-19/story-5BwqaDOv9OwInLIi7325yN.html
24-09-2020||India||Sudarshan News gets notice from Centre for airing show||The Centre has issued notice to Sudarshan News channel, citing a prima facie (at first sight) violation of the programme code for broadcasters after it aired four episodes of a show that targeted Muslims for allegedly infiltrating the administrative and police services of the country.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday about the notice during the hearing on a public interest litigation that sought restraint to be placed on the show, titled Bindas Bol, whose telecast was blocked by the top court with six episodes remaining to be telecast.Mehta proposed that the hearing on the PIL be deferred till the Centre takes a decision. The court agreed to the suggestion and directed the Centre to place its decision before the court at the next hearing on October 5.A three-judge bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud said, “We are of the view that since notice to show-cause has been issued (to Sudarshan News), it will be appropriate to list the case on October 5. The notice shall be dealt with in accordance with law and the Centre shall submit the report to this Court indicating the outcome of the notice (issued on September 23).”The bench, also comprising justices Indu Malhotra and KM Joseph, reminded the Centre that the notice had been issued only after the court stayed the airing of the show. “But for the fact that this Court had not intervened, the programme would have been over by now,” the bench said.Mehta replied: “My broad proposition is that it will be better if your (Court’s) intervention in these matters is the last resort.”The top court had on September 15 stayed the remaining episodes of the show and set out to examine if the channel violated the fundamental rights of persons belonging to the Muslim community by accusing them of infiltrating the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Police Service (IPS). The Court also involved the News Broadcasters Association and Press Council of India to evolve broad standards for television with regard to airing content that offends secularism and religious fraternity.In its order, the Court stated: “Since the notice has been issued during the pendency of these proceedings, further steps in pursuance of the notice to show cause shall be subject to the result of the present proceedings.” In the meanwhile, the stay ordered by the court would continue.The PIL petitioner, Firoz Iqbal Khan, welcomed the Court order. Senior advocate Anoop G Chaudhary, appearing for Khan, said that if the decision by the Centre goes against the petitioner, it can always be challenged in the court proceedings.The bench asked Mehta if the petitioners could also be heard by the Centre before a decision is taken on the show cause notice. The law officer refused to accommodate on this request claiming that the notice to the channel was issued under Section 20 of the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act 1995 under which any violation of the Programme Code is dealt with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudarshan-news-gets-notice-from-centre-for-airing-show/story-t5X477lg52bVkd4iYcb0IP.html
24-09-2020||India||Congress accuses BSY’s family of graft||The Congress on Wednesday alleged that chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s son, grandson and son-in-law had taken a ₹17 crore bribe in connection with the awarding of a ₹666.22 crore construction project of the Bangalore Development Authority in 2017.Citing an alleged sting operation by a Kannada TV channel, Congress’s national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala — on his maiden visit to the state after becoming the party’s general secretary for Karnataka — said: “Is it correct that the CM’s son Vijayendra was in clear knowledge of Rs 12 crore bribe having been taken by the BDA commissioner from the contractor, allegedly in the name of the CM and his son?”Vijayendra dismissed the allegations in a tweet, saying: “Shocking that @rssurjewala...has come all the way to Bengaluru and ended up parroting the false charges & lies made...by a private TV channel with history of character assassination, blackmail, and extortion.”Surjewala demanded a judicial enquiry and the resignation of CM Yediyurappa.Congress released extracts of alleged Whatsapp conversations, phone calls and bank transaction statements to make its point. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the documents furnished.Former Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah, who was accompanying Surjewala, said that Vijayendra demanded ₹17 crore of which ₹7.4 crore was transferred through RTGS to Shashidhar (Yediyurappa’s grandson) and the rest was delivered in cash to Virupakashappa (the CM’s son-in-law) at his residence in Hubli.On September 20, Vijayendra had tweeted: “Being in public life is not easy. You refuse illegal demands & reject requests of News channel head and the channel turns vicious against you & your family members. I won’t take this lying down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-accuses-bsy-s-family-of-graft/story-b8bd8SuERHMX8SQdHw1n7O.html
24-09-2020||India||32,000 Covid patients treated under Ayushman Bharat: Centre||Around 32,000 patients have received treatment for Covid-19 across India, and 335,000 cashless tests have been performed in past six months under Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna, the government has said. “...whenever I got an opportunity to go outside India and be a part of any forum, I found that every country would look up to India and give example of Ayushman Bharat scheme as a successful implementation of healthcare initiative,” said Union minister for health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday, while inaugurating a four-day international conference launched to mark two years of the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-000-covid-patients-treated-under-ayushman-bharat-centre/story-7kjhtzTPi06kmi7r2xb1dJ.html
24-09-2020||India||EC: Didn’t ask CBDT to issue notice to Pawar||The Election Commission (EC) of India on Wednesday issued a statement denying reports that it had directed the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to issue a notice to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar over the declaration of his assets in the election affidavits filed over more than a decade.“In some sections of media it has been reported that Income Tax notice has been issued to Shri Sharad Pawar, member of Parliament, on the directions of Election Commission of India. In this context, it is stated that the Election Commission of India has not issued any such direction to CBDT to issue notice to Shri Pawar,” it said.The EC’s comments came after Pawar said that a tax notice had been served to him at the behest of the Commission, and that he had heard similar notices were sent to his daughter Supriya Sule, and Maharashta’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya. The NCP and the Thackery’s Shiv Sena are alliance partners in the Maharashtra government. Pawar took a swipe at the Centre over the notice on Tuesday, saying it reflected a “feeling of love” for them. His party on Wednesday confirmed that the notice was sent.A person familiar with the matter, however, said that EC received no complaint against Pawar that could have been forwarded to CBDT. “There have been no such complaints to the EC. In the case of Aaditya and Uddhav Thackeray, the complaints received by EC have been forwarded to the CBDT to investigate,” said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity. EC has forwarded a month-and-a-half old complaint against NCP’s Supriya Sule, Pawar’s daughter, to the tax watchdog as well. “The EC has not asked CBDT to serve any notices, it has merely forwarded the complaints it has received for their consideration,” the person added. HT could not directly confirm if Sule has been issued any I-T notice yet. On Tuesday, Pawar said he received the notice from the income tax department the previous day. “It was sent on the directives of the Election Commission of India (ECI). They have sought information and clarification related to the details on assets shared by me in election affidavits filed in 2020, 2014 and 2009-10. I heard that [NCP lawmaker] Supriya [Sule] is also likely to get a similar notice soon. I will have to immediately respond to the notice as it also warned of things like raids,” Pawar told reporters.Party spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said that the NCP chief has received notice from the I-T department based on his affidavits filed with the election commission. “Pawar saheb has got the I-T notice is a fact. We don’t know who has directed them but the details sought by I-T is based on the election affidavits filed with the election commission,” Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-didn-t-ask-cbdt-to-issue-notice-to-pawar/story-l7yWMF05nDVM3RXoiLnIsK.html
24-09-2020||India||The farm reforms are good but there are other problems as well | Opinion||Farm sector reforms such as amending the Essential Commodities Act, liberalising the provisions of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Acts and contract farming etc. have been debated for decades. After these reforms have been shaped into law, farmers are on the war path in several states to oppose them. Many opposition parties have come out in support of farmers and are demanding withdrawal of these steps.The agriculture produce market regulation scheme has had a long history. It all started in the British period with the Berar Cotton and Grain Market act of 1887 in the Hyderabad Residency. This law marked the beginning of the agriculture marketing scene in the country which got support of the Royal Commission on Agriculture 1928 that recommended establishment of regulated markets and establishment of market yards. Later, the Government of India prepared a model bill and circulated it to all the states in 1938 but nothing much happened before Independence.Once India gained freedom, most of the states during the sixties and seventies enacted the agriculture produce marketing laws. Over a period of time, several limitations and constraints of the present agricultural marketing system such as lack of sufficient markets and inadequate marketing infrastructure, high incidence of market fee/charges and lack of competition with a long chain of intermediaries became apparent. Accordingly, the Union agriculture ministry formulated a Model APMC Act/Rules on agricultural marketing in consultation with the state governments and circulated it to them for adoption in 2003 and 2007 respectively. Several States initiated steps to amend their APMC Acts/Rules, but there was variation in adoption of the contents and coverage of reforms to the APMC Acts/Rules across the States/UTs. Further, as per government of India documents, during discussions and consultations at various levels, there was a persistent demand for expediting reforms in agricultural marketing in order to facilitate private sector investment in this important area. To suggest measures to overcome the farm sector marketing issues, the UPA Government set up an empowered committee of state ministers in-charge of agricultural marketing on 2 March 2010 to persuade various States/UTs to implement the reforms in agriculture marketing through adoption of Model APMC Act and the Rules.The committee submitted its interim report in 2011 to the then Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar and the final report in January 2013, recommending reforms in agriculture marketing to ensure barrier-free marketing of the produce by farmers and participation of private players along with promoting contract farming. The three farm bills are along the lines recommended by this committee of state ministers in-charge of agriculture marketing.Undoubtedly, nobody can oppose the idea that the farmers should have complete freedom to sell their produce to any one who offers them the highest price and they should not be compelled to sell their produce only in the designated mandi. Similarly, the “one nation one market” concept is an ideal, which needs to be pursued and implemented per se. The concept of contract farming is in vogue in cane-growing areas for decades so we have the experience to weigh the pros and cons of this initiative and ensure putting in place such a mechanism which can rule out any possibility of farmers being cheated or taken for a ride by private players. But the distinction between the agriculture produce market and all other product markets has to be kept in mind while carrying out market reforms. It is to be understood that the agri-produce marketing is different from the marketing of manufactured commodities because of the special characteristics like perishability of the products and seasonality of production since they cannot be produced throughout the year. In the harvest season, prices have to fall due to demand and supply mismatch unlike the supply of manufactured products whose production can be adjusted as per demand .With the varying supply, the demand remaining almost constant, the prices of agricultural products crash during the harvest season. This is where the support of the government through minimum support price becomes extremely crucial to prevent distress sale of farm produce. So any kind of market reform and opening up of markets to private players has to be accompanied by effective implementation and continuation of minimum support price scheme for all kinds of agri-products. Looking at the prevailing scenario, no government can dare withdraw the MSP scheme. Hence, farmers need not worry on this count. The PM has also made it clear that the MSP scheme will continue.But these legislations are not going to solve all other problems ailing the farm sector. The government has to take steps to urgently fix the problem of supply of uncertified and poor quality seeds, overuse of chemical fertilizers, corruption in fertilizer subsidy regime, dwindling irrigation potential across the country, lack of proper extension services, wide spread corruption in food crop procurement and storage operations, lack of cold chain facilities, shortages in storage capacity, lack of agro-based industries and fixing of remunerative procurement prices etc. Since nearly 60% of our population is dependent on agriculture, the time has come to turn the nation’s focus towards them. No empty promises but sincere actions are the need of the hour.(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-farm-reforms-are-good-but-there-are-other-problems-as-well-opinion/story-NDWRxwc1hOlifLvgFsqqiP.html
24-09-2020||India||YSRC urges SC to take cognisance of allegations against HC judges in Amaravati land scam||The ruling YSR Congress party in Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday questioned the silence of the Supreme Court of India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the allegations against certain judges of the state high court with regard to land dealings in Amaravati. Briefing the media on the two-day tour of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in New Delhi, YSRC Rajya Sabha member Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose said as many as 13 judges of the high court had accepted housing plots from the previous Telugu Desam Party government in 2019. Describing it as unethical on the part of judges, the YSRC MP said the Supreme Court should have taken suo motu cognizance of the issue and ordered an investigation into it. He reminded that when there were certain allegations against former President of India VV Giri, the Supreme Court had called him for questioning. “When the SC could question the President of India who appoints the judges, why can’t it act on the allegations against the state high court judges?” Bose asked. “Apart from Supreme Court, the Prime Minister also has the responsibility to order an inquiry into the allegations against the judiciary. We don’t know why they are silent when the image of the judiciary is being damaged because of some judges,” he said. Stating that it was time for the intellectuals of the country to speak out on the allegations of corruption in the judiciary, the YSRC leader said law could not be different for the police, politicians, common man and judges. “Just because they are judges, they cannot get away without being questioned when there are allegations against them. Our intention is not to denigrate the sanctity of judiciary or question the integrity of judges. If the allegations are proved wrong, it only enhances the prestige of the judiciary,” the MP said. On Jagan’s two-day visit to Delhi, the YSRC leader said the chief minister had requested the Union home minister to see that the Centre releases the funds to compensate for the revenue deficit of the state. “Out of Rs 14,000 crore due to be given to the state towards revenue deficit for 2014-15, the Centre released only Rs 5,000 crore so far,” he said. The chief minister had met Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat and requested that the department release Rs 4,000 crore due to be released to the state towards the Polavaram major irrigation project. “The Centre has accepted the revised estimates for the Polavaram project. The chief minister requested that the funds be released as per the revised accounts to complete the project at the earliest,” another YSRC MP Mopidevi Venkataramana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrc-urges-sc-to-take-cognisance-of-allegations-against-hc-judges-in-amaravati-land-scam/story-gMMa8T3ToYnLT7IwIrF4BM.html
24-09-2020||India||BJP outshines ruling TMC in race for social media advertisement campaigns||With the crucial 2021 West Bengal assembly elections approaching and rallies of political parties restricted because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the ruling Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bengal unit are spending lakhs of rupees for advertisements on social media to improve their digital campaigns. The TMC has spent nearly two million on advertisements on Facebook in the last three months; not to be left behind; the Bengal BJP has caught up and in the last one month has spent more than its main rival. Facebook’s advertisement library report reveals that between June 24 and September 21, the TMC has spent Rs 1.81 million on 93 advertisements on social media while the BJP has spent around Rs 1.22 million on 52 advertisements. But if one considers the data of last one month (August 23 – September 21), then the BJP has surpassed the TMC with such spending. While the BJP has spent 1.04 million on 26 ads during the last 30 days, the TMC has spent around 3.35 lakhs on 42 ads. This means 85% of what the BJP spent on social media advertisement had come in the last one month. “The BJP at the Centre is gradually selling out all assets of the country and hence has loads of money with which they can give such advertisements. Their advertisements will increase as they need to spread lies. The Mamata Banerjee-led government has done a lot of work. Our work speaks for us. People have seen the BJP and what harm it can do,” said Tapas Roy minister of state for parliamentary affairs and a spokesperson of the ruling TMC. While there was a ban on political gathering during the lockdown, the Union home ministry had on August 29 allowed political functions with a ceiling of 100 people from September 21. The Bengal BJP unit’s page, however, has been liked by more than 1.5 million compared to 9.4 lakh likes received by the TMC’s page. “During the pandemic when other modes of political campaigns have been restricted, social media has become a vital means to connect with the people. Most of the advertisements of the BJP relates to outreach programs. The BJP is doing whatever it takes to reach out to the masses,” said Jai Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s state vice president. While the TMC and the BJP are gearing up for the polls next year with their social media advertisement campaigns the other parties in the state including the Congress seem to be left behind in the race. “It is true that social networking sites have now become important to reach out to the people. But it involves huge costs and we don’t have enough funds as of now. The last time we spent on social media advertisements was during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. May be we can do the same during the upcoming assembly polls,” said Amitabha Chakraborty, spokesperson of the Congress unit West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-outshines-ruling-tmc-in-race-for-social-media-advertisement-campaigns/story-eTYgfAscNR3BQ7E2aj4ycO.html
24-09-2020||India||Plans afoot to set up megalabs in four states to strengthen surveillance||The Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) in Delhi has been working with four states to set up “megalabs” that can sequence up to 3,000 viral genomes of the Sars-CoV-2 that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The states, which are expected to make separate announcements to the effect, weren’t named.Not only will genome sequencing be more accurate than the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at detecting infection in clinical samples, but the data will also be used for routine surveillance of the virus and where it originates to help the government in devising more effective strategies to control its spread. RT-PCR is now considered the gold standard for diagnosis of the coronavirus disease. “The megalabs will automate genome sequencing, allowing us to process a large number of samples – a couple of thousand – a day. This is being permanently used for routine surveillance in Kerala and has been able to give us very useful information. As we will be sequencing the complete genome, the results of the test will be more accurate than the RT-PCR test, which looks for certain identifying parts of the genome to say whether a person has the virus or not. It will also be immune to any mutation by the virus,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director of the IGIB. The entire sequencing process will not cost more than Rs 2,000 per sample and can be easily implemented by state governments, Dr. Agarwal said. In comparison, a patient pays Rs 2,400 for an RT-PCR test at a private laboratory in Delhi. Kerala, where the machine used in the megalabs was first field-tested in August, is one of the four states that would be using genetic sequencing data for routine surveillance of Covid-19 cases. The state has already benefitted from genetic sequencing data from IGIB for one of is projects. An analysis of 200 samples from the state revealed that most of the infections in the state were brought in by domestic inter-state travellers rather than international ones, according to the researchers. “Analysis of the genetic sequencing data collected by our clinical partner from three districts in northern Kerala shows that most of the infections in the state were brought in by domestic travellers, with three distinct clusters from infections imported from Odisha, Maharashtra, and Karnataka. This also validates the quarantine norms that the state followed with foreign travellers, preventing the importation of the disease from other countries,” said Dr Sridhar Sivasubbu, head of business development at IGIB and a member of the Indian CoV2 Genomic and Genetic Epidemiology consortium. He added, “The Kerala government has now committed to continuing the study in all 14 districts as part of regular surveillance using the megalab. We are working with three other states to set up similar labs. The constant surveillance will tell the government of the origin of clusters of infections, helping them in developing strategies to prevent it at the source.” The researchers found that 94.6% of the genomes sequenced in Kerala spread locally after three distinct introductions – the K1 group where a traveller from Maharashtra introduced it in mid-July; K2 from Odisha, introduced in the first week of March; and K3 from Karnataka, introduced in the beginning of April. The researchers also found a variation in the S-gene — which encodes the defining spike protein the virus uses to enter human cells — associated with the higher infectivity of the virus. There were also five variants in areas of the genetic sequence that are used as probes for the RT-PCR test, which might result in reduced efficacy of the tests, according to the research paper that is currently on the pre-print server BioRxiv. The routine surveillance using genetic sequencing of the virus will also help in detecting cases of re-infection. IGIB is the first institute in the country to have confirmed eight cases of re-infection – two in Noida, two in Delhi, and four in Mumbai. “The cases of re-infection were detected in health-care workers through routine surveillance that allowed us to sequence genomes of the viruses during both the infections,” said Dr Sivasubbu. Dr Agarwal said: “We used to think re-infections were very rare, but we are seeing a few cases now. We were able to establish re-infection in at least eight cases where samples from both the infections were available, we could ensure that there was sufficient genetic differences in both the viruses, and where we were clearly able to show that neither of the samples were positive due to possible contamination. This makes us think that re-infection is not very rare {as thought earlier} but very uncommon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plans-afoot-to-set-up-megalabs-in-four-states-to-strengthen-surveillance/story-jAY7kVgamJ65nhCO0ekzBI.html
24-09-2020||India||G4 nations call for ‘urgent’ UN reforms||The G4 countries – Brazil, India, Japan and Germany – on Wednesday expressed disappointment at attempts to derail reforms of the United Nations and called for text-based negotiations within a fixed timeframe to revamp the world body. The foreign ministers of the four countries, during a virtual meeting during the 75th session of the UN General Assembly, highlighted the urgency of reforming the world body and updating its main decision-making bodies to better reflect contemporary realities. The move is in line with India’s position on the reforms of the UN, including expansion of the permanent and non-permanent membership of the Security Council, its main decision-making organ. The foreign ministers – Brazil’s Ernesto Araújo, India’s S Jaishankar, Japan’s Motegi Toshimitsu and Germany’s minister of state in the federal foreign office, Niels Annen, who represented foreign minister Heiko Maas, said the declaration adopted by all heads of state and government on the 75th anniversary of the UN reaffirmed the “common resolve to finally take decisive steps towards the early and comprehensive reform of the Security Council”. Jaishankar tweeted that the G4 ministers had “called for a decisive push for UNSC reforms during #UN75”. He said there was a “unanimous call for text-based negotiations in a fixed timeframe” and India’s approach to the UN is guided by reformed multilateralism. In a joint statement, the G4 ministers noted that the declaration said the “world of today is very different from what it was when the United Nations was created 75 years ago. There are more countries, more people, more challenges but also more solutions. Our working methods need to keep pace and adapt.” “In keeping with this call, G4 ministers highlighted the urgency of reforming the United Nations and updating its main decision-making bodies, in order to better reflect contemporary realities,” the joint statement said. The ministers also “expressed disappointment at attempts to derail this process and committed to addressing the issue in a meaningful way and with increased urgency at this 75th anniversary of the UN”. They also said the expansion of the Security Council in both categories “will be indispensable to make this body more representative, legitimate and effective, enhancing therefore its capacity to deal with the complex challenges the world faces today on questions of international peace and security”. The ministers insisted that only the reform of the Security Council will stop the body “from becoming obsolete”. Broader membership of the Security Council, “with increased and enhanced representation of countries with the capacity and willingness to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, including from Africa, will allow it to preserve its credibility and create the political backing needed for the peaceful resolution of today’s international crises”, the joint statement said. The G4 countries have backed each other’s candidature for permanent membership of an expanded Security Council. Except for China, all the other P5 countries – the US, the UK, France and Russia – have also offered unstinted support for India’s membership of the Security Council. The G4 ministers also expressed concern at the lack of “any meaningful movement forward in the Intergovernmental Negotiations (IGN) on Security Council reform and expressed their concern that – after two sessions in February and March – the IGN was adjourned due to Covid-19 and no further meetings were held”. They said these negotiations lack the “necessary openness and transparency” and are constrained by flawed working methods. They further said they were convinced the “time has come to leave behind debates based solely on general statements, without substantive text based negotiations actually taking place in an intergovernmental setting”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/g4-nations-call-for-urgent-un-reforms/story-lNRt27eBxyHPdVe8rPQJGM.html
24-09-2020||India||IIM-A, B, C in top 100 of global B-school rankings||New Delhi Placed at the 50th position, IIM Ahmedabad was the top-ranked Indian B-School followed by IIM Bangalore and IIM Calcutta in the latest QS Global MBA rankings released on Wednesday.IIM Bangalore was placed at the 54th position while IIM Calcutta was in the 79th position. Indian School of Business, which has campuses in Hyderabad and Mohali (Punjab), secured the 93rd position.No other Indian institute made it to the top 100. Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Lucknow and the SP Jain Institute of Management and Research, Mumbai, were the other Indian institutions in the top 200.IIM Ahmedabad actually dropped ten places from its ranking last year. IIM Bangalore slipped by 10 positions. IIM C?The list WAS dominated by American business schools. Stanford Graduate School of Business, Penn (Wharton) and MIT (Sloan) were the top three institutions, according to the QS Global MBA rankings for 2021.Harvard Business School came fourth while HEC Paris was at the fifth place. INSEAD, a multi-campus institution based in Paris and Singapore, secured the sixth position.IIM Bangalore Director Professor Rishikesha T Krishnan said the reasons for the drop in ranking would be discussed.“The main concern would be that Indian schools as a collective have slipped. Would plan to discuss this with my fellow directors,” he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iim-a-b-c-in-top-100-of-global-b-school-rankings/story-TWCLjrL7knYJrXmhbpJWuO.html
24-09-2020||India||Kerala records highest single-day spike with 5,376 new Coivd-19 cases||With 5,376 new coronavirus cases, Kerala has recorded the highest single-day spike on Wednesday even as the government eased quarantine norms to avoid crowding in hospitals, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.“The situation is really serious. For the first time, fresh Coivd-19 cases have crossed the 5,000-mark. Most of the patients are asymptomatic and we have asked them to remain in quarantine in their homes. This will help them in getting required psychological support and avoid overcrowding in hospitals,” said the CM. The CM has blamed the ongoing opposition agitation seeking the resignation of minister KT Jaleel for the spike in the number of cases. “Despite our request there is no end to the so-called protest. Their overcrowding won’t serve any purpose and it will only help increase cases,” he said. Opposition parties are on a state-wide agitation seeking the resignation of the state higher education minister KT Jaleel who was questioned twice by customs and the National Investigation Agency in connection with the gold smuggling case. State capital Thiruvananthapuram continues to bear the brunt with 852 new Covid-19 cases. The district reported around 20 per cent of the total cases and 32% of deaths. The state has reported 593 deaths so far. The chief minister said out of a total 1,48,075 cases 1,04,682 people have recovered and 42,786 patients are under treatment. With 20 deaths, the toll has gone up to 593. Among the infected are 99 health workers, 10 firemen and 30 cops, he said. State Agriculture Minister V S Sunil Kumar is among the Covid-19 positive, the third minister to get infected in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-5-376-new-coivd-19-cases/story-0I1WAgZHqddOUoqQ7pSUNJ.html
24-09-2020||India||Varanasi’s Shivangi Singh to be first woman to fly Rafale||Flight Lieutenant Shivangi Singh is set to become India’s first woman fighter pilot to fly the Rafale aircraft that was formally inducted into the Indian Air Force on September 10, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. Singh, who hails from Varanasi, is currently being trained to fly IAF’s newest fighter based in Ambala. She is undergoing conversion training to fly the Rafale jet and will soon join the Ambala-based No. 17 squadron, also known as “Golden Arrows.” The officer, who is one of IAF’s 10 women fighter pilots, joined the air force in 2017. After joining IAF, she has been flying the MiG-21 Bison aircraft and was till recently serving at a fighter base in Rajasthan, the officials added on condition of anonymity. Ten women have been commissioned as fighter pilots after the experimental scheme for their induction into IAF’s combat stream was introduced in 2015, a watershed in the air force’s history. IAF is operating its Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on its highest state of alert, amid heightened border tensions with China. IAF’s current fleet of five Rafale fighters is fully operational and ready to undertake any mission, officials said.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016. The air force formally inducted the planes at the Ambala air base on September 10 though they landed at their home base on July 29. The next batch of three to four Rafale jets is expected to reach Ambala from France in October followed by a third batch in December. All deliveries will be completed by the end of 2021. The head count of women in the military adds up to more than 4,000, but combat roles were off limits to them until IAF took the lead in crushing internal resistance to induct them into the fighter stream. Tanks and combat positions in the infantry are still no-go zones for women, who were allowed to join the armed forces outside the medical stream for the first time in 1992. Warships are no longer a no-go zone for women naval aviators with two of them set to become the first women in the navy’s history to operate from flight decks of warships and stay on board the vessels, the navy announced on Monday. Sub Lieutenants Kumudini Tyagi and Riti Singh have been selected for the helicopter stream.“The struggle of two decades has culminated into this storm! In the past three years so much has progressed and now we are seeing yet another door opening .Absolutely delighted that the air force has not dithered and true to its grain has handed over the newest machine to Shivangi. Go girl ....Touch the sky with glory,” said Wing Commander Anupama Joshi (retd), from the first batch of women officers commissioned in the IAF in early1990s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officer-from-varanasi-set-to-be-first-woman-pilot-to-fly-rafale/story-R11imch73m8hpxQUCdsiQP.html
24-09-2020||India||Half of govt school toilets built by CPSEs lack basic amenities: CAG||At least half the government school toilets built by central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) under a scheme launched by the education ministry do not have even the basic hand-washing facility, an even greater necessity in COVID-19 affected times, a survey of over 2000 schools by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has found.Lack of running water, poor maintenance and unavailability of separate toilets for girls continue to be the bane of Indian school goers, according to the CAG report tabled in Parliament on Wednesday.The report mentions that the HRD ministry (now named the Education ministry) had, under the Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyan (SVA) sought the help of CPSEs for construction of toilets in government schools.As many as 53 CPSEs participated and constructed 1,40,997 toilets.Seven CPSEs , National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL), National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC), Power Finance Corporation (PFC), Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Coal India Limited  constructed 1,30,703 toilets in total, at a cost of ₹2,162.60 crore. CAG examined the construction of toilets by these seven by surveying 2,695 toilets across 2048 schools in 15 States.According to the findings, the CPSEs did not construct 83 toilets though these toilets were identified by them for construction. Of the remaining 2,612 toilets which were reported to have been constructed, 200 toilets were not found constructed in the respective schools and 86 toilets were only partially built.“The non-existing and partially constructed toilets constituted 11 % of toilets surveyed,” CAG’s report pointed out.Of the 1,967 co-educational schools, 99 schools had no functional toilets while 436 schools had only one functional toilet. The aim of providing separate toilets for boys and girls was not fulfilled in 535 schools, a sizeable 27 % of the sample.Out of 2,326 constructed toilets surveyed, 691 or 30 % were found not in use mainly due to lack of running water, lack of cleaning arrangements, damages or other reasons such as the toilets being used for other purposes.During the survey, 1,679 (72 %) out of 2,326 constructed toilets were found without running water.Further, hand washing facility was not available in 1,279 (55 per cent) out of 2,326 constructed toilets, according to the report. The audit also found that 75% of selected toilets were not maintained hygienically.  CAG recommended the concerned ministries to look into the issue of non-existing and incomplete toilets that were claimed as constructed. It also asked the Navratanas and the ministries to address absence of basic amenities in the toilets . Since the survey covered 2% of total toilets, the CPSEs are advised to review the remaining 98% and take appropriate action, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/half-of-govt-school-toilets-built-by-cpses-lack-basic-amenities-cag/story-VrjIuNNcEo9Rzod6nzsYqL.html
24-09-2020||India||CAG pulls up Railways for ‘dressing up’ finances||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has pulled up Indian Railways for “window dressing” its finances to present its operating ratio and working expenses in a better light during the financial year 2018-19 by including advance freight payments in its calculations.The operating ratio measures expenditure as a proportion of revenue or the amount spent on every 100 rupees earned by the state-owned transporter. A higher ratio indicates poorer ability to generate a surplus.In December last year, the government auditor said Indian Railways recorded its worst operating ratio in 10 years at 98.44% and its revenue surplus decreased by more than 66% to ₹1,665.61 crore in 2017-18 from ₹4,913 crore in 2016-17 .Against the target of 92.8% in the Budget Estimates, the operating ratio of Indian Railways was 97.29% in 2018-19. This meant that railways spent ₹97.29 to earn ₹100, CAG noted in a report on railways presented in Parliament on Wednesday..“However, if advance freight of ₹8,351 crore from NTPC and CONCOR was not included in the earnings of 2018-19, OR would have been 101.77% instead of 97.29%. The Net Surplus in 2018-19 was ₹3,773.86 crore. IR would have ended with a negative balance of ₹7,334.85 crore but for receipt of advance freight and less appropriation to DRF and Pension Fund. Ministry of Railways (MoR) resorted to window dressing for presenting the working expenses and operating ratio in a better light,” the CAG report on the transporter’s finances noted.NTPC is the national thermal power producer and CONCOR stands for Container Corporation of India Limited. . DRF is short for Depreciation Reserve Fund.During 2018-19, Indian Railways generated total internal earnings of ₹1,90,507 crore against the targeted internal earnings of ` 2,01,090 crore, the report said.“The Railways could not achieve even revised estimate target of ₹1,97,214 crore. The total internal earnings also included freight advance of ₹8,351 crore received from NTPC and CONCOR for transportation of goods in 2019-20,” it added.The national auditor also raised concern over delays in projects over the past five years because of inefficiency and weak monitoring.“Projects were to be completed during 2015-20. However, due to inefficiency of Zonal Railways and weak monitoring at the Railway Board level, the progress of projects was slow,” the report said.CAG also raised doubts over railways’ utilisation of its extra budgetary resources (EBR) for financing project that started from 2015-16 onward. Scrutiny of records relating to 395 projects funded from EBR revealed that 268 projects were still in progress as of 31 March, 2019. This resulted in blocking of ₹48,536 crore of EBR funds besides defeating the intended objective of generation of revenue for debt servicing, CAG said.“Ministry of railways resorted to Extra Budgetary Resources for project financing from 2015-16 onwards. Financial assistance of ₹1.50 lakh crore was agreed to by Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) over a period of five years (2015-20). Audit observed that the financing arrangement with LIC materialized partially due to regulatory constraints. During 2015-19, only ₹16,200 crore could be raised from LIC. MoR recouped the shortfall of ₹49,164 crore by raising funds through short-term/medium term market borrowings which carry higher rate of interest,” it said.The national auditor said there were instances of irregular utilization to the tune of ₹1,495 crore from EBR funds.HT reached out to the ministry of railways for a comment but received no response till the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cag-pulls-up-rlys-for-dressing-up-finances/story-DKniJInIaBta6kDAtxqluK.html
24-09-2020||India||Understanding the new labour codes||Parliament on Wednesday passed the three labour code bills – the Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code, 2020; the Industrial Relations Code, 2020; and the Code on Social Security, 2020 – merging 24 central labour laws in a major boost to labour reforms. The National Democratic Alliance government has now merged 29 central laws into four codes. In August 2019, Parliament had passed the first of the codes, the Wage Code. The Industrial Relations Code, 2020, bring new rules for hiring and firing of labour in mid-sized and large industries, making retrenchment easier. This effectively brings the “north American hire-and-fire model to the Indian hinterland economy in the hope that businesses recoup and add more jobs on a net basis,” said labour economist KR Shyam of XLRI, Jamshedpur. How will the three codes impact workers? The reforms allow industries flexibility in hiring and retrenchment. They will make industrial strikes more difficult by clamping new conditions and also expand the social security net for both formal and informal workers. What are the changes in hiring-firing rules? Under the Industrial Relation Code, the government has allowed companies with up to 300 workers to fire workers or shut plants without the prior approval of the government. Hitherto, prior approval had been required. Firms with more than 300 workers need to still apply for approval. However, if the authorities do not respond to their request, the retrenchment proposal will be deemed to be approved. Earlier labour laws required a 30- to 90-day notice period before retrenching “workmen”, which is a class of mainly shop floor workers. In the case of manufacturing units, plantations, and mines with 100 or more workmen, lay-offs also required government approval. To be sure, 90% of India’s workforce, which is employed in the informal sector, won’t be affected by these changes. What’s the economic rationale for this? Economists have long argued that India’s outdated labour laws need change. Stringent hiring-firing rules applied to firms with over 100 employees, making it virtually impossible to lay off workers. This adversely acted as an incentive for smaller firms to stay small so they could escape the rules. According to the World Bank, with less restrictive laws, India could approximately add on an annual basis “2.8 million more good quality formal sector jobs”. How does it affect workers’ right to strike? The Industrial Relation Code lays down new conditions on the right of workers to go on strike. Unions will now have to give 60 days’ strike notice. If proceedings are pending before a labour tribunal or the National Industrial Tribunal, workers cannot go on a strike for 60 days after they are concluded. These conditions apply to all industries. Earlier, workers could go on strike by giving between two weeks and six weeks of notice. Flash strikes are now outlawed. What are the new workplace safety rules? The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, amends laws regulating occupational safety, health and working conditions of employees. The code empowers a state government to exempt any new factory from the provisions of the Code to create more economic activity and jobs. It fixes the maximum daily work limit at eight hours a day. Women will be entitled to be employed in all establishments for all types of work and in case they are required to work in hazardous or dangerous operations, the government may require the employer to have adequate safeguards in place prior to employment. Has the social safety net widened? Yes. The Code on Social Security, 2020 promises universal social security for the first time, including for both organised and informal workers as well as gig and platform workers. The government, the code states, shall formulate and notify, from time to time, suitable welfare schemes, including schemes relating to “provident fund; employment injury benefit; housing; educational schemes for children; skill upgradation of workers; funeral assistance; and old age homes”. The government can tap corporate social responsibility funds (within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013) or any other such source as may be specified in the scheme. The social security code lays down the setting up of a National Social Security Board to recommend to the central government suitable schemes for unorganised workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understanding-the-new-labour-codes/story-llI015EZK8EYtDHmP9SXVP.html
24-09-2020||India||supreme court issues notices over fb summons||The Delhi state assembly told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that it had summoned Facebook India’s vice president and managing director Ajit Mohan only as a witness to hear his suggestions on devising a system to prevent misuse of the social media company in the backdrop of the misuse of the platform during the communal riots that flared in the city in February.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the legislature, said Mohan had not been summoned as an accused and no coercive action had been intended against the company or its officials.“He was called as a witness, not as an accused. No coercive steps were intended. It had come to light that Facebook was misused (in connection with the communal riots). So, we want to get suggestions from them and devise a mechanism so that Facebook is not misused,” Singhvi said.The apex court was hearing a petition filed by Facebook India and Mohan against notices issued by the Delhi assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee on September 10 and 18 asking Mohan to present himself before the panel on Wednesday in connection with the social media company’s failure to curb hate speech that may have played a role in fuelling the Delhi riots. Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said the notices issued to Mohan by the committee did not give an impression that no coercive action was intended against Facebook.Singhvi offered to file a counter-affidavit clarifying the stance of the Delhi assembly. He also said the meeting of the committee, scheduled for Wednesday, had been deferred and no further meeting with Facebook officials on this subject will be held for the time being because the apex is seized of the case.The court recorded Singhvi’s submissions, asked the Delhi Assembly to file its response within a week and posted the case for further hearing on October 15. This would mean that Facebook officials cannot be summoned by the Delhi assembly until then.The Peace and Harmony Committee, in a statement on Wednesday, said: “In view of the issues of law pending before the Supreme Court, today’s proceedings before the Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Committee on Peace & Harmony has been deferred. Further course of action and next date of sitting of committee will be notified in due course.”The committee chairman Raghav Chadha could not be reached despite several phone calls and texts. The Delhi government did not react. The committee is investigating Facebook’s alleged complicity in the Delhi riots after it received several complaints from the public pursuant to an article was published in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14.The WSJ report, titled Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics, had alluded to the role allegedly played by top Facebook officials, particularly its public policy head Ankhi Das, in the social media platform refraining from applying its hate-speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) although the entities had been internally flagged for promoting or participating in violence. Das, according to the reports, said Facebook’s business interests may be harmed if it against them.Mohan was first summoned by the committee on September 15 in connection with complaints alleging deliberate omissions and inaction by Facebook in removing hate speech. The committee had earlier said that in its meeting of August 31, it had prima facie (at first sight) found Facebook India was allegedly complicit in aggravating the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that left at least 53 people dead and over 400 injured.Facebook officials failed to appear for the September 15 meeting after which a second notice was issued on September 18 asking Mohan to appear before it on September 23 (Wednesday). Facebook India and Mohan approached the top court on Tuesday, challenging the notices. They contended that the subject matter under investigation by the Delhi assembly falls within the exclusive domain of the central government and a state legislative assembly cannot compel witnesses to appear and provide evidence on such subjects.It was also highlighted that regulation of intermediaries like Facebook falls within the Union list of the Constitution under the Entry “Communication” (Entry 31). Parliament, in exercise of that power, enacted the Information Technology Act, 2000 to regulate intermediaries. Any assessment of the veracity of allegations against Facebook as an intermediary is exclusively a Union government subject, it was submitted.The petitioners also argued that the summons violate the right of the petitioner to remain silent and right to privacy, which are fundamental rights under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution. The committee’s insistence on compelling Mohan to speak, and its categorical threat that his non-appearance would be a “breach of privilege of the committee and [to take] necessary action as deemed fit” gives rise to a clear and present danger to the fundamental rights and liberties of petitioners, Mohan claimed in his petition.Senior counsel Harish Salve, representing Mohan, submitted that right to free speech under Article 19 of the Constitution includes the right to remain silent.“I am not affecting the working of your committee. As a house, you may do whatever you want to do. But you cannot compel me to appear and give my views. I am not a public servant. I work for an American company. The matter involves serious issues with political overtones. I do not want to get into the middle of all this,” Salve said on behalf of the Facebook executive.Facebook India, through senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, submitted that a private party cannot be forced to appear before the assembly or parliament.“Can a private person be asked to go before the Parliament and answer questions even if he does not want to do so? Can he be penalized if he does not appear?” Rohatgi asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notices-over-fb-summons/story-LUW60hDgr08nB8u2xA1ULK.html
24-09-2020||India||Nationwide protest against farm bills begins today||The Congress has decided to launch a nationwide protest from Thursday against the two agricultural reform bills passed by Parliament recently.The decision for a nationwide agitation was taken at a meeting of general secretaries and in-charge of states which was held at Congress party’s headquarters in Delhi.“From September 24 onwards, Congress will launch an all-India agitation asking the government to repeal the black laws,” Congress leader AK Antony told media after the meeting on Wednesday.The two bills - the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 - were passed by the Rajya Sabha despite uproar and strong protest by the Opposition parties in the house.These bills have already received Lok Sabha’s nod and are now with President Ram Nath Kovind. The Opposition parties have urged the President to not give approval to these bills. They want the government to take back the bills.Several leaders and different party workers along with farmers have taken to street across India to protest against the bills. The Opposition on Tuesday even boycotted Parliament over Centre’s refusal to accept its demand for withdrawal of the bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nationwide-protest-against-farm-bills-begins-from-september-24/story-8kr5dRsLDrXaqEAX5P6jHO.html
24-09-2020||India||Suresh Angadi: A giant killer who never lost an election||Suresh Angadi, minister of state for railways, passed away due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday. He was 65 years old.Born on June 1, 1955, Angadi was a Member of the Lok Sabha from Belgaum in Karnataka.Angadi belonged to the dominant Lingayat community, who form the core electoral base of BJP, particularly in north Karnataka.He won from Belgaum four times; in fact, Angadi never saw defeat since he first contested elections in 2004.In his first election, he had defeated Congress candidate Amarsinh Patil, son of veteran politician and freedom fighter Vasant Rao Patil.Also Watch | Union Minister Suresh Angadi dies due to Covid; PM Modi, others pay tributes Five years later, in 2009 Lok Sabha election, Angadi once again defeated Patil.In 2014, Congress decided to field another popular leader Laxmi R Hebbalkar against Angadi but riding on the Modi wave, he defeated her too.In the last Lok Sabha elections in 2019, Angadi defeated Congress candidate V S Sadhunnavar.The BJP leader was born in an agricultural family in KK Koppa village near Belagavi. He graduated from the commerce stream and also pursued a course in law.Angadi started his political career in 1996 when he was made the Belgaum district BJP vice president. In 2001, he was nominated as the Belgaum district president of BJP.Three years after rising to the post of district president, Angadi was given ticket to contest the Lok Sabha election by the BJP. He emerged as a giant killer by defeating Congress candidate and the then sitting MP Amarsinh Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suresh-angadi-a-giant-killer-who-never-lost-an-election/story-9xk4wnDzKkELO6W54d3kgI.html
24-09-2020||India||Union minister Suresh Angadi, 65, dies of Covid-19; tributes pour in||Minister of state for railways, Suresh Angadi, died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday. He was 65.Prime Minister Narendra Modi joined a host of political leaders and Union ministers in paying tributes to Angadi.“Shri Suresh Angadi was an exceptional Karyakarta, who worked hard to make the Party strong in Karnataka. He was a dedicated MP and effective Minister, admired across the spectrum. His demise is saddening. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti,” he said on Twitter. Shri Suresh Angadi was an exceptional Karyakarta, who worked hard to make the Party strong in Karnataka. He was a dedicated MP and effective Minister, admired across the spectrum. His demise is saddening. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/2QDHQe0PmjWatch | Union Minister Suresh Angadi dies due to Covid; PM Modi, others pay tributes Angadi was a Lok Sabha member from Belgaum in Karnataka. He was an educationist and belonged to the dominant Lingayat community.Defence minister Rajnath Singh Angadi said Angadi was a good administrator and a seasoned parliamentarian.“Deeply saddened by the demise of Rail Rajya Mantri, Shri Suresh Angadiji. He was a good administrator, seasoned Parliamentarian and blessed with a warm and affable personality. My heartfelt condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti!” he tweeted. Deeply saddened by the demise of Rail Rajya Mantri, Shri Suresh Angadiji. He was a good administrator, seasoned Parliamentarian and blessed with a warm and affable personality. My heartfelt condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti!Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said he is pained at hearing the sad news.“I remember the ever smiling Angadi-ji. Very pained at hearing this sad news,” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted. I remember the ever smiling Angadi-ji. Very pained at hearing this sad news. https://t.co/BtZ2bUXmqeThe minister had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 11. He was later admitted to AIIMS trauma centre in New Delhi.After his samples showed presence of Sars-CoV-2 virus, Angadi had urged the people who came in contact with him to get themselves tested.Angadi was among the Union ministers who tested Covid-19 positive in recent days, including Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Shripad Naik, Dharmendra Pradhan, Kailash Choudhary, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Gajendra Shekhawat.Other politicians who contracted the disease include Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit. The monsoon session of Parliament was curtailed on Wednesday due to the coronavirus disease. It was scheduled to go on till October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/junior-railway-minister-suresh-angadi-dies-due-to-covid-19/story-BVqJxRDMCIUf56dIGYsbcI.html
24-09-2020||India||Bizman granted bail in Moin Qureshi-linked bribery case||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to Someshwar Shrivastava, aka Somesh Prasad, a Dubai-based businessman, in connection with the Rakesh Asthana bribery case.Prasad is one of the accused in the case against former Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) special director Rakesh Asthana, who was given a clean chit by the CBI on February 11. However, the agency kept the investigation on Prasad pending, as a letter rogatory sent to Dubai authorities is yet to be answered.The FIR states that Manoj Prasad, a Dubai-based businessman, told Satish Babu Sana, the complainant in the case, of his “good connections” in the CBI and that his brother, Somesh, would help him in the Moin Qureshi case, being investigated by a team led by Asthana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bizman-granted-bail-in-asthana-bribery-case/story-a96UOQ6ftPd8wLFohRUgrN.html
24-09-2020||India||Actor Rhea Chakraborty files complaint against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Priyanka Singh||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, who is currently being investigated by CBI, ED and NCB in Sushant Singh Rajput case, filed a complaint before Mumbai Police on Monday against Rajput’s sister Priyanka Singh and Dr Tarun Kumar of Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital a station for allegedly prescribing medicines to the late actor which are prohibited under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Rhea Chakraborty in her complaint said that Priyanka had sent Sushant a prescription by Dr Tarun Kumar and he “appears to have prescribed medication controlled under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 to Sushant without any consultation as mandated by law.”In her complaint Rhea has said that she was staying with Rajput from December 2019 to June 8, 2020. She has stated in her complaint that during the course of her relationship she learnt that Sushant was undergoing treatment for various mental health issues and had been diagnosed as suffering from Bipolar disorder by multiple renowned doctors.Rhea Chakraborty’s complaint further stated that the “drugs prescribed by the doctor (Dr Tarun Kumar) were prohibited from being prescribed electronically under the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines, 2020.”“On morning of June 8, 2020, the deceased had been on his phone incessantly and when I enquired what he was doing, he showed me the messages he was exchanging with his sister Priyanka Singh. I say that I was shocked upon reading the said messages as his sister Priyanka had sent him a list of medications to take,” stated Rhea in her complaint. After a marathon six-hour questioning on Sunday,Rhea Chakraborty was back at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in South Mumbai at 9.30 am on Monday as part of the agency’s probe into a drugs case linked to the investigation into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Earlier on Saturday, Showik and Samuel Miranda were remanded in the NCB custody till September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-rhea-chakraborty-files-complaint-against-sushant-singh-rajput-s-sister-priyanka-singh/story-jVmUMxePmRwThr5c1z3FyL.html
