25-09-2020||India||‘Wave of cheer’: Meghalaya government legalises homemade wine||Putting an end to almost a two-decade-long demand for legalising the fledgeling but burgeoning local homemade wine-making, the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) government on Thursday introduced the Manufacture and Sale of Home Made Fruit Wines Rules, 2020 for issuing of licenses to winemakers in the state. This was among a list of the seven agenda approved by the cabinet on Thursday.“We have now formally created the rules where individuals can sell their homemade wines in the market,” chief minister, Conrad K Sangma told journalists after a cabinet meeting. He affirmed that this strategic move by the state government would go a long way in helping farmers producing a variety of fruits in the state to sell their products locally which can then be value added by the local winemakers.Also read: India, Japan to kick off naval drills in Arabian SeaThe CM assured that there shall not be any heavy encumbrances on the local winemakers to encourage more productivity and generate employment as well. He said, “The state government has ensured that the ad valorem that is paid by these winemakers will be much lesser as compared to other products. Rs 100 per case will be the ad valorem fees and winemakers will not have to pay VAT,” he categorically stated, further adding, “we have also ensured that the license fee will be only Rs 7,500 and (it can be availed) by individuals from different cooperative societies or different companies who are interested.”Welcoming the decision of the government, president of the Meghalaya Wine Makers Association Michael Syiem, who has been in the forefront of the demand since the beginning, told HT, “We are very happy at the decision today and we feel it is the rightful culmination of a long and arduous campaign by all stakeholders.”He felt that the move will not only go a long way in boosting the horticultural sector of the state, tourism and generate revenue for the state exchequer but once it blossoms into a cottage industry, “it will also help generate much-needed employment”.Syiem quipped, “Look at it this way. Amid all the chaos, anxiety, fear due to the ongoing pandemic, at least we have something to cheer about.”Also read: PM Modi’s speech at UNGA to focus on global push to counter terror18 years ago, on the second Saturday of November, Syiem’s Club, Forever Young Sports and Cultural Club organised the first-ever Wine Festival which has now grown into an annual event attracting winemakers and tourists from across the state and even other parts of the North East and the country who converge in Shillong every second Saturday of November to showcase and sell their homemade products.Another senior member of the association and an accomplished winemaker in his own right, Bryan Daly Kharpran, felt that this was a right step in the right direction. He felt that such a move will streamline the entire process right from the beginning itself plugging existing loopholes and lacunae.Speaking to HT, he said, “From now onwards there will be an established process of monitoring the process such as the use of correct ingredients (presently many use baking yeast instead of wine yeast), professional bottling with sealed caps and not just a silver foil over an open cover, wine is properly filtered and not cloudy as some turn out these days amongst many other aspects of the whole process.”Kharpran was also very clear that this decision of the government will ensure that the final product would have a certain standard and quality within the framework of food and consumable guidelines. “That way spurious products will remain off the shelf and people can truly savour quality and safe wine made out of the abundant varieties of indigenous fruits,” he asserted.The plains and hills of Meghalaya are home to many fruits from which wine can be made such as Sohiong (Prunus Nepalenses), Soh Mon (Meyna Laxiflora), Soh Mylleng (Officininalis Orientalis), Soh Phan (jackfruit), Soh Phoh (Indigenous fruit of the pear family), Soh Brap (passion fruit), Mandarin orange, mulberry, litchi, ginger, banana, pineapple and strawberry, amongst a host of others fruits available in abundance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wave-of-cheer-meghalaya-government-legalises-homemade-wine/story-dI5wLnMVmptoGHJ1uSc7iI.html
25-09-2020||India||Indian delegate walks out of Imran’s speech at UN||New Delhi The Indian delegate at the UN General Assembly meeting in New York walked out of the hall when Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s pre-recorded statement was played on Friday. The delegate, a junior diplomat named Mijito Vinito from the 2010 batch of the Indian Foreign Service, picked up his papers and left the hall as Khan’s speech was played on a large overhead screen. Khan raised the Kashmir dispute, as he has done in several recent speeches to multilateral bodies, and criticised the Indian government on several issues. After Khan’s speech, TS Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, tweeted that the country would use the “right of reply” facility to respond to the Pakistani premier’s address. “PM of Pakistan statement a new diplomatic low – at 75th UN General Assembly. Another litany of vicious falsehood, personal attacks, war mongering and obfuscation of Pakistan’s persecution of its own minorities & of its cross-border terrorism. Befitting Right of Reply awaits,” Tirumurti said in his tweet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to address the UN General Assembly through a video statement on Saturday.Earlier in the day, in a thinly veiled attack on Pakistan, India told the UN Human Rights Council on Friday that banned terror groups are collecting funds amid the Covid-19 pandemic ostensibly for charitable activities that would be diverted to finance terrorism. There are also “malevolent attempts by terrorists to exploit the financial and emotional distress caused by the lockdowns to disturb the cohesiveness of societies”, Pawan Badhe, first secretary in India’s permanent mission in Geneva, told a debate on human rights situations that require the council’s attention. “The increased presence of people online and on social media has been targeted by terrorists to disseminate misinformation through hate speeches, fake news and doctored videos,” he said. “The intent has been to entice and establish links with vulnerable individuals and recruit them in their cadres. Terror groups have also exhorted supporters to target security forces and health workers,” he added. Another disturbing trend, Badhe said, was the “collection of funds by proscribed terrorist outfits ostensibly for undertaking charitable activities, but which, in reality, would be used to finance terror”. Though India’s intervention in the debate didn’t name any country, it was apparent the reference was to Pakistan. India has repeatedly accused Pakistan of failing to counter fund-raising and recruitment by UN-designated terror groups operating from its soil, including Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. “Terrorism is the grossest affront to the enjoyment of the inalienable human right to life and to live in peace and security. It poses a serious threat to economic and social development, undermines democracy and jeopardises the rule of law,” Badhe said. He described terrorism as “an attack against freedom of thought, expression and association” and said: “While acts of terrorism violate the rights of individual victims, it also deeply affects the enjoyment of a range of rights by the families of the victims and society as a whole. Any terrorist incident disproportionately affects the human rights of women, girls and children.” The UN Human Rights Council cannot remain immune to the “devastating human rights impacts” of terrorism, and it needs to play a key role in creating awareness about protecting the rights of the most vulnerable groups, particularly children and youngsters, to prevent their radicalisation and indoctrination by terrorist ideologies, he said. “As the world grapples with Covid-19, it is important to cooperate among states coherently to fight against terrorists, whose disruptive activities have continued and, in fact, increased during the pandemic,” Badhe said. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-delegate-walks-out-of-imran-s-speech-at-un/story-yzIkAZztQ9Xd1PwmkI3EUP.html
25-09-2020||India||Polls set to be a litmus test for Grand Alliance||PATNA: After facing a humiliating defeat in the 2019 parliamentary polls, the upcoming Bihar assembly election is a litmus test for the opposition bloc, Grand Alliance( GA) comprising the Rashtriya Janata Dal(RJD), Congress and smaller parties. The coalition won only one of the 40 Lok Sabha seats in 2019.Since then, the alliance has suffered the loss of one ally -- former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) -- and many senior leaders within the RJD have questioned the choice of Tejashwi Yadav as the chief ministerial candidate. Rashtriya Lok Samata Party( RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha is peeved over a delay in seat-sharing arrangement and has called the 32-year old Yadav a “ poor opponent” to chief minister Nitish Kumar’ . But Yadav is unfazed. “ We have always respected allies but if some body questions leadership of other parties, it is not right. Our alliance is with Congress, left and people of Bihar,” said Yadav. “Tejahswi is already declared as CM face of RJD and he is face of the GA. There is no issue of leadership in GA,” said RJD state president Jagdanand Singh. In 2015, the GA banked heavily on the caste arithmetic and was successful in building a coalition of backward castes, Dalits and Muslims -- winning 178 of the 243 seats. RJD won 80 seats and Congress 27 This time, without JD(U), HAM-S, and possibly RLSP, the coalition may not be as successful. “ For the RJD and GA, it is a do and die battle. If they do not make a visible presence in the polls, they will be wiped out in next five years,” said, Shaibal Gupta, founder member secretary, ADRI ( Asian Development Reserch Institute), Patna.The absence of RJD chief Lalu Prasad -- who is in jail on corruption charges -- is another crisis for the RJD as experts say it will be difficult to project a charismatic face to unite backward castes, Dalits and Muslims. “ It is true, Laluji is not physically present on the election ground. But he is present psychologically and in hearts of people especially poor and oppressed sections,” said RJD Rajya Sabha MP and national spokesperson of the party, Manoj Jha.A favourable verdict for the GA may also boost the Congress and other Opposition forces in the national political arena. “Bihar assembly polls importance is crucial nationally as the verdict would have its connotations in national politics.If the GA wins, the verdict would help the Congress and other like minded parties to intensify its opposition against the farm bills, decline in economic growth and have its impact in coming polls in various states. If the NDA wins in Bihar, the BJP will get portray the verdict as validation of the farm bills and other initiatives taken by it in recent months,” said, D M Diwakar, former director, A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polls-set-to-be-a-litmus-test-for-grand-alliance/story-jzB0GSravAC1uz0KcJRObN.html
25-09-2020||India||Delivered on all promises: Nitish||PATNA:Hours after the schedule for assembly elections in Bihar was announced on Friday, chief minister Nitish Kumar underlined that he delivered on all promises made during the 2015 election campaign and pledged to take his development agenda forward if voted back to power.Kumar said his government would launch phase II of the “seven resolves”– which comprised social schemes to provide amenities such as piped drinking water, toilet construction and providing power connections – that was the mainstay of his campaign in 2015.“In a democracy, voters are the master. They have to take a call and decide whom they want to give a chance,” Kumar said.Kumar, also the Janata Dal (United) president, said that phase-II would include enhancing skill of youths to brighten their jobs prospect, promoting entrepreneurship among women by providing them financial assistance, irrigation facility to every agriculture field and additional health facilities for people and animals.“A promise is a promise. I will never waiver on delivery,” he added. Kumar, who is seeking a fourth consecutive term, sought to contrast 15 years of his rule with 15 years of Rashtriya Janata Dal, which was in power between 1990 and 2005.Kumar fought the 2015 election as an ally of the RJD and part of the Grand Alliance but broke away in 2017 and joined hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) following corruption allegations against RJD members.“All sectors in state witnessed all-round growth. We would like to carry forward our Seven resolves-Part 2. It will focus on the next level of development and have provisions for maintenance of the infrastructure thus created. We will construct and maintain it, on the pattern of present initiative for road and bridges. The new resolves will be finished in next five years,” said Kumar. The chief minister made a slew of promises.He said the NDA government will endeavour to provide access to irrigation facility for every farmer, while highlighting the benefits of student credit card in promoting higher education. Kumar also tried to silence the opposition and alliance partner Lok Janshakti Party by emphasising on the training of young people. “Every district will have mega skill centre and create a skill department,” he said. Kumar also announced programmes to develop entrepreneurship among women. “Women will get special assistance of Rs 10 lakh and we will provide Rs 25,000 to the girls passing intermediate exams and Rs 50,000 to the girls who will graduate,” said Kumar.He said that villages would henceforth be clean and equipped with solar lights and solid waste management facilities. Every town will have a centre for old people along with better healthcare facilities in rural areas.“People of state have decided to oust Nitish Kumar from the power as they feel cheated by the act of CM of hijacking the mandate,” said Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delivered-on-all-promises-nitish/story-nJjy5VwLrNOjsejLyn23BP.html
25-09-2020||India||Odisha assembly session begins next week; 2 farm, 1 labour bill on agenda||The Odisha government would bring 12 bills replacing 12 ordinances, including three on contract farming, APMC regulation and allowing companies to sack its workers or close down its units, during the monsoon session of the state state assembly beginning on September 29.The assembly session would be very short in view of the rising infections among the MLAs and ministers with half of the 147 members of the Assembly testing positive for Covid-19. At an all-party meeting convened by speaker Surya Patro on Friday to discuss the conduct of the session, it was decided that there would be no Question Hour and the House will run for four hours everyday. The House will run on Sunday too.The bills are Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming Services (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 and Industrial Disputes Odisha Amendment Ordinance, 2020.The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 aims at registration of farmers with contract farming companies for improving production and productivity by way of land, soil management, seeds, saplings, fingerlings, inputs, feed and fodder, technology and other such services much like the the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill that was passed by Parliament early this week.The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Bill, 2020 seeks to amend the Odisha Agricultural Produce Markets Amendment Act, 1957 so as to provide for geographically restriction-free trade and transaction of agricultural produce including livestock across the state and country.The new Bill once passed, would remove the necessity of market yards or sub-market yards, for conducting agriculture marketing activities. Instead there would be a principal market yard and sub-market yard managed by the APMC, a private market yard managed by a person holding a licence granted by the director of Agriculture Marketing and electronic trading platforms (where trading of notified produce is done electronically through the internet). Another important legislation that would be tabled during the monsoon session is Industrial Disputes Odisha Amendment Bill 2020 that exempts a sizable portion of small factories from the purview of Factories Act, 1948, and allows companies with up to 300 workers to sack people or close down units without prior approval of the government. The amendment is seen as a major step to facilitate investment, generate employment and counter the hardships caused to MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) due to covid-19 pandemic by way of creating a more conducive and business friendly atmosphere.Another important Bill that the state government plans to bring is Epidemic Disease Amendment Bill, 2020 to amend Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 for increasing the imprisonment to two years or with fine which may extend up to Rs 1 lakh over non-adherence of Covid-19 guidelines. The amendment is seen as significant as Covid-19 caseload in Odisha has crossed 2 lakh putting the state among top 8 Covid affected states of the country.Assembly speaker Patro said to ensure that no Covid-19 infected person enters the assembly, RT-PCR test of all MLAs and their staff will begin from Saturday morning and sitting arrangements have been made keeping in view the social distancing norm. There would be another round of RT-PCR tests 5 days after the session begins. Those MLAs who can’t come to attend the session can join it from their respective districts through video conferencing facility from district headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-assembly-session-begins-next-week-2-farm-1-labour-bill-on-agenda/story-8yHPTwcNVt4wWbhzVhrBDL.html
25-09-2020||India||Delhi records 3,827 new Covid-19 cases; active cases, containment zones on the rise||Delhi on Friday reported 3,827 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pushing the total positive count past the 264,000 mark. The national capital also witnessed 24 new deaths on Friday, logging the cumulative death toll at 5,147.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday the city has gone past the peak of its second wave of the disease outbreak. Right after Delhi had crossed the first wave in July, Kejriwal had said that “we must be prepared” if Covid-19 cases peak again.Even as the national capital put the aftermath of the second wave behind, it still faces an uphill challenge with active cases rising this month. Delhi has 30,867 active cases, out of which 18,906 are being treated in home isolation. Compared to August, active cases of the coronavirus disease have risen three-fold from 9,000-10,000 to more than 30,000 in September.Containment zones in Delhi have also witnessed an upward trend. As of Friday, Delhi has 2,124 containment zones – almost four times more than the city had in mid-August. The Capital added more than 300 containment zones in the last one week.A total of 59,134 tests were conducted on Friday. While the positivity rate for Friday in Delhi stands at 6.47 per cent, the cumulative positivity rate in Delhi has been recorded at 9.39 per cent. Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in Delhi has been marked at 1.95 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-3-827-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-containment-zones-on-the-rise/story-xsOIZBGYx4WRQDCCKs3hpM.html
25-09-2020||India||‘Will challenge farm bills in Supreme Court’: Punjab finance minister||Punjab’s finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Friday said the Central government wanted to enforce the Bihar model of agriculture for farmers across the country, “but the Punjab government will challenge the three farm bills, passed by Parliament recently, in the Supreme Court”.“In the Bihar model, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) has been scrapped and the farmers there are getting 30 percent lesser price for their produce than what the farmers in Punjab get. The Punjab government will challenge the three farm bills in the Supreme Court. Agriculture is a state subject and the union government has no right to interfere in a state’s matter,” said Badal while speaking to the media at Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee headquarters. He was in the state to convey the party’s stand on the farmers’ issues.Also read: Congress, NCP say no to farm bills in Maharashtra. Shiv Sena to decideBadal said the three bills make no mention of minimum support price (MSP) and if the BJP government was sincere about the interests of farmers, it could have added provisions about the MSP in these bills. The minister said that under the proposed laws, corporates would be allowed to do business with farmers without checks and the government would not be able to enforce the MSP. He said the Punjab government would soon declare the whole state as a ‘mandi’ in the interest of farmers.Badal further said that by getting the three bills passed in Parliament without any debate, the BJP government has exposed its anti-farmer stance. He said after assuming power, the BJP government had promised to double the income of farmers. The minister quoted statistical data to make his point that agriculture growth was down to 3.1 percent during the BJP government’s tenure - lowest in the past 14 years, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-challenge-farm-bills-in-supreme-court-punjab-finance-minister/story-gOc8cITNq05QQuIdxRUo8M.html
25-09-2020||India||Odisha Covid-19 cases touch 2 lakh, temporary shutdown in some places||As Covid-19 infections in Odisha touched 2 lakh on Friday on the back of 42,000 new cases in the last 10 days alone, the state swiftly climbed to the eighth position among the top 10 states with Covid patients, overtaking Telangana and Bihar.On Friday, Odisha recorded 4,208 new cases taking the total to 2,01,096 and 15 more deaths taking the total fatalities to 767. While the first lakh cases came in 169 days, the next lakh came in 27 days due to rising positivity rate and increased testing. The positivity rate on Friday was around 8 per cent higher than India’s rate of 5.7 per cent. The average positivity rate over the last 10 days has been 8.6 per cent.Officials said the districts of Khurda, Cuttack and Puri alone have registered more than 32,000 cases this month as they continued to be the hotspots while the infection was fast spreading in 15 other districts - Jagatsinghpur, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Balasore, Angul, Kandhamal, Nabarangpur, Sundargarh, Sambalpur, Sonepur, Mayurbhanj, Kendrapara, Bargarh, Bhadrak and Nuapada.The rising infections in these districts have taken the total number of active cases to 34,844, but health department officials said there is little cause for worry as more than 75 per cent of the infected were in home isolation. “The health teams of respective districts are in regular touch with the patients in home isolation. However, we are shifting serious patients to hospitals. We have enough beds for people who need ICU and ventilators. We expect the cases to plateau by the beginning of October,” said PK Mohapatra, additional chief secretary of the health department.Though the state government claimed that the situation was well under control, opposition leaders questioned the state government’s statistics on Covid death toll. With at least 30-40 bodies being cremated at Bhubaneswar’s only crematorium everyday, opposition leaders alleged that the actual Covid death toll may be higher. “Whenever you visit the crematorium, you can find cremations underway. The government should come clean,” said Choudhury.Similarly, BJP leader Bhrigu Buxipatra alleged that the state government is putting up false data. “Ganjam, which used to be the epicentre of Covid a month ago, has not recorded many deaths due to Covid, though patients had tested positive for the virus. The government simply attributed the deaths to some other reasons. If you see the government statistics, the death toll due to Covid is mostly within 10-15 on an average. This is data management,” he alleged.Buxipatra and Choudhury said the recent government directive on not subjecting all dead bodies to Covid test was a ploy to keep the death toll low. “Why could not the government conduct Covid test on the dead patients? Many persons have died showing Covid like symptoms over the last 3 months,” said Choudhury.Well-known microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra said the state government directive on not conducting Covid tests on dead bodies was baffling. “There is no such guideline from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on not conducting the Covid tests on the dead. It seems the state government is exploiting the silence of the ICMR on it,” he said.However, commissioner of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, Prem Chandra Choudhury, said the rise in cremation in Bhubaneswar was due to diversion of bodies to the city instead of Swargadwar crematorium in Puri.“Many of the bodies that are being cremated are from nearby districts and not all deaths are due to Covid,” he said.Meanwhile, the Jharsuguda district administration banned selling of roadside fast food from Friday due to lack of social distancing by consumers. District Collector Saroj Kumar Samal said roadside vending of fast food and other joints will not be allowed for 15 days in Jharsuguda district as people were not adhering to social distancing and mask guidelines.In Nayagarh district, the district collector on Friday ordered a two-day lockdown on September 29 and 30 for complete sanitisation. In Bolangir town, the local traders started a week-long shutdown from Friday as Covid-19 cases went up. Though the district administration said it is not going to impose any shutdown as per the Central Government’s guidelines, the traders association appealed to the businessmen to down their shutters during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-covid-19-cases-touch-2-lakh-temporary-shutdown-in-some-places/story-8Iij3DE8eo82TU32bfEHAJ.html
25-09-2020||India||‘Defections on the rise,’ claim TMC and BJP in poll-bound West Bengal||With around six months left before West Bengal goes to assembly polls, defection of supporters and local leaders in the districts have increased, claim both ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and its main rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Almost every day, the parties are circulating photos and videos of people crossing over from either side. On Thursday, for example, the BJP tweeted about around 100 families from a minority community that supported the TMC at Baduria in the North 24 Parganas district that have now joined the BJP “to strengthen the arms of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and overthrow the TMC”. Also read: ‘Will never waver...’ - Confident Nitish spells out plans for next termThe tweet appeared barely two hours after the party posted that more than 100 minority community members, who earlier supported the TMC and the CPI(M), joined the BJP in the South 24 Parganas. This happened less than a day after the TMC tweeted that the BJP’s West Midnapore district minority cell general secretary Rajdeep Guha, trade union leader Sailendra Singh, president of the BJP’s Kharagpur north unit president Ajay Chattopadhyay and the same area’s local unit president Sajal Roy joined the ruling party. Without these leaders, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh could not have won the Midnapore Lok Sabha seat, claimed TMC leaders. On Tuesday, the TMC announced that 100 BJP workers and a former BJP youth front leader shifted their allegiance to the ruling party in Hooghly districts. The same day, the TMC said that 250 BJP workers led by their local general secretary left the saffron camp at Cooch Behar district in north Bengal region where the BJP won seven out of eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019.The switching of camps has sharpened the rhetoric in the poll-bound state.“The TMC had claimed for years that the BJP is an insignificant force in Bengal. And now, when it can see the writing on the wall, the ruling party is trying to project that it is not a spent force because people from the BJP are joining it in such large numbers,” said Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. “Those who have joined the TMC are small functionaries. We are not worried at all. Mamata Banerjee should make tall statements if heavyweight leaders such as Mukul Roy and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who left her, return to the TMC. We feel pity for her,” added Majumdar. TMC Lok Sabha member and spokesperson Saugata Roy said the exodus from the BJP is a fallout of the call Banerjee gave two months ago. “While addressing party workers at the TMC’s martyrs’ day programme on July 21, she asked deserters to return home. We are seeing the effect now. The BJP may claim that hundreds of TMC workers are joining it, the reality is quite the opposite. Reverse migration has started,” said Roy.Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay feels that the desertions in both camps have been triggered by aspirations.“In the BJP, a lot of young leaders and party workers are returning to the TMC because their political aspirations have not been fulfilled. This is mainly because of an apparent lack of coordination between the party’s state and central leadership. On the other hand, a section of TMC workers are leaving in the hope of getting something that they cannot achieve in the ruling party,” said Bandopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defections-on-the-rise-claim-tmc-and-bjp-in-poll-bound-west-bengal/story-gWK3N3hsM8n4hJJEO2WxGI.html
25-09-2020||India||Maharashtra health minister asks doctors to work 7-day rotation in Covid-19 hospitals||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said doctors treating coronavirus patients in designated hospitals should work in rotation- seven days in Covid-19 section and as many days in non-COVID section with one-day holiday in between.He said doctors should follow this pattern instead of working in Covid-19 sections for seven to 15 days and getting home-quarantined for a week.Tope said this rotation system would address the issue of shortage of doctors to some extent.He was addressing a press conference after reviewing the coronavirus situation in Maharashtra’s East Vidarbha. He visited goverment hospitals in Bhandara, Gondia and Nagpur to take stock of the situation.“Every doctor should work in Covid-19 department, except the senior doctors having comorbidities. They should work in rotation. It has been observed that after working for seven to 15 days in Covid-19 section, doctors go for one week of home quarantine,” he said.“But doctors in some big private hospitals work in rotation of seven days in COVID section followed by one day holiday and then seven days of work in non-COVID department, followed by a day off,” he said.“I feel that considering the requirement of doctors now, this system of getting home-quarantined for seven days is inappropriate,” the minister added.According to him, the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) would soon issue a circularabout seven- day duty rotation.“This will address the issue of scarcity of doctors to some extent,” he said.Tope stressed the need to increase contact tracing, optimum utilisation of RT-PCR tests and added that home isolation for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms must be encouraged.Tope also asked the Nagpur administration to increase beds for Covid-19 patients in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) as well asprivate facilities. He suggested that hospitals operated by the railways and Western Coalfields Limited (WCL) be roped in for treating coronavirus patients.The minister said that hospitals empanelled under the state government’s ‘Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana’ scheme should allot 25 per cent beds for non-COVID patients.“There are 20 packages under the scheme available in 32 hospitals in the district. The administration should create awareness among people as some hospitals are misusing this scheme. The administration should also charge five times fine from those hospitals found overcharging,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-health-minister-asks-doctors-to-work-7-day-rotation-in-covid-19-hospitals/story-TbT9cYMqPIbJU3fluPalLJ.html
25-09-2020||India||Parties have to publish details of candidates with criminal records: EC||Political parties will now have to mandatorily publish details of candidates with pending criminal cases on party websites and social media platforms, and provide reasons for their selection so that voters can make an informed choice. Following the Supreme Court’s directions in February this year, the Election Commission had in March asked political parties to justify why they chose candidates with criminal history to contest elections. Assembly elections in Bihar to be held in three phases would be the first full-fledged polls where such details of their candidates would be made public by parties. The parties will also have to explain why other individuals without criminal antecedents could not be selected as candidates. “The reasons as to selection shall be with reference to the qualifications, achievements and merit of the candidate concerned, and not mere winnability at the polls,” the Commission said on Friday. “It is mandatory for political parties (at the central and state election level) to upload on their website detailed information regarding individuals with pending criminal cases who have been selected as candidates, along with the reasons for such selection, as also as to why other individuals without criminal antecedents could not be selected as candidates,” the Commission said. The information will also be published in one local vernacular newspaper and one national newspaper. Besides it would also be shared on the official social media platforms of the political party, including Facebook and Twitter, the EC explained. Earlier this month, the EC had made the norms of publicity of criminal antecedents of candidates stringent by putting a timeline on when such advertisements should be published and broadcast during electioneering. In October, 2018, the Commission had issued directions making it compulsory for candidates contesting elections and the parties fielding them to advertise their criminal antecedents in TV and newspapers at least three times during electioneering. Now, the EC has made it clear that the first “publicity” of criminal records should be within first four days of the last date of withdrawal of candidature. It said the second publicity should be between fifth and eighth day of the last date of withdrawal. The third and final publicity should be from ninth day till the last day of campaign -- two days prior to polling day. “This timeline will help the voters in exercising their choices in more informed manner,” a statement by the Commission said. An EC official said the timeline would ensure that the advertisements attract the public eye. There was a feeling that candidates time the publicity of their criminal records in such a way that it fails to grab attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-have-to-publish-details-of-candidates-with-criminal-records-ec/story-LZstKk7NWrLVWkEj9cQsbM.html
25-09-2020||India||West Bengal proposes to set up rail fences to rein in elephants||Old railway tracks may now be used to restrict or divert movement of elephants in south Bengal. The West Bengal government is planning to set up fences with these old tracks along with a range of other barriers, including trenches and electric fences, to restrict the movement of these jumbos in the reserve that have been created for them.“As a short term measure, we are planning to put up some barriers like fences made out of old railway tracks, electric fences and digging trenches to restrict the movements in south Bengal. The plans haven’t been finalised though. Discussions are being held. We are also going to dig trenches in some areas along the Bengal-Jharkhand border,” said Rajib Banerjee, forest minister of West Bengal. The issue was discussed in a workshop held on September 22 for the preparation of the national elephant action plan. Top forest officials of various states of the east central elephant division, which comprises south Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, north Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh attended the meeting along with experts.“One of the issues raised by West Bengal was how to check the scale of man-animal conflict in south Bengal. For that it is necessary to ensure that the elephants stay within the elephant reserve and do not stray outside in search of food and water. If necessary, some need to be translocated,” said Raman Sukumar, noted elephant expert who attended the meeting.Data laid down in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday revealed that at least 433 people have been killed across West Bengal between April 2014 and September 2019. In Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattishgarh, the death toll was 447, 391 and 329, respectively, during this period.The idea of putting up barriers to restrict or divert movement of elephant herd is, however, not new to West Bengal. Local community has also been involved in the past to put up and maintain fences in the villages. “The concept of rail fencing may be new to West Bengal but it has been tried out in the recent past in Karnataka. It has been found to be successful as claimed,” said Mukti Roy ,another elephant expert present in the meeting.A recent booklet published by the union environment ministry suggests that rail fencing though expensive is eco-friendly and more effective than solar electric fences and elephant proof trenches which are partially successful. Railway fencing however was criticised after an elephant got stuck in the fence and died in 2018 near the Nagarhole National Park in Karnataka. “But apart from these short term measures we also need to go for habitat improvement in the Mayurjharna elephant reserve without which the elephants can’t stay there. For these long term planning and inter-state coordination is necessary,” said Roy. While south Bengal has around 200-220 elephants, the Mayurjharna reserve is around 414 sq km. Experts, however, said the reserve has to have an area of 1000 sq km which could help it sustain a sizeable population of elephants. North Bengal has around 500 elephants. “While workshops for three elephant divisions including south India, north-east and east-central have already been held, the workshop for the north-west division is likely to be held on September 30. Based on the deliberations of these workshops the draft for the national elephant action plan would be prepared,” said Prajna Panda, National coordinator of the elephant cell of union environment ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-proposes-to-set-up-rail-fences-to-rein-in-elephants/story-AmM72MHN1L0J0tbrhlLmvM.html
25-09-2020||India||Congress, NCP say no to farm bills in Maharashtra. Shiv Sena to decide||Two parties - Congress and the NCP - of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition have declared that they will not implement the farm laws which were passed amid huge protests in Parliament on Sunday. The Shiv Sena, whose chief minister Uddhav Thackeray heads the government, is yet to make its position public on the issue, though it has been criticising the central government over the bills.Deputy chief minister and Nationalist Congress leader Ajit Pawar said that the farm as well as the labour bills will not be implemented in the state. State revenue minister and Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said that all ruling parties are against the newly enacted laws and the decision of not implementing them in the state will be taken collectively after due deliberation.The Congress and the NCP supported the nationwide protest by farmers to oppose the passage of three farm bills. Various farmer organisations like Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, Lok Sangharsh Morcha held protest marches, blocked highways, burnt copies of the bills and formed human chains in at least 21 districts in Maharashtra on Friday to oppose the bills. The farmer organisations have announced to intensify the protest if the bills are not withdrawn by the central government.“These bills were passed in the haste. We are studying the legalities of the bills. Have taken a call to not implement them in the state,” said Ajit Pawar. His cabinet colleague Balasaheb Thorat also spoke against the bills. “We have been opposing them tooth and nail. We will discuss the laws among us to take steps against their implementation in the state,” said Thorat.The Shiv Sena has invited criticism by Maharashtra BJP leaders for its ‘hypocritical stance’ of supporting the bills in the Lok Sabha and walking out in the Rajya Sabha.“The issue will be discussed in the coordination committee of three parties. Our stand this time was similar to the one taken during the CAA debate in Parliament early this year. But on farm issues we would not support the bills and their implementation in Maharashtra. The stand will be clarified in due course,” said a Sena functionary requesting anonymity. The Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, led by former MP Raju Shetti, burnt the copies of the bills in Kolhapur. “Shetkari Sanghatana has always been against the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) and our leader late Sharad Joshi used to call these committees ‘abattoirs’ of the farmers. However we do not endorse the way the existing system of farm produce marketing is being thrashed out by the central government. This is nothing but an attempt of making farmers slaves in the hands of industrialists,” Shetti said. He said that it is the step towards privatization of the Food Corporation of India and National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed), who purchase about 30% of the farm produce.Ajit Nawale, general secretary, ABKS, said that the protests were held in 21 districts of the state by farmers.“At least the farmers have some mechanism in place to market their produce at a reasonable price in the form of APMCs today. The bills passed in Parliament are the first step towards handing over farm marketing to a few industrial houses who will decide the prices of the produce. Though the Centre has been claiming these bills are a way to free farmers from the clutches of APMCs, the government has freed itself from the responsibilities of fair and remunerative prices to the farmers. In Maharashtra, the Fadnavis government had brought bills to regularise APMCs, but it could not set up an alternative mechanism to the APMCs to give farmers remunerative prices for their produce. It was a failed attempt,” he said.Farmers from Thane, Palghar, Nashik held rasta roko on national highways, including Mumbai-Jaipur-Delhi. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress announced a programme to be implemented over next five weeks to oppose the farm bills.The party has announced to organise a drive #SpekaUpForFarmers on social media to garner support against bills, virtual farmer rally and gather signatures from 1 crore farmers opposing the bills.Senior Congress leader HK Patil, who has been recently appointed as Maharashtra Congress in-charge, said in a press conference in Mumbai, “Under pressure from big industries, Modi government passed the farm and labour bills which will uproot and destroy farmers and workers in the country. The bills will bring back the feudal zamindari system in the country. The laws should be immediately repealed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-ncp-say-no-to-farm-bills-in-maharashtra-shiv-sena-to-decide/story-88on4s2gYzcTS2vkDjmJ1I.html
25-09-2020||India||EC announces poll dates: Understanding the Bihar elections||Bihar will elect its 17th assembly in a three-phase election between October 28 and November 7 — the first mass poll to be held in the middle of a pandemic. Nitish Kumar, this time leading the National Democratic Alliance’s fight in the state, will be eyeing a fourth term as the state’s chief minister. Here are two things which can help understand the forthcoming contest in Bihar:Caste equations will continue to matter, but they could also be changingAccording to the 2015-16 National Family and Health Survey, almost half of the state’s population belongs to Other Backward Classes (OBC) category. Scheduled Castes and Muslims are the other major social groups in the state. To be sure, there are layers of stratification, as far as political preferences are concerned, within these broad social groups. In fact, this has been a conscious strategy of Nitish Kumar, who has created and cultivated categories such as Extremely Backward Classes and Mahadalits. It is this vote bank, rather than support from his own sub-caste (Kurmi), which makes Nitish Kumar a valuable ally in Bihar. While this section voted for the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Janata Dal (United) and Congress alliance in 2015, it supported the NDA in a big way in the 2019 elections. Even the traditional Yadav support base of the RJD might be becoming weaker. Only 55% of Yadavs, once considered staunch loyalists of Lalu Prasad, voted for the RJD-led alliance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The grand alliance was able to make the 2015 elections into an upper caste versus lower caste issue by using RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s statement asking for review of reservations. No such polarisation seems to be happening as of now. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Seat shares as well as strike rates are importantThis is the first assembly election in Bihar when the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) will also be a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). This has already led to a lot of friction over seat sharing, with the LJP demanding a higher number. The RJD-led opposition is facing a similar crisis, as it has been unable to sort out its alliance with the Congress, Left parties and other smaller players. Both the RJD and Janata Dal (United) have always been senior partners in their alliances in Bihar. But this time, the RJD is having to negotiate the alliance from a position of weakness; it failed to win even one Lok Sabha seat in 2019. The Nitish Kumar-led government, on the other hand, has been facing criticism from its own alliance partner, LJP, giving an impression that it is the JD(U) which shall bear the burden of anti-incumbency.Contesting the most number of seats, however, is no guarantee of getting a larger number of MLAs in Bihar. The RJD and the JD(U) contested equal seats in the 2015 assembly, but the RJD had a better strike rate. Similarly, the BJP ended up with a bigger seat tally in the 2010 elections, despite contesting fewer seats than the JD(U). Both the seat-distribution and strike rates will matter for the individual fortunes of parties this time as well. The strength of major parties in the new assembly will also decide their bargaining power in future political negotiations, not just government formation.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-announces-poll-dates-understanding-the-bihar-elections/story-79Sb5KU4gib30ECkMafeIM.html
25-09-2020||India||After talks with Yediyurappa fail, farmers to go ahead with Karnataka bandh||A delegation of farmers who met chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday said that they would go ahead with their proposed statewide bandh on Monday after talks failed between the two parties.The group accused the state government of “trying to preach, rather than listen” to their grievances.Farmer organisations have been protesting on a clutch of bills proposed on the farm sector, including those which allow purchase of agricultural land by non-agriculturists, as well as amendments to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, allowing farmers to sell outside Mandis to private players. Farmer organisations claim that these acts as well as proposed changes to the electricity act in the state would be detrimental to their interests.Kodihalli Chandrashekar, President of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Kurburu Shanthkumar, President of Karnataka Sugarcane Growers Association, Badagalapura Nagendra and a host of other farmer leaders who met the CM said that Yediyurappa refused to withdraw the bills which were tabled during the monsoon session of the Karnataka assembly.“He is not willing to go against (PM) Modi’s orders. He merely offered to tweak one of the provisions regarding ceiling of landholding as per Land Reforms Act. This was clearly not enough. So we are left with no choice but to go ahead with the protests,” Chandrashekar told HT.On Friday the state also witnessed sporadic protests with traffic being blocked in some parts due to farmers’ agitation on the issue.Meanwhile, JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy indicated that his party is unlikely to support the ‘no-confidence’ motion moved by the Congress against the government.Saturday is the last day of the ongoing monsoon session and the motion will be taken up for debate and voting.Speaking to reporters, Kumaraswamy said, “I don’t know how serious they (Congress) are about the motion. If they were they would have discussed with us earlier itself.”The government enjoys a clear majority with 117 seats in the 224-member assembly, with Congress having 67, JDS 33, three independents and four vacant seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-talks-with-yediyurappa-fail-farmers-to-go-ahead-with-karnataka-bandh/story-s63PhsARsyeqs7JepLgzEJ.html
25-09-2020||India||‘Fist bump’: Senior Afghan leader Dostum meets EAM Jaishankar to discuss peace process||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday discussed the Afghan peace process with senior Afghan leader Marshal Abdul Rashid Dostum, saying India remains committed to Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled negotiations.The visiting former Afghan vice president also met foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and briefed him on the evolving situation in Afghanistan.Dostum, an ethnic Uzbek warlord, was awarded the rank of Marshal earlier this year as part of the new power-sharing deal between Afghan president Ashraf Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah. Though Dostum continues to be an influential figure in Afghanistan, he has been dogged by his controversial past.Also read: India targets Pakistan at UN body over counter-terrorism recordHe is visiting India a little more than a week after the Taliban and the Afghan government began their first talks in Doha to end 19 years of war that killed tens of thousands and ravaged the country.“Glad to meet Marshal Abdul Rashid Dostum. Exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan and the larger region. His vast experience and deep insights were evident. India remains fully committed to an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process,” Jaishankar tweeted after their meeting. Glad to meet Marshal Abdul Rashid Dostum. Exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan and the larger region. His vast experience and deep insights were evident. India remains fully committed to an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process. pic.twitter.com/D07OdGXO8WShringla listened to Dostum’s “insights on the Afghan peace process and evolving situation”, and they also discussed constitutional order and the rights of all sections of Afghan society, said a tweet from the spokesperson of the external affairs ministry. “India has conveyed its long term commitment to Afghanistan,” the spokesperson added.Also read: Pakistan exploited our youth, ordered killing of fellow Kashmiris - EFSASIndia, the region’s largest provider of development aid to Afghanistan, has watched a recent spike in violence by the Taliban and terror attacks on minorities such as Sikhs with growing concern. Since 2001, India has undertaken projects worth $3 billion in Afghanistan, including $1 billion pledged in 2016 under the “new development partnership” scheme for five years.An Indian delegation participated in the September 12 inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha which was also addressed via video conference by EAM Jaishankar. In his address, Jaishankar clarified that any new dispensation which emerges from the intra-Afghan dialogue process must ensure that the soil of Afghanistan is never used for anti-India activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fist-bump-senior-afghan-leader-dostum-meets-eam-jaishankar-to-discuss-peace-process/story-qJjcRQQAfngm6sqec88FbK.html
25-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: UP farmers join nationwide bandh over 3 farm bills in a big way and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UP farmers join nationwide bandh over 3 farm bills in a big wayFarmers in Uttar Pradesh, like their counterparts in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country, on Friday took to the streets in protest against the contentious farm bills passed by Parliament recently.Read more. Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia undergoes plasma therapy, condition improves: OfficialDelhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia was on Friday administered convalescent plasma therapy and there has been an improvement in his health condition, officials said. The deputy chief minister has been battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and dengue.Read more. India targets Pakistan at UN body over counter-terrorism recordIndia on Tuesday mounted a sharp attack on Pakistan during a virtual meeting of the UN Office of Counter-Terrorism, accusing it of sheltering and supporting terrorists and pushing a false narrative on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.Read more. Is BMC always this swift to demolish, asks high court in Kangana Ranaut caseThe Bombay high court on Friday asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) if it always acts with the same swiftness to demolish other unauthorised structures as it did with actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow. Read more. Sushant Singh Rajput’s family feels probe is going into different direction: LawyerThe family of Sushant Singh Rajput feels that the investigation into the case of the late Bollywood actor’s death case is going in a different direction, lawyer Vikas Singh said on Friday.Read more. Memer ‘goes’ on a date with Alexandra Daddario, she ‘reminisces’ their fun time togetherSome of you may know Alexandra Daddario for her work in popular shows, such as True Detective and White Collar or even for her role in the Baywatch film. Her excellent acting skills and fabulous screen presence often garner a lot of praise from audiences. Now, however, many tweeple are applauding her great sense of humour.Read more. Bihar polls: RS Prasad confident of win; Tejashwi says Bihar will throw NDA outElection Commission of India announced dates for Bihar Assembly elections on Friday. Elections in Bihar to take place in three phases starting October 28. Counting of votes to be done on November 10. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said he is confident that NDA government will win in Bihar. Read more. Kangana Ranaut stands up for Anushka Sharma after Sunil Gavaskar’s comments but accuses her of ‘selective feminism’Kangana Ranaut criticised Sunil Gavaskar for taking Anushka Sharma’s name in his commentary during an Indian Premier League (IPL) match between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Kings XI Punjab on Thursday. However, Kangana also accused Anushka of ‘selective feminism’.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-up-farmers-join-nationwide-bandh-over-3-farm-bills-in-a-big-way-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dwFmsLNhJiJxTKWN29I18M.html
25-09-2020||India||Farmers have lost all faith in PM Modi-led govt: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday farmers do not trust the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as thousands of agriculturists participated in a ‘Bharat Bandh’ to protest the farm bills that were recently passed by Parliament.“One thing was clear after talking to the farmers - they do not have any faith in the Modi government. All our voices are also together with the loud voices of the peasant brothers and today the whole country is opposing these agricultural laws,” Gandhi’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.किसानों से बातचीत करके एक बात साफ़ हो गयी- उन्हें मोदी सरकार पर रत्ती भर भी भरोसा नहीं है। किसान भाइयों की बुलंद आवाज़ के साथ हम सब की आवाज़ भी जुड़ी है और आज पूरा देश मिलकर इन कृषि क़ानूनों का विरोध करता है।#ISupportBharatBandh pic.twitter.com/r2Xhuy10wfThe former Congress president also shared a three-and-a-half-minute video speaking to farmers from several states via a video conference call. Gandhi, who was hosting the talk, was heard asking farmers to explain how the new farm bills would affect them. Farmers were heard explaining their apprehensions regarding the minimum support price (MSP) and food procurement practices.“A flawed GST destroyed MSMEs. The new agriculture laws will enslave our Farmers,” the Congress lawmaker from Kerala’s Wayanad had tweeted earlier in the day with a hashtag ISupportBharatBandh.Farmers from Bihar, Maharashtra, Haryana and other states who joined Gandhi for the discussion also highlighted that they will have no recourse when private players, who they fear that the bills empower, take over the agricultural sector.Farmer groups across the nation have called for strikes against the three bills passed by both the Houses of Parliament during the Covid-19 hit monsoon session.The three bills which were passed are Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.The Congress has announced it will stage marches in every state after which memorandums will be submitted to the respective governors on September 28 against these farm bills, which it says are against the interests of farmers and farm labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-have-lost-all-faith-in-pm-modi-led-govt-rahul-gandhi/story-l6epQzT66B0V5oWWiiY8mN.html
25-09-2020||India||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia undergoes plasma therapy, condition improves: Official||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia was on Friday administered convalescent plasma therapy and there has been an improvement in his health condition, officials said. The deputy chief minister has been battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and dengue.The 48-year-old Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14 and then for dengue on Thursday. He was moved to Max Hospital in Saket from government-run LNJP Hospital on Thursday after his blood platelet count and oxygen level fell.Sisodia is being treated in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Max Hospital. Also read | Covid-19 +ve Manish Sisodia has dengue, blood platelets falling: Delhi hospital“Had got my COVID-19 test done after I had a mild fever. The report has come positive. I have gone into self-isolation. As of now, I have no fever or any other issue. I am fine. By your blessings, I will recover fully and return to work soon,” Sisodia had said.Sisodia is the second minister from the Delhi government to have tested positive for the coronavirus disease. Delhi’s health minister Satyendra Jain had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-undergoes-plasma-therapy-condition-improves-official/story-rVqvtu9WA0wXmwqEq3ygxI.html
25-09-2020||India||Man abducted, hacked to death in Telangana hate crime||A 28-year old man from Hyderabad was allegedly abducted and killed by relatives of his wife late on Thursday night, the police said. The incident is being viewed as a hate crime.The scarred body of the victim, said police, was found at an isolated place in Telangana’s Sangareddy district in the early hours of Friday.Madhapur deputy commissioner of police M Venkateshwarlu told reporters that the victim was beaten up by the relatives of his wife and his body was dumped in the fields.“Though the couple is from an upper caste, the victim was not financially strong. The girl’s parents, on the other hand, are rich,” the police said.The couple had known each other for four years. On June 10, the girl left her parents’ house and married the victim at a temple. The couple had been staying independently,” Venkateshwarlu said.Later, the girl filed a complaint with the Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar, claiming threat to her husband’s life from her parents.“The Chandanagar police called the girl’s father and his relatives and counselled them against causing any harm to the man and his parents,” the DCP said.On Thursday evening, around 10 people came in three different vehicles to the victim’s house and forced the couple to come with them for negotiations with his parents, said the police. However, the girl managed to escape and immediately alerted her in-laws and they, in turn, alerted the police.“We booked a case of abduction at Gachibowli police station in the evening and started searching for the man and the abductors. Finally, we found his body on Friday morning,” the DCP said.He said the police had arrested 13 persons, including teh girl’s maternal uncle, who had confessed to have committed the murder.The victim’s father said that the girl’s family was against the match.“But we had to accept their marriage after they convinced us. But her family resisted the affair and she was forced to marry him secretly,” said the victim’s father.The girl lamented that her parents had chosen to kill her husband.“They had a problem with me and so they should have killed me. I did not expect anything from parents,” the girl claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-abducted-hacked-to-death-in-telangana-hate-crime/story-e5Ek5UDSBJD2Mn4cfMWacP.html
25-09-2020||India||‘My family, my responsibility’ drive will make Maharashtra fit: CM||The Maharashtra government’s ‘my family, my responsibility’ anti-Covid-19 drive will create a health map for the state and make its people fit, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday.He was speaking at a review meeting held on the outbreak situation in Konkan and Pune regions, with officials from there taking part through video-conferencing.The campaign aims to survey and screen households in the state to detect Covid-19 patients as well as those with other ailments.Volunteers were compiling data of those who had been detected with the infection, those who had recovered and their post-coronavirus situation, Thackeray said.“In Konkan, 10.63 lakh families have been surveyed. In Pune, they have surveyed 182 villages and 13 municipal councils,” the CM said.He said the campaign was being extended in Pune to include factories, housing societies and civic wards.He said easing of lockdown restrictions, also called ‘unlock’ and ‘begin again’ by authorities, increased the threat of the virus spreading and asked people to ensure they wear masks and maintain social distancing norms.“Now we see two kinds of people. One who has tremendous fear for the coronavirus and the other who is very careless about the outbreak. The threat of spread of the virus is more from asymptomatic patients,” Thackeray claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-family-my-responsibility-drive-will-make-maharashtra-fit-cm/story-OH3cJ1CjjT2n5MSmEv4dUM.html
25-09-2020||India||High-speed train, Quad figure in 1st call between Japan’s Suga, PM Modi||India and Japan committed themselves on Friday to take forward the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail project and welcomed a memorandum of cooperation on specified skilled workers to be signed in the near future. Both issues figured in the first phone conversation between Japan’s new Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi. Suga said he will promote bilateral cooperation in security and economic matters and work with India to achieve a free and open Indo-Pacific. Days ahead of a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, to be hosted by Japan, Suga also said he would promote cooperation through the grouping. The foreign ministers of the Quad, which also includes Australia and the US, are expected to meet in Tokyo in early October. Suga replaced Shinzo Abe, who had established a close working relationship with Modi and put in considerable effort to revive the Quad over the past three years. The two prime ministers “affirmed their intention to steadily advance the high-speed rail project” and welcomed the fact that the memorandum of cooperation on specified skilled workers would be signed in the near future, according to a readout from Japan’s foreign ministry on the 25-minute conversation. The text of the agreement on specialised skilled workers has been finalised by the two sides. India has focused on similar agreements with several countries to ensure better mobility for its skilled professionals in fields such as information technology. The commitment to India’s first bullet train project is significant as the venture has been hit by delays and other issues, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The 508-km project is being built with an 80% loan from Japan with an interest rate of 0.1% and a 15-year moratorium on repayments. Though the target date for completing the project was December 2023, it is now expected to be completed in late 2028. Several tenders for key aspects of the project were floated last year but are yet to be finalised, and the total cost of the link is now expected to be more than the original estimate. Suga “expressed his intention to promote bilateral cooperation in the fields of security, economy and economic cooperation, and to work with India towards achieving a ‘Free and Open Indo-Pacific’,” the Japanese readout said. He also said he would promote cooperation in multilateral mechanisms such as the “Japan-Australia-India-US meetings and the United Nations as well as on issues related to North Korea”, it added. Modi and Suga agreed the special strategic and global partnership between India and Japan has made “great advances over the last few years” and expressed their intention to strengthen the relationship on the basis of mutual trust and shared values, according to a statement from the external affairs ministry. They also agreed that the bilateral partnership is more relevant in view of current global challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic. “They emphasised that the economic architecture of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region must be premised on resilient supply chains, and in this context, welcomed cooperation between India, Japan and other like-minded countries,” the Indian statement said. Suga also mentioned that bilateral ties had developed significantly “under the mutual trust between” Abe and Modi, and said he too would continue to advance the special partnership. The two prime ministers shared the view that the annual India-Japan summit meeting should be resumed after the situation related to the pandemic improves. Modi invited Suga to visit India for the summit after the improvement of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-speed-train-quad-figure-in-1st-call-between-japan-s-suga-pm-modi/story-wAJLBxngXFZ5LnouWv5GHO.html
25-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family feels probe is going into different direction: Lawyer||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family feels the investigation into the Bollywood actor’s death in June is going in a different direction, their lawyer Vikas Singh said on Friday.Vikas Singh has also claimed that a doctor, who is a part of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) team, had told him “long back” that Rajput’s photos sent by the lawyer indicated that it was allegedly death by strangulation and not suicide.A four-member forensic team has been appointed to examine Rajput’s autopsy report after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) approached AIIMS for its medico-legal opinion. The 34-year-old actor was found dead in his apartment in Bandra on June 14 following which the Mumbai Police had lodged an Accidental Death Report (ADR). The case is now being probed by CBI.Also read | AIIMS panel chief on claims of Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer that actor was strangulated: ‘Can’t make opinion by seeing marks’“All attention is being diverted towards the drugs case. Today, we are helpless as we don’t know which direction the case is going in. Till today, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has not done a press briefing on what they have found out,” the lawyers was quoted as saying by ANI.“I’m not happy with the speed at which the case is going,” he added.On July 25, Rajput’s father KK Singh had lodged a complaint with Patna Police against Rhea Chakraborty, her parents Indrajit and Sandhya, her brother Showik, the late actor’s then manager Shruti Modi and his house manager Samuel Miranda. His family accuses Chakraborty and her family of cheating and abetting his son’s suicide.The FIR lodged by Patna Police was later transferred to CBI. The case is being probed by the three central agencies -- CBI, Enforcement Directorate, and Narcotics Control Bureau. All the agencies are exploring different angles related to the case.The anti-drugs agency had arrested Rhea Chakraborty on September 8 for the allegedly procuring drugs for Rajput. Her brother Showik has also been arrested along with dozens of others.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-family-feels-probe-is-going-into-different-direction-lawyer/story-Mw6nV4U28P0Y4yhRnF39MI.html
25-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand farmers protest farm bills, say ‘leaders weren’t consulted’||Farmers staged protests in Garhwal and Kumaon regions of Uttarakhand against farm bills recently passed by the Parliament during the Monsoon session. In some areas, they came out on roads with their tractors. In Kumaon’s US Nagar, farmers held demonstrations across the district and came out on to the roads with their tractors in Rudrapur, Kichha, Kashipur and other places in the district. Congress and Aam Aadmi Party workers and leaders also extended their support to the farmers. US Nagar is considered the grain bowl of Uttarakhand. In Rudrapur, farmers gathered at the old grain market with tractors. Addressing the protesters, farmers’ leader and organiser of the protest, Tajendra Singh Virk alleged that the Central government wants to sell farmers into the hands of the multi-national corporate sector. “Farmers are already suffering due to losses, now these bills will further affect the agriculture sector and hit farmers,” he said. In Kashipur, Ravindra Rana, state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union said, the government ought to have consulted the farmers’ bodies before passing the bills. “Government has no right to decide the fate of the farmers like this”, he said. In Kichha, Bazpur, Sitarganj and Khatima also, farmers staged sit-in protests against the bills. Also read: UP farmers join nationwide bandh over 3 farm bills in a big wayThe farmers are protesting the three farm bills - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - which were passed by both Houses of Parliament during the monsoon session recently and await Presidential assent. In Haridwar district of Garhwal region, farmers staged protests in agriculture-dominated areas like Manglaur, Roorkee, Laksar, Khanpur, Iqbalpur, Narsain, Bhagwanpur, Kaliyar and Laldhang and Shyampur. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) faction held a protest outside the jaggery agricultural production committee led by Garhwal division president Sanjay Chaudhary and district unit president Vijay Shastri. Other agricultural unions like Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ambawat) and (Tomar) also staged protests and burned effigies of BJP leaders. A major protest was held outside roadways bus transport stand by Uttarakhand Kissan Morcha after which a memorandum was handed out to Roorkee joint magistrate Namami Bansal by Morcha president Chaudhary Gulshan.Superintendent of Police, Haridwar (Rural) Swapan Kishore said that adequate deployment of police personnel was made in the wake of the farmers’ agitation. In Dehradun also, members of Bhartiya Kissan Union (Tomar) staged protest against the bills at Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT). Many of them had also come on their tractors due to which traffic was affected for some time in the area. Uttarakhand Congress has already announced its calendar of protests against these bills in the state till October 31. According to state Congress president Pritam Singh, they will start an online campaign ‘Speak Up’ on September 26, followed by protest march from the party office in Dehradun to the Governor’s house on September 28. State-wide protests at district and assembly segment level will be held on October 2 and a signature campaign against the bills will take place between October 2 to October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-farmers-protest-farm-bills-say-leaders-weren-t-consulted/story-6xRZoix4lZEMsXJKnnZlPO.html
25-09-2020||India||India targets Pakistan at UN body over counter-terrorism record||India on Tuesday mounted a sharp attack on Pakistan during a virtual meeting of the UN Office of Counter-Terrorism, accusing it of sheltering and supporting terrorists and pushing a false narrative on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.Mahaveer Singhvi, joint secretary (counter-terrorism) in the external affairs ministry who led the Indian delegation for the webinar organised by the UN body, pointed out the meeting was being held on a day when the Indian embassy in Kabul was attacked by a Pakistan-backed terror group 12 years ago and Indians and Afghans were killed.“It is very unfortunate that a country which perpetrated terrorist attacks in Mumbai (2008), Pathankot (2016), Uri and Pulwama is now preaching to the world community,” Singhvi said in his intervention during the meeting with the theme “The global scourge of terrorism: Assessment of high risk threats and trends including the rise of violent extremism and hate speech in a pandemic environment”.“While the world is coming together to battle the pandemic, it is unfortunate that Pakistan, a state which sponsors cross-border terrorism, continues to use every opportunity to peddle false narratives and make baseless, malicious and egregious allegations against India and interfere in our internal affairs,” he said, adding that the statement by Pakistan’s representative at the meeting was part of this pattern.Singhvi added, “Even as Pakistan provides shelter and support to terrorists, it continues to peddle a false and motivated narrative on the situation in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. It is seeking to portray its military, financial [and] logistical support to cross-border terrorism against India as a freedom struggle. It is also peddling misinformation about India’s domestic legislation and policies.”The webinar was part of the UN body’s virtual counter-terrorism week, and Singhvi pointed out that terrorists have made innumerable attempts to infiltrate India “from their safe abodes across the border to carry out attacks and have even used unmanned aerial systems to smuggle weapons across our borders”.At the global level, terrorists have tried to exploit financial and emotional distress caused by the pandemic, and used the increased presence of people online and on social media to disseminate misinformation through hate speech, fake news and doctored videos, he said. Another disturbing trend is the collection of funds by proscribed terror groups ostensibly for charitable activities but which would be used to finance terror, he said.Singhvi described Pakistan’s statement claiming credit for eliminating al-Qaeda as “ludicrous” and said the group’s founder, Osama Bin Laden, was recently glorified as a “martyr” by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan in Parliament. “This is a chilling reminder of the patronage that international terrorists receive in Pakistan,” he said.Khan had publicly acknowledged the presence of up to 40,000 terrorists in Pakistan and the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team of the UN Security Council had reported that about 6,500 Pakistani terrorists from Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) are operating in Afghanistan, he said.“Pakistan’s role as epicentre of terrorism has been well documented by numerous international organisations including UN and FATF. Unlike Pakistan, India does not make any distinction between terrorists and invariably condemns terror attacks anywhere in the world, including the one in Karachi, referred to by Pakistan’s representative in his statement,” Singhvi said.The Indian official also criticised human rights violations in Balochistan, Kyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and the discrimination against religious and cultural minorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-targets-pakistan-at-un-body-over-counter-terrorism-record/story-0q59jnaxMz5U4ZwSgHSJeI.html
25-09-2020||India||ADB approves USD 570 mn loans for urban projects in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh||The Manila-headquartered Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Friday said it has approved two loans totalling USD 570 million (about Rs 4,200 crore) for urban sector projects in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. ADB said it has approved a USD 300 million loan to develop Rajasthan’s secondary towns and a USD 270 million loan for Madhya Pradesh Urban Services Improvement Project. In a statement, ADB said the USD 300 million loan has been approved to finance inclusive water supply and sanitation infrastructure and services in secondary towns of Rajasthan. “The project is expected to build citywide access for improved water supply services for around 5,70,000 people and enhanced sanitation services for about 7,20,000 people in at least 14 secondary towns. These localities have 20,000–1,00,000 residents,” it said. It further said that through the project, water supply systems in at least eight project towns are expected to improve by 2027, with about 1,00,000 households, including all urban poor households, benefiting from five new or rehabilitated water treatment plants and 1,350 kilometres of distribution networks. Citywide sanitation systems based on the most cost-effective solutions will also be developed, it said, adding that the project will build on three earlier related projects and sector reforms funded by ADB in Rajasthan. In another statement, ADB said it has approved a USD 270 million loan for construction of water supply and integrated storm water and sewage management infrastructure in Madhya Pradesh. The loan is an additional financing intended to scale up the scope of the Madhya Pradesh Urban Services Improvement Project, which was approved in 2017 with a USD 275 million loan. It will expand the outcome of the current project by benefiting an additional 1,85,000 households consisting of about 1.3 million people, ADB said. “The project will receive support from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, specifically for the integration of Citywide Inclusive Sanitation principles into the planning, design, implementation, operation, and maintenance of the sanitation subprojects,” it said. As in the previous loan, ADB said, the project will support the continued institutional strengthening and capacity building of the Urban Development and Housing Department and Madhya Pradesh Urban Development Company Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adb-approves-usd-570-mn-loans-for-urban-projects-in-rajasthan-madhya-pradesh/story-kW9upxBSfCv3wwwIgwBl1J.html
25-09-2020||India||Government to study Vodafone arbitration case award||India’s government said on Friday that it will study an international arbitration tribunal’s ruling in favour of Vodafone Group Plc, ending one of the most high-profile disputes in the country involving a $2 billion tax claim.An international arbitration tribunal in The Hague ruled that India’s imposition of a tax liability on Vodafone, as well as interest and penalties, were in a breach of an investment treaty agreement between India and the Netherlands.It also directed India to pay 4.3 million pounds ($5.47 million) to the company as compensation for its legal costs.“The government will be studying the award and all its aspects carefully in consultation with our counsels,” India’s finance ministry said in a statement, adding that it will consider all options, including legal remedies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-to-study-vodafone-arbitration-case-award/story-IOU4F5Qv9IvQTCJNekrEAN.html
25-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM orders probe after minister claims IAS officer ‘missing’||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has ordered an inquiry after a minister of his complained that a senior IAS officer V Shanmugam was missing from office. Others say that the officer had “applied for leave” and was under home quarantine. The direction came after the minister for women empowerment and child development Rekha Arya on September 22 wrote to deputy inspector general Dehradun to find Shanmugam. The minister feared that the officer was abducted as she could not contact him for two full days. Arya, in the letter, also alleged that the IAS officer “may have also gone underground to save himself from the irregularities found in the ongoing recruitment process in her department”. She had claimed that the bureaucrat couldn’t be contacted. However, later it was found that he was in home quarantine at his residence. Media coordinator of the CM, Darshan Singh Rawat, confirmed the development and said, “The CM ordered the inquiry in the whole matter after speaking to chief secretary (CS) Om Prakash on Thursday evening.”Additional chief secretary Manisha Panwar will oversee the inquiry. “As per the directions, I have started the inquiry. However, I cannot reveal the details of it before the media and would submit the inquiry report only to the CS (chief secretary),” Panwar told reporters.Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “The minister has raised some issues pertaining to irregularities in her department which she has every right to do so. An inquiry will be done in that and action would be taken against any officer found guilty.” When contacted, Saujanya (only uses first name), secretary women empowerment and child development department, said that Shanmugam, who is the director women empowerment and child development, had “applied for leave before going under home quarantine”.“He had applied for leave as per the operational procedure before going under home quarantine citing health grounds,” she said. V Shanmugam could not be contacted despite several attempts.The episode has come into light amid the allegations by ruling party MLAs and ministers in the last few months that bureaucrats don’t listen to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-orders-probe-after-minister-claims-ias-officer-missing/story-6306MtyRRr36pjHnYNRzII.html
25-09-2020||India||‘Global climate strike’: Youngsters, activists take to streets in Delhi, demand action||Several school children and youngsters took to Delhi’s streets on Friday demanding climate action from authorities as part of the Global Climate Strike. From socially distanced sit-ins to demonstrations at Vijay Chowk, climate activists across the national capital put forward their demands to the authorities during the Covid-19 pandemic.A group of protesters had gathered at the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change on Friday afternoon demanding inclusive, attainable environmental plans, among other things. Their list of demands included saving the Aravallis, improved sewage treatment plants to tackle pollution in the Yamuna, decentralized waste system, and better environment education in schools.“Most of the climate activism groups were continuing with digital strikes. The global Fridays for Future gave the call for a strike all over the world and we decided to join for the physical strike this time,” said Srijani Datta, who recently graduated from school.Protesters said they were adhering to social distancing norms and reducing the risk of spread of infection by carrying their own sanitisers, consumables and posters.Also read: DNA of 3 men killed in Shopian encounter matches with family - J&K police“Since we are building back from the pandemic, you want them to do so in a green and socially just manner. That would include maybe investing in renewables and creating green jobs in the solar and wind sector among others, investing in public and non-motorised transport,” she said.Before Covid-19 lockdown, school children and youngsters across the national capital were participating in the global ‘Fridays for Future’ movement. As a part of the strike, the protesters took to the streets on Fridays —at least once a month— to protest the government’s inaction to curb climate change. The movement was inspired by teenage Swedish activist Greta Thunberg who started the school strikes demanding change against climate change and other environmental issues.Another group of protesters did a shoe strike outside the Prime Minister’s office. Bhavreen Kandhari, one of the organisers, said less than ten people had gathered keeping in mind Covid-19 regulations. Yet, officials detained four protesters.“Since children cannot come out in large numbers and protest due to the pandemic, we placed shoes and other footwear outside to make our point and demand action. Every pair of shoe represented a Climate Striker who have been demonstrating had it not been for the pandemic,” she said.Requesting anonymity, a senior police officer said, “No one was detained. There were three to four minors who were removed from there but not detained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-climate-strike-youngsters-activists-take-to-streets-in-delhi-demand-action/story-67gC6GF2HvYe9W9g8K7MfP.html
25-09-2020||India||Deendayal Upadhyay rejected Nehruvian model, says BJP president JP Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Friday paid tributes to Deendayal Upadhyay on Friday on the 104th birth anniversary of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh leader and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue.Addressing a gathering, Nadda said, “Deendayal Upadhyay advocated for an ideology which is self-sustainable and close to Indian traditions.” “Deendayal Upadhyay had rejected the Nehruvian model, an ecosystem which was being raised by Congress. He said that ideology was wrong, not linked to the motherland and traditions,” Nadda said in the virtual address.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also addressed BJP workers earlier in the day in an event to mark the occasion. “I was not lucky to have seen Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay ji in person but his thoughts, the path shown by him, and his ideology give us inspiration and energy,” Modi said during the address.“Deendayal ji’s contribution will inspire generations to come. For BJP workers it is the path which he has shown that is encouraging and inspiring,” he also said.Union home minister Amit Shah in his tribute message on Twitter called the late leader “master of Indian politics” and said, “as an excellent organiser, Deendayal ji laid the foundation of alternative politics which is today doing the work of bringing poor, deprived, and exploited class in the mainstream of development.”“His life is an example of social harmony and patriotism,” Shah also said.Born on September 25, 1916, in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura district, Upadhyay became the president of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh in December 1967.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deendayal-upadhyay-rejected-nehruvian-model-says-bjp-president-jp-nadda/story-KzM79NRhtvqfn9cQorstzI.html
25-09-2020||India||SC reserves order on refund of cancelled air tickets during lockdown||A day after the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) informed the Supreme Court that its credit shell scheme will not be open for lockdown flights that originated outside India, the Solicitor General on Friday informed the apex court that a concession could be made in this category for tickets that were booked in India.This crucial clarification came on a day when the court concluded arguments on a PIL filed by Pravasi Legal Cell and reserved orders on the scheme to be made available for passengers seeking refund on tickets booked for travel during the lockdown beginning March 25.Concerns over the exclusion of this category were raised during the hearing by the counsel for the Pravasi Legal Cell and other intervention applications moved on behalf of passengers. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for the petitioner, pointed out that much prior to the lockdown, Indians working in the Gulf had booked tickets for travel to and from India. “As per the Government’s latest affidavit, we will be eligible for refund for one side travel only even though our tickets were booked at Air India offices in the Gulf,” Hegde said.Hegde was referring to the DGCA’s affidavit filed on Thursday which said, “The ambit of the regulatory mechanism of the DGCA does not cover international flights, which originate from any foreign destination. It is stated that the said flights are governed by the regulatory mechanism of the country of origin, irrespective of the fact whether the carrier is Indian or not….issue of refund of tickets/credit shell of such international flights would be governed by the law of such sovereign country from where such international flights originate.”Advocate Puneet Jain representing another passenger claimed that his client’s tickets were booked on both sides between Delhi and New York. “As per the DGCA decision, how can I approach the US regulatory authorities for refund.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said, “If the ticket is booked within the jurisdiction of our country, you will certainly be entitled for refund.” The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah recorded this submission before closing arguments in the case.As per the scheme proposed by the DGCA, immediate refund will be available for tickets booked during the lockdown period (March 25 to April 14). For tickets booked prior to March 25 for travel up to May 24 (as calibrated domestic operations recommenced from May 25), the airline will be liable to refund within 15 days, failing which it must create a credit shell in the name of the passenger to be availed for travel on any route within March 31, 2021. Interest of 0.5 per cent till June 2020 and thereafter 0.75 per cent would accrue on the credit shell that will be transferable and if unused, will return to the passenger with interest after March 31, 2021.Airlines such as GoAir demanded the court to consider extending the refund deadline of March 31, 2021 by another six months. Senior advocate Arvind Datar appearing for GoAir said, “In two months we have disbursed Rs 40 crore refund and have to still repay Rs 266 crore. Our flights are operating at 60 per cent strength, prices have been capped, fuel charges have increased and we have to pay salaries to our workforce. From today, the deadline to make a full refund expires in six months. If this scheme has to work, the deadline must be extended to September 30, 2021.”Senior advocate Pinaki Mishra, appearing for Vistara and AirAsia, objected to the interest component on the credit shell. He said, “On fixed deposits, the current interest rate is 5.5 per cent. Why are airlines asked to pay higher interest? We will go completely bankrupt.” IndiGo Airlines also pleaded financial distress but backed the DGCA’s refund scheme. The bench said it will consider the plight faced by airlines in its order.The travel agents told the Court that many of the international tour agents had put their money for booking tickets. In the event of refund, the credit shell should be created in the name of the agent and not the passenger. Mehta suggested a way out. He said, “The credit shell is transferrable. We have no objection if the passenger would like to surrender the travel voucher to the travel agent. But this has to be ordered by the Court as the Centre has no regulatory mechanism over travel agents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-reserves-order-on-refund-of-cancelled-air-tickets-during-lockdown/story-KDwlpIz2WSTdi2H63z4RXM.html
25-09-2020||India||Family of terror suspect believed he was working in Saudi for 12 years||The family members of the Saharanpur resident Mohammed Gulnawaz, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from a Kerala airport for his alleged terror links earlier this week, were under the impression that he had been working in Saudi Arabia for the past 12 years, said senior officials of Uttar Pradesh Anti Terror Squad (ATS) after verifying his details over the last two days.However, as per the investigation, Gulnawaz was based in Dubai and was allegedly involved in terror funding through hawala (illegal money transfer channels). His name allegedly surfaced in connection with terror funding during an NIA investigation in 2016.On the other hand, his family members said Gulnawaz had left the house at the age of 20 to work in Saudi Arabia in 2008 and did not return.“His father, Qameel, was in a deep shock when informed about Gulnawaz’s arrest for terror links. For him, he (Gulnawaz) was the most hardworking among his three sons. His father stated that he only knew that Gulnawaz was away from the family to earn and give them a good lifestyle,” said an ATS official privy to the investigation.Also read: Farm bills - Farmers protest, block Delhi-Noida road at Sector 14-AThe official said the family had no clear idea about the company which employed him in Saudi Arabia. He said Gulnawaz’s two brothers, Shahnawaz and Ahtesham, also worked in Saudi Arabia. While Shahnawaz returned home during the Covid-19 outbreak, Ahtesham was still in Saudi Arabia, he added.“Our team reached the Saharanpur address of Gulnawaz which was shared by the NIA. His family, comprising five members, including his parents and a brother, were found living there. They were not aware of Gulnawaz’s involvement in any terror activities,” said UP ATS additional director general (ADG) of police Dhruv Kant Thakur.“We are waiting for further inputs from the NIA and information extracted from Gulnawaz on the basis of which the investigation will proceed further.”Earlier, Gulnawaz was arrested from Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram international airport on Tuesday for his alleged links with terror outfits Lashkar-e-Taiba and Al Qaeda. A senior UP ATS official said Gulnawaz was also suspected to be involved in serial blasts in Bengaluru on July 25, 2008, in which one person was killed and 20 others were seriously injured.The official said two others were arrested and sent to jail in connection with those blasts while Gulnawaz managed to sneak out of the country. He said Gulnawaz’s name also surfaced in connection with terror funding through ‘hawala’ network in 2016. After that, the NIA had issued a lookout notice for him and was looking for him.Gulnawaz’s arrival at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport was revealed by three alleged Al-Qaeda operatives held by the NIA after a raid on a migrant workers’ settlement in Kochi in the early hours of Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-of-terror-suspect-believed-he-was-working-in-saudi-for-12-years/story-P99ZebVgedCqnI72BPDGkI.html
25-09-2020||India||Always this swift to demolish? HC’s piercing query to BMC in Kangana Ranaut case||The Bombay high court on Friday asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) if it always acts with the same swiftness to demolish other unauthorised structures as it did with actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow. The high court has asked the civic body to explain why it did not proceed against Ranaut under provisions of the law that would have required the corporation to give the actor sufficient time to respond to the charges.The bench also remarked that Pradeep Thorat’s client (Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut) had indeed done what he said, a reference to the title of an article in Sena mouthpiece Saamana ‘Ukhad diya’ (uprooted) that was seen to link the BMC action to the Sena leader. The article was published after parts of the actor’s Pali Hill bungalow were demolished on September 9.The bench has asked the BMC to explain why it had carried out the demolition in the ground floor when there was no ongoing work and asked for details of the workmen alleged to be carrying out the alterations when the premise was inspected. The court’s observations and directions came after Kangana Ranaut’s lawyer told the high court that the BMC had invoked section 354 (A) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act to initiate action against the actor’s building which pertains to ongoing work at a construction site. Senior counsel Birendra Saraf, who represented the actor in the proceedings, told the two-judge bench that there was no ongoing work at the premises when the BMC staffers claimed to have detected the unauthorised construction on September 5 and September 7.The court has asked the BMC to produce the phone of the mukadam who detected the unauthorised construction in Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow on September 5 to verify if the photographs of the alleged ongoing unauthorised alterations and additions were taken on that day. The report of the unauthorised construction is reported to have provoked the BMC team’s inspection of the building on September 7. Birender Saraf contended that the real reason for the demolition wasn’t the discovery of the unauthorised construction but Kangana Ranaut’s tiff on social media with the Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut over she called out the government.The two-judge bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla is hearing Kangana Ranaut’s petition - initially filed to seek a stay on the demolition on September 9. She later sought compensation of Rs 2 crore for the damage to her property caused during the demolition.Kangana Ranaut told the high court that she had photographic evidence to back up her claim that the unauthorised alterations and additions alleged by the BMC in its notice were completed in 2019. This could be established by photographs taken in January 2020 during a pooja that was held on the premises.Birender Saraf told the judges that the actor was a public-spirited person and had taken to social media to criticise the government for its handling of various issues that led Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut to target her. The senior lawyer added that the demolition was carried out at the behest of Raut since she had countered and confronted him on social media.Ranaut’s team told the court that there were several discrepancies and contradictions in the two BMC affidavits filed on September 10 and 17 and asked the judges to get the BMC to provide complete details of the detection, inspection and stop work notices issued as well as provide any evidence that some work was going on at the bungalow in the first place. Senior counsel Aspi Chinoy who represented BMC along with advocate Joel Carlos submitted that the actor was trying to improvise its arguments as she had not denied the unauthorised alterations and additions pointed out in the BMC notice. Chinoy further said that while only two demolished toilets would have been exposed to the rains, the rest of the demolition was internal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-bandra-office-demolitio-is-bmc-always-this-swift-to-demolish-asks-high-court-in-kangana-ranaut-case/story-0gYHbbb9btuvIol6uWQTAO.html
25-09-2020||India||India’s healthcare effectively kept Covid-19 mortality at ‘minimum’, recovery at ‘maximum’: Vardhan||New Delhi, Sep 25 (PTI) More than 5 million people have been infected with coronavirus but the healthcare system of India has shown great efficiency in providing diagnostic and management facilities as well as keeping the mortality at ‘minimum’ and recovery at ‘maximum’, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday.He was speaking at an event to mark the 65th Foundation Day of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi.He said the country’s continuously rising Covid-19 recovery rate and progressively falling case fatality rate have proven the success of the containment strategy followed by all states/UTs, the health ministry said in a statement.“We have successfully ramped up our testing capacity which has touched nearly 15 lakh milestone today with more than 1,800 testing labs spread across the country.“I have confidence in the scientific developments taking place in the field of treatment and vaccines for Covid-19 and soon India will achieve more success in our fight against coronavirus infection,” the statement quoted Vardhan as saying.Congratulating the AIMS fraternity for being ranked as number one among medical institutions by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) under the Ministry of Human Resource and Development, Vardhan expressed satisfaction that AIIMS has fulfilled the objectives of its establishment by the Indian Parliament in 1956.He also hailed the institution’s huge contribution during the Covid-19 pandemic.“More than 5 million patients have been infected with coronavirus but the healthcare system of India has shown great efficiency in not only providing diagnostic and management facilities but also keeping the mortality at minimum and recovery at maximum.“I appreciate that in the last six months, AIIMS has taken a huge responsibility of providing care to patients suffering from Covid-19, for innovating in areas of research, guiding colleagues across the country and developing new methods of teaching and communication,” the statement said.Speaking at the event, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey praised the medical community for their endless and selfless efforts during COVID times.“AIIMS has established high reputation and has contributed significantly in academic, research and patient care. It has attracted students from various other countries like the US, UK, Australia, Germany, among others. It is a huge achievement,” he was quoted as saying in a statement.Choubey added that the central government was making efforts to spread the services of AIIMS to every nook and corner of the country.Vardhan and Choubey also gave away awards and medals to faculty members and graduating students during the event.“This is the dream of every medical student to become a student of AIIMS. On this 65th foundation Day, I request all of you to aggressively and meticulously brainstorm some ideas which will be helpful in strengthening the medical services in India and in positioning India among the top scientific nations,” Vardhan said.The health minister also released a manual and inaugurated an exhibition titled ‘AIIMS in COVID Times’ which highlighted the contribution of AIIMS in dealing with public health emergency, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-healthcare-effectively-kept-covid-19-mortality-at-minimum-recovery-at-maximum-vardhan/story-CvaZLnt0KK5fx2yNwXkwZO.html
25-09-2020||India||‘I carry my small-town origin like a badge’||Young actor Aashish Bhardhwaj feels being from a small town can never be a deterrent in fulfilling one’s dream. “I hail from Khatauli district near Meerut, UP, and I carry my small-town origin like a badge. I tell everyone that though I come from a small settlement, still I dream big and know how to achieve those dreams.” It was during his second-year in college that Aashish joined theatre in Delhi. “I joined theatre and did a number of plays with different groups before joining an international modelling agency as their face and shifted to Mumbai. I did a big commercial and simultaneously started doing theatre and acting workshops,” he said. He did a number of editorial shoots, ads and commercials that made him survive in the industry. “As I have no industry background so this was how I was learning and earning both. I auditioned throughout my stay for almost all production houses till I got a call from Ekta Kapoor’s production house for their ongoing show ‘Kasauti Zindagi Kay’ and finally I got the show. I’m still doing the daily and along with it I have finalised a few scripts too.”Talking about his Lucknow connection he said, “In my teens all my focus was cricket. As students we came to Lucknow for various tournaments and camps. I played and camped in almost all cricketing grounds of the city be it KD Singh Babu Stadium, Kendriya Vidyalaya and Aliganj stadium.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-carry-my-small-town-origin-like-a-badge/story-G56Tv6jtivkC5B615cq8IJ.html
25-09-2020||India||UP farmers join nationwide bandh over 3 farm bills in a big way||Farmers in Uttar Pradesh, like their counterparts in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country, on Friday took to the streets in protest against the contentious farm bills passed by Parliament recently.Friday’s was the first major protest in UP, unlike Punjab and Haryana that have been on the boil since the bills cleared the Parliament hurdle. Responding to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by various farmers’ bodies and supported by opposition parties, the farmers blocked state and national highways, organised tractor rallies and held demonstrations disrupting traffic for three-four hours in several districts of the state with police having a tough time dealing with protesters. There were reports of clashes between police and protesters in some districts, including Shrawasti and Kannauj. The opposition parties, who lent their support to the farmers by joining the cause in various districts, included Samajwadi Party, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and left parties.With Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a farmers’ organisation with a strong presence in several states of north India, being in the forefront, the impact was most visible in the Jat-dominant western UP districts that were on high alert with heavy police deployment. BKU state president Rajveer Singh Jadaun claimed Friday’s ‘chakka jam’ was completely successful with wide support from traders and the public. He regretted that police tried to sabotage the peaceful agitation at some places.“Ours was a totally peaceful agitation and we ensured no emergency services, like movement of ambulances, were disrupted but some policemen, who wanted to spoil the state government’s image, unnecessarily misbehaved with and lathi-charged our people at some places,” he alleged. Reports of protests started trickling in right from the morning, with a group of Lucknow-bound farmers blocking the Lucknow-Ayodhya highway in Barabanki and burning crop waste on the road in protest. The farmers intensified the agitation as the day advanced. The protests lasted till about 3 pm.In Lucknow, farmers protested at the Shahid Path crossing as well as in Bakshi Ka Talab while other groups demonstrated on the highway near Akbarpur Mati in Kanpur Dehat and blocked the national highway in Gursahaigunj in Kannauj. In western UP, farmers blocked the Delhi-Noida highway, NH 58 in Muzafarnagar, Delhi-Saharanpur highway in Saharabpur, Meerut-Karnal highway in Shamli, Delhi-Pauri highway and Falauda road that connects Delhi to Haridwar and Dehardun etc. At some places, farmers were seen riding tractors with loudspeakers blaring patriotic songs while at others they were seen cooking food sitting on the road itself. In many cases, they parked their tractors on the roads to cause a blockade. Reports of similar road blockades came from Mahoba and Jalaun in Bundelkhand too. SP members joined the protests in various districts, including Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Agra. They submitted memorandums for the governor through the district administration demanding that the Centre withdraw the ‘anti-farmer’ bills.Congress workers took out a march in Varanasi, while AAP members and Allahabad University students staged protests separately in Prayagraj. CONTENTIOUS BILLSFarmers have strong reservations over some provisions of the three Bills— the Farmers’ Produce and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill — all passed by Parliament recently.“The three proposed laws, if enacted without suitable amendments, will be a sure recipe for disaster of small farmers,” Jadaun said. “We have three specific demands. First, it should insert clauses in the new Bills, stating that the minimum support price (MSP) system will continue. Second, maximum stockholding limit for traders will not be done away with and third, mandi fee will be abolished for all agri products sold and purchased within the mandi yards,” Jadaun stressed. He said BKU’s national executive will hold its meeting in a day or two to take a call on further course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-farmers-join-nationwide-bandh-over-farm-bills-in-a-big-way/story-UsS5X8MxqSv0W4rD4PF1ON.html
25-09-2020||India||Covid-19, dengue double infection treatment complicated; needs balanced approach: Experts||There is “no standard protocol” for treatment of patients who have contracted a double infection of Covid-19 and dengue, and a very “finely balanced” approach is needed to tackle both the ailments at once, experts said. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia was shifted to LNJP Hospital on Wednesday for Covid-19 treatment and tested positive for dengue a day later. On Thursday evening, the 48-year-old AAP leader was shifted to the ICU of Max Hospital Saket here. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14 and is perhaps the first prominent personality in the city to have been diagnosed with both infections. Medical Director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) B L Sherwal said both the diseases have no specific treatment, which makes it even difficult for treating doctors of such patients. “Both Covid-19 and dengue need symptomatic treatment and in some aspects the treatment is kind of contradictory and thus tricky. In Covid-19, we inject heparin drug subcutaneously which ultimately reaches the blood stream, and this is done to prevent embolism in these patients which can prove fatal,” he told PTI . Embolism is sudden blocking of an artery which can obstruct flow of oxygen, and that is why some patients get complications even after treatment, the doctor said. RGSSH is a dedicated Covid-19 facility run by the Delhi government. “In dengue, on the other hand, platelets infusion is needed in cases where its count has fallen to dangerously low level. So, it’s kind of opposite. And, therefore, we can’t inject heparin if a Covid-19 patient has dengue too,” Sherwal said. So, for a treating doctor it is like “walking a tight rope” and a very “finely balanced approach” is needed, he said. Vikas Maurya, Director and Head of Department, Pulmonology, Fortis Hospital Shalimar Bagh, also feels a balanced approach is needed in tackling the “double infection” of Covid-19 and dengue. “One will have to also see which disease takes preponderance in such a patient, and the course of treatment will depend accordingly. Both are spread by virus, so it is quite an unusual scenario for a doctor as well as the patient,” he said on Friday. Maurya also referred to a “study done by a university in Brazil along with an American varsity”. “Though the study is yet to be peer-reviewed, one of its findings was that in patients who had suffered dengue infection earlier had developed anti-bodies, and in some patients, a false positive result was coming for Covid-19, even with RT-PCR test. But it is too early to say anything,” he added. Rajesh Rautela, Medical Superintendent of GTB Hospital, said a doctor “will have to be like a juggler, balancing two things at the same time”. “So, best way is to take precautions and preventive measures to avoid stagnation of water where mosquitoes can breed. No medicinal cure is there for either of the two ailments, just symptomatic treatment, so people should be alert,” he said. Mugdha Tapdiya, senior consultant, internal medicine at Fortis Hospital, Vasant Kunj said, “Diseases like malaria and dengue have overlapping symptoms with Covid-19, except where there are respiratory symptoms.” “If there is a co-infection with dengue in which there is a risk of hemorrhage, then management becomes very tricky. Similarly there is a capillary leak in dengue fever which is treated by intravenous fluids, whereas with co-infection of Covid-19, large intravenous fluid is a risk in the view of potential trial risk of ARDS and pulmonary oedema,” she cautioned Sources at LNJP Hospital on Thursday said “there is no standard protocol” for treatment of double infection of Covid-19 and dengue, and treatment is “patient-specific”. LNJP Hospital is the largest hospital under the Delhi government and a dedicated Covid-19 facility. “The patient’s age, condition, comorbidities and other factors are taken into account for treatment of both the ailments,” a source said. Asked if there are any side effects of treatments in cases of a “double infection”, the source said, “Any treatment can have a side effect, but the treating doctor decides the methodology for it”. A dengue patient, if his or her platelets level falls dangerously below the normal level, needs external platelets infusion. A normal platelets level is considered in the range of 1.5-4.5 lakh, according to doctors. “If a patient needs plasma for Covid-19 treatment, he can be administered that, and if he needs platelets that too can be infused. The treating doctor will decide the course of treatment,” the source said. Common symptoms of Covid-19 are high fever, breathlessness, cough, body fatigue and loss of sense of smell and taste. In dengue, a vector-born disease caused by aedes aegypti mosquito, a person runs high fever, suffers red rashes on skin, pain behind eye sockets, joint pain and in serious case internal bleeding which can prove fatal. “In about 10 per cent of dengue cases, a patient suffers haemorrhagic fever which leads to deaths. Internal bleeding can manifest through nose, gums and those are danger signs,” Sherwal said. Recently, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, himself a Covid-19 survivor, had told reporters that about 2-3 patients of Covid-19 in Delhi had shown dengue infection too. “We have managed to contain dengue this year. Our campaign ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ was very effective last year, and this year too dengue situation in Delhi is under control,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-dengue-double-infection-treatment-complicated-needs-balanced-approach-experts/story-2fVpztZVdoSVdpJWkgNmNM.html
25-09-2020||India||‘Walls turn into blackboards’: Jharkhand headmaster’s innovative way to maintain social distancing||While school education across Jharkhand is paralysed in wake of Covid-19 pandemic, headmaster of a government upgraded middle school in a remote tribal village in Dumka district has come up with an innovative idea. Headmaster Sapan Patralekh has turned roadside clay wall of village houses into blackboards and is conducting classes ensuring social distancing.Upgraded Middle School, Dumarthar village under Jarmundi block, is around 40 kilometres away from Dumka district headquarter and has around 290 students. Each student gets a separate blackboard keeping in mind social distancing norms. The school has four teachers, including the headmaster, and all attend classes in rotation.The innovative way of conducting school classes has caught the attention of people and authorities in the region.Headmaster Patralekh said having seen the closure of the school for a long time due to Covid-19, they thought students would forget their lessons if the lockdown continued. “The village is in a remote area where the facility of internet and mobile services are not available. So, in the interest of students, we decided to hold classes for them in a group at their own houses,” he said.“Since tribal kids learn wall painting easily, we decided to teach them by using the walls of their houses as blackboards. This way, we succeeded in attracting students,” Patralekh added.Also read: Bihar to vote on October 28, November 3, 7; results on November 10Teachers of the school, along with the villagers and guardians of students, managed to set up four points in the village where students - a batch of 50 each - could attend classes in rotation. Each teacher takes up one class point to attend.Every day, these students get dressed in their school uniform and sit outside their houses as per the school schedule. In order to save them from infection, each student is provided with chalk and duster. Teachers also get their blackboards where they write tasks for students. Students resolve their doubts by asking queries on their respective boards and teachers respond by answering on their own blackboards.Headmaster Patralekh said the credit for successfully holding these classes amid Covid-19 goes to the deputy commissioner who gives his inputs and direction from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/walls-turn-into-blackboards-jharkhand-headmaster-s-innovative-way-to-maintain-social-distancing-for-students/story-FotdogBB7gjCddkZLwaAmI.html
25-09-2020||India||Faceless I-T appeals launched, to help resolve about 85% cases||The income-tax (I-T) department on Friday launched a faceless appeal system, which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 13 to eliminate discretionary powers of the taxman, curb corrupt practices and provide ease of compliance to taxpayers, an official statement said. The new process will help in quick resolution of about 4.6 lakh appeals pending at various levels in the I-T department. Of the total pending appeals, about 85% cases will be handled under the faceless appeal mechanism, it said.The Prime Minister last month announced three key structural tax reforms under the ‘Transparent Taxation - Honouring the Honest’ platform—faceless assessment, faceless appeal and taxpayers’ charter. While faceless assessment and taxpayers’ charter were formally implemented immediately, faceless appeal was scheduled to be launched on September 25.The technology-driven faceless assessment system also aims to end overreach by officials and the charter defines the rights and responsibilities of taxpayers.Also Read: CBI raids 3 in 2019 Vellore Lok Sabha cash-for-vote caseNow, I-T appeals will be finalised in a faceless manner with the exception of appeals related to serious fraud, major tax evasion, search matters, international tax issues and matters pertaining to black money, a finance ministry statement said.The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said that now all income tax appeals, ranging from e-allocation of appeals, to e-communication of notices, e-verification, e-enquiry and e-hearing will take place online without the need for any physical interface between the appellant and the department.“There will be no physical interface between the taxpayers or their counsel/s and the Income Tax Department. The taxpayers can make submissions from the comfort of their home and save their time and resources,” it said.According to CBDT, the faceless appeal system will include the allocation of cases through data analytics and artificial intelligence (AI) under a dynamic jurisdiction. Also Read: Tax refunds worth over Rs 1.06 lakh cr issued to 30.92 lakh taxpayers till Sep 15: CBDTAs part of the dynamic jurisdiction, the draft appellate order will be prepared in one city and will be reviewed in some other city, resulting in an objective, fair and just order, it said.“The faceless appeal will provide taxpayers with not only great convenience, but will also ensure just and fair appeal orders and minimise any further litigation. The new system will also be instrumental in imparting greater efficiency, transparency and accountability in the functioning of the Income Tax Department,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faceless-i-t-appeals-launched-to-help-resolve-about-85-cases/story-en3NDpgSlZ5zSYKHy5k0XI.html
25-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: SC reserves order on pleas seeking refund of Air tickets cancelled during lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Air ticket refund: Supreme Court reserves order on lockdown flightsThe Supreme Court on Friday reserved its order on a batch of pleas seeking refund of airfare to passengers whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown that began on March 25. Read moreBihar to vote on October 28, November 3, 7; results on November 10The Election Commission (EC) on Friday announced a three-phase schedule from October 28 for the Bihar assembly polls, the first major elections in the country since the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted political calendars and prompted sweeping measures for social distancing in March to check its spread. Read moreYes Bank case: ED attaches Rana Kapoor’s London flat worth Rs 127 croreThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached a residential flat in London worth Rs 127 crore (13.5 million pound) belonging to Rana Kapoor, Yes Bank’s former chairman and managing director, who has been booked for alleged money laundering by the agency, officials said on Friday. Read more‘That, Mr Gavaskar, your message is distasteful is a fact’: Anushka Sharma reacts after her name gets dragged in IPL commentaryActor Anushka Sharma on Friday took to Instagram and posted a message directed towards Indian cricket legend Sunil Gavaskar. Read moreSonam Kapoor Ahuja calls PCOS ‘the bane of my life’, shares 3 tips with fans on how to combat it in ‘Storytime with Sonam’A couple of days ago, Indian designer and Netflix India’s latest girl crush Masaba Gupta had revealed about her 16-hour fast and no-Keto diet that worked well in vanishing Polycystic Ovary Disease or PCOD and now, Bollywood diva Sonam Kapoor Ahuja too has shared tips. Read moreOutbound Harley-Davidson in talks with Hero MotoCorp: SourcesHarley-Davidson Inc is in advanced talks with India’s Hero MotoCorp for a distribution deal which will allow the US firm’s iconic motorcycles to be sold in India, after it stops local manufacturing there, three sources told Reuters. Read moreSP Balasubrahmanyam passes away: It is the end of an eraSP Balasubrahmanyam’s death if the end of an era in film music. His songs voiced the aspirations and emotions of generations of music lovers as he sang for actors ranging from MGR, Rajinikanth, Shivaji Ganesan, Kamal Haasan and Salman Khan. Read moreDelhi Police’s ‘new normal’ Instagram post has an important message for all. Seen it yet?Delhi Police has often used its social media presence to spread important messages regarding citizens’ safety. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sc-reserves-order-on-pleas-seeking-refund-of-air-tickets-cancelled-during-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-G7j2gASePVQtUknjmDB1TN.html
25-09-2020||India||AYUSH ministry okays clinical test efficacy of medicinal herbs in Covid management||Ministry of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) has approved a clinical study to assess the role of medicinal herbs vasa and guduchi in therapeutic management of symptoms in Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases.“In view of the need for accelerated solutions for Covid-19, the ministry of AYUSH has taken up systematic studies on different possible solutions through multiple channels. As part of this effort, a proposal for a clinical study to assess the role of Vasa Ghana, Guduchi Ghana and Vasa-Guduchi Ghana in therapeutic management of symptoms in Covid-19 positive cases has recently been approved…,” the ministry said in a statement.In order to generate scientific evidence in favour of these herbs known for their medicinal properties and used in treating various health conditions, a “randomized, open label three armed” study will be conducted at the All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), New Delhi, in collaboration with the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) unit of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR).Also read: This is why Covid-19 may be life-threatening for some patients“The detailed proposal with methodology, including outcome measures, clinical and laboratory parameters and the logistics of the research has been prepared. The study will use a unique Case Report Forum (CRF), suitable for Ayush mode research. The CRF and study protocol has also been peer reviewed by experts from different domains, including modern medicine, and their suggestions have been incorporated. The study will be undertaken subject to the required approvals like that of the Institutional Ethics Committee (IEC),” the ministry said.The study aims to look into the efficacy of mono-herbal formulations of whole extracts of vasa and guduchi respectively, and polyherbal formulation of vasa-guduchi whole extract on therapeutic management of SARS-CoV2 positive asymptomatic and, or, mild Covid-19 symptomatic cases, along with the impact of the said formulations on the speed of viral replication.It will also try to determine whether these mono-herbal and polyherbal formulations can alter the expression profiles of key bio markers associated with the viral disease. “Vasa and guduchi are time tested herbs in Indian healthcare traditions, used in a variety of disease conditions. The outcome of this study would therefore be of considerable interest to the entire Ayush sector,” the ministry statement further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-okays-clinical-test-efficacy-of-medicinal-herbs-in-covid-management/story-uPtySAyjPujHmtCiL8v6OK.html
25-09-2020||India||‘BMC action mala-fide, Kangana Ranaut had differences with people in power’: Lawyer tells Bombay HC||Kangana Ranaut’s lawyer on Friday said that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC’s) action demolishing portions of her bungalow was driven by ideological differences as the Bollywood actor had “differences with people in power”. The court was hearing Kangana Ranaut’s petition against BMC for demolishing parts of her bungalow on September 9. The actor had sued the municipal corporation and its officials, claiming Rs 2 crore in compensation for the demolition that she alleged was an outcome of malice and not an implementation of the civic body’s rules.“BMC action is mala-fide as she had “differences with people in power and ideological differences”. The timing of the action clearly shows that there is “malice in fact” and “malice in law” on the part of the authorities,” Ranaut’s lawyer Birendra Saraf said in the high court on Friday, reported Live Law.Also read | Kangana versus BMC: The case so farSaraf also told the court that the actor is at logger heads with Maharashtra Government over some issues. “She has displeased a party in power with her open views. She had to face life threats and had to seek special protection,” the lawyer told the court, reported Live Law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-action-mala-fide-kangana-ranaut-differences-with-people-in-power-lawyer-tells-bombay-hc/story-UOBhuUrByVU3s583imHDbI.html
25-09-2020||India||Yes Bank case: ED attaches Rana Kapoor’s London flat worth Rs 127 crore||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached a residential flat in London worth Rs 127 crore (13.5 million pound) belonging to Rana Kapoor, Yes Bank’s former chairman and managing director, who has been booked for alleged money laundering by the agency, officials said on Friday.The property was bought by Kapoor in 2017 for Rs 93 crore (9.9 million pound) in the name of DOIT Creations Jersey Limited, according to officials. “Information from a reliable source revealed that Rana Kapoor is trying to alienate this property in London and that he has hired a reputed property consultant. Enquiries from open sources confirmed that this property has been listed for sale on several websites,” they added.ED had initiated a probe into allegations of money laundering after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered two cases of corruption against Kapoor in March. In one first information report (FIR), the bureau alleged that Yes Bank had invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) between April and June 2018.Kapoor was allegedly paid ‘kickbacks’ amounting to Rs 600 crore by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan in return. CBI has alleged that DHFL sanctioned a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises in which Kapoor’s wife Bindu is a director and 100% shareholder. Kapoor’s daughters, Rakhee Kapoor Tandon, Roshni Kapoor, and Radha Kapoor, are also 100% shareholders in DoIT Urban Ventures. Based on the case registered by CBI, ED began its probe into allegations of money laundering by Kapoor.In the second case, CBI alleged that Kapoor and his wife bought a bungalow from Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar at a much lower price than its valuation. In the past, Thapar had mortgaged the bungalow for a corporate loan of Rs 600 crore, but he sold it for Rs 380 crore to Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd in which Kapoor’s wife was a director at the time.After the probe, ED filed a charge sheet against Kapoor, his wife, and their three daughters for money laundering. After the charge sheet was filed, Kapoor’s lawyers moved a bail plea on the merits of the case.The total attachments under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in this case come to Rs 2,011 crore. Among these attachments proceeds of crime amounting to Rs 600 crore belong to Kapoor and remaining attachment of assets worth Rs 1,411 crore are related to Wadhawan brothers. Prosecution complaints have been filed against Kapoor, Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and others.In another separate PMLA case, ED has also attached an asset amounting to Rs 307 crore belonging to Kapoor.Kapoor, Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan were arrested by ED for their role in alleged money laundering and they are in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-case-ed-attaches-rana-kapoor-s-london-flat-worth-rs-127-crore/story-huDmKQsetKziKFPpQJ9A6M.html
25-09-2020||India||Kerala man convicted for ‘waging war against friendly country’, quantum of punishment on Monday||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi on Friday found a man from Kerala, Subahani Haja Moideen (34), guilty of waging war against a friendly country. His punishment will be announced on Monday. The man is said to have links with Islamic State and recently returned to the country. Legal experts said this is the first case wherein Section 125 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) - for waging a war against a friendly government - was invoked in a terror case in south India. Besides Section 125, Moideen was found guilty under various sections including 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). For the first time, a senior Indian Foreign Service official was also called as a witness in the case. Moideen was earlier questioned by French intelligence agencies in connection with the Paris attacks. While in Iraq, he told agencies that he worked with Abdel Hamid Abaaoud, a Belgian-Moroccan militant, who was the mastermind behind the November 2015 Paris attacks. The NIA had arrested him from Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu in 2016 where he was living discreetly after his return to the country. According to the prosecution, Moideen, who hails from a small town in Kerala’s Idukki district, had left for Jeddah in 2015 and later reached Turkey. Later he was taken to Syrian borders by his handlers before he was moved to Raqqa for an intense arms training. Also read: Bihar to vote on October 28, November 3, 7; results on November 10After three weeks of training, he told investigators that he was sent to Mosul (Iraq) and enrolled in a team led by a French-speaking leader. During one of the attacks, he said he saw one his aides burned alive after which he fled the battle scene but was captured by other IS militants. He told the probe team that he was let off only after assuring the IS leadership that he will carry out terror activities in India. The prosecution said when he was arrested he was planning attacks against some judges and senior political leaders. According to the NIA, Moideen, belonging to a middle-class family, worked in a family-run cloth shop in Thodupuzha after dropping out from college. When he turned to drinking alcohol, his family forced him to marry. To wean him from alcohol, his wife later advised him to take up religious studies and he turned a small-time religious scholar. He told interrogators that he later was attracted to teachings of Anwar al Awlaki, one of the mentors of Al Qaeda, and started chatting with others through encrypted Telegram app and was soon radicalised. Before his trip to Iraq, he also participated in Kanakamala terror plot in Kannur in 2015.During the investigation, it was also found that after leaving IS-ruled areas, Moideen came to Turkey and gave a wrong affidavit in the Indian Embassy saying that his travel papers were stolen during a religious trip. The NIA got a whiff of him while it was investigating another IS-returnee from Maharashtra, Areeb Majeed, who is under judicial custody now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/islamic-state-returned-kerala-man-convicted-quantum-of-punishment-on-monday/story-nRJPjHWMSZxVUxLVwnc2uJ.html
25-09-2020||India||‘Had a very good conversation’: PM Modi talks to Japan’s Yoshihide Suga||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday he spoke with his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga and that they agreed stronger ties between the two countries “will help meet the challenges of the current regional and global situation”.“Had a very good conversation with PM Yoshihide Suga. We exchanged views on the tremendous progress in our relationship in the last few years, and the future direction of our Special Strategic and Global Partnership. @sugawitter,” PM Modi tweeted“We agreed that stronger India-Japan ties would help meet the challenges of the current regional and global situation. I look forward to working with PM Suga to further strengthen our all-round partnership,” he added.It was their first phone call since Suga took office last week.The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had said earlier that the two leaders expressed their intention to further strengthen the Special Strategic and Global Partnership between the two countries based upon mutual trust and shared values.“PM Narendra Modi had a phone call today with Yoshihide Suga, Prime Minister of Japan. The Prime Minister congratulated Prime Minister Suga on his appointment as the Prime Minister of Japan and wished him success in achieving his goals,” the PMO said in a statement.“The two leaders agreed that the India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership has made great advances over the last few years and expressed their intention to further strengthen this relationship based upon mutual trust and shared values,” it said. We agreed that stronger India-Japan ties would help meet the challenges of the current regional and global situation. I look forward to working with PM Suga to further strengthen our all-round partnership.今日の地域・グローバル情勢の課題を対応するために、さらなる強い印日協力関係は役立つことに同意した。両国の全面的パートナーシップを更に強化するため、菅首相閣下と一緒にがんばっていくことを期待している。They concurred that the partnership between the two countries is even more relevant in today’s times given the global challenges, including that of the coronavirus pandemic. “They emphasised that the economic architecture of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region must be premised on resilient supply chains, and in this context, welcomed cooperation between India, Japan and other like-minded countries,” the statement said.Prime Minister Modi also extended an invitation to Suga to visit India for the Annual Bilateral Summit, after improvement of the situation caused by the global Covid-19 pandemic, it said.Friday’s phone call marks the first-ever conversation between the two leaders. In recent days, Suga has called US president Donald Trump and also spoken with South Korea’s Moon Jae In.Suga, previously Japan’s longest-serving chief cabinet secretary, was elected as the prime minister by the Japanese parliament on September 16, two days after being elected as the leader of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party.He is also Japan’s first new prime minister in almost eight years after his predecessor, Shinzo Abe, resigned on August 28 due to health reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-japan-s-suga-speak-on-phone-agree-to-further-strengthen-ties-pmo/story-envyd1HUYDMoP2yYRcVb1O.html
25-09-2020||India||DNA of 3 men killed in Shopian encounter matches with family: J&K police||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday said that the DNA samples of the three youths mistakenly gunned down in an encounter in July have matched with their family members in Rajouri and that further investigations are underway.The army admitted last week that powers vested under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) were violated in the July killing of three people, who they thought were terrorists.The families of the three had blamed the army for killing them in a fake encounter.“The DNA samples of families have been received and they have matched with those killed in the Amshipora encounter. The remaining formalities will be completed and further action will be taken,” Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of Police, told reporters in Srinagar.In a statement, the army had said that the inquiry ordered by authorities into the operation at Amshipora in Shopian on July 18 has concluded.“The inquiry has brought out prima facie evidence indicating that during the operation, powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 were exceeded and the dos and don’ts of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court have been contravened. Consequently, the competent disciplinary authority has directed initiation of disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable,” the spokesman had said, adding that the evidence collected showed that the three unidentified men killed in Amshipora are actually Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohd Ibrar -all from Rajouri.Earlier, the families of the three wrote to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, seeking his intervention after the DNA reports were delayed.The three men, related to each other, were gunned down in an encounter on July 18. DNA samples from their families were sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) Srinagar, and the FSL at Chandigarh.“Our children left for Shopian on July 16, in search of work where one of our relatives, Imtiyaz Ahmed, works in the house of the ‘Lambardar’. After a couple of days, we lost contact with the children. So, we decided to lodge a missing complaint,” the letter from the families said, adding that on August 10, they came to know, via social media, that all three men were killed in an encounter.“We identified them from pictures of the bodies. On August 13, a Shopian police team collected DNA samples from us. We were assured that the DNA report would be out within 10 days. To date, we have not been informed about the reports,” the plea to Sinha said.“Our children had no connection with militancy. For this, we are demanding an inquiry. They were killed in cold blood, and were merely students and labourers. We are demanding an impartial and fair inquiry into the killings as well as the DNA reports, so that things can be made public,” read the letter. The families added in the letter that several of its members are still serving in the army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dna-of-3-men-killed-in-shopian-encounter-matches-with-family-j-k-police/story-ed2kXlAuET7xYtGSer9XaL.html
25-09-2020||India||AIIMS doctor alleged Sushant’s photos indicate death by strangulation, claims family lawyer||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer Vikas Singh claimed on Friday that a doctor, who is part of AIIMS team, had told him “long back” that Rajput’s photos sent by the lawyer indicated that it was allegedly death by strangulation, not suicide.The senior advocate took to Twitter saying he was getting “frustrated” by the delay in CBI taking a decision in the case.“Getting frustrated by the delay in CBI taking a decision to convert abetment to suicide to Murder of SSR (Sushant Singh Rajput).“The Doctor who is part of AIIMS team had told me long back that the photos sent by me indicated 200% that it’s death by strangulation and not suicide,” Singh tweeted.Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14 following which the Mumbai Police had lodged an Accidental Death Report (ADR).On July 25, Rajput’s father K K Singh lodged a complaint in the matter with Patna police against Rhea Chakraborty, her parents Indrajit and Sandhya, her brother Showik, the late actor’s then manager Shruti Modi and his house manager Samuel Miranda.He accused them of cheating and abetting his sons suicide. He also claimed that the accused persons had siphoned off Rs 15 crore from his son’s bank accounts.Based on this allegation, the Enforcement Directorate is probing money laundering charges.The FIR lodged by Patna police was later transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is probing drugs angle in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-doctor-alleged-sushant-s-photos-indicate-death-by-strangulation-claims-family-lawyer/story-4SsmMUT8U2WWud06XasplJ.html
25-09-2020||India||PM Modi condoles legendary singer SP Balasubrahmanyam’s death, says our cultural world is a lot poorer||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the death of SP Balasubramanyamm, saying with the passing away of the legendary singer, the cultural world has become a lot poorer.“With the unfortunate demise of Shri SP Balasubrahmanyam, our cultural world is a lot poorer. A household name across India, his melodious voice and music enthralled audiences for decades. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” PM Modi said in a tweet.Tributes from across the political spectrum poured in after the death of Padma Shri awardee singer with several political leaders mourning India’s loss of cultural voice.“My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family and friends of Mr SP Balasubrahmanyam. His songs touched millions of hearts in many languages. His voice will live on,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter and said.Also read | Legendary singer SP Balasubrahmanyam dies at 74SP Balasubrahmanyam died at a Chennai hospital after testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in August. He was 74. His son, SP Charan, confirmed the news of his death.The President of India Ramnath Kovind also expressed grief on Twitter and mourned India’s loss of one of its melodious voices.  “In the passing of music legend SP Balasubrahmanyam Indian music has lost one of its most melodious voices. Called ‘Paadum Nila’ or ‘Singing Moon’ by his countless fans, he was honoured with Padma Bhushan and many National Awards. Condolences to his family, friends and admirers,” President Kovind wrote on Twitter. Union home minister Amit Shah also took to Twitter to condole Balasubrahmanyam’s death and said he would forever remain in people’s memories through his melodious voice and unparalleled music compositions.“Deeply saddened by the passing away of legendary musician and playback singer Padma Bhushan, SP Balasubrahmanyam ji. He will forever remain in our memories through his melodious voice & unparalleled music compositions. My condolences are with his family & followers. Om Shanti,” Shah tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-legendary-singer-sp-balasubrahmanyam-s-death-says-our-cultural-world-is-a-lot-poorer/story-O10c0m1lDrdCx8XqABEGAP.html
25-09-2020||India||Air ticket refund: Supreme Court reserves order on lockdown flights||The Supreme Court on Friday reserved its order on a batch of pleas seeking refund of airfare to passengers whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown that began on March 25. Several flights — international and domestic — were cancelled during the lockdown, the refund for which has become a contentious issue as airlines are offering credit shells instead of monetary refund. Non-government organisation Pravasi Legal Cell, which filed one of the pleas, has claimed that not refunding the money is illegal and violates Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA’s) requirements.A three-judge bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan is hearing the pleas. The airlines are in dissonance with the refund police that the Centre has proposed. According to the policy, there will be immediate refund for air tickets booked during lockdown. For others, creation a credit shell with validity till March 31, 2021, has been proposed. The airlines have said there was no in-depth consultation among the stakeholders on this issue. The central government has also suggested that airlines should pay customers a monthly interest of 0.5% for delay in refunding the booking amount for cancelled air tickets, which the airlines are resisting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-tickets-refund-supreme-court-reserves-order-on-lockdown-flights/story-tkfOTlDNeeiJ2VZbARyeYO.html
25-09-2020||India||Tatkal RT-PCR test for air passengers visiting Assam to cut quarantine time||Assam government has introduced mandatory RT-PCR tests on arrival for air passengers in addition to the existing rapid antigen tests in order to reduce the time spent on quarantine. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced ‘tatkal’ (quick) RT-PCR test results within 24 hours and said several other guidelines were being introduced to ease travel hassles for arriving air passengers. “At present we conduct a rapid antigen test (RAT) of air passengers at the airport on their arrival and if found negative, ask them to spend 10 days in home quarantine. From now, we will conduct both RAT and RT-PCR tests of all passengers on arrival,” Sarma told journalists. “If a passenger pays Rs 2,200 for RT-PCR test, the result will be given within 24 hours and if it comes negative, they don’t have to spend any more time in quarantine. For those who don’t pay the amount, the RT-PCR test results will be given to them within 5 days, during which period, they will have to stay in home quarantine,” he added. In order to reduce the time spent at the airport, after arrival, in filling up forms for Covid-19 tests, the Assam government has launched an app and a website called visitassam.org. Passengers can fill up the forms online even before arrival or can download the forms and fill them after taking a print out. “From now on, persons who have been cured of Covid-19 won’t have to take tests or stay in quarantine on arrival at the airport, provided they are asymptomatic. However, they need to produce their discharge certificate from the hospital or Covid-19 negative report given by ICMR,” Sarma said. Also Read: Assam launches gold scheme for brides from weaker sectionThe minister informed that the Covid-19 scenario in Assam continues to be grim. Till Thursday, the state had recorded 165,582 positive cases, 135,141 recoveries and 608 deaths. The positivity rate in Assam is 7.21%, fatality rate is 0.37% and the recovery rate is 81.6%.“We are recording nearly 2400 new cases daily in September. These days we are witnessing more severe cases among patients and the number of deaths has also increased,” said Sarma. Also Read: Tarun Gogoi stable now; AIIMS doctors also monitor healthThe minister informed that efforts are on to increase ICU beds across the state. He assured that despite the surge in cases, there were adequate number of ICU and isolation beds in government hospitals at present. “We are conducting a mass awareness drive on Covid-19 with 30,000 health workers going house to house and urging people to stay safe and get tested if any symptoms are seen. We are planning to ramp up tests and conduct 1 lakh tests daily on September 28, 29 and 30,” said Sarma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tatkal-rt-pcr-test-for-air-passengers-visiting-assam-to-cut-quarantine-time/story-PrEhciHc19X2Tq3xYQNVrN.html
25-09-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: Protesting farmers disperse from Delhi-Noida border||Around 150 Delhi Police personnel armed with anti-riot equipment such as water cannons, tear gas guns and shells were deployed at Chilla on the Delhi-Noida border on Friday morning in a bid to prevent over 100 agitating farmers from crossing over to the national capital from Greater Noida following nationwide protest call given by various farmer associations against the farm bills passed by Parliament earlier this week. The protests led to traffic disruptions around the border. However, later in the day, Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), (east), Delhi Police, who was present at the Delhi-Noida border to supervise deployment and security arrangements in the national capital, said the farmers dispersed peacefully after 2pm.“Around 100 protesting farmers had blocked both carriageways at the Chilla border around 11.45am. A police arrangement and traffic diversion plan was already in place in anticipation at the border. They dispersed peacefully at 2:20pm. Traffic is normal now at Chilla border,” he said.Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh hereUttar Pradesh (UP) Police authorities spoke with the leaders of the farmers’ groups in Noida, said Alok Kumar, joint commissioner of police (JCP), (eastern range), Delhi Police. The farmers were apprised about the guidelines of Unlock 4, which prohibits any kind of mass gathering or protests across the country, including the national capital, owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “We are also trying to keep a strict vigil on other interstate borders through which the protestors may attempt to sneak in,” said a senior Delhi Police officer on condition of anonymity. The deployment of Delhi Police personnel at Alipur on the Delhi-Haryana border is minimal.Opposition parties and farmers’ organisations are unhappy about the passage of The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 by Parliament earlier this week. The bills are awaiting an assent from President Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-cops-armed-with-anti-riot-gear-deployed-on-delhi-noida-border/story-aJRZHbTTxPnJT8lt8Aqg9L.html
25-09-2020||India||Here’s why farm protests have been loudest in Punjab, Haryana||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have blocked roads and railway tracks on Friday to protest three new legislations, which they claim could pave the way for the government to stop buying grains at federally-fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), leaving them vulnerable to exploitation by agribusinesses. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has backed the bills, recently approved by Parliament, as historic reforms, which will open up agricultural markets, giving more options to farmers other than notified market yards to sell their produce. Modi has said the new legislations do not dismantle existing markets, known to run as cartels, or in any way jeopardise minimum support prices or MSPs for staples such as rice and wheat. These assurances have failed to reassure millions of farmers in Punjab and Haryana. Farmers’ groups fear the new changes could cause existing notified market yards to collapse on their own and result in new markets, where large capitalists will hold sway. This will indeed be undesirable. But the reforms were long overdue because the current system is corruption-prone and monopolistic. Also Read: For the first time laws have been drafted to benefit farmers and marginalised: PM ModiFarm protests have been loudest in states such as Punjab and Haryana, states where the procurement system and MSP mechanism is strong. The MSP mechanism however is neither equitable nor adequate in providing remunerative prices to all types of farmers, say experts. The key determinants of MSP are demand and supply, cost of production, price trends, both domestic and international, terms of trade between agriculture and non-agriculture sectors and a minimum of 50% as the margin over cost of production. Also Read: Haryana farmers block highways and a railway line against farm reform billsHowever, costs of production vary widely from state to state. MSPs are calculated by a methodology based on all India weighted average costs. “This does not necessarily guarantee remunerative prices to all farmers in all regions,” states a 2018 paper by PK Mishra of the international food policy research institute and T Haque, former chairman of NITI Aayog’s land policy cell. Input costs, or the expenses incurred by farmers for inputs, such as fertilisers, have recently risen at a faster pace than the MSPs. From 2004–05 to 2014–15, the average annual growth rate of C2 cost of production of paddy was 11.2% in Bihar and 11.9% in West Bengal, while the MSP of paddy increased only at the rate of 10.6% per year. C2 cost of production is the widest measure of a farmer’s cultivation cost, which includes the imputed rental value of land, depreciation and interests on capital. A big reason why Friday’s farmers protests is being witnessed more in some states, and not others, has to do with where MSPs are implemented. The government’s procurement system and MSP mechanism do not benefit all farmers. While the government announces MSPs for 23 crops, only wheat and rice are bought in sufficiently large quantities. For wheat, the MSP mechanism is robust only in Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. For rice, only farmers from states such as Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Haryana benefit. Farmers in other states hardly benefit from support prices because the government’s procurement infrastructure is missing in these states. The 70th round of National Sample Survey for 2012–13 revealed that only 32.2% of paddy farmers and 39.2% of wheat growers in the country were aware of MSPs. The survey also showed that only 13.5% of paddy farmers actually benefited from MSP, while only 16.2% growers sold their produce to government procurement agencies at MSP prices. For commercial crops, such as cotton and jute, the state intervenes through the Cotton Corporation of India and Jute Corporation of India only when market prices fall steeply. Economist Ramesh Chand, member Niti Aayog, argued in a 2012 paper that it is “not feasible for public agencies to procure the marketed surplus of each and every commodity everywhere in the country to prevent prices falling below a floor level; nor would this be desirable … So, new mechanisms have to be devised to protect producers against the prices falling below the threshold level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/here-s-why-farm-protests-have-been-loudest-in-punjab-haryana/story-G18qzwYWo7UuvrFmb06xuK.html
25-09-2020||India||Bhartiya Kisan Union members block roads near Delhi-Noida border in protest against farm bills; police deployed||Members of Bhartiya Kisan Union blocked roads near the Delhi-Noida border on Friday in protest against the contentious farm bills, passed by Parliament during the monsoon session.In a precautionary measure, police are deployed around the border. Traffic was also diverted to prevent any inconvenience to people, said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Noida.Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have announced a nationwide bandh on Friday in protest against the farm bills --the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill.Over two dozens farmers’ organizations from all across the country have joined hands for the nationwide shutdown. Farmers’ bodies from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have also called for a strike.As many as 18 political parties have extended their support to the protests.The legislations were passed amid staunch criticism from various farmers’ bodies and Opposition parties. The agitating farmers fear that these reforms will lead to the end of the “Mandi system” and are only in the “interest of big corporates”.However, the government has assured that these bills are in favour of farmers and that systems of the minimum selling price (MSP) and government procurement will continue unhindered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhartiya-kisan-union-members-block-roads-near-delhi-noida-border-in-protest-against-farm-bills-police-deployed/story-dKU9tSTfZDDATkVTCp1S2L.html
25-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: For the first time laws have been drafted to benefit farmers, marginalised, says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.For the first time laws have been drafted to benefit farmers and marginalised: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that for the first time in decades, the Union government has framed laws that benefit farmers, workers, women and other marginalised sections. Read morePakistan cracks down on 49 scribes, journalists’ body vows protestsA leading Pakistani journalist has revealed that the country’s Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) has registered cases against 49 mediapersons and social media activists under the Prevention of Electronic Crimes Act (PECA). Read moreDean Jones: The man who set a bold ODI templateFormer Australia batting stalwart Dean Jones died in Mumbai on Thursday after suffering a cardiac arrest in his hotel room while on IPL commentary duty, leaving the cricket world in shock.  Read moreAnushka Sharma’s ‘I drink coffee’ response trends again after Sunil Gavaskar’s controversial comment on her, Virat KohliActor Anushka Sharma was trending again a day after legendary cricketer Sunil Gavaskar made an unsavoury comment involving her. Read moreMen and mascara: Make-up for men sees rise amid pandemicThere is a sudden upsurge in the male beauty and grooming industry amid the pandemic with a lot of male beauty bloggers sharing their makeup tricks and tips, thereby bringing in a revolution in the male beauty segment. Read moreRare Blue Moon will grace the sky on Halloween night. What makes it special?If you are someone who loves various celestial events and often find yourself gazing at the sky, then the month of October has something amazing to offer. Read morePakistan cracks down on 49 scribes, journalists’ body vows protestsA leading Pakistani journalist has revealed that the country’s Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) has registered cases against 49 mediapersons and social media activists under the Prevention of Electronic Crimes Act (PECA). Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-for-the-first-time-laws-have-been-drafted-to-benefit-farmers-marginalised-says-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-bB6wAkaiE5kmEFXPdSLMqN.html
25-09-2020||India||For the first time laws have been drafted to benefit farmers and marginalised: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that for the first time in decades, the Union government has framed laws that benefit farmers, workers, women and other marginalised sections. In the backdrop of protests from a section of farmers and the Opposition parties’ criticism of the recently passed farm bills, PM Modi lashed out at the Opposition for “misleading” the farmers. “Many governments were formed after promising betterment of farmers and workers. But what did they get—nothing; just a web of promises that neither the farmers understood nor the workers. The farmers were entwined in laws that prevented them from selling their produce at prices that they wanted; consequently, even though the produce went up their income did not go up,” he said. Addressing party workers on the 104th birth anniversary of Hindutva ideologue and leader of Bharatiya Jana Sangh (BJS), the BJP’s forerunner Deendayal Upadhyay, the PM said that over the years the farmers’ burden of loans kept increasing . Also Read: Cong terms farm bills ‘unconstitutional’“The NDA government made relentless efforts to change this. We have taken well thought-out decisions that are not for any political benefit (to us) but for the empowerment and benefit of the farmers. Earlier we decided to give MSP, which was one and a half times the cost of production and created history,” he said. After the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 were passed in Parliament nearly a week ago, the Opposition parties criticised the government for drafting policies that favour the big companies. The bills would allow farmers to sell produce outside agricultural produce market committees (APMCs), allow contract farming agreements, and create farm-to-fork supply chains. Opposition parties have alleged that the new laws will limit APMC markets to their physical boundaries while allowing corporate buyers to land up at farms. The PM slammed these accusations, called them “misleading” and said the government has made efforts to ensure that the farmers are directly provided the benefits via direct transfer. “We have also ensured that Kisan credit card (KCC) should made available not only to those with 2 hectares of land, but even small and marginal farmers and those engaged in fisheries or animal rearing. During UPA’s time, Rs 20 lakh core was given through the KCC to farmers, this was increased to 35 lakh crore during the NDA rule,” he said. Also Read: Stir to intensify as farm groups come togetherHe said the new legislation will allow farmers to get the correct price for their produce. “The small and marginal farmers are the ones who will benefit the most from the changes that have been implemented in the farm and agriculture sector. Eighty-five out of 100 of them are from the small and marginal sections. For the first time they have an alternative option to sell their produce,” the PM said. He urged BJP workers to talk about the provisions of these laws in simple language and tell the farmers across the country what the laws are all about. Referring to the new labour codes, the PM said the laws have been simplified and these will ensure that 50 crore labourers will get minimum wages whether are there in the formal sector or the informal sector. “Only 30% of the workers till now were getting minimum wage; now every industry from the hotel industry to transport will be brought under the ambit of the laws. Concerns of contract labour have also been addressed, they will be treated as regular workers and paid accordingly and will get the benefits of other policies as well. Those who travel from one state to another for work, their health care and other needs will also be taken care of,” the PM said. All BJP Karyakartas should reach out to the farmers on the ground and inform them in very simplified language about the importance and intricacies of the new farm reforms, how these will empower them. Our ground connect will bust the propaganda being spread in the virtual world. pic.twitter.com/LuofRKzL5dThe Prime Minister said the new laws will impact women who make up for 50% of the workforce. Referring to the benefits of caste-based reservation and the 10% reservation that has been extended to the economically backward sections, he said a level playing field has been created for all. “Our ideology and a political mantra are clear. Our mantra is nation first,” he said, and referred to the accomplishments such as the abrogation of Article 370 application and the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya that were achieved after “decades of struggle”. The PM also praised the efforts of the BJP workers in fighting the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and paid tribute to those who lost their lives while serving others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-the-first-time-laws-have-been-drafted-to-benefit-farmers-and-marginalised-pm-modi/story-yJnbjSAkJcNShz6qWH9dfI.html
25-09-2020||India||Haryana farmers block highways and a railway line against farm reform bills||Farmers and ahrtia associations in Haryana have blocked several road highways and at least one railway track in the northern parts of the state to implement the nationwide shutdown call given by a group of farmers’ organisations against the three farm reform bills passed in the Parliament during the recently concluded Monsoon session.The protesting farmers sat on dharnas, blocking traffic movement on highways by parking their tractor-trailers and cars on roads in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Karnal, and Kaithal districts. Karnal-Ladwa-Yamunanagar highway near Ladwa town, Karnal-Assandh-Jind road near Jalmaba Village of Karnal, Shahbad-Saha road near Shahbad, Yamunangar-Kurukshetra road near Radaur of Yamunangagar district had been blocked.The farmers associated with Bharatiya Kisan Union or BKU, (Charuni), have also blocked the Ambala-Yamunanagar-Saharanpur railway track near Sudhal village of Yamunanagar district. In the morning, there was no major impact in the cities as the shops and the markets remained opened but later, farmers carrying black flags were seen in several cities, requesting the shopkeepers and trade unions to shut down in support of the Bharat Bandh Call by closing their shops from 10am to 4pm. Also Read: Bharat Bandh: List of trains cancelled, highways blockedMost of the grain markets are also closed and there is no procurement of paddy in the mandis as the commission agents have also extended their support to the protests.While a heavy deployment of the police force has been made, they were not seen stopping the farmers from blocking the roads. The cops were instead seen managing the traffic by diverting it to the link roads. Also Read: Congress-ruled Punjab at standstill till 4pm in support of farmers’ bandh call The members of BKU (Charuni) have blocked the railway track near Yamunanagar, disrupting the movement of rails. The farmers were also taking out protest rallies on tractors, cars and bikes. BKU state president Gurnam Singh Charuni is visiting several districts and addressing farmers, encouraging them to support the agitation to force the central government to withdraw the agriculture reform bills.Around 17 farmer and ahrtia associations are supporting the bandh including BKU, All India Farmers Union (AIFU), All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), All India Kisan Mahasangh (AIKM). In Ambala, the traffic coming from Delhi side and going towards Patiala or Chandigarh has been diverted. Police presence at the borders, connecting Ambala with Patiala (Shambhu border) and Chandigarh (Sadopur), has been increased to manage traffic, IG Ambala Y Puran Kumar said. “Borders have not been sealed but we are only diverting traffic due to protests near Patiala and near Dera Bassi. As of now, there has been no reports of any protesting group going towards Delhi today,” IG Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-farmers-block-highways-and-a-railway-line-against-farm-reform-bills/story-kcAWxXdAzHMJ2rOpbkFbGL.html
25-09-2020||India||Tension in 3 Chhattisgarh villages over conflict between 2 groups: Police||Three Chhattisgarh villages in Kondagaon district of Bastar division are tense after some villagers allegedly threatened and ransacked houses of some families living in these villages over Tuesday and Wednesday over a dispute, said police.Police have not registered a case till now and are conducting preliminary investigations to ascertain the details of the case after a complaint over the incidents was filed by Chhattisgarh Christian forum.District police have said that the incidents were triggered over the issue of forest land encroachment between two groups in Kakadabeda, Singanpur and Silati villages.The forum, however, claims that a group of villagers was pressuring some Christian families to either convert or lose the benefits availed by the scheduled tribes (STs) in the state.Arun Pannalal, president of the Christian forum claimed that some affected families ran away from the villages and reached Raipur. He further alleged that their houses were ransacked in the presence of police. “I have also demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each for the victim families, immediate registration of FIR and a high level enquiry into the matter by a retired judge of the HC or a district court,” said Pannalal. Kondagaon superintendent of police (SP) Siddharth Tiwari rubbished the claims and said the conflict was not about two communities but was rooted into land encroachment issues. He added that police weren’t present during the incidents as had been claimed by the forum. Also Read: Activist Sudha Bharadwaj seeks bail on medical grounds, SC advises this“The issue is of forest land encroachment and not Christianity versus tribals. The situation is under control and peaceful. We are still talking to both groups and police personnel have been deployed in the district,” said Tiwari. Meanwhile, IG Bastar, Sunderaj P, in a statement said, “In five villages of Kondagaon District namely Karkabeda, Singhanpuri, Tiliyabeda, Silati and Jondrabeda, there are a few families following Christianity faith since last 5 to 6 years. The tribal community in these villages have a problem with these families not following local customs/festivals.” He said that the “situation” has led to “some tension” in these villages before adding that the affected villages were “peaceful” at present and police force has been deployed to prevent any untoward incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-in-3-chhattisgarh-villages-over-conflict-between-2-groups-police/story-9Ca6PgYlRwbCu81tiaXdSI.html
25-09-2020||India||‘PM Modi is my son’: says Shaheen Bagh’s ‘Bilkis Dadi’ named in TIME’s most influential people||Bilkis Bano, the 82-year-old who earned the moniker “Dadi of Shaheen Bagh” during the long protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in the national capital has now been named among the 100-most influential global personalities by Time magazine.“I am very happy that I was honoured in this manner. Although I did not expect this.” said the grandmother speaking to ANI after the recognition.Along with Bilkis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, actor Ayushman Khurrana, biologist Ravindra Gupta and Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai were on the list of ‘100 Most Influential People of 2020’ that was released on Wednesday and features pioneers, artists, leaders, icons and titans who have had the most impact in 2020.“I have read only the Quran Sharif and I have never been to school but today I feel excited and happy. I congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi for also being included in this list. He is also my son. So what if I did not give birth to him, my sister has given birth to him. I pray for his long life and happiness,” Bilkis Bano said.Bilkis Dadi, who along with two other grandmothers emerged as the face of NRC-CAA protest, hails from Hapur, Uttar Pradesh. Her husband died about eleven years ago and she currently lives in Shaheen Bagh with her daughters-in-law and grandchildren.On being asked about India’s fight against Covid-19, she said: “Our first fight is against coronavirus. The disease should be eliminated from the world.”The family of Bilkis Dadi also expressed their excitement on her being recognised among the world’s most influential people including Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-is-my-son-says-shaheen-bagh-s-bilkis-dadi-named-in-time-s-most-influential-people/story-qvyoSNAfSQkx0KfRD4nTgN.html
25-09-2020||India||Two Lashkar terrorists killed after a night-long encounter in J-K||Two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists were killed after a night long encounter in Sirhama area in Bijbhera in Kashmir division of Jammu and Kashmir, said police.On Thursday evening, J&K police, army and the CRPF launched a joint operation in Sirhama village after receiving specific inputs about the presence of terrorists.The operation continued throughout the night and in the morning two terrorists were killed. Police spokesman said the killed terrorists were affiliated with Lashkar. A search operation is still underway to find the remaining terrorists.One of the killed terrorists has been identified as Irfan-ul-Haq Dar of village Gadikhal Charsoo, Awantipora.As per the police records, Haq had a long history of criminal involvement. He was involved in a grenade lobbing incident on Awantipora police station in April 2019, for which, a case vide FIR No. 54/2019 under relevant sections of law was registered. He was arrested later and subsequently sent to Kot Balwal Jail in Jammu. Also Read: Kashmiri lawyer shot dead in Srinagar by unidentified gunmenPolice spokesman said that after his release in April 2020, Irfan-ul-Haq was secretly involved in terror activities which included Al-Badr related recruitment in Awantipora and Tral areas. He was an important motivator and influenced young minds into joining terror ranks in Awantipora/Tral areas.On Thursday, a local Albadr terrorist was killed in an encounter at Machama Tral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-lashkar-terrorists-killed-after-a-night-long-encounter-in-j-k/story-9yMfPkbI3bTHFhQ87f3dPO.html
25-09-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: List of trains cancelled, highways blocked||Punjab and Haryana are likely to witness a complete shutdown as farmers have taken to the streets on Friday, protesting the passage of the contentious bills in Parliament. The Firozpur Railway Division has cancelled 14 trains keeping in mind the ongoing protest. While A three-day ‘rail roko’ in Punjab began on Thursday, a total of 31 farmers’ organisations have called for Bharat Bandh across the country today.List of trains cancelledAmritsar-Haridwar train New Delhi-Jammu Tawi ExpressTrain Number 00466 Amritsar-Guwahati partially cancelled between Amritsar- Saharanpur on 25 September 2020Train Number 00902 Jammu Tawi- Bandra Terminus partially cancelled between Jammu Tawi-Delhi on 24 and 26 September 2020Train number 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central Golden Temple Mail partially cancelled between Amritsar – Ambala Cantt from 25 to 27 September 2020Train Number 02408 Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri Karambhoomi Superfast partially cancelled between Amritsar-Ambala Cantt on 25 September 2020Train Number 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar partially cancelled between Ambala Cantt -Amtitsar up to 25 September 2020Train Number 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus partially cancelled between Amritsar- Ambala Cantt on 25 and 26 September 2020Train Number 02715 Nanded-Amritsar Sachkhand Express partially cancelled between New Delhi- Amritsar up to 25 September 2020Train Number 02716 Amritsar – Nanded Sachkhand Express partially cancelled between Amritsar-New Delhi on 25 and 26 September 2020Train Number 04673 Jayanagar -Amritsar Shaheed Express partially cancelled between Ambala Cantt- Amritsar up to 24 September 2020Train Number 04674 Amritsar -Jayanagar Shaheed Express partially cancelled Amritsar-Ambala Cantt on 25 September 2020Train Number 04649 Jaynagar -Amritsar Saryu Yamuna Express partially cancelled between Ambala Cantt- Amritsar on 25 September 2020Train Number 04650 Amritsar -Jaynagar Saryu Yamuna Express partially cancelled between Amritsar- Ambala Cantt on 26 September 2020Train Number 03308 Firozpur-Dhanbad partially cancelled between Amritsar- Ambala Cantt from 24 to 26 September 2020Train Number 05933 Dibrugarh-Amritsar partially cancelled between Ambala Cantt- Amritsar on 25 September 2020Train Number 04653 New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar Karambhoomi SF partially cancelled between Saharanpur- Amritsar on 25 September 2020Train Number 04651 Jaynagar – Amritsar Humsafar Express partially cancelled between Delhi- Amritsar on 25 September 2020Train Number 04652 Amritsar- Jaynagar Express partially cancelled between Delhi-Amritsar on 27 September 2020List of highways where protests are going onAmritsar-Delhi National HighwayAyodhya-Lucknow HighwayDelhi- Pauri highwayKarnataka-Tamil Nadu highwayChandigarh police is on high alert as agitating farmers are likely to enter the Union Territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-list-of-trains-cancelled-highways-blocked/story-bpQXJ5zQKt4c8PPP2jesqK.html
25-09-2020||India||2 LeT terrorists killed in encounter in J-K’s Anantnag district||Two Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) terrorists were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir.“Two LeT terrorists have been killed. Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, has been recovered. Search is going on. More details are awaited,” Kashmir Zone Police said.Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Anantnag district’s Sirhama area after receiving a tip-off about the presence of terrorists there. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the forces, who retaliated, police said.“A tight cordon was maintained throughout the night to stop the militants from escaping,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-let-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-j-k-s-anantnag-district/story-1cpaNBjNSwXEr7b30rC8HJ.html
25-09-2020||India||Samajwadi Party to protest in UP against farm and labour reform laws||Samajwadi Party (SP) on Friday would hold simultaneous demonstrations in Uttar Pradesh against alleged anti-farmer and anti-labourer laws supported by BJP governments at the state and centre to coincide with the nationwide protest call-- by a coalition of farmers’ organisations-- against the three farm reform bills passed by the Parliament in the Monsoon session.In a statement issued on Thursday evening, the party said that on the instruction of the party’s national president Akhilesh Yadav, the party cadre in all districts would submit a memorandum against the “anti-farmer”, “anti-labourer” laws passed by the government on Friday, while maintaining social distancing. The memorandum will be addressed to the governor of the state. “The bills passed by the BJP government have ignored the interests of farmers and labourers and would make the former lose ownership of land and become labourers in their own farms. Agriculture mandis will be wiped out and farmers would be forced to sell their produce at lesser prices because of uncertain MSP or minimum support price offered by the government.Live: Latest updates on farmers’ protestsThe party further claimed that the removal of wheat and paddy from the Essential Commodities Act would force farmers to sell these grains to business houses and grain traders, at the prices dictated by these enterprises.“But the SP won’t let the farmers be suppressed and will raise its voice,” the statement said. Also Read: Bharat bandh call over farm reform bills: UP police put on alertTaking about labour laws, the statement said that the new laws would badly affect workers and labourers. Till now, an industry with 100 employees had no provision to retrench staff without government permission while the new law would give the right to industries, with even 300 employees, to retrench whenever they wanted.The party said that this would lead to insecurity among workers and encourage their exploitation.The central government has, however, said that the reforms are meant to allow farmers greater freedom in selling produce and the MSP regime was not going away. It has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-to-protest-in-up-against-farm-and-labour-reform-laws/story-xOdB8Eiwd35fP1DKIbv0jP.html
25-09-2020||India||Covid-19 fear kept one in two TB patients in India from seeking care: Report||As high as 51% of tuberculosis (TB) patients surveyed in India said that they were less likely to seek care during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic because they feared contracting the viral infection, according to the Global Coalition of TB Activists (GCTA) report—Impact of COVID-19 on the TB Epidemic: A Community Perspective—released in India on Thursday.About 37% of patients being treated for TB said that they were not receiving enough non-medical support, and as high as 85% of health care workers, policy and programme officers said there was a significant decrease in TB testing in the country during the nationwide lockdown due to the pandemic.The report is based on a survey of five stakeholder groups—frontline health care workers, policy and programme officers, TB researchers, TB survivors or TB advocates, and people currently on treatment for TB—to measure the impact of Covid-19 on the tuberculosis (TB) programme.At least 1,000 people from 89 countries around the world participated, including 132 from India, by sharing their observations and experiences about resource availability and constraints, as well as challenges and opportunities.According to the survey report, about 80% of health care workers said that the number of people coming to their health facilities for TB testing had decreased significantly during the lockdown, largely due to fear of contracting the infection.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know today“Patients are scared to come for follow-ups due to the risk of being punished by authorities for presenting late and they’re also unable to get opinions and services of allied specialists like Ophthalmologists,” the report says.It adds that several TB testing machines have also been diverted to test samples for Covid-19 as part of government’s efforts to scale up Covid-19 testing to test, track and treat those infected.Not just the treatment, TB-related research work has also been greatly affected during this pandemic, with 75% of TB researchers agreeing that they did not have the necessary resources to do so.“We have to protect existing TB resources, otherwise I’m super concerned that next year we would be dealing with stock outs of everything to do with TB. TB medicine, TB tests, TB vaccines, even sputum cups may not be available for us,” said Dr Madhukar Pai, director, McGill TB Centre, professor and Canada Research Chair, Epidemiology and Global Health McGill University, in the report.Also Read: Overcrowding on Mumbai local an unusual occurrence amid Covid-19 outbreak, says Western Railway“The Covid-19 pandemic has created new challenges at all levels of care and treatment and we must look at these as opportunities. The biggest change can only stem from the biggest canvas. We are committed to working with communities and ensuring competent care for all,” said Dr KS Sachdeva, deputy director general, central TB division, Union health and family welfare ministry.The India launch of the report is part of a broader global survey report that was released earlier this month on September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-fear-kept-one-in-two-tb-patients-in-india-from-seeking-care-report/story-2ZWFOEVkMU6Gw1kN5NWUIJ.html
25-09-2020||India||Oil palm push in the northeast may impact biodiversity, water table, say experts||The Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry has informed Parliament on September 21 that the area under oil palm cultivation has increased from 3 lakh hectares (ha) in 2015-16 to 3.57 lakh ha in 2019-20 and edible oil production has also gone up from 8.63 million tonnes in 2015-16 to 10.53 million tonnes in 2019-20.The Centre is trying to increase the cultivation of oil seeds and oil palm that would augment the edible oil production in the country and also benefit the farming community, the reply stated.The government’s initiative is part of the National Food Security Mission (NFSM). Also read: Productive but divisive monsoon session endsThe increase in the area under palm oil cultivation has worried agriculture and environmental experts. The concern comes following the plans of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) to make an expansion of oil palm forestry easier in line with its upcoming policy.MoEFCC officials said increasing area under oil palm cultivation would contribute to a rise in forest cover. The definition of forest considered by the Forest Survey of India (FSI) is all lands having trees more than one ha in an area with tree canopy density of more than 10% irrespective of ownership, legal status of land and species composition of trees, including orchards, palms etc.“The forest policy has been finalised. Our focus is trees outside forests because it will help us achieve our nationally determined contribution (NDC) under the 2016 Paris Agreement, which is within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), dealing with greenhouse-gas-emissions mitigation, adaptation, and finance. Besides oil palm plantations, other agro-forestry projects, avenue plantations, community forests etc will be promoted in line with the new policy. The policy is awaiting the Union Cabinet’s nod,” said an MOEFCC official on condition of anonymity.One of the country’s NDCs is to create three billion tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) by increasing forest and tree cover by 2030.“Monoculture of any kind is damaging for biodiversity. Moreover, oil palm is an extremely water- intensive crop, which will impact groundwater availability. The north-east is a biodiversity rich area, which is still largely intact. Why are we planting oil palm in the north-east? We should be careful even when we are bringing large areas under oil palm cultivation in the plains. Intercropping should be considered, instead of monoculture,” said GV Ramanjaneyulu, executive director, Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Telangana.“The land ceiling law doesn’t apply to plantations. As a result, getting more area under oil palm cultivation is easier. This will lead to a change of land use and ownership. Oil palm is high yielding, but it has a range of concerns as well,” he added.The government has also placed import of refined palm oil in the “restricted” category from January 8, which is likely to boost the consumption of domestically produced edible oil. In reply to a question in the Lok Sabha last year, the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare had said its emphasis was on the north-eastern states to increase their area under the oil palm cultivation.The funding pattern of the Centre’s oil palm scheme, which was 50:50% share with state government in 2014-15, has been revised to 90:10% share in case of the north-eastern states from 2015-16. Around 37,176 ha have been covered under oil palm cultivation in Mizoram, Assam, Nagaland, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh, according to the reply last year. Andhra Pradesh (AP) has the highest area under oil palm cultivation in the country at 1,73,349 ha.Mizoram, which has the largest area under oil palm cultivation in the north-east, is facing environmental and socio-economic impacts of these plantations.“Large scale oil palm plantations not only impact biodiversity and wildlife but also land rights, food security, water table and social structure of the community. We have studied how oil palm impacts biodiversity, particularly forest birds. Oil palm plantations had the lowest forest bird species richness, as compared to both teak plantations and jhum cultivation. Oil palm plantations replace diverse forest growth in many places. This is mainly because of the lack of zones in the oil palm policy. Oil palms are grown on the edge of the Dampa Tiger Reserve, along streams, and have even replaced rice fields in many valleys,” said TR Shankar Raman, a scientist at Nature Conservation Foundation, a non-governmental wildlife conservation and research organisation based in Mysuru, Karnataka.“Oil palm is an extremely water-dependent crop. In Mizoram, water is being diverted from streams to oil palm plantations, which is likely to impact the water table and local residents, who are dependent on various water sources. It may also impact food security because oil palm is replacing cultivation plots where around 25 different varieties of crops such as rice, tubers, vegetables, and bamboo shoots are grown. In Mizoram, the land, where oil palm is cultivated in each district, is apportioned to particular companies as if they were captive districts. Change in land ownership from community lands to private ownership is a cause for concern,” he added.According to a paper by TR Shankar Raman and Jaydev Mandal, which was published in May 2016, oil palm plantations had the lowest forest bird species richness (10 species), followed by teak plantations (38). While jhum (50) plantation had lower species richness than the rainforest (58). Forest bird abundance in the jhum landscape was similar to that in a rainforest, on average 304% higher than in oil palm plantations, the study found. Purabi Bose, deputy coordinator on gender at International Union of Forest Research Organisations, a non-profit, non-governmental international network of forest scientists, headquartered in Vienna, Austria, wrote in her paper in Elsevier’s Land Use Policy journal, published in February 2019, that an increase in oil palm plantation has impacted gender roles in Mizoram, where women’s roles became “submissive”, as compared to their contribution in jhum cultivation.Women’s land-use decision-making roles have been curbed and land use change from shifting cultivation to oil palm has impacted customary land management practices, she had cited in her paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-palm-push-in-the-northeast-may-impact-biodiversity-water-table-say-experts/story-8QwpafRXqKOmglfHeL7HDK.html
25-09-2020||India||Rakul Preet Singh arrives at NCB office to record statement in drugs case||Actor Rakul Preet Singh has arrived at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office after the agency summoned her in connection with the investigation into the drug angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.The NCB has widened its investigation and asked some ‘A-list’ celebrities of the Mumbai film industry, to “join the probe”, an official said on Wednesday.Deepika Padukone is expected to be questioned on Saturday after having acknowledged the summons sent to her on Thursday, NCB officials said.The agency on Wednesday summoned actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh, among others, for questioning. Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi was also questioned.The NCB is one of the three central agencies investigating a case in connection with Rajput’s death. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing Rajput’s death, while Enforcement Directorate (ED) is investigating money laundering allegations made by the Rajput’s family against actor Rhea Chakraborty, who has been arrested in the drugs case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakul-preet-singh-arrives-at-ncb-office-to-record-statement-in-drug-probe-in-connection-with-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case/story-9CK6NNu8Xrf86fDwF6DP2K.html
25-09-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: Punjab, Maharashtra, UP among states to be affected by farmers’ unions strike||Famers’ unions across the nation have called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ in view of the passage of contentious farm bills in Parliament. Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Trinamool Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal are among the 18 Opposition parties in support of the call for nationwide shutdown.Also read: Nationwide farmers’ strike today, rail, road transport to be affected. All you need to knowBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), All India Farmers Union (AIFU), All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) and All India Kisan Mahasangh (AIKM) are among the ten unions that have called for the shutdown.While Delhi-Haryana border is likely to be sealed, a three-hour road blockade will be observed across Punjab from 11am to 2pm. Here is a look at the list of states that are likely to be affected by the protests:HaryanaPunjabMaharashtraUttar PradeshMadhya PradeshKarnatakaChhattisgarhWest BengalUttarakhandAlso read: Stir across ‘food bowl’ today over farm lawsFarmers have been protesting for weeks in these states by blocking road and rail traffic and hampering supply of essential goods. “Nothing will work in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh on Friday,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union president Rakesh Takait. The three farm bills passed by Parliament are: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance; and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-punjab-maharashtra-up-among-states-to-be-affected-by-farmers-unions-strike/story-VWuYETkPwt0NuWMERNzDXL.html
25-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally nears 5.9 mn; 86,052 new cases recorded in last 24 hrs||India registered 86,052 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally near 5.9 million. The active cases have climbed to 9,70,116 whereas over 4.75 million have recovered so far.For the past six days, the numbers of recoveries logged per day in the country have been exceeding the number of fresh cases. But in the last 24 hours, the number of recoveries stood at 81,177. The health ministry on Friday said that 75 per cent of new cases of coronavirus in the country are concentrated in 10 states and Union Territories (UTs) so as 74 per cent of new recoveries. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe ministry also pointed out that a minimum of 14 states demonstrated better Covid-19 response on the basis of higher tests per million population and corresponding lower positivity rate than the national average.A total of 68,928,440 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far out of which nearly 1.5 million samples were tested on Thursday, as per data released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Also read: DNA link behind severe Covid-19 may lead to a new treatmentMeanwhile, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Kerala, Delhi are some of the states that continue to be worst-hit from the pandemic. Delhi is at the peak of the second Covid-19 wave with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal saying that its intensity will be less in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-tally-nears-5-9-mn-86-052-new-cases-recorded-in-last-24-hrs/story-VGgRMoEdMxnaAeEdJ9ALYN.html
25-09-2020||India||Northern Railway cancels some trains due to farmers’ agitation in Punjab||Keeping in view the farmers’ agitation in Punjab against agriculture bills, some trains operated by Northern Railway will remain cancelled or partially cancelled, as per Deepak Kumar, Chief Public Relation Officers (CPRO) of the zone.The 04652 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express has been cancelled on September 25. Consequently, the 04651 Jaynagar-Amritsar Express will also remain cancelled on September 27.The 02058/02057 New Delhi - Una Himachal special train journey commencing on September 25 will be short terminated at/short originate from Chandigarh.The 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central Special train journey commencing on September 24, 25 and 26 will short originate from Ambala instead of journey commencing on September 25, 26 and 27.During the recently concluded monsoon session of Parliament, the two Houses passed Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.A bill to amend the Essential Commodities Act was also passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northern-railway-cancels-some-trains-due-to-farmers-agitation-in-punjab/story-pe7574wn79736dFVhbRHWI.html
25-09-2020||India||Regional connectivity: Two new airlines in final stages of certification by DGCA||Two new air operators are in the final stages of certification by aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and once that’s done, they may foray in the regional airlines space. With the government putting focus on regional connectivity scheme (RCS) under its Udey Desh ka Aam Naagarik (UDAN) scheme, the two operators are also likely to fly on regional routes only. Also read: No refund on lockdown flights originating outside India, Centre clarifiesTop ministry sources told HT that these two airlines are Indian airlines and are expected to be able to commence their operations soon. A senior ministry official said, “Two scheduled commuter airlines, Big Charter and Aviation Connectivity, are in the final certification stage.”The official also said, “These airlines are eyeing the RCS routes.”An Airports Authority of India (AAI) official said that except Bengaluru-based Star Air that commenced its operations in January last year, currently no airline in service has dedicated UDAN operations. Director general of DGCA, Arun Kumar, confirmed that they have given flying permissions to two airlines. When asked if DGCA had received more applications for commencement of new airlines which was pending for approvals, Kumar said, “No application is pending with DGCA for starting new airlines.”Industry sources confirmed to HT that, apart from other small aircraft, the airlines are to use ATR 72 aircraft for their flight operations.With an aim to make air travel affordable and connect tier II and tier III cities, UDAN was announced in October 2016 and the first flight under this scheme took off in April 2017. Since then, 271 routes have commenced their UDAN flight operations. The aviation ministry has recently sanctioned Rs 108 crore under UDAN for upgrade of three Chhattisgarh airports. Early this week, it also identified 78 new routes and approved under the first phase of UDAN 4.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-new-airlines-set-to-take-off-in-indian-skies-soon/story-SRLTbL4wzG1H28v6tLpW3J.html
25-09-2020||India||Kangana versus BMC: The case so far||The Bombay High Court will hear Kangana Ranaut’s petition against the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation for demolishing portions of her bungalow on Friday, a day after the court observed that this case can’t be delayed further as the Bollywood actor’s office can’t be left in the present demolished condition.The actor thanked the court for pulling up the civic authorities. “My heart is healed,” she wrote.Here is how the case shaped up since September 9.* On September 9, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation razed a portion of actor Kangana Ranaut’s office. The actor, who was engaged in a verbal fight with Shiv Sena over her Twitter posts, moved the Bombay High Court against the civic body.* The high court put a stay on the demolition work and noted that the allegedly illegal construction could not have come up overnight.* The BMC, in its affidavit, accused Kangana of making “illegal alterations” to her office structure. The civic body said it followed a Supreme Court judgment, which empowered the civic body to demolish any illegal construction after serving a 24-hour notice.* Civic officials claimed Kangana was served a notice in 2018 as well. The actor appealed against the notice and lost. *Kangana’s lawyer sought some time from the court and submitted an amended petition in which the actor demanded a compensation of Rs 2 crore from the BMC as 40 per cent of the bungalow have been razed which could cause severe damage to movable properties.* BMC said that the actor’s claims were false as “only the illegal and unauthorised portion of the bungalow was demolished” and hence she could not seek compensation for it. * The court asked Kangana to make Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and a designated officer from BMC H-West ward parties to the case. This was because Kangana submitted a DVD of statements made by Raut.* “Case by an actress in honourable high court is about demolition of illegal structure by BMC which is an independent body and demand is to make Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut a party! From Babri case to standing for Maratha price, I have faced several cases! This would not deter me from fighting for the pride of my city and my Maharashtra,” Sanjay Raut tweeted. * On September 24, the court said the hearing in the case cannot be delayed as the bungalow should not be left in partially demolished state during the monsoon season. “Since 40 per cent of the Petitioner’s Bungalow is already demolished on 9th September, 2020 and the Bungalow continues to stand in partially demolished condition, it is likely that some mishap may be caused due to the heavy rainfall in Mumbai. It is therefore necessary to hear the matter at the earliest,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-versus-bmc-the-case-so-far/story-pIae5H45LMTwGxSkAk03jL.html
25-09-2020||India||NMC to function as top medical education regulator operational from today||The National Medical Commission (NMC), a new body, will function as the country’s top regulator of medical education from Friday, a day after the Centre dissolved the Board of Governors—Medical Council of India (BoG-MCI) through a gazette notification.The setting up of NMC was a government move to bring reforms in the medical education sector, especially aimed at replacing the MCI, which was tainted by corruption.The government had dissolved the MCI in 2018 following the corruption charges and replaced it with a BoG, which was chaired by Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog. Also Read: Homeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 passed in Rajya SabhaThe body was functioning under the Indian Medical Council (IMC) Act, 1956. “The BoG-MCI has been dissolved and the NMC replaced it with effect from Friday,” said Dr Paul.The IMC Act stands repealed, and has been replaced by The NMC Act that came into existence on August 8, 2019.“Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956) is hereby repealed with effect from September 25. The BoG appointed under section 3A of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956) in supersession of the MCI constituted under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the said Act shall stand dissolved,” stated the gazette notification issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW).Professor Suresh Chandra Sharma, former head of the ear nose throat (ENT) department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, has been appointed as the chairman of the NMC.Also Read: Parliament monsoon session: LS passes Homoeopathy and Indian systems of medicine billsDr Sharma had retired from AIIMS in January and was selected by a seven-member search committee for the post from 300-odd applications received from across the country. He was also one of the five short-listed candidates for the post of director, AIIMS, New Delhi, after the then director, Dr MC Misra, had retired in 2017.Dr Rakesh Kumar Vats, secretary general, BoG-MCI, has been appointed as the secretary of the NMC by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC).The NMC will have four separate autonomous boards: under-graduate medical education, post-graduate medical education, medical assessment and rating and ethics and medical registration.The common final year Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) examination will now be known as the National Exit Test (NEXT), according to the new medical education structure under the NMC. NEXT will act as licentiate examination to practice medicine, the criteria for admission to post -graduate (PG) medical courses, and also for screening of foreign medical graduates.Besides, the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET), NEXT will also be applicable to institutes of national importance such as all the AIIMS in a bid to ensure a common standard in the medical education sector in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nmc-to-function-as-top-medical-education-regulator-operational-from-today/story-UqhM1DbAI6oEKaYyt09xrN.html
25-09-2020||India||PM Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ an important initiative, says IMF||The International Monetary Fund on Thursday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’ call for a self-reliant India, i.e. ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is an important initiative.As per news agency PTI, Gerry Rice, director-communications department at IMF told reporters that the economic package announced under this self-reliant initiative announced in the aftermath of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic has supported Indian economy and mitigated significant downside risks.“To achieve the stated ‘Make For The World’ goal in India, the priority is to remain focussed on policies that can help further integrate India in the global value chain, including through trade, investment and technology,” Rice added.Responding to a question on PM Modi’s call for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, Rice said, “Looking ahead, as the prime minister has said, for India to play a more important part in the global economy, pursuing policies that stimulate by improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy is critical.’’He also pointed out that in order to achieve ‘Make For The World’ goal in India, the priority is to be focused on policies that can help India to integrate further in the global value chain including channels such as trade, investment and technology.The IMF’s joint study with the NITI Aayog and ministry of finance indicates that to achieve a high performance in health-related sustainable development goals, India would need to gradually increase total spending in the healthcare sector from the current 3.7 per cent of the GDP, Rice added while responding to another question.He mentioned that beyond the health sector, comprehensive structural reforms are also needed to achieve more inclusive and sustainable medium-term growth.“We have talked about those reforms before -- infrastructure, land reforms, product market and labour market reforms, increasing female labour force participation, access to finance and better jobs,” Rice said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-atmanirbhar-bharat-an-important-initiative-says-imf/story-xChmmrHkLW0QtZT0MU46AI.html
25-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Monsoon to begin withdrawal from northwest India next week and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon begins withdrawing next week, above normal day temperatures likely over NW IndiaAbove normal day temperatures will impact all of northwest India as monsoon begins withdrawing from west Rajasthan next week. Monsoon withdrawal this year is set to be 11 days late as September 17 is the normal date of its commencement. Read moreNortheast-based insurgent groups forced to relocate by Myanmar army action: Intel agenciesIndian Insurgent Groups (IIGs) operating from Myanmar, particularly ULFA-I, NSCN-K, led by its current chairman Yung Aung, and NSCN-IM, are trying to relocate their bases near the border due to persistent action by the Myanmar Army over the last few months, according to an assessment by central intelligence agencies. Read moreRushdie, Chomsky, Mira Nair, among 200 personalities demanding Khalid’s releaseMore than 200 national and international scholars, academicians and artists issued a statementon Thursday, demanding the release of former JNU student Umar Khalid, who is under arrest for his alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots. Read moreIPL 2020, KXIP vs RCB: KL Rahul shatters two huge records during epic knock of 132*KL Rahul produced the first century of the IPL 2020 plundering an unbeaten knock of 132 against Royal Challengers Bangalore on Thursday. What made the knock even more special was not only the fact that it was Rahul’s IPL hundred, but the couple of impressive feats he registered during his epic inning. Read moreDeepika Padukone to appear before NCB on Sept 26, Rakul Preet Singh to record statement today in drug caseActor Deepika Padukone will appear before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday to record her statement in a drug probe linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Earlier, the NCB had summoned Padukone on September 25 in the drug case. On Thursday, the actor acknowledged the summon sent to her by the central agency and will join the probe on Saturday. Read moreBMW to pay $18 million fine to resolve inflated sales probeBMW AG and two US subsidiaries agreed Thursday to pay an $18 million (£14.1 million) US fine to resolve accusations that they disclosed misleading information about the German luxury automaker’s retail sales volume in the United States while raising approximately $18 billion from investors in corporate bond offerings. Read moreThis amazing kinetic sculpture video will leave you mesmerisedHypnotic, mesmerising, and amazing are few among the many adjectives that people used while describing the video of a kinetic sculpture. The video, though old, is again grabbing people’s attention after being shared by YouTube on their official Twitter handle. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-monsoon-to-begin-withdrawal-from-northwest-india-next-week-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CNRqt62HWbpRaWbrujMyCL.html
25-09-2020||India||BJP all set to gain in Rajya Sabha after November as Opposition numbers drop by 9||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is confident that the commotion that had erupted in the Rajya Sabha (RS) during the monsoon session of Parliament, which ended on Wednesday, following the Opposition parties resisting the passage of the contentious farms bills is unlikely to recur, as the party’s tally is all set to increase in the Upper House in November. The RS will have 11 vacancies in November. The BJP’s strength in the 245-member Upper House is not yet close to the half-way mark. Of these 11 vacancies, only three are from the BJP and the rest are from the Opposition’s quota in the Upper House. While 10 of these vacancies are from Uttar Pradesh (UP), one is from Uttarakhand.The BJP is in power in both UP and Uttarakhand, which will pave the way for its candidates being elected to the RS. “The government has been able to pass bills that benefit people at large. Even though the Congress and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) have been opposed to many bills; other parties that are not part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) still supported the government because the bills were for greater good,” said a BJP functionary, who did not wish to be quoted. The farm bills -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 -- were passed in the RS on Sunday through a voice vote, despite the Opposition parties digging their heels in for further scrutiny and also putting up a stiff resistance. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the BJP’s ally, also opposed the bills. The SAD went to the extent of pulling out its lone member from the Union Cabinet, minister for food processing industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal, in a bid to put its criticism on record about the resistance to the passage of the farm bills. The BJP leadership has slammed the Opposition for trying to stall what they call “revolutionary bills” that will change the farmers’ economic conditions. Party leaders said there would be more ease in the passage of bills in the Upper House since its RS strength is expected to increase in November.To be sure, the BJP has been able to pass contentious bills, including Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill, 2019; Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2019; and this week, the farm bills, despite being far from the half-way mark in the 245-member Upper House. The current strength of the RS is 243 because of two vacancies. The half-way mark is 122. The BJP has 86 members in the Upper House, its allies, such as the Janata Dal (United) has five members, the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and the Republican Party of India (RPI), have one each and the SAD (2).Several single-member parties such as the National People’s Party, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), and the Naga People’s Front (NPF) also support the BJP. The Congress and TMC are the second and third-largest parties in the RS with 40 and 13 members, respectively.Biju Janata Dal (BJD), All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP), which are counted as parties friendly to the government, have nine each and six members, respectively.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) (3); the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) (7); the Shiv Sena (3); the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) (1); the Samajwadi Party (SP) (8); the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) (5) are among the parties that are in the Opposition’s camp.The Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will lose two Members of Parliament (MP) each and the SP will lose four of its members because of the upcoming vacancies in the Upper House. The Opposition’s strength in the RS will come down by nine seats. An increase in the BJP’s RS strength will mean widening the gap between the two sides. It will offer the government a cushion when the margin of difference is slim as was the case during the passage of the farm bills. Though a division of votes was not carried out on Sunday, the BJP claimed to have 110 members on its side. Besides those absent from the Upper House, the Opposition’s strength was 109, which narrowed down the difference in the votes.Political commentator Abhay Deshpande said a majority in the Upper House would give the government more elbow room, but until that happens, its floor management would be put to the test. “The burden to pass bills will be greatly reduced after it has the majority in the RS. But until that happens, the government will have to rely on its floor management. It has to reach out to friendly parties outside the NDA for their support,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-all-set-to-gain-in-rajya-sabha-after-november/story-kcq2lZs0hqQpmbFNHBGW7J.html
25-09-2020||India||Monsoon begins withdrawing next week, above normal day temperatures likely over NW India||Above normal day temperatures will impact all of northwest India as monsoon begins withdrawing from west Rajasthan next week. Monsoon withdrawal this year is set to be 11 days late as September 17 is the normal date of its commencement. While withdrawal will begin from northwest India; eastern parts of central India, parts of east India, including Bihar and West Bengal, northeastern states like Assam and Meghalaya will continue to receive above normal rains in the first week of October, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its weekly weather report released on Friday morning. Also read: Delhi sees driest September in 16 years“We had an intense rain producing system which invigorated the monsoon in the past week. A remnant low moved from west Pacific which merged on Bay of Bengal which strengthened the westerlies and caused rain all along the west coast and path of low-pressure area. So, a lot of heavy and extremely heavy rain was recorded during the past week which is likely to gradually reduce,” said Sunitha Devi, scientist at IMD who presented the weekly weather report. She added that for the past five years, monsoon withdrawal has been late, beginning only after September 15. During the first week of September, there was a 30% deficiency in rain but it was covered in the next week, recording 7% excess rain and in the third week, 40% excess rain was recorded. Monsoon rain over the country since June 1 is 9% excess with 29% excess over south peninsula, 17% excess over central India, 15% excess over northwest India, and 4% excess over east and northeast India. The normal date for complete withdrawal of monsoon from the country is October 15 as per the new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates issued by IMD in April this year. Until last year, the normal date for commencement of withdrawal was September 1 and October 15 for complete withdrawal. The new onset dates are based on monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based on data from 1971 to 2019 analysed by scientists in IMD, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-begins-withdrawing-next-week-above-normal-day-temperatures-likely-over-nw-india/story-cefbbJ2EI7PUIRl4TtyzzM.html
25-09-2020||India||Lanka Dinakar slams Rahul for skipping Parl session, calls him ‘Twitter Gandhi’||BJP leader Lanka Dinakar on Thursday targeted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for not attending the monsoon session of the Parliament and vacationing abroad, stating that he has become “Twitter Gandhi”.“Rahul Gandhi has become Twitter Gandhi and he was not found in the monsoon session of the Parliament as he was vacationing abroad. He is such an irresponsible Parliamentarian as he speaks without noticing the facts. When the Congress-led UPA issued an ordinance to protect the convicted MLAs and MPs, Rahul Gandhi had torn up and thrown it away in a press meet,” Dinakar said in a statement.Cornering Gandhi for opposing farm bills, he said: “Rahul skipped the monsoon session of the Parliament intentionally. Now, he is tweeting against the interests of the farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Central Government passed important bills for the benefit of the farmers. Our suggestion is that let him read and understand the subject and then question the government. But he has been accustomed to criticise the government without proper study.”He emphasised that there is no problem with these bills and said: “Union Government has hiked MSP for several agricultural outputs of the farmers after passing these three Bills.”“After passing these bills, farmers have got the option and opportunity to sell their outputs wherever they want in India. It is ‘One Nation - One Market’ for them to get the best price. In this option farmers can get prices above the MSP as their choice of marketing is wider. Apart from this, farmers and buyers can enter agreement for buyback at prefixed prices. The government has deregulated the food items and cereals, pulses, onions etc. with an aim to raise the farmers’ income,” he added.During the recently concluded monsoon session of Parliament, the two Houses passed Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.A bill to amend the Essential Commodities Act was also passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lanka-dinakar-slams-rahul-for-skipping-parl-session-calls-him-twitter-gandhi/story-znnmdNyiXvBkbT640q68FP.html
25-09-2020||India||Punjab CM appeals to farmers to maintain law and order during ‘Bharat Bandh’||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday, appealed to the farmers to strictly maintain law and order, and adhere to all Covid-19 safety protocols, during Bharat Bandh against the Agriculture Bills scheduled for Friday.According to the official release, Singh said, “while the state government is fully in support with the farmers in their fight against the Bills, and no FIRs will be registered for violation of Section 144, there should be no disturbance of the law and order during the Bandh.”The chief minister also urged the farmers, and other organisations supporting the Bandh, to maintain social distancing and wear masks at all times.“The state is already in the midst of a surge in Covid-19 cases, and any violation of precautionary norms could lead to the situation spiralling out of control,” he said.As per media reports, several farmer organisations have announced ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 25 to protest against farm Bills passed by Parliament.On September 20, the Rajya Sabha passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill amid protest from Opposition parties.As per the bills, farmers can take their produce anywhere -- inter-state or intra-state -- beyond Agricultural produce market committees (APMCs). The state governments cannot levy any fee or cess on farmers.According to the Centre, these bills will help small and marginal farms by allowing them to sell produce outside mandis and sign agreements with agri-business firms; and doing away with stock-holding limits on key commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-appeals-to-farmers-to-maintain-law-and-order-during-bharat-bandh/story-90dXHw7m2axg7hSpQImjZO.html
25-09-2020||India||Congress asks Nitish Kumar to quit NDA if can’t protect farmers’ ‘interest’||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala has dared Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to either ensure the guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) to farmers in the farm bills or quit the NDA if he cared for farmers and those engaged in the farm sector.“The Narendra Modi government had resorted to political dishonesty to cheat agriculturists and labourers in the name of farm reforms, which would ultimately enslave farmers to big corporates,” said Surjewala, while launching the Congress party’s people mobilisation programme against the passage of the three legislations by Parliament at the state Congress office in Patna.AICC in-charge for Bihar, Shaktisinh Gohil, and Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singhdev were also present on the occasion.Congress has launched a nationwide campaign against the passage of “anti-farmer and anti-poor” bills during the monsoon session of Parliament and to collect signatures of more than 2 crore people against the legislations.Surjewala said the system of MSP would be abolished once the mandi system and government’s procurement of produce is stopped as is mandated in the farm bills. Also Read: Marginalised in Grand Alliance in Bihar, Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP preps to exitGohil said the drive to sensitise farmers and labourers about the alleged devastating effects of the three legislations would be intensified in the state.Ruling out any confusion or erosion of trust among the Grand Alliance (GA) partners, Gohil said the alliance was firm and would contest the assembly polls together.Also Read: Punjab Bandh today: Transport services suspended, markets to remain shut in LudhianaThe Congress has also extended support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by farmer organisations for Friday. Surjewala said that millions of party workers stand in solidarity with the farmers’ cause and will participate in their protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-asks-nitish-kumar-to-quit-nda-if-can-t-protect-farmers-interest/story-JM4maAAX6mcTBgJDkUjt5N.html
25-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Like three other companies with Covid-19 vaccine candidates undergoing Phase 3 clinical trials, Johnson & Johnson, on Wednesday, made public the elaborate documentation of its clinical testing protocol (it has the largest Phase 3 trials of all candidates yet, around 60,000 people). This unprecedented level of disclosure — it’s never happened before, so this is an apt and perhaps unprecedented use of the oft-misused word — comes amidst fears that vaccine developers could cut corners in their race to develop a shot for the coronavirus disease, or allow themselves to be pressured by the political establishment into launching vaccines that are not ready. Vaccines have to prevent infection, reinfection and, most importantly, be safe — one reason why it usually takes years to create one. Sure, the crisis posed by the pandemic has shortened the timeline, perhaps permanently. If a vaccine for Covid-19 is available by the middle of next year — and it is definite that at least one will be — then there is a high likelihood of no new vaccine for any disease ever taking the 7-10 years it used to in the BC (before Covid) era. But it still needs to check boxes on safety and efficacy.All four companies — Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca, and Johnson & Johnson — are also signatories to a pledge to ensure “high ethical standards and sound scientific principles”, and to not seek regulatory approval for their vaccines till clinical trials on tens of thousands of individuals show them (the vaccines) to be effective and safe. Five other companies, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Novavax, BioNTech and Sanofi, also signed this pledge. Among these, BioNTech is working with Pfizer on the vaccine.The vaccine, like the mask, has become a political issue in the US. After the country’s drug regulator, the Food and Drug Administration, said it is considering tightening its vaccine approval process to include outside experts, US President Donald Trump, who has been pushing for a vaccine ahead of the November election, said on Wednesday that this sounded like “a political move”. For good measure, he added that if FDA makes the changes, the “White House” may or may not “approve it”.The potential consequences of either vaccine developers or regulators giving in to political pressure could be disastrous, which is why the pledge and the disclosures — with four large companies having released theirs, other vaccine developers have no option but to share their own protocols; not doing so will likely prove controversial and also cast a shadow over the trials themselves — are important.A reading of the protocols shows (warning: they make for heavy reading) that the J&J trial is the only one measuring the efficacy of the vaccine in preventing severe and critical cases of Covid-19. As pointed out by Peter Doshi and Eric Topol in an opinion piece in The New York Times earlier this week, the protocols for the clinical studies of the Moderna, AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccine candidates say that “a vaccine could meet the companies’ benchmark if it lowered the risk of mild Covid-19, but was never shown to reduce moderate or severe forms of the disease, or the risk of hospitalisation, admissions to the intensive care unit, or death”. Writing in The Washington Post, William Haseltine, a former Harvard Medical School professor who now runs a health think tank, flagged the same concern. “...the protocols should heighten anxiety rather than alleviate it. A close reading suggests the clinical trials have been designed to ensure the greatest possible success for these candidates — and could overstate their effectiveness.” Haseltine was commenting on the Moderna and Pfizer clinical study protocols, the first to be released.There is also another big difference between the Johnson & Johnson vaccine and the other three — it requires refrigeration but does not need to be frozen. Ensuring things stay frozen during transportation and storage presents a significant challenge, especially in many developing countries (including India, where the problem is compounded by sheer size) (see page 9).Over the next few weeks and months, more vaccine candidates are expected to launch their Phase 3 trials. According to the HT Vaccine Tracker, there are 18 vaccines in Phase 2 trials. There are another 6 in Phase 3, and 5 have been approved for emergency use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-0OZWM13fW9d1NEtFJp7oUL.html
25-09-2020||India||In conversations with PM Modi, fitness icons push for healthy India||Afshan Ashiq spoke with confidence as Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the footballer from Jammu & Kashmir about her fitness mantra. “I am a big fan of MS Dhoni and the way he maintains his calm on the field. I try to bring the same calmness within me and I meditate every day before working out,” said Ashiq, who made news three years back when she was photographed pelting stones at security forces in Srinagar’s Kothi Bagh.The 25-year-old goalkeeper and captain of the Jammu & Kashmir women’s football team was among the seven fitness influencers, including India cricket captain Virat Kohli, two-time Paralympic gold medallist Devendra Jhajharia and model-turned-runner Milind Soman, who interacted with Modi during an online fitness dialogue to mark the first anniversary of the Fit India Movement on Thursday. “I did not get much support from my family but I decided to fight it out so that I can bring a change in the society,” said Ashiq, who plays in a Mumbai club — Premier India Football Academy. “You are an inspiration to girls in Jammu & Kashmir. Mostly, football fans say ‘Bend it like Beckham’, but now they will say ‘Ace it like Afshan,” Modi told Ashiq during the online interaction.During the interaction with Kohli, Modi joked about the India captain’s love for chhole bhature. Kohli burst into laughter as he shared his transition from a foodie to a fitness freak. “I used to eat a lot from outside as I was growing up. I had to change my diet and physical fitness regime. I thought fitness should be a priority,” said Kohli. Modi launched the ‘Fit India Age Appropriate Fitness Protocols’ in the presence of sports minister Kiren Rijiju. “I am glad that healthy eating is becoming a part of our way of living,” he said. PM also spoke to nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar, yoga expert Swami Shivadhyanam Saraswati, and educationist Mukul Kanitkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-conversations-with-pm-modi-fitness-icons-push-for-healthy-india/story-SPa4X1ULE9yB2nwsMyeQPM.html
25-09-2020||India||SC seeks govt, UPSC reply over prelims exam||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought the response of the Centre and the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on a petition by 20 civil service aspirants to postpone the October 4 Civil Service (Preliminary) Examination amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Citing the pandemic and natural calamities in some states, the petitioners from various parts of the country, led by Vasireddy Govardhana Sai Prakash, told the apex court that holding the examination in the present circumstances would pose a risk to their health and safety.Unlike academic examinations, there would not be any question of loss of an academic year if the exam is not held, they said. That comes in the backdrop of the Joint Entrance Examination for admission to engineering schools and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for medical and dental course aspirants taking place this month on grounds that students were at risk of losing an academic year. The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjeev Khanna issued notice to the UPSC and the Centre and posted the matter for hearing on September 28.“About six lakh aspirants are likely to appear in the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination, which is a seven hours offline examination, to be given at limited centres in 72 cities across the country,” advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, appearing for the petitioners, told the court.“Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases are increasing in India at an alarming rate….Conducting the exam at such perilous time is nothing but putting lives of lakhs of young students (including petitioners) at utmost risk and danger of disease and death.” In addition, the petition pointed out that candidates in several states were stuck because of floods and excessive rains. Since the exam is usually held during summers, this is a peculiar situation facing the candidates, the petition stated.The examination was earlier scheduled for May 31, but postponed on account of the pandemic. On June 5, the UPSC, the recruitment body for civil services, came out with a revised examination schedule, setting October 4 as the new date.The petitioners alleged that holding the exam during a pandemic will amount to discrimination between states which are majorly affected by Covid-19. They argued that as per Regulation 12 of the Indian Administrative Service (Appointment by Competitive Exam) Regulations 1955, no candidate would be appointed to the service if not found to be in good mental or physical health after the exam. The risk of candidates getting infected is high and those who succeed in the examination may fail the fitness test in the event they contract the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-upsc-reply-over-prelims-exam/story-ylNaSok6vaz3hfWTWSOKwI.html
25-09-2020||India||Telangana HC orders another autopsy of three Maoists||The Telangana High Court on Thursday ordered re-postmortem of three Maoists, a day after they were killed in an “exchange of fire” with the police in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district in the state.The court, after hearing a petition filed by advocate P Raghunath directed the state government to arrange for the autopsy by a forensic expert from MGM Hospital in Warangal.Petitioner Prof Gaddam Laxman alleged that the action of the police was “illegal and arbitrary.” The exchange of fire took place on Wednesday at some hillocks in Chennapuram forest under Charla police station limits during combing operations, police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-hc-orders-another-autopsy-of-three-maoists/story-CJvUCwXtssp2v8AdmNZj7O.html
25-09-2020||India||NIA arrests ‘key conspirator’ in August 11 Bengaluru riots||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday conducted raids at 30 locations in Bengaluru in connection with last month’s riots and arrested a bank recovery agent, Sayed Saddiq Ali, who is allegedly the key conspirator of the violence.Ali (44), NIA said in a statement, was involved in the attack on KG Halli police station on August 11, resulting in heavy damage and destruction of public and government property. He was absconding since the day of the incident.During the raids, NIA teams recovered airguns, pellets, sharp weapons, iron rods, digital devices, DVRs and incriminating documents related to Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Popular Front of India (PFI).The central anti-terror probe agency took over the probe from the state police on September 23.The riots had broken out on the night of August 11 over a derogatory social media remark by one Naveen, identified as the nephew of Srinivas Akhanda Murthy, the sitting Congress MLA from Pulakeshi Nagar of Bengaluru. The remark insulted the religious sentiments of Muslims, the NIA said in a statement.“The state secretary, SDPI, Muzamil Pasha and other members of Social Democratic Party of India /Popular Front of India gathered a mob at the houses of Naveen, Akhanda Srinivas Murthy and at the premises of DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations, who vandalised the premises and resorted to arson, creating fear and panic among the masses,” the NIA further stated.More than 300 people, including some SDPI members, have been arrested in connection with the arson and violence in the city that night. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) blamed the SDPI, a political outfit of Popular Front of India, for the riots and demanded a ban on the organisation. The SDPI has, however, rejected the charges as “baseless”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-key-conspirator-in-august-11-bengaluru-riots/story-0w26d8G6h7ZTLA780aExML.html
25-09-2020||India||11-year-old girl in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh becomes leopard’s second victim in 3 days||An 11-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district on Thursday evening, said forest officials. This is the second death due to a leopard attack to be reported from the district in the past three days and third in the past two weeks. “The girl was working near her house, collecting fodder when the leopard attacked her. The incident happened in Chaana village which is around 16 km from the district headquarters. Some locals tried to save the girl when they heard her screams but they failed,” said Vinay Bhargav, divisional forest officer (DFO) Pithoragarh.On Tuesday, a 40-year-old man was killed by a leopard in Pithoragarh forest range. Following the incident, the district forest officials have written to the chief wildlife warden seeking permission to declare this leopard as a ‘man-eater’. There has been a spate of leopard attacks in Uttarakahnd this year.Last Saturday, a 7-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard when she was playing near her house in Almora district. On August 3, an 8-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Tehri forest division when she was walking down a path from her house to another. On July 11, a 60-year-old woman from Nainital district was killed y a leopard when she went to the forest to collect fodder. In the same month, an 18-month-old boy was killed by a leopard in Almora. On June 23, a woman who went to the forest to cut grass in Kathgodam area was killed by a leopard. In the same month, a teenage girl, who was listening to music on her headphones, was attacked and mauled to death by a leopard in Ramnagar area of Nainital district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-year-old-girl-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-becomes-leopard-s-second-victim-in-3-days/story-dwxGDaAnUdwFXmxm89GYKP.html
25-09-2020||India||Bombay HC to hear Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow demolition case against BMC today||The Bombay High Court on Thursday adjourned actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow demolition case till September 25. The hearing in the matter will begin in high court from today.The hearing in the case cannot be delayed as the bungalow should not be left in partially demolished state during the monsoon season, the court said on Thursday, adding that it will hear the petitioner’s argument on Friday.“The matter cannot be delayed as the bungalow is partially demolished and monsoon season is going on. We will allow the petitioner’s advocate to start arguments from tomorrow,” the bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla said.The bench has also sought replies from Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) H-ward officer Bhagyawant Late to the plea.On Tuesday, high court had allowed Ranaut to add Raut as a party in her petition.The bench on Thursday said that the court will begin hearing the petition on Friday and Raut could file his reply anytime before his lawyers start their arguments.While scheduling the hearing for Friday, 3 pm, the bench said, “Since 40 per cent of the Petitioner’s Bungalow is already demolished on 9th September, 2020 and the Bungalow continues to stand in partially demolished condition, it is likely that some mishap may be caused due to the heavy rainfall in Mumbai. It is therefore necessary to hear the matter at the earliest,” as quoted by PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-to-hear-kangana-ranaut-s-bandra-bungalow-demolition-case-against-bmc-today/story-CL2xT6rExFoFLdl7h5knHL.html
25-09-2020||India||National People’s Party opens unit in north Bengal, backs Gorkhaland||The National People’s Party (NPP) led by Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma is trying to gain ground in the hills of north Bengal, where Gorkhas are in majority, by raising the Gorkhaland issue. The NPP on Thursday opened its first unit in Kalimpong. The party’s local functionaries said Sangma will visit the region soon. The development came 20 days after Sangma wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah expressing his support for creation of a separate state for Gorkhas. “The Gorkhas too are rightful Indian citizens who deserve to have their own identity and Bas Bhoomi (homeland),” he wrote, highlighting the contributions of the community during freedom struggle. Kenza Foning, the north Bengal coordinator of NPP, said, “The long term goal of our party is separation of Darjeeling and Kalimpong from West Bengal.” The NPP’s plan has not gone well with the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binoy Tamang faction). Keshav Raj Pokhrel, GJM (Tamang) spokesperson, said, “When P A Sangma was chief minister of Meghalaya in the 1980s many Gorkhas were driven out of the state. It is ironic that Sangma’s son is now talking about Gorkhaland while Gorkhas in Meghalaya are still treated as second-class citizens.” The Gorkha National Liberation Front and All India Gorkha League have, however, welcomed the NPP. Sangma is the second chief minister to support the Gorkhaland issue. In March 2011, when Pawan Chamling was the chief minister, the Sikkim state assembly adopted a resolution in favour of creation of Gorkhaland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-people-s-party-opens-unit-in-north-bengal-backs-gorkhaland/story-3h3KqliNBwJ8wHN0zk6LZK.html
25-09-2020||India||3-year-old tigress found dead in Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh||A three-year-old tigress was found dead on Wednesday night in Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve in Umaria district of Madhya Pradesh, the Reserve’s top officer said.Vincet Raheem, field director Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve said prima facie, the cause of death seems to be a territorial fight.“During a patrol, a team of forest personnel found the carcass of the tigress in a small drain in Damokhar buffer range. The carcass was covered with maggots. There were injuries marks on it. The veterinary doctors said that it was 2-3 day old carcass. A post mortem was conducted by a team of doctors to know the exact cause of death.” “The team also found pugmarks of a tiger near the carcass. The circumstantial evidence showed that the tigress might have been killed in a territorial fight,” he said.According to the forest official, this is the fourth case of death of a tiger in Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve in a territorial fight. In April this year, three deaths were reported from the reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-year-old-tigress-found-dead-in-bandhavgarh-tiger-reserve-in-madhya-pradesh/story-hoEmr9EgQTyb85SRocu5sI.html
25-09-2020||India||Deepika Padukone to appear before NCB on Sept 26, Rakul Preet Singh to record statement today in drug case||Actor Deepika Padukone will appear before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday to record her statement in a drug probe linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Earlier, the NCB had summoned Padukone on September 25 in the drug case. On Thursday, the actor acknowledged the summon sent to her by the central agency and will join the probe on Saturday.Padukone returned to Mumbai from Goa on Thursday night. She was accompanied by her husband Ranveer Singh.The NCB on Wednesday served summons to four actors - Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and Shraddha Kapoor.Also read: Deepika Padukone will be questioned on September 26, Rakul Preet Singh to join investigation tomorrow: NCBPadukone’s manager Karishma Prakash and actor Rakul Preet Singh will appear before the central agency on Friday for questioning in the investigation into the drug angle in Rajput’s death. While Khan, who flew in to Mumbai from Goa on Thursday, and Shraddha Kapoor will appear before the NCB on September 26.The NCB, which started its investigation almost a month back, is one of the three central agencies investigating a case in connection with Rajput’s death. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing Rajput’s death, while Enforcement Directorate (ED) is investigating the money laundering allegations.Also read: Tia Bajpai gets drug test done, shares report, urges all in film industry to do the same if they ‘don’t want to get generalised’Actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deepika-padukone-to-appear-before-ncb-on-saturday-her-manager-rakul-preet-singh-to-record-statements-today-in-drug-case/story-Gbpvnqh7dHCRnebAJZJMkJ.html
25-09-2020||India||Key gap in antigen testing protocol prompts rethink||An analysis of Delhi’s Covid-19 testing data by the health department showed that, on Wednesday, 1,400 symptomatic people who tested negative in rapid antigen tests (RATs) were not administered the gold standard RT-PCR tests as follow up, highlighting a glaring gap in the Capital’s testing protocol. On Thursday, the Delhi government directed all districts in the Capital to ensure no lapses take place in testing people with symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) through the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction procedure, considered the most accurate method of detecting the viral infection.Special secretary (health and family welfare) Udit Prakash Rai issued the directive. RATs, while fast (results are in within the hour as compared to a minimum of 24 hours for RT-PCR ones), have a high propensity to give out false negatives -- which means they identify an infected person as uninfected. HT has repeatedly stressed that these tests should be used only in certain contexts (such as in containment zones, or in airports or railway stations), but many states and Delhi continue to use them. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, for instance, once laggards in testing, have conducted millions of tests, many of them RATs. Delhi too continues to depend heavily on them. In the week to Thursday, RATs accounted for 81.5% of the total 386,924 tests conducted in the Capital. While experts suggest that if RATs must be used, those symptomatic individuals who test negative must undergo a RT-PCR test (or another accurate molecular test), this is not foolproof either -- at least 40% of those infected with Sars-Cov2 are asymptomatic. “Total 1,437 antigen negative symptomatic persons have not undergone RT-PCR. Kindly ensure that this is made NIL from today (Thursday). This means from today there should be no antigen negative symptomatic case who is not tested for RT-PCR,” read Rai’s communication, sent to all district magistrates (DMs) and chief district medical officers (CDMOs).HT could not immediately ascertain if similar data is available for more days.  The directive also had a district-wise break-up of the number of cases recorded on Wednesday of symptomatic people who tested negative in rapid antigen tests and whose samples were not tested subsequently through RT-PCR.According to the data, north-west Delhi, which also has the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases (over 5,000) in the city, had 870 cases on Wednesday alone where symptomatic antigen negatives were not followed up with an RT-PCR test. North-west Delhi was followed by the south-west district, where 258 symptomatic persons were not administered RT-PCR tests after testing negative for Covid-19 in rapid antigen tests.“I guess more than 80% of all tests being conducted in Delhi everyday are rapid antigen tests. Heavy reliance on antigen tests is never advisable,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Rapid antigen test is only a test of choice for routine surveillance in containment zones and screening at the point of entry. In all other situations, RT-PCR tests should be given priority. Merely increasing the testing through rapid antigen tests will not give a true picture of Delhi’s real positivity rate.”A Delhi government spokesperson confirmed that a specific direction was issued by the state Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) to all field teams conducting rapid antigen tests that there should be no lapse in conducting follow-up RT-PCR tests. “Medical officers of each of the 11 districts have been asked to strictly ensure that no symptomatic RAT negative is let go without an RT-PCR test. The DGHS has issued necessary directions in this regard,” the spokesperson said. In fact, the medical officer has been asked to go ahead with an RT-PCR procedure without necessarily having to wait for the result of the antigen test.“Earlier the field teams used to wait until the results came and if negative many people would just leave the centre immediately, despite officials asking them to wait. Now symptomatic people can be tested with RT-PCR right there without waiting for the antigen results,” the spokesperson said. A senior health department official said on condition of anonymity that the Delhi government is also working on a plan to increase the number of RT-PCR testing laboratories. The official added that the Delhi government is awaiting approvals from the Union government on the plan.“Daily RT-PCR tests have now crossed the 10,000 mark, while the existing combined capacity of all the 54 labs in Delhi is around 11,000 tests per day. Modalities are being worked out to scale up RT-PCR sample processing capacity further. It is in various approval stage from the Central government,” said the official. To be sure, Delhi still doesn’t do more than 10,000 RT-PCR tests every day. In the week to Thursday, for instance, this level has been breached four times. Sandeep Mishra, district magistrate of the north-west district, the one with the highest case load, said his administration was now ensuring that access to an RT-PCR test is as easy in the district as to the rapid antigen test. “We are ensuring [that] both RAT and RT-PCR facility should be available at all testing centres.” BM Mishra, DM of south district, said: “They (health officials) do not let people leave the test centres at any cost until the RAT results come. As soon as the result comes negative on RAT, a fresh sample for RT-PCR is also collected from the symptomatic person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-gap-in-antigen-testing-protocol-prompts-rethink/story-rVEawCSqoS9VbR0qwVEBUL.html
25-09-2020||India||Stir across ‘food bowl’ today over farm laws||Farmer bodies and opposition parties on Thursday intensified protests in food-bowl states in the northern plains amid a call for a nationwide stir on Friday to oppose three bills that they say could pave the way for the government to stop buying grain at minimum guaranteed prices and benefit corporate entities and traders.In a session that was curtailed because of the spectre of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Parliament passed three bills that the government said were aimed at unleashing reforms in agriculture and allow farmers more flexibility in selling their produce. While some experts have hailed the move, farmer bodies and opposition parties allege that the laws will benefit only big businesses.On Thursday, farmers from Punjab and Haryana, which are key producers of wheat and rice, blocked railway tracks, forcing the cancellation of some trains on local routes. Several farmer bodies have come together under the banner of All India Kisan Sangarsh Committee for Friday’s Bharat Bandh, which is expected to disrupt road and rail traffic in several states on Friday. All major opposition parties, including the Congress, Left outfits, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Trinamool Congress (TMC), have decided to participate in the bandh. From the ruling National Democratic Alliance, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will join the nationwide protest.Last week, the SAD’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the minister for food processing, resigned over her opposition to the bills that she termed as “anti-farmer”.The Congress said it will begin a two-month agitation against the new laws by holding news briefings in all state capitals and district headquarters. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said the party workers will support the agitation by farm organisations during this period against “Modi’s anti-farmer” policies.During the nationwide “bandh”, the most intense protests are expected in Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and some parts of Maharashtra, where farmers have already been protesting over the last one week by blocking road and rail traffic, hampering the supply of essentials such as food grains.“Nothing will work in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh tomorrow (Friday),” said Bharatiya Kisan Union president Rakesh Takait. All farmer and mandi committees in Punjab and Haryana have called for stopping road and rail traffic at various locations and closure of shops. A senior Haryana Police officer said on condition of anonymity: “Additional police force has been deployed to maintain law and order and railways have suspended some of the trains passing from the region.” “We have asked police personnel not to use force,” he added.Strikes are also expected to be observed in Opposition-ruled Kerala and TMC-ruled West Bengal. In Bihar, the opposition parties led by the RJD have made a call for a prolonged agitation coming just before the forthcoming assembly elections in the state. In Opposition-ruled Jharkhand and Rajasthan, All India Kisan Sabha and Congress workers have announced protests at various places.Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghathana, a major farmer outfit in Maharashtra, has decided to burn copies of the bill outside revenue offices. Farmers bodies in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have called protests to show solidarity with farmers in north India, who are expected to be worst-affected by the farm laws.The three farm bills approved by Parliament this week are: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance; and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.The new laws aim to liberalise the agriculture sector by removing hurdles created by the Agriculture Marketing Produce Committee (AMPC) Act in direct procurement of agriculture produce by buyers and create a level-playing field for all, thereby allowing private players a bigger role in farm trade.Farmer bodies and opposition parties say that these reform bills take away price protection provided through Minimum Support Price (MSP), whereas the government maintains that MSP will remain in place and the bills will ensure higher remuneration for farmers.Prime Minister Narendra Modi described the passage of the bills, which will now need to be signed by the President, a “watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture”.The Prime Minister has accused the Opposition of misleading farmers on the legislations that he said were similar to the economic reforms of 1991.“The bills were passed in a hurry. They lacked greater scrutiny of select committees. They create a system which will leave farmers vulnerable to exploitation. Our protests will continue,” said VM Singh, convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.Raju Shetti of the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghathana said: “If the government is so concerned of farmers’ interest, then it should have added a provision that no entity will be allowed to trade less than the MSP.” The evening before the nationwide strike, Union agriculture minister NS Tomar sought to address the concerns by saying there were no provisions in the legislations to end APMCs. He said the bills will promote inter-state trade and farmers will receive more options to sell at the right price. “The new bills allow a farmer to sell their produce outside APMCs, giving them a wider range of buyers,” he said.“In Punjab, there’s 8.5% tax in the mandis on several items. Now, because of these bills, farmers will be able to sell their produce even outside of the mandi, even outside of the state at any price they choose,” he said. He also said that fixing MSP is an administrative decision and it will continue. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath praised the laws and said they will not only guarantee MSP to farmers but will help in getting them prices higher than the MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stir-across-food-bowl-today-over-farm-laws/story-pmRUivsTL4IGPnd7IwNIwK.html
25-09-2020||India||Chinese imports 29% down, but up in key sectors||India imported more petroleum products, handicrafts, medical and scientific instruments, agrochemicals and other chemicals from China although overall shipments from the neighbour declined 29% from a year earlier to $16.6 billion in the first four months of the financial year. Purchases of bulk drugs and intermediates registered a minor decline.Recent efforts to replace Chinese goods with indigenous products and more diversified sources have resulted in a significant reduction in imports of 45 out of 50 principal commodity groups from China in the April-July period, but purchases in five sectors increased, said the Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics (DGCI&S).India has taken a series of punitive actions against China amid a military standoff in the Ladakh sector along the Line of Actual Control (LAC); on June 15, a violent brawl in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh left 20 Indian Army personnel dead and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties.Citing national security concerns, New Delhi on June 29 banned 59 mostly Chinese mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser and WeChat, and added 118 more apps to the list on September 2. India has also restricted the imports of Chinese television sets and prohibited Chinese companies from competing for government contracts.Despite the punitive measures, imports of agrochemicals from China jumped 17.49%, to $377.65 million in April-July compared to $321.43 million in the same period last year. Purchases of other chemicals rose 13.46% to $240.96 million, according to DGCI&S data.Purchases of Chinese petroleum products rose 13.61% to $68.83 million during the period. India’s imports of Chinese handicrafts, excluding carpets, increased by 7.55% to $168.08 million; and medical and scientific instruments by 2.55% to $205.64 million.Although there was a small dip in the import of bulk drugs and intermediates from China, data shows India’s continued dependence on China for this crucial raw material used by the pharmaceutical industry. Imports of bulk drugs and drug intermediaries fell 0.13% to $859.66 million in April-July from $860.85 million in the same period last year.The commerce and industry ministry did not respond to queries on the subject. Two government officials with direct knowledge of the matter said imports from China were on a constant decline, which will be even more prominent in the September numbers. Imports from China have dropped by over $320 million in the first three weeks of the current month to about $1.2 billion, the officials said, requesting anonymity.A significant drop has been recorded in two key categories, with purchases of fertilizer (crude and manufactured) from China falling 70%; and machinery (electrical and non-electrical) declining 30% in first three weeks of September 2020, one of the officials said.That’s the outcome of an Indian effort to scale up domestic manufacturing capacity and diversify the sources of imports of goods and services to reduce reliance on China, the officials said.“The government is also conscious about the needs of the domestic consumer and industry. There are certain essential products such as bulk drugs and APIs (active pharmaceutical ingredients), which are globally supplied from China. While efforts are there for import substitution, there is no ban on the import of such items from China,” the second official said.Measures are being taken to import bulk drugs from alternative sources such as the US, Italy, Singapore and Hong Kong, and to ramp up domestic capacity to reduce dependence on China. In the medium to long-run, the government has decided to set up three bulk drug parks for ₹3,000 crore and approved a ₹6,940 crore production-linked incentive (PLI) package for promotion of domestic manufacturing of critical drug intermediates and APIs.“This is how there is a marginal decline in their imports from China during April-July 2020,” the second official said. Over 63% of India’s pharmaceutical imports are APIs and intermediates, and almost 70% of those come from China. Intermediaries and APIs are crucial chemical compounds (raw materials) required to manufacture formulations or medicines. While India is one of the leading exporters of formulations or generic medicines, China has a virtual monopoly in production of intermediaries and APIs.“It is time we revive our domestic API industry, which has been deeply affected because of policies such as stricter implementation of pollution control norms, implementation of DPCO [Drug Price Control Order], 2013, lower import duties, and complete collapse of the indigenous fermentation industry,” said a report titled  Reviving India’s API Industry, prepared by consulting firm PwC.According to the report, the percentage of API imports from China spiked from around 1% in 1991 to about 70% in 2019.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said a 100% boycott of Chinese products or import substitution was not immediately possible in a scenario where the trade deficit is highly skewed in favour of China. “The import substitution is a long-drawn process and there are no quick fixes as in the case of apps. The government has realised this and is setting up parks for API domestic manufacturing but the results would be visible only a year or two later... Ban or import restrictions on these products, essential in nature, would only hurt India. Import substitution requires long-term vision and strategy which the government is trying to address but l think there is still a very long way to go,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-imports-29-down-but-up-in-key-sectors/story-w0POYmBTCRxlcW5Pem1UjI.html
25-09-2020||India||Farm protests may hit transport of essentials: Railways||The railway ministry on Thursday warned that the three-day rail roko (railway blockade) protest called by farmers in Punjab over farm bills passed by Parliament will have a severe impact on the transport of foodgrains and other essential goods to and from the northern state .Railway authorities said 20 trains passing through Punjab will remain suspended between Thursday and Saturday because of the protest , as the state-owned transporter seeks to ensure the safety of passengers and protect its property. Many freight and parcel trains too have been rescheduled.“Punjab rail agitation will severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods. It will hurt ordinary citizens and fast-recovering rail freight and economy,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeking to liberalise agricultural trade, were cleared by both Houses of Parliament in the curtailed monsoon session that ended Wednesday. Opposition parties and farmers groups have alleged that the legislation was aimed at promoting the interests of corporate entities rather than the interests of farmers.The railway ministry said that Punjab loaded 990 rakes of foodgrains procured by the Food Corporation of India in August this year and 816 rakes this month until September 23. Thd FCI is loading more than 35 rakes of foodgrains daily from Punjab. Punjab also loads 9-10 rakes daily of fertilizer, cement, automobiles and mixed goods in containers.“Punjab receives around 20 rakes daily of coal, food grain, farm products, machinery, petroleum products, imported fertilizer etc,” the ministry said.The call for rail roko protest has been called by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee with the backing of different farmers groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-protests-may-hit-transport-of-essentials-rlys/story-Rcwbet7wk3lq18n0bKV43O.html
25-09-2020||India||Cong terms farm bills ‘unconstitutional’||The Congress on Thursday said it will challenge the three farm bills in the court, saying the “black laws” are “unconstitutional” and against the country’s federal structure. The party also extended its support to Friday’s ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by various farmers’ organisations in protest against the bills. The main opposition party also launched on Thursday its nearly two-month-long “mass movement” against the government for passing “anti-farmer and anti-poor” bills in Parliament. The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, have been passed by both the Houses of Parliament and await Presidential assent. The support to the ‘bandh’ was announced by Congress party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala. “The diabolical & debilitating attack on Farmer & Farm Labourers by the three ‘Black Bills’ of Modi Govt would be decisively defeated,” he tweeted. Surjewala said the Congress and former party chief Rahul Gandhi stand solidly behind the farmers and support the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by various farmers’ organisations. “Congress worker and leader will join farmers’ dharna and protests,” he added. The Congress and 17 other opposition parties had on Wednesday requested President Ram Nath Kovind not to give his assent to the three farm bills. Addressing reporters at the party headquarters in Delhi, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the 18 opposition like-minded parties have urged the President to not sign the bills as they will be against the federal structure if they become laws. “If the President signs these bills, which I want and hope he should not sign, and once they become the law, I feel they will be against the federal structure,” he said. “These laws will be challenged in the court from high court up to the Supreme Court and I have no doubt that they will be quashed. We want that... these laws are stopped and quashed by the court as they are unconstitutional,” Singhvi said. He said the issues come under List 2 of the 7th Schedule and are exclusive rights of states. Singhvi, a Rajya Sabha member, added agriculture is included in List 2 and these laws directly relate to agriculture and trade and commerce within the state. The holding of markets and fairs also fall within the purview of state governments, he said. Singhvi also accused the government of pushing through the bills in the Rajya Sabha while ignoring calls by many members for a division of votes. “These are three black laws and the manner in which they were passed was unconstitutional and against parliamentary traditions and rules,” he alleged. He said as per parliamentary precedents, the chair has to hear the plea by even a single member wanting a division of votes but that was not done. “There were doubts about the quorum in the Rajya Sabha when the bills were passed amid the din.” Singhvi alleged that whatever happened on Sunday during the passage of bills in the Rajya Sabha was not just “unconstitutional but also undemocratic”, as the government sought to push through the bills due to its power. “The government did not have the numbers and that is why it resorted to such measures to get the bills passed, without adhering to members’ request for a division,” he added. Singhvi said Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu “wrongly rejected” the no confidence resolution against deputy chairman Harivansh by opposition parties as a 14-day notice is not required. The Congress had earlier announced that it will also collect two crore signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed legislations. The decision by the Congress to hit the streets was taken at a meeting of general secretaries and in-charge of states at the party headquarters in Delhi on Monday in absence of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The six-member special committee formed by the Congress president to help her in organisational and operational matters chaired the meeting in her absence. Its members are AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala. Accompanied by her son and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi had on September 12 left for the United States for a routine health check-up. Both of them returned to India on Tuesday morning. On Thursday, Congress leaders fanned out across the country to address a series of press conferences, attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government on the farm bills. Apart from a chain of press conferences across the country starting from Thursday, senior Congress leaders from states will on September 28 walk to the respective Raj Bhavans and submit a memorandum on the farms bills to Governors to be handed over to the President. On October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Congress will observe ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Farm Labourers Day).’ There will be protests and demonstrations in every district across the country demanding immediate withdrawal of the agriculture bills. On October 10, state level conferences will be held and from October 2 to October 31, the party will collect signatures from 20 million farmers from all parts of the country. On November 14, the birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, a memorandum along with signatures of 20 million farmers will be submitted to the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-terms-farm-bills-unconstitutional/story-RUw94wstY0Zrc4b5C5LkkJ.html
25-09-2020||India||SC says Sudha Bharadwaj has ‘good grounds’ for bail on merits||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Thursday observed that lawyer and activist Sudha Bharadwaj, who is an accused in a case related to caste clashes that broke out in Bhima Koegaon near Pune on New Year’s Day in 2018, has “good grounds” to seek bail on the merits of her case, but declined to entertain her bail plea, which she filed on medical grounds.A bench headed by justice UU Lalit said the court was not inclined to grant bail to her on medical grounds, but suggested that she move a plea on standard grounds.“We are not with you on medical grounds. You have a good case on merits. Why are you not filing for bail on merits,” the bench, which also comprised justice Ajay Rastogi ,asked.Bharadwaj’s counsel Vrinda Grover agreed to withdraw the bail plea on medical grounds and file for bail on the merits of the case.Bharadwaj, 59, sought bail citing her vulnerability to Covid -19 because of comorbidities. Bharadwaj is diabetic and also suffers from hypertension and had cited these as grounds for interim bail before the high court.The Bombay high court rejected her plea on August 28 after which she moved the Supreme Court in appeal.Bharadwaj was arrested by Maharashtra police in 2018 for allegedly inciting caste clashes during the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war on January 1 that year.One person died and four were injured in the clashes. The British East India Company, which largely comprised the Mahars, a Dalit community, emerged victorious from the war with the Peshwas. The victory is celebrated by the Mahar community annually. Bharadwaj along with activists Varavara Rao, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Anand Teltumbde, and Gautam Navlakha have been charged with offences under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for their alleged role in inciting the violence.After the change of government in Maharashtra in 2019, the central government had intervened and transferred the investigation from Maharashtra police to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in January. Bharadwaj, who was initially lodged at Yerawada jail in Pune, was shifted to Byculla jail in February 2020 after the probe was transferred to NIA.Grover, on Thursday, argued that Bharadwaj had developed two new diseases while in custody -- ischemic heart disease and arthritis.A medical report of July 21 stated that Bharadwaj was suffering from Ischemic heart disease, a condition in which coronary artery becomes narrow, thereby reducing blood flow to the heart. A second medical report which was submitted on August 21 by the jail authorities did not mention such a condition, following which the high court had rejected her bail plea.“Ischemic heart disease is a ticking time bomb. Anytime, her condition can deteriorate,” Grover said, seeking bail so that Bharadwaj can be subjected to a detailed medical examination.Grover also submitted that Bharadwaj was a lawyer in Chhattisgarh who used to fight cases on behalf of marginalised sections of the society.“No incriminating material was recovered from me. I was teaching at National Law University, Delhi when I was arrested,” Grover argued on behalf of her client.“My prayer is to allow me to get myself (medically) examined because the kind of check-up and tests which are required cannot happen in jail,” the lawyer said.The court, however, made it clear that it will not grant bail on medical grounds.Bharadwaj’s bail plea on medical grounds was earlier rejected by a special NIA court on May 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-says-bharadwaj-has-good-grounds-for-bail-on-merits/story-3N9W4Rfyck43MzdCYEGmDP.html
25-09-2020||India||No provision to end APMCs, says Tomar||Union agriculture minister NS Tomar on Thursday said two new farm bills passed in Parliament do not have provisions to end markets controlled by the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) as is feared by farmer groups. The minister also added that while older laws had no provision to guarantee when payment would be made to farmers , the new laws assure that payments will be made within three days at the most.The bills he said will promote inter-state trade and farmers will receive more options to sell at the right price: “The new bills allow a farmer to sell his produce outside APMCs, giving him a widen range of buyers,” he said addressing the media.The two bills passed, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, aim to free agrimarkets, allow contract farming agreements, and create farm-to-fork supply chains. They do this, partky, by sidestepping APMCs, which have become cartelised over time. Older laws required farmers to sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, and usually in the same area where they (the farmers) resided. The new laws open up APMCs to competition. One of them also allows farmers to strike agreements with agri-business firms or exporters for prospective sale of farming produce. Some farm-groups and the opposition parties believe that the new laws will limit APMC markets to their physical boundaries while allowing corporate buyers to land up at farmgates. They are also worried that because the laws do not guarantee the minimum price of acquisition will be the government mandated minimum support price or MSP, most farmers will end up selling for lower (government acquisition, at MSP, in markets where the APMC law has been repealed, is low, they point out). Finally, they believe that few farmers will cross states to sell produce or take the online route to do so. The opposition has severely criticised the government for passing the Bills in Parliament without sending them for further scrutiny to a select panel . The government has for its part asserted that the bills were passed after discussion with the opposition members to and allow farmers more options to get better remuneration for their produce. The Prime Minister has himself defended the bills, and termed them a “protective shield” around farmers. The government insists that concerns that the legislation will end the MSP and about contract farming are misplaced. The opposition wants the concept of MSP to be written into the law. The minister said fixing MSP is an administrative decision and will continue.He said the government has already declared MSP of rabi crops. Earlier this week, the government raised MSP for several winter-grown or rabi crops , a move clearly aimed at quelling criticism that the new farm laws would kill the MSP regime. Both farmer groups in Punjab and the BJP’s own ally the SAD have been opposed to the bills; and want the government to clarify if the private companies will be asked to buy at MSP as well.“In Punjab, there’s 8.5% tax in the mandis on several items. Now, because of these bills, farmers will be able to sell their produce even outside of the mandi, even outside of the state at any price they choose,” Tomar said, without commenting on the absence of a floor price. Tomar also said people have misconceptions about contract farming. “We talk about the agreement of crop through the new agricultural bill. Our bill is not for contracting the field. The farmer is the owner of the farm and of the produce. But now the new bill will allow the farmer to guarantee the value of the crop before sowing.” Lashing out at the Congress, the minister said changes in the APMC law, the interstate trade of agricultural produce were all part of its 2019 manifesto. Tomar also defended the changes to the essential commodities law, the third farm reform bill cleared in the just-concluded monsoon session of parliament. the new law removes most food items from the purview of the law, which is mainly used by the Centre to control inflation. He said at the High Power Committee meeting of the Chief Ministers, Congress leader and then Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Kamal Nath said that the essential commodities act had achieved its objective,and should be abolished immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-provision-to-end-apmcs-says-tomar/story-PJjftbEdVlPYS64xvB2OBP.html
25-09-2020||India||Stir to intensify as farm groups come together||Farmers’ protests in the northern Indian food bowl regions of western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab are expected to intensify on Friday, when farmers groups and opposition political parties organise a national strike, Bharat Bandh, against three farm bills passed by Parliament.All farmers groups in the region have come together to take part in the protests against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 , passed by Parliament during the curtailed monsoon session that ended on Wednesday.A three-day rail blockade is being organised in Punjab that will continue until Saturday to protest against the bills that the government says will liberalise agricultural trade and farmers allege will promote corporate interests over their own.Railway authorities said 20 trains passing through Punjab will remain suspended between Thursday and Saturday because of the protest, as the state-owned transporter seeks to ensure the safety of passengers and protect its property. Many freight and parcel trains too have been rescheduled “Punjab rail agitation will severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods. It will hurt ordinary citizens and fast-recovering rail freight and economy,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.In Punjab, where the protests against the bills started more than a month ago, at least 31 farmers bodies have come together and drawn up a joint protest plan.“We have informed all market associations that they should close the shops tomorrow,” said Jagmohan Singh Patiala, an office-bearer of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella organisation of farmers groups.Farmers bodies have divided Punjab into different zones where the activists will stage day-long sit-in protests and prevent any movement of traffic, said another farmers leader. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), a partner of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre, has also decided to organize parallel protests as part of a “chakka jam” (road blockage) campaign. SAD spokesperson Dalit Cheema said the party cadre would be out on the roads in full strength. The Congress and Aam Aadmi Party will also join the protests. In Haryana, major farmers organisations have joined hands to stage protests and announced that road and railway traffic will not be allowed on Friday. They have issued a call for the closure of all markets, including agricultural produce mandis, from 10 a.m. to 4 pm. Haryana president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait faction) Ratan Mann said: “The farmers and commission agents will be on roads against the bills on Friday”. He added that shopkeepers, trade unions and employee unions have been asked to join the protests.This will be the third such protest in the state in the past two weeks; the first, held in Pipli of Kurukshetra, on September 10 resulted in a clash between police and protesters.“We will ensure that the protests remain peaceful and movement of traffic on the important roads like NH 44 will not get affected,” said Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. He said farmers would be prevented from coming onto the national highway.Farmers in Haryana on Thursday organised a march in villages to create awareness about Bharat Bandh and a week-long campaign their organisations have planned.Farmers’ leader Naresh Tikait said cultivators in western UP on Friday would “aggressively” participate in the Bharat Bandh and will block the movement of traffic in their strongholds. UP police have deployed additional security personnel in the western part of the state to maintain law and order, officials said. BS Rajewal, president of another faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said 185 farmers organisations including those from Rajasthan, Himachal, Telangana, Maharasthra, Madhaya Pradesh and Andhra Pradeseh have agreed to join the protests. Farmers organisations, backed by the Left parties and the Congress, have called for protests across Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Friday. In Telangana, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi is supporting the protests.In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the ruling YSR Congress Party and opposition Telugu Desam Party have both supported the farm bills.Sarampalli Malla Reddy, vice-president of All India Kisan Sabha and president of the Telangana Rythu Sangham, said the farmers’ associations would block the national highways on Friday. “We shall fight against the implementation of the draconian acts,” Telangana agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy said.In Maharashtra, many farmers’ organisations have decided to participate in Bharat Bandh. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghathana, a farmers outfit in Maharashtra, has decided to participate in the protest against agricultural bills but in a different way. its chief Raju Shetti said.“The people are fed up with the lockdown which lasted for months; thus we have decided not to go for a bandh. Instead we will be burning copies of the bills outside tehsildar offices across the state in protest. It will be a day-long agitation,” Shetti said.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stir-to-intensify-as-farm-groups-come-together/story-F68KRocKCQGjwQXs5CEPqL.html
25-09-2020||India||Covid-19 +ve Manish Sisodia has dengue, blood platelets falling: Delhi hospital||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is undergoing Covid-19 treatment in Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) , is suffering from Dengue,his office said in a statement on Thursday. “His blood platelets are also falling,” it also said.Sisodia was admitted to the state-run LNJP hospital on Wednesday. The hospital also said that he was admitted after he complained of fever and low oxygen levels.He is now being shifted to Max Hospital, Saket from LNJP Hospital, the office also said. The deputy chief minister is Covid-19 positive. He was under home-isolation since September 14, when he tested positive for the viral disease.He is the second minister in the Arvind Kejriwal-led cabinet to have tested positive for Covid-19.In June, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain was hospitalised after he tested positive for Covid-19. He was discharged from the hospital on June 26 after being treated for 12 days.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 infections surged to 2,60,623 after registering 3,834 new Covid-19 cases in a day, as per the figures published by the state health department on Thursday. While 36 fresh fatalities took the death toll to 5,123.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-manish-sisodia-has-dengue-blood-platelets-falling-delhi-hospital/story-CLEIrS17kZ6kYyL5wOPNNN.html
