26-09-2020||India||‘No morality, just political compulsion’: Punjab CM on SAD’s exit from NDA||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has termed the Shiromani Akali Dal’s decision to quit the NDA as nothing more than a desperate case of political compulsion for the Badals, who were effectively left with no other option after the BJP’s public criticism of the SAD over the farm bills.Referring to his earlier statement, in which he had pointed out that the NDA would throw the Akalis out if the latter did not leave gracefully, Captain Amarinder said there was no moral high ground involved in this decision of the SAD. He said the Akalis had no choice before them since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had already made it clear that it held SAD responsible for failing to convince the farmers about the goodness of the agriculture bills.“The SAD decision to quit NDA was just the culmination of their saga of lies and deception, which eventually led to them being cornered on the issue of the bills,” the chief minister said in a statement, adding that Sukhbir Singh Badal was virtually caught between the devil and the deep sea after his initial unprincipled stand on the farm ordinances, followed by the sudden U-turn in the face of farmer protests.Also read: Snapping over two-decades-long ties, SAD pulls out of NDA over farm bills The chief minister said with the BJP-led ruling coalition at the Centre exposing the SAD’s web of lies, fabrications and double-speaking, the Akalis could not have done anything except leave the NDA. But far from helping them save face, which they probably hoped to do, the Akalis will now find themselves in a bigger political mess, having been left with no place either in Punjab or at the Centre, he added.Captain Amarinder said if Sukhbir Badal, Harsimrat Badal and other SAD leaders had any shame left, they should admit to their deceitful actions as part of the Union government and should beg the farmers for forgiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-morality-just-political-compulsion-punjab-cm-on-sad-s-exits-from-nda/story-iZzDdBugNor0AXnmhJJMwI.html
26-09-2020||India||Fear of Covid-19 second wave in Maharashtra, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra could experience a second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with more people stepping outdoors, adding to the transmission of the viral infection, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday.In a virtual meeting with ministers and officials, Thackeray underscored the need to follow Covid-19 safety protocols to minimise the spread of the disease, especially by asymptomatic people who pose the risk of infecting others.“In Britain, asymptomatic positive patients are treated at home, but they are checked every day. They are shifted to hospitals if needed. We are allowing asymptomatic patients to remain under home quarantine, but they are moving out and infecting others,” Thackeray said.Thackeray said that there is a fear of a second wave as more people are now outdoors travelling for work and that additionally, there is a danger of senior citizens getting infected at homes by asymptomatic patients.The chief minister of the worst-hit state in the country also added that the state’s strategy should focus on mass awareness, tracing and testing.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally rose to 13,21,176 on Saturday with a single-day addition of 20,419 cases, the state health department said.With 430 more patients succumbing to the infection, the death toll in the state went up to 35,191, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-covid-19-second-wave-in-maharashtra-says-uddhav-thackeray/story-3v6SVckKlBlAKTQeZ0iYgM.html
26-09-2020||India||On last day of monsoon session, no-confidence motion defeated in Karnataka assembly||On the final day of the week-long monsoon session in Karnataka, the no-confidence motion moved by the Congress party was defeated after more than five hours of acrimonious debate by a voice vote. Three days earlier, the Congress had alleged at a press conference that the family members of chief minister BS Yediyurappa were involved in graft, citing a sting operation by a private television channel.Leader of opposition Siddaramaiah led the charge in the assembly and alleged that the government had failed on all fronts including maintaining probity in public life. An angry Yediyurappa responding to Siddaramaiah and KPCC President D K Shivakumar’s charges and said that he would retire from public life if it was proved that either he or any member of his family were involved in corruption. “It is you who have levelled the charges. It is for you to prove the same. I will quit public life if it is proved that any member of my family was involved (in corruption).”The Congress had alleged that members of Yediyurappa’s family including his son Vijayendra who is a VP of the state unit of BJP, son-in-law Virupakashappa Maradi and grandson Shasidhar Maradi had collected Rs 17 crore as a bribe in a tender related to a Rs 666.22 crore Bangalore Development Authority construction project citing an alleged sting done by a local television channel. The contractor has filed a case against the TV channel and Vijayendra has served a defamation notice.Earlier the controversial land reforms and APMC bills were passed in the house after much debate. The opposition had then walked out protesting against the bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-last-day-of-monsoon-session-no-confidence-motion-defeated-in-karnataka-assembly/story-t0XaDUl9HZQih3TSftsrDP.html
26-09-2020||India||‘No longer the NDA envisioned by Vajpayee, Badal sahab’: Harsimrat after SAD’s exit from alliance||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday attacked the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which is led by the BJP, for ignoring the woes of farmers after her party pulled out of the coalition at the Centre over three agriculture sector related bills.“If Pain & Protests of 3 cr punjabis fail to melt the rigid stance of GoI, it’s no longer the #NDA envisioned by Vajpayee ji & Badal sahab. An alliance that turns a deaf ear to its oldest ally & a blind eye to pleas of those who feed the nation is no longer in the interest of Pb,” she tweeted. If Pain & Protests of 3 cr punjabis fail to melt the rigid stance of GoI, it's no longer the #NDA envisioned by Vajpayee ji & Badal sahab. An alliance that turns a deaf ear to its oldest ally & a blind eye to pleas of those who feed the nation is no longer in the interest of Pb. https://t.co/OqU6at00JxThe SAD leader also attached a tweet by Sukhbir Singh Badal, her party’s president and husband, announcing the snapping of ties with the NDA.Also read: Snapping over two-decades-long ties, SAD pulls out of NDA over farm billsHarsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned as the Union minister earlier this month to protest the passage of the farm bills in Parliament.As it pulled out of more than two-decade-old ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party, the SAD accused the NDA of “continued insensitivity to Punjabi and Sikh issues on late Saturday. “Shiromani Akali Dal core committee decides unanimously to pull out of the BJP-led #NDA because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of crops on #MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and #Sikh issues,” Sukhbir Singh Badal tweeted.Sukhbir Singh said that the SAD will continue to stand by its core principles of peace, communal harmony and guard the interest of Punjab and Punjabi in general, and Sikhs and farmers in particular. The decision on farm bills, Badal said, has been taken in consultation with the people of Punjab, especially the party’s workers and farmers.One of NDA’s oldest allies, SAD has been up in arms against the recently passed farms bills by Parliament. The legislations are yet to be signed by the President Ram Nath Kovind to clear the final hurdle. After the President’s assent, the bills will be recognised as laws in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-longer-the-nda-envisioned-by-vajpayee-badal-sahab-harsimrat-after-sad-s-exit-from-alliance/story-R8kTH0dI0UvzRPtR0HSfSM.html
26-09-2020||India||ED sends notice to Bineesh Kodiyeri on money laundering, freezes transaction of assets||Two weeks after questioning him, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday sent a notice to Bineesh Kodiyeri, Kerala CPI(M) secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and frozen all transactions of his properties. Trouble began for Kodiyeri after Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in which he mentioned his name. He said Bineesh Kodiyeri, second son of Balakrishnan, had helped him a lot in his “business venture”. Later his name also figured prominently in the call list of Mohammad. Kodiyeri later admitted that he knew Mohammad and helped him in opening a hotel in Bengaluru but he was not aware of his alleged drug dealings. However, later the ED found that two shell companies floated by Kodiyeri, B Capital Solutions and B Capital Forex, were allegedly involved in many shoddy deals. Floated in 2015, both firms had failed to file tax returns and other formalities and the ED suspects these firms were floated for alleged money laundering and hawala transactions. The ED had questioned him for over 11 hours in Kochi on September 9. The notice sent by the ED deputy director in Kochi stated that no transaction of immovable assets should be carried out without prior permission of the investigating agency. The ED has also asked the state registration department to file details of all his properties. It is also probing his source of income and investments. Besides ED, there are reports that that he may be summoned to Bengaluru by the NCB. During investigation into the gold smuggling case, the ED has found that there is a close link between the smuggling and psychedelic drug cases. The smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg gold was seized from a consignment that came in the name of the United Arab Emirates consular office in Thiruvananthapuram. And the drug surfaced on August 28 after the arrest of Anoop Mohammad and two others in Bengaluru. There are also allegations that Kodiyeri helped Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the gold smuggling case, to flee from the state after the seizure of the gold. Later customs also found that one of those arrested in the gold smuggling case K T Ramees was in touch with drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad. The alleged involvement of the party secretary’s son has invited enough embarrassment for the ruling party and the secretary distanced himself saying, “Parents can’t be held responsible for grown up children’s doings.” Soon after the gold smuggling surfaced, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a detailed central agency probe. Now at least five central agencies are probing the smuggling and related cases-- the letter has put the CM in a tricky situation as most of those interrogated are close to the government-- former IAS officer M Sivsanakar, CM’s former IT fellow Arun Balachandran, state higher education minister KT Jaleel and party secretary’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri are among them. The party’s youth wing Democratic Youth Federation of India said the BJP government at the Centre was using central agencies to weaken a democratically-elected government. But the opposition Congress and BJP say central agencies came only after the CM’s letter. Having taken a big bite, the ruling party is in a position to either swallow or vomit it out, say political observers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-sends-notice-to-bineesh-kodiyeri-on-money-laundering-freezes-transaction-of-assets/story-lew5gfN6jgBupPhyEXPa8I.html
26-09-2020||India||Meeting between Fadnavis and Sanjay Raut sparks speculations, sets tongues wagging||A meeting between BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday sparked speculations in the political circles amid the slugfest between the two parties in the last few months.Both the leaders met at a five-star hotel in suburban Mumbai. The BJP dismissed any political motive to this meeting.The meeting assumes significance as the Sena-led Maharashtra government is facing a lot of heat over Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case and frosty relationship between the ruling party allies as right-wing trolls have targeted chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son Aaditya Thackeray.Also read: SAD quits NDA over farm bills, says party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal“Sanjay Raut wanted to meet Devendra Fadnavis to take his interview for party editorial Saamana, hence it was decided to meet once before the interview. Since Fadnavis wanted the whole interview to be published unedited, it was decided to meet before to decide on the modalities. The interview will take place after Fadnavis returns from Bihar campaigning,” said BJP leader Pravin Darekar.Raut, a strong critic of the BJP, did not react to the media reports on the meeting.Political analysts point that the meeting meets more than an eye. “No one will just meet to discuss an interview. This seems more of a message by the Shiv Sena to its allies, the Congress and the NCP, that it still has good relations with the BJP,” said political commentator Hemant Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meeting-between-fadnavis-and-sanjay-raut-sparks-speculations-sets-tongues-wagging/story-4WYhTq3PV23li64Wj0YKpJ.html
26-09-2020||India||SAD quits NDA over farm bills, says party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) announced late on Saturday it has pulled out of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) coalition at the Centre over the passage of contentious farm bills passed in Parliament earlier this month.Sukhbir Singh Badal, the SAD president, said after a marathon meeting of the party’s core committee, the top decision-making body, that all leaders were unanimous in deciding that they can longer be part of the NDA.“Shiromani Akali Dal core committee decides unanimously to pull out of the BJP-led #NDA because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of crops on #MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and #Sikh issues,” Badal, whose party has been one of the oldest allies of the BJP, tweeted late in the night.Shiromani Akali Dal core committee decides unanimously to pull out of the BJP-led #NDA because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of crops on #MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and #Sikh issues. pic.twitter.com/WZGy7EmfFjThe SAD and the BJP had been allies since 1996 when both forged a pre-poll alliance ahead of the 1997 Punjab assembly elections which brought them to power.The announcement came days after SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned as the minister of food processing industries from the Union Cabinet to protest against the government pushing through the farm bills seeking to liberalise agricultural markets in Parliament. She had resigned on September 17.Also Read: Harsimrat Kaur Badal quits Cabinet over farm billsHowever, while announcing the SAD’s decision to withdraw its only representative from the Narendra Modi Cabinet, Sukhbir Singh Badal had said the party will continue to support the government and the BJP but will oppose “anti-farmer policies”.On Saturday, Sukhbir Singh Badal said the SAD will continue to stand by its core principles of peace, communal harmony and guard the interest of Punjab and Punjabi in general, and Sikhs and farmers in particular. He said the decision has been taken in consultation with the people of Punjab, especially party workers and farmers.Also read: Failed to convince govt about farmers’ grouse: Harsimrat Kaur BadalBadal said the bills on agricultural sector brought by the BJP-led government are “lethal and disastrous” for the already beleaguered farmers. He said the SAD was the oldest ally of the BJP, but the government did not listen to it in honouring the sentiments of farmers.The SAD is the third major NDA ally to pull out of the coalition after the Shiv Sena and the Telegu Desam Party (TDP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-shiromani-akali-dal-quits-nda-decision-was-taken-at-the-party-s-core-committee-meeting/story-8mvSbLPC5QePy7sbG1NSKI.html
26-09-2020||India||Reform in UN need of the hour, says PM Modi; questions global body’s response to Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed frustration at the pace of reform of the United Nations and its response to challenges such as terrorism and the Covid-19 pandemic, and questioned how long India would be kept away from a seat at the high table of the world body. In a pre-recorded video address to the UN General Assembly, Modi listed the reasons why India deserves to be part of the world body’s decision-making structures, including its contributions to peacekeeping missions, its history as a non-colonising power, its green initiatives such as the International Solar Alliance, and its actions to ensure development and security in regions such as the Indo-Pacific. Both Pakistan and China, with which India is currently engaged in a months-long border standoff, found no direct mention in Modi’s 20-minute speech. There was only an indirect reference to China when he noted India’s partnerships aren’t directed against someone, and that its development partnerships come without the malafide intent of “making the partner country dependent or hapless”. ALSO READ | Where is the UN in joint fight against Covid-19 pandemic?: PM Modi at UNGAModi focused largely on the need to reform the UN, saying today’s world and contemporary challenges are significantly different from those of the era when the body was created in 1945. “Therefore, the international community today is faced with a very important question: Whether the character of the institution, constituted in the prevailing circumstances of 1945, is relevant even today?” he asked. “Reform in the responses, in the processes, in the character of the UN is the need of the hour...the people of India have been waiting for a long time for the completion of the reforms...Today, people of India are concerned whether this reform process will ever reach its logical conclusion,” he said. He questioned “how long will India be kept out of the decision-making structures of the UN”, noting it is the world’s largest democracy with more than 18% of the global population. ALSO READ | For how long will India be kept out of UN’s decision-making structure?: PM Modi at UNGAWhile the UN has had several achievements in the past 75 years, there are several instances pointing to a “serious need for introspection”, such as wars, terror attacks and bloodshed. “Were the efforts of the UN sufficient during those times or are these efforts adequate even today?” he said. Turning to the global pandemic, Modi questioned whether the UN’s response had been effective. “Where is the UN in this joint fight against the pandemic? Where is its effective response?” he said. Modi cited historical and contemporary reasons to argue for a bigger role for India at the UN. He pointed to the country’s growing economic and strategic clout and the responsible role it has played in areas ranging from peacekeeping missions to helping other nations during the pandemic. “When we were strong, we did not trouble the world, when we were weak, we did not become a burden on the world,” he said. India’s philosophy of working for the interests of humankind, and not its own interests, has been the driving force of its policies such as “Neighbourhood First”, “Act East”, and “Security and Growth for All in the Region” (SAGAR), and its approach to the Indo-Pacific, he said. Amid the pandemic, India’s pharmaceutical industry sent medicines to more than 150 countries. “As the largest vaccine producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today. India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis,” Modi said. India is moving ahead with phase III clinical trials within the country and its neighbourhood, it will help all countries improve their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines, and its initiative for self-reliance in the post-pandemic era will be a force multiplier for the global economy, he added. Modi also highlighted his government’s domestic initiatives such as promoting women entrepreneurs, paid maternity leave, ensuring rights of trans-gender people, connecting 400 million people to the banking system, freeing 600 million people from open defecation, and providing access to free healthcare services to more than 500 million people. Looking to India’s future role as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, Modi said the experience of the world’s largest democracy will be used for the benefit of the world. “India will always speak in support of peace, security and prosperity. India will not hesitate in raising its voice against the enemies of humanity, human race and human values – terrorism, smuggling of illegal weapons, drugs and money-laundering,” he said. India’s candidature for permanent membership of an expanded and reformed Security Council has been backed by all the current permanent members of the council barring China. India recently called for text-based negotiations within a fixed timeframe for UN reforms that would also ensure proper representation for African nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reform-in-un-need-of-the-hour-says-pm-modi-questions-global-body-s-response-to-covid-19/story-LxEPkUmm6AXNE1zh4qhjQI.html
26-09-2020||India||‘MSP not most preferred mode for farmers in Uttar Pradesh’: NITI Aayog study||Only a fraction of farmers in Uttar Pradesh sells their produce to government agencies taking the Minimum Support Price (MSP) route while the rest prefer to trade in the open market or deal with private agents, sometimes even below MSP for different reasons. MSP is the primary and immediate concern of farmers who are protesting the three agriculture reform bills passed by Parliament recently. They fear that after the enactment of new laws, the Centre may withdraw the safety net (MSP).“We cannot trust verbal commitment on MSP. The government must make a provision in the law itself guaranteeing that MSP will continue,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union state president Rajveer Singh Jadaun.Based on the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, the Central government declares MSP for around two dozen crops before their sowing seasons. The idea behind MSP is to give a guaranteed price and assured market to farmers and protect them from price fluctuations and market imperfections.Also read: Congress steps up attack on govt on labour codes, says it has removed security net for workersAlthough the MSP system is considered an important tool that protects farmers’ interests by assuring a threshold price to them, studies show that only a fraction of crops under MSP are sold to the government in UP where wheat and paddy are two major crops. “It is observed that 28 percent of farmers in Uttar Pradesh sold their grains under MSP, 63 percent sold their grains in the open market and the remaining 8 percent kept for their self-consumption. It has also been observed during the course of study that 82 percent of the farmers reported to have faced various limitations in selling their food grains/crops at MSP,” the NITI Aayog found in its ‘Evaluation Study of Efficacy of Minimum Support Price on Farmers’.The sample study was published in 2016 with a reference period between 2007-08 and 2010-11, covering farmers of 36 districts (six in UP) across 14 states.Ajit Kumar Singh, economist and former director of Giri Institute of Developmental Studies, said it was true that only a fraction of farmers sold their food grains to government agencies, the role of which was very limited.“Our survey revealed that farmers sold more than half of their produce to traders, 28.3 percent to the wholesalers, 25.8 percent to the village traders and only 14 percent to government agencies,” he said, quoting a study commissioned to him by UP’s planning department in 2010.Also read: Former Bihar DGP meets Nitish Kumar, may join JD(U) in run-up to pollsThese figures, according to him, indicated that agricultural marketing in the state was dominated by the traders and the role of government agencies was quite limited.“As a result, the farmers do not get a fair value of their produce,” he said.According to former additional director (food and civil supplies) AK Singh, sometimes farmers prefer to sell their food grain in the open market also because they get price above MSP.“In that sense, MSP is a useful system as sometimes forces private agencies to offer a better price to farmers,” he said.The NITI Aayog study also found that due to the unavailability of instant cash at MSP, small and marginal farmers preferred to sell to traders who made on the spot payments.“It was also found that sometimes, small and marginal farmers resorted to distress sales due to urgent need for money or to repay the loan taken before the sowing season. Some also pointed out that MSP was too low as it did not cover the rising farming costs,” the report said.Singh also found in his study that farmers faced a lot of problems in selling their produce in regulated markets. Nearly three-fourths of the farmers surveyed complained of undue deductions. Often, the produce was declared of lower quality and hence lower price is offered.“More than two-thirds of the farmers surveyed complained about the long distance from the market and lack of transport facilities. Delayed payment and false weighing were the other common problems faced by the farmers. About 20 percent farmers opined that they face problems in marketing as they have small surplus to sell,” he said.According to the NITI Aayog study, the respondents selected in UP villages were in favour of the continuation of MSP which indicated that in spite of all the lacunae in the process of implementation, people, on the whole, had benefitted from the MSP policy.Singh also said that MSP was an important mechanism that insulated farmers against market price fluctuations as well as for the government to buy wheat and paddy for the Public Distribution System (PDS) pool.“I, therefore, feel that farmers’ fears that the government may do away with the PDS system are a little exaggerated,” Singh stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msp-not-most-preferred-mode-for-farmers-in-uttar-pradesh-niti-aayog-study/story-e3ZIGZ1yPTdu1rHoaVPoZJ.html
26-09-2020||India||Mukul Roy, CM Mamata’s former confidante made BJP vice president ahead of crucial Bengal polls||In a major rejig, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Saturday elevated Mukul Roy, a former confidante of Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee to the post of vice president. Political experts see this as a move that could have a far reaching impact on the coming assembly polls in Bengal. BJP president JP Nadda announced the new team of the party’s national office-bearers on Saturday. Later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the new team members on Twitter. “The West Bengal elections are due in March-April next year and along with state president Dilip Ghosh and others, I will try to ensure a BJP victory in Bengal,” Roy said while thanking the party’s top leadership for reposing their trust in him. Roy who had joined the party in 2017, served as the convenor of the Bengal unit of the BJP’s election management committee for the 2018 panchayat polls and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He was the party’s national executive before being appointed as the vice president. This move not only puts to rest the uncertainty that had cropped up over Roy’s role and position in the party but also completes a full circle. His elevation to the post of a national office bearer would come as a breather for a section of the TMC leaders who are inclined to shift to BJP. He also said that if he is made the convenor of the poll management committee during the 2021 elections, he would have a greater say and be in a more comfortable position in choosing candidates and deciding poll strategies. Another former TMC lawmaker Anupam Hazra has also been promoted to the rank of a national secretary. He contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls with a BJP ticket from the prestigious Jadavpur seat in south Kolkata but lost to TMC’s Mimi Chakraborty. Hazra was the TMC MP from Bolpur before joining the BJP. BJP MP from Darjeeling Raju Bista was appointed the national spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-roy-cm-mamata-s-former-confidante-made-bjp-vice-president-ahead-of-crucial-bengal-polls/story-xCNQeSFjMxj1kgAW5ftTvN.html
26-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut must be booked over anti-farmer tweet: Lawyer files complaint in Karnataka court||A lawyer has filed a complaint against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut in a local court in Karnataka’s Tumkur seeking the registration of a first information report (FIR) for her tweet on farmers opposing the farm bills, reports said on Saturday.According to LiveLaw, advocate Ramesh Naik filed the complaint over Ranaut’s September 21 message on her Twitter account. Naik in his plea, according to Live Law, alleges that Ranaut’s tweet has a clear intention to injure the people who are opposing the farm bills, “wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riots and promote the culture of non-violence in the young minds of society.”“....this posting on twitter account of the accused posted by her may lead to collision between the people of different group believe in different ideology. It seems that the government authorities have turned a blind eye to the same and does not have any established measures or rules and guidelines to control and regulate the same. On the bare perusal of all these content it is more than evident that the government is least bothered and as usual waiting for some dangerous consequences to happen before taking some appropriate actions,” he said, according to Bar and Bench. People who spread misinformation and rumours about CAA that caused riots are the same people who are now spreading misinformations about Farmers bill and causing terror in the nation, they are terrorists. You very well know what I said but simply like to spread misinformation 🙂 https://t.co/oAnBTX0DrbNaik also said he had sent an e-mail complaint on September 22 to the Karnataka’s director general of police (DGP) and another senior official regarding the tweet. However, no action was taken on the same, said Bar and Bench.Also read | Glided like snakes, now silent: Sena slams BJP’s silence on Kangana’s ‘terrorist’ remarkHe has sought the registration of FIR for the offences under Sections 153A, 504, 108 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the actor. प्रधानमंत्री जी कोई सो रहा हो उसे जगाया जा सकता है, जिसे ग़लतफ़हमी हो उसे समझाया जा सकता है मगर जो सोने की ऐक्टिंग करे, नासमझने की ऐक्टिंग करे उसे आपके समझाने से क्या फ़र्क़ पड़ेगा? ये वही आतंकी हैं CAA से एक भी इंसान की सिटिज़ेन्शिप नहीं गयी मगर इन्होंने ख़ून की नदियाँ बहा दी. https://t.co/ni4G6pMmc3Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, in a series of tweets, reassured farmers that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the government procurement of farmers’ produce will continue after the bills were passed by the Rajya Sabha. Ranaut had picked up one of PM’s tweets, described the protesters as “the same terrorists who indulged in bloodshed even though no countryman lost citizenship due to CAA”.The actor later clarified that she did not call farmers terrorists and dared anybody to prove it. “Like Lord Krishna has Narayani Army, similarly Pappu has his Champu army that knows only to fight on the basis of rumours. This is my original tweet, if somebody can prove that I called farmers terrorists then I will apologize and leave Twitter forever,” she tweeted in Hindi on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-must-be-booked-over-anti-farmer-tweet-lawyer-files-complaint-in-karnataka-court/story-JguuZjyiP9ZAeaCjMWOI0I.html
26-09-2020||India||Dropped in reshuffle, Bengal BJP leader Rahul Sinha says defectors from TMC favoured||BJP leader from West Bengal Rahul Sinha on Saturday expressed his displeasure after he was dropped as the national secretary after a reshuffle of the party’s central team.The Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda announced the new team of the party’s national office-bearers and two former Trinamool Congress leaders were given prominent posts. Mukul Roy, a former confidante of Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, was given the post of a vice president. Another former TMC lawmaker Anupam Hazra was also promoted as a national secretary.Sinha posted two videos on Twitter in English and Hindi citing his disapproval over defectors from Trinamool Congress being assigned central leadership in the BJP. However, he did not name anyone.“Served @BJP4India for 40 Years as the Warrior and today just to include @AITCofficial Leaders, I have been asked to Left the Post of the Party,” Sinha tweeted along with a video.Served @BJP4India for 40 Years as the Warrior and today just to include @AITCofficial Leaders, I have been asked to Left the Post of the Party.@narendramodi @BJP4Bengal pic.twitter.com/yN1Zok8BdV“For 40 years, I have served BJP. I have always been a soldier for the party since its inception. But a Trinamool leader walks in and I have to abandon my post. This is sad and unfortunate,” Sinha said in the 50-second video.“I shall refrain from talking about how BJP has rewarded me at this point in time. Over the course of the next 10-12 days, I will speak about today’s events and will also inform you about the step I am going to take,” he added.The elevations of Roy and Hazra comes ahead of the assembly elections due in March-April next year in West Bengal and experts say the move could have a far-reaching impact on the state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dropped-from-top-party-post-in-favour-of-tmc-defectors-bjp-bengal-leader-rahul-sinha-on-rejig/story-mHFyt0AAdDVcQhBHOGHZPN.html
26-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: For Bihar polls, Grand Alliance’s seat-sharing deal reaches final stage and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bihar polls: Grand Alliance’s seat-sharing deal in final stages; RJD decides to contest 150With the announcement of the three-phase assembly polls in Bihar, the Grand Alliance (GA) - comprising RJD, Congress, Left parties and smaller allies - is now inching closer to finalising a seat-sharing deal with talks now veering on seat-to-seat adjustment among the partners.Read more.Where is the UN in joint fight against Covid-19 pandemic?: PM Modi at UNGAPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday fervently pressed the UN general assembly to speed up reforms of its processes and organs to reflect contemporary realities and reiterated India’s case for a permanent membership of the Security Council demanding to know how long it would be “kept out of the decision-making structures” of the world body.Read more. Internet suspended, section 144 imposed in four Rajasthan districts after violent protestsInternet was suspended in four tribal districts of southern Rajasthan on Saturday and section 144 was imposed, prohibiting assembly of more than five people, following violent protests in Dungarpur district by tribal youth over teacher recruitment examination.Read more. Congress steps up attack on govt on labour codes, says it has removed security net for workersThe Congress on Saturday upped the ante against the government over the three labour codes passed by Parliament on Wednesday, alleging that the legislations have weakened trade unions and removed the security net for workers.Read more. Pakistan opens heavy fire in Rajouri sector of Jammu and KashmirPakistani troops on Saturday violated the ceasefire agreement by resorting to firing and heavy shelling on forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesman said.Read more. CSK CEO reveals whether Suresh Raina will return to play IPL 2020 at some point this seasonThe absence of Suresh Raina has been felt as Chennai Super Kings slumped to their second defeat in two games. After getting their IPL 2020 campaign off on a promising note with a win against Mumbai Indians, CSK suffered back to back defeats to Rajasthan Royals and later Delhi Capitals on Friday. Read more.Google Pixel 5: Here’s everything we know about Google’s upcoming smartphone so farGoogle will be hosting a special event on September 30. At its upcoming event, the company is expected to launch its next generation premium Pixel 5 smartphone alongside a Nest smartspeaker and a new Chromecast. Ahead of the launch, numerous reports have detailed what we should expect from the Pixel 4 successor when it launches later this month.Read more.Watch: Lilly Singh’s relatable video on ‘getting compared to cousins’ is too hilarious to missMaking fans relate hands down with the “frustrating moment”, Sketchy Times host Lilly Singh shared a throwback video on “getting compared to cousins” which hilariously enough, still stands the test of time.Read more.Woman’s hoop and shuffle dance has netizens hooked. WatchEvery now and then, we come across such videos which capture people showcasing their amazing skills. This dance video is the perfect example of that. Posted on Instagram, the clip is something that will make you want to get up from your chair and shake a leg.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-for-bihar-polls-grand-alliance-s-seat-sharing-deal-reaches-final-stage-and-all-the-latest-news/story-UMM3a2F3IUl9Pm3ijKzeYI.html
26-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand BJP to go among farmers to explain ‘benefits’ of agri bills||Amid the ongoing protests by farmers and Opposition parties against the agriculture bills recently passed by the Parliament, Uttarakhand BJP will go among the farmers of the state through its Kisan Morcha to “explain its benefits”. The party also accused Congress of misleading the farmers.The decision was shared by party state president Bansidhar Bhagat in a virtual press conference at party headquarters in Dehradun on Saturday.“We will go among the farmers through our Kisan Morcha to explain them the three bills and make them aware of their benefits. The NDA government, under PM Narendra Modi, is the first to think about the welfare of the farmers and these bills are in regard to that only,” said Bhagat. He added that the party is likely to start the Kisan Morcha campaign from October first week.Describing the bills as “extremely beneficial” for the country’s farmers, Bhagat lashed out at the Congress for misleading the farmers.Also read: Five factors which could shape the Bihar poll results“Congress has never thought of the farmers’ welfare. Now when PM Modi and our Union agricultural minister has thought to empower them, it is spreading misconceptions and rumours about the three bills among the farmers,” he said.Bhagat, while assuring the farmers added, “The farmers need not worry and should be assured that PM Modi has worked in their favour only and not against them as claimed by the Opposition.”“It is ridiculous! The Congress had included the promises on the same in the 2019 elections manifesto and when our government has passed bills on them they are protesting. It is just a political gimmick,” he said.Meanwhile, the Congress said, “The NDA government has passed the anti-farmers bills by killing the democracy.”Pritam Singh, Congress state president said, “The NDA government passed the three bills under the uncontrolled addiction of power without thinking about the farmers. The manner in which it was passed in Rajya Sabha, it was the strangling of all Parliamentary procedures.”Singh said, “If Bhagat is accusing us of misleading the farmers then they should first explain why a minister from their ally Akali Dal resigned against those bills? He is saying that the party will explain the bills to farmers when they failed to do the same to their allies only.”Also read: Former Bihar DGP meets Nitish Kumar, may join JD(U) in run-up to pollsSingh lashed out at the BJP accusing it of working against the small farmers of the country.“The bills talk of opening the market for farmers but is it possible that a small farmer from the hills of Uttarakhand will sell his produce in Tamil Nadu or Maharashtra? Also, if it’s so beneficial for the farmers then why didn’t they add the provision of continuing the MSP in the bills?” he said.“Congress will march towards the Governor house against these agriculture bills on September 28 and continue to protest against them,” Singh stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-bjp-to-go-among-farmers-on-agri-bills-to-explain-benefits/story-yLc7svplCtY4iQMkBonYPI.html
26-09-2020||India||Full text of PM Modi’s address at 75th UNGA session 2020||From asking pointed questions on reforms by the United Nations to hailing India’s Covid-19 vaccine production, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday covered domestic and international issues during his speech at the United Nations.PM Modi, in his 22-minute long address in Hindi during the general debate of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly, made a stringent case for reforms at the global body and also sought for a larger share of India’s representation in decision-making at the United Nations.“For how long will India be kept out of the decision-making structures of the United Nations? How long would a country have to wait particularly when the transformational changes happening in that country affect a large part of the world?” he asked in his pre-recorded video statement.Also read | For how long will India be kept out of UN’s decision-making structure?: PM Modi at UNGA Here is the full text of PM Modi’s address:Respected President of the General Assembly. On behalf of over 1.3 billion people of India. I would like to congratulate every member country. on the 75th anniversary of the United Nations. India is proud of the fact that it is one of the founding members of the United Nations. On this historic occasion, I have come to this global platform to share the sentiments of 1.3 billion people of India.Your ExcellencyThe world of 1945 was significantly different from today’s world. The global situation, sources-resources, problems-solutions; all were quite different. And as a result the form and the composition of the institution, established with the aim of global welfare, were in accordance with the prevailing situation of those times. Today we are in a completely different era. In 21st century, The requirements and challenges of our present as well as our future are vastly different from those of the past. Therefore, the international community today is faced with a very important question: Whether the character of the institution, constituted in the prevailing circumstances of 1945, is relevant even today? If century changes and we don’t, then strength to bring changes becomes weak. If we assess the last 75 years of the United Nations, we see several achievementsBut at the same time, there are also several instances that point to a serious need for introspection for the United Nations. One could say that we have successfully avoided a third world war, but we cannot deny that there have been several wars and many civil wars. Several terrorist attacks shook the world and there have been bloodsheds. The people who lost their lives in these wars and attacks were human beings, like you and me. Thousands of children, who would have otherwise enriched this world, left us prematurely. So many people lost their life savings and became homeless refugees. Were the efforts of the United Nations sufficient during those times or are these efforts adequate even today? The whole world is fighting the global pandemic of Corona for the last 8-9 months. Where is the United Nations in this joint fight against the pandemic? Where is its effective response?Your ExcellencyReform in the responses, in the processes, in the character of the United Nations is the need of the hour. It is a fact that the faith and respect that the United Nations enjoys in India are unparalleled. But it is also true that the people of India have been waiting for a long time for the completion of the reforms of the United Nations. Today, people of India are concerned whether this reform-process will ever reach its logical conclusion?For how long will India be kept out of the decision-making structures of the United Nations? A country, which is the largest democracy of the world, A country with more than 18% of the world population, A country, which has hundreds of languages, hundreds of dialects, many sects, many ideologies, A country, which was a leading global economy for centuries and also one which has seen hundreds of years of foreign rule.Your ExcellencyWhen we were strong, we did not trouble the world; when we were weak, we did not become a burden on the world.Your ExcellencyHow long would a country have to wait particularly when the changes happening in that country affect a large part of the world?Your ExcellencyThe ideals on which the United Nations was founded are quite similar to that of India and not different from its own fundamental philosophy. The words Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam, the whole world is a family, have often reverberated in this hall of the United Nations. We treat the whole world as one family. It is part of our culture, character and thinking. In the United Nations too, India has always given priority to the welfare of the whole world. India is the country, which sent its brave soldiers to about 50 peacekeeping missions. India is the country that has lost the maximum number of its brave soldiers in the course of establishing peace. Today every Indian, while seeing the contribution of India in the United Nations, aspires for India’s expanded role in the United Nations.Respected ChairmanIt was India that initiated the ‘International Day of Non-Violence’ on 02 October and ‘International Day of Yoga’ on 21 June. Similarly, the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure and the International Solar Alliance are realities today due to efforts of India. India has always thought about the interests of the whole humankind and not about its own vested interests. This philosophy has always been the driving force of India’s policies. One can see the glimpses of this philosophy in India’s Neighbourhood First Policy to our Act East Policy, in the thought of Security and Growth for All in the Region, and in our approach towards the Indo Pacific region. India’s partnerships are also guided by this very principle. Any gesture of friendship by India towards one country is not against someone else. When India strengthens its development partnership, it is not with any malafide intent of making the partner country dependent or hapless. We have never hesitated from sharing experiences of our development.Your ExcellencyEven during these very difficult times of a raging pandemic, the pharma industry of India has sent essential medicines to more than 150 countries. As the largest vaccine producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today, India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis. We are moving ahead with phase 3 clinical trials in India and in our neighbourhood. India will also help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of Vaccines.Your ExcellencyFrom January next year, India will also fulfil its responsibility as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. I express my gratitude to all our fellow countries who have bestowed this trust upon India. We will use the prestige and experience of the largest democracy for the benefit of the whole world. Our path goes from human welfare to the welfare of the World. India will always speak in support of peace, security and prosperity. India will not hesitate in raising its voice against the enemies of humanity, human race and human values – terrorism, smuggling of illegal weapons, drugs and money-laundering. India’s cultural heritage, tradition, thousands of years of experience will always stand in good stead for the developing countries. India’s experiences, India’s developmental journey with its ups and downs will strengthen the way towards world welfare.Your ExcellencyIn the past few years, following the mantra of Reform-Perform-Transform, India has made great efforts to bring about transformation in the lives of millions of its citizens. These experiences are as useful for many countries of the world as they are for us. Connecting 400 million people to banking system in just 4-5 years was not an easy task. But India proved that it can be done. It was not easy to free 600 million people from Open Defecation in 4-5 years. But India achieved it. It was not easy to provide access to free health care services, within 2-3 years, to more than 500 million people. But India was able to do this. Today, India is one of the leaders in Digital Transactions. Today, India is ensuring empowerment and transparency by providing Digital Access to its millions of citizens. Today, India is implementing a huge campaign for tuberculosis-free India by 2025. Today, India is implementing a programme for providing piped drinking water to 150 million rural households. Recently, India has initiated a huge project for connecting its 6 Lakh villages with broadband optical fibre.Your ExcellencyWe are moving forward with the vision of “Self-reliant India” in the changed circumstances of the post Pandemic era. A Self-reliant India will also be a Force Multiplier for the Global Economy. Today, it is also being ensured that there is no discrimination in extending the benefits of all the schemes to every citizen of the country. Large scale efforts are being made in India to promote Women Enterprise and Leadership. Indian women, today, are the biggest beneficiaries of the largest Micro Financing Scheme of the world. India is one of those countries where women are provided Paid Maternity Leave of 26 weeks. The rights of Transgenders are also being secured through necessary Legal reforms.Your ExcellencyIn its journey towards progress, India wants to learn from the world as well as share its own experiences with the world. I am confident that on the occasion of its 75th anniversary, the United Nations and its member countries will endeavour with a strong commitment to maintain the relevance of this great institution. Stability in the United nations and empowerment of the United Nations are essential for the welfare of the world. On the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the United Nations, let us once again pledge to dedicate ourselves for the welfare of the world.Thank you||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-text-of-pm-modi-s-address-at-75th-unga-session-2020/story-8sOpyLIDesleUtIhRYdIWJ.html
26-09-2020||India||PM Modi questions United Nations’ efforts at UNGA, calls for ‘serious introspection’: All you need to know||Addressing the United Nations General Assembly for the general debate in the 75th session of the General Assembly, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for serious introspection of issues by the United Nations. Here is what PM Narendra Modi said in his address:- India is very proud that it is one of the founding countries of the United Nations. On this historic occasion today, I have come to share with you all the feelings of 130 crore people of India on this global platform.WATCH | PM Modi’s veiled terror jibe at Pak, China at UNGA; seeks UNSC seat: Full speech- If we don’t change with changing times, then the drive for change weakens. If we assess the achievements of UN in the last 75 years, there are several of them. But at the same time, there are several examples of that asks the organization to introspect itself. - Today, there is a big question in front of the whole world community, is the form of the institution that was formed under the circumstances then relevant even today?Also read | For how long will India be kept out of UN’s decision-making structure?: PM Modi at UNGA- If we evaluate the achievements of the United Nations in the last 75 years, many achievements are seen.There are also many examples, which raise the need for serious introspection in front of the United Nations.- It is true that the Third World War did not happen to say, but it cannot be denied that there have been many wars, many civil wars. How many terror attacks kept the rivers of blood flowing.- In these wars and attacks, the people who were killed were humans like us. Millions of innocent children who had to dominate the world left the world. At that time and even today, were the efforts of the United Nations sufficient?- The people of India have been waiting for a long time for the UN reforms to be completed. People of India are worried whether this process will ever reach the logical end. How long India will be kept separate from the decision making structures of the United Nations.- When we were strong, we did not trouble the world. When we were weak, we did not become a burden on the world. How long would a country have to wait particularly when the changes happening in that country affect a large part of the world? - It is pertinent for the world community to pause and reflect today on the current form and relevance of the UN. 75 years of its existence have had many high points but many issues compel us to introspect collectively. - In the UN, India has always given priority to the welfare of the world. India is the country that sent its brave soldiers to 50 peacekeeping missions.- When India extends the hand of friendship to someone, it is not against any third country. When India strengthens the development partnership, there is no thought of forcing a partner country behind it. We never lag behind in sharing experiences from our development journey.- Today, every Indian while seeing the contribution of India at the UN, aspires for India’s expanded role at the UN. India had initiated the ‘International Day of Non-violence’ on 2nd October and ‘International Day of Yoga’ on 21st June.- India has always thought about the interest of the entire human race. India’s policies have always been inspired by this philosophy, not about its vested interests. In this difficult time of Pandemic, India’s pharmaceutical industry has sent essential medicines to more than 150 countries.- Today, as the world’s largest vaccine producing country, I want to give another assurance to the global community. India’s Vaccine Production and Vaccine Delivery capability will serve to lift the entire humanity out of this crisis.- Large scale efforts are being made in India to promote women enterprise & leadership. Indian women are the biggest beneficiaries of the largest micro-financing scheme in the world. India is one of those countries that provide paid maternity leave of 26 leaves to women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-questions-united-nations-efforts-at-unga-says-need-for-serious-introspection/story-WtuetOl6DwuufXxAdKnFLI.html
26-09-2020||India||Internet suspended, section 144 imposed in four Rajasthan districts after violent protests||Internet was suspended in four tribal districts of southern Rajasthan on Saturday and section 144 was imposed, prohibiting assembly of more than five people, following violent protests in Dungarpur district by tribal youth over teacher recruitment examination. On Thursday, hundreds of tribal youths blocked national highway No. 8 in Dungarpur before setting vehicles on fire and injuring several policemen. The protesters demanded filling of 1,167 unreserved posts of government teachers with ST candidates. In the last three days, six trucks, five buses, four police vehicles, nine cars, nine tempos and one motorcycle have been torched. More than 1,000 rubber bullets were fired to bring the situation under control.As tension continued in Dungarpur, three neighbouring districts, Udaipur, Banswara and Pratapgarh, suspended internet in selected areas and imposed prohibitory orders on Saturday.A stretch of the national highway is still under the control of the tribal youths.Also read: CBI chargesheet says Tuticorin cops tortured father, son ‘whole night’Udaipur Range Inspector General Binita Thakur said a control room had been set up at the Kherwara police station where seven Indian Police Service (IPS) officers are camping to keep the situation under control. These officers are Thakur, ATS DIG Anshuman Bhomia, Jaipur Rural SP Shankar Dutt Sharma, Jodhpur DCP headquarters Kaluram Rawat, Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargav, Udaipur SP Kailash Bishnoi and Dungarpur SP Jai Yadav.“So far around 550 people have been booked and 34 persons have been arrested,” said Thakur. Also, 5,000 policemen have been deployed in tribal areas of Udaipur, Pratapgarh, Banswara and Dungarpur districts.She said between the midnight of Friday and early Saturday morning, eight trucks were torched in Kakra Doongri area on the national highway. Protesters also vandalised some shops.In Udaipur, district collector Chetan Deora imposed section 144 to prohibit any unlawful assembly. The order is applicable in all revenue borders of the district, he said. “Strict action will also be taken against the individuals who spread provocatory messages on social media,” the order read. Internet services have been suspended in Rishabhdeo and Kherwara areas of the district.In Banswara, district collector Ankit Kumar Singh said in an order that this has been done as the tension continued to prevail for the third consecutive day in Dungarpur. Internet services have been also banned in the entire district other than Choti Sarwan and Banswara city.In Pratapgarh district also section 144 has been imposed and internet service has been suspended in Arnod, Peepalkhoont and Dhariyawad towns.Following the vandalism on early Saturday morning, some businessmen and traders staged a protest outside Kherwara police station and blamed the government for being a mute spectator to violence.Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLA from Chorasi (Dungarpur) Rajkumar Roat said peaceful protest was going on for the last 18 days. The government also scheduled a meeting on September 14 with the protesters but called it off later. The meeting was rescheduled on September 24 but was cancelled again. “People became aggressive after the meeting was cancelled the second time,” he said.Around 30 percent of the people came down to the highway but the police charged towards them; then the rest joined as well. He said arson and stone-pelting took place, unfortunately, both police and youth worked similarly.The police set fire to their bikes and even barged into houses from Bicchiwada to Kherwada and damaged properties, the MLA said.“The BTP submitted the demand for filling the vacant posts and the CM had agreed when we extended our support in Rajya Sabha polls. This agitation is going since December 2019. The government should not have taken it lightly. Whatever happened is unfortunate,” he said.Meanwhile, a meeting was held between the representatives of government, tribal leaders of the regions and representatives of the candidates at Parsad village in Udaipur district which went inconclusive. The meeting started at around 4 pm and concluded around 6 pm.While the meeting was on, six vehicles were torched by the protestors in Kherwara because of which Udaipur district collector Chetan Deora and Udaipur divisional commissioner Vikas Bhale had to leave the meeting in between, an official said.During the meeting, SC/ST development minister Arjun Singh Bamaniya, state youth Congress president Ganesh Gogra, member of working committee of CWC Raghuveer Singh Meena, BTP Leader Rajkumar Roat, Sagwara MLA Ramprasad Dindore, Kanti Bhai Roat of BTP, 10 candidates and few Congress activists and BTP party workers were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-suspended-section-144-imposed-in-four-rajasthan-districts-after-violent-protest/story-8gInP2Gx4W95e4nHCfq5YM.html
26-09-2020||India||Congress steps up attack on govt on labour codes, says it has removed security net for workers||The Congress on Saturday upped the ante against the government over the three labour codes passed by Parliament on Wednesday, alleging that the legislations have weakened trade unions and removed the security net for workers. Senior Congress leader and former Union labour minister Mallikarjun Kharge told reporters that the government’s claim that the laws will increase ease of doing business is false. “They have weakened trade unions and finished the security and safety for workers. Powers of states have been usurped by the Central government. These codes are anti-worker, anti-labourer and it is important to agitate against them,” he said, addressing a virtual press conference. Parliament on Wednesday approved the three labour codes that will remove impediments to winding up of companies and allow firing of staff without government permission in firms with up to 300 workers from the existing 100. “All parties must oppose these laws. The Modi government only listens to corporates and after these laws it will not listen to trade unions,” Kharge said. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged that this government is “betraying the interests” of different sections one after another. As the issue of injustice to farmers was ongoing, this government betrayed workers, just like farmers, he claimed. “The government made the excuse while bringing in the new labour laws there will be ease of doing business and it will be beneficial for all. But there is no protection and relief for workers in these laws,” Khera said. He said there is no provision for migrant workers in these legislations despite the country witnessing the hardships they faced during the lockdown. “It is in the DNA of the government to set aside democratic principles and force its decisions on the people,” Khera alleged. Addressing the reporters, Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) president G Sanjeeva Reddy said they will protest and struggle against these “unjust, anti-labour and anti-trade union” laws. “These laws have been brought for strengthening and helping the capitalists and corporate not the workers. Under the new provisions, the workers will not be able to go on strike or raise their voice against unjust practices,” he said. Reddy said there was protection for workers earlier as permission was needed to lay off more than 100 workers, but now that “security net” is gone with the increase in threshold to 300. “About 2-3 crore small scale industries have been excluded from this protection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-steps-up-attack-on-govt-on-labour-codes-says-it-has-removed-security-net-for-workers/story-LtMsa9gm6ZpJymyGfgGxEM.html
26-09-2020||India||For how long will India be kept out of UN’s decision-making structure?: PM Modi at UNGA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made a strong pitch for India’s inclusion as a permanent member of United Nations Security Council (UNSC) as he asked how long will his country be “kept out of the decision-making structures” of the global body.The Prime Minister said every Indian aspires for India’s expanded role in the United Nations as they see the country’s contribution while addressing the virtual 75th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). His address in Hindi was a pre-recorded video statement which was broadcast at the UNGA hall in New York as it is being conducted mostly virtually amid the coronavirus pandemic.WATCH | PM Modi’s veiled terror jibe at Pak, China at UNGA; seeks UNSC seat: Full speech “Today, the people of India are concerned whether this reform process will ever reach its logical conclusion. For how long will India be kept out of the decision-making structures of the United Nations?” PM Modi asked at UNGA.It is a fact that the faith and respect that the UN enjoys among the 1.3 billion people in India is unparalleled, he pointed out.“When we were strong, we were never a threat to the world. When we were weak, we never become a burden on the world. How long would a country have to wait particularly when the transformational changes happening in that country affect a large part of the world?” he said in his nearly 22-minute speech.“This is a country, which has hundreds of languages, hundreds of dialects, many sects and many ideologies. This is a country, which was a leading global economy for centuries and also one which has endured hundreds of years of foreign rule. How long would a country have to wait particularly when the transformational changes happening in that country affect a large part of the world?” he asked.He also referred to India’s contributions to about 50 UN peace missions over the decades.“India has always given priority to the welfare of the whole world. India is the country, which sent its brave soldiers to about 50 peacekeeping missions the world over to keep the peace. India is that country, which in the course of maintaining peace, has lost the maximum number of its brave soldiers Today every Indian, while seeing the contribution of India in the United Nations, aspires for India’s expanded role in the United Nations,” he said.Barring China, all other four permanent members of the UNSC have expressed support for India’s candidature for a permanent seat in the security council.PM Modi’s speech came ahead of India taking a seat at the powerful UN Security Council as an elected non-permanent member for two years from January 1, 2021. India will focus on the “5 S approach” of samman (respect), samvad (dialogue), sahyog (cooperation), shanti (peace) and samriddhi (prosperity) during its stint as a non-permanent member of the Security Council.Need for changeHe also said that the United Nations need to change its reactions, arrangements and appearance to stay relevant. “Today we are in a different era all together... There is a big question in front of the whole world community that whether the institution that was formed under the circumstances of that time is still relevant today,” PM Modi said during his address.“If we evaluate the achievements of the United Nations in the last 75 years, many achievements are seen. There are also many examples, which raise the need for serious introspection in front of the United Nations,” Modi said. “Reform in the responses, processes and in the very character of the UN is the need of the hour,” he added.He also said India is proud to be one of the founding members of the global body.Pakistan’s responsePM Modi’s speech came after his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan’s reference to Kashmir and criticism of the Indian government in his address to the UN General Assembly. Khan had on Friday made repeated references to India and the Kashmir issue in a pre-recorded video statement. The Pakistani leader had called on the world community to prosecute Indian personnel allegedly involved in “state terrorism” and “crimes against humanity” in Jammu and Kashmir.India had dismissed Khan’s reference, saying the neighbouring country’s unrelenting support to terrorism poses a threat to global security. The Indian delegate present in the General Assembly, Mijito Vinito, first secretary at the Indian mission to the UN, had walked out as Khan’s video statement was being played.India subsequently exercised its “right of reply” to respond to Khan’s speech. “Let me assert here loud and clear: The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral and inalienable part of India. The rules and legislation brought in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir are strictly internal affairs of India,” Vinito, said.“The only dispute left in Kashmir relates to that part of Kashmir that is still under illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to vacate all those areas that it is in illegal occupation of,” Vinito, a diplomat from the 2010 batch of the Indian Foreign Service (IFS), said. Vinito said Khan’s address marked a “new low” on the 75th anniversary of the UN.The theme of the debate for 2020 is - ‘The Future We Want, the UN We Need: Reaffirming our Collective Commitment to Multilateralism.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-the-united-nations-general-assembly/story-ih3AjqRVqJabeEOXzYGUbJ.html
26-09-2020||India||WATCH: PM Modi addresses 75th session of United Nations General Assembly||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday addressed the United Nations General Assembly for the general debate in the 75th session of the General Assembly.The theme of the 75th UNGA is “The future we want, the United Nations we need, reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism - confronting the Covid-19 through effective multilateral action’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-to-address-75th-session-of-united-nations-general-assembly/story-U4sSNo0ravwSALUwCzbaaL.html
26-09-2020||India||Pakistan opens heavy fire in Rajouri sector of Jammu and Kashmir||Pakistani troops on Saturday violated the ceasefire agreement by resorting to firing and heavy shelling on forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesman said.The shelling and firing from across the border in Nowshera sector was “unprovoked” and drew a befitting retaliation by the Indian Army, the spokesman said.“At about 11.15 am, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in Nowshera,” the spokesman said.Also read: CBI chargesheet says Tuticorin cops tortured father, son ‘whole night’The cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received. However, there was no immediate report of any casualty on the Indian side, he added.Pakistan, of late, has also started to push arms, ammunition, narcotics and hawala money into Jammu and Kashmir with the help of drones. Since January 26, at least six such attempts have been made by Pakistan in Jammu region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-opens-heavy-fire-in-rajouri-sector-of-jammu-and-kashmir/story-sS76DsDc1L5i98Fn9kS67M.html
26-09-2020||India||PM Modi wishes new members of BJP central team. Check full list here.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated the members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who have been assigned various roles in its central team, urging them to work hard and “empower the poor and marginalised”.“Congratulations & best wishes to the new team. I’m confident they’ll uphold the glorious tradition of our Party of serving India’s people selflessly & with dedication. May they work hard to empower the poor & marginalised,” PM Modi tweeted soon after the BJP released the list.BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda’s announcement of the party’s new central team came nine months after he was named as its new chief.The BJP has now removed Ram Madhav and Murlidhar Rao as general secretaries of the party. Former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje, West Bengal leader Mukul Roy, former Jharkhand chief minister Raghubar Das, members of Parliament Rekha Verma, Annapurna Devi and Bharatiben Shiyal along with former Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh have been appointed to the position of national vice-presidents.Karnataka MP Tejasvi Surya will lead the Yuva Morcha and DK Laxman will head the OBC wing of the BJP after the reshuffle.Here is the full list of the BJP members who have been assigned new roles:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-new-members-of-bjp-central-team-check-full-list-here/story-ooP507MbzKQOp4gFgoCP2M.html
26-09-2020||India||‘Does the govt have Rs 80,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccines?’: SII’s Adar Poonawalla asks||Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of the Serum Institute of India which is conducting trials of Covid-19 vaccine candidates, on Saturday raised questions regarding the country’s plan to produce and distribute shots against the coronavirus disease.A phase III trial of the vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and British pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca is underway in India as part of a production and testing deal with Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII).“Quick question: will the Government of India have 80,000 crores available over the next one year? Because that is what the Ministry of Health needs to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India. This is the next concerning challenge we need to tackle,” Poonawalla tweeted. Quick question; will the government of India have 80,000 crores available, over the next one year? Because that's what @MoHFW_INDIA needs, to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India. This is the next concerning challenge we need to tackle. @PMOIndia“I ask this question, because we need to plan and guide, vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution,” he said.I ask this question, because we need to plan and guide, vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution.Serum Institute, the world’s largest vaccine maker by the number of doses produced, is working on several vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease - including potentially mass-producing the one from AstraZeneca-Oxford University that has garnered global headlines - as well as developing its own.US biotech firm Codagenix Inc said on Tuesday that Serum Institute of India has started manufacturing its potential Covid-19 vaccine and it expects to begin the early-stage human trial of the vaccine by the end of 2020 in the UK. Serum Institute will develop Codagenix’s CDX-005, which is delivered intranasally rather than via injection.Three more India-made Covid-19 vaccines are set to enter human trials, according to an official of the Center’s department of biotechnology that is supporting the development of several experimental coronavirus vaccines in the country.The new vaccine candidates are from Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, Biological E and Bharat Biotech, which has developed one of the two already in clinical trials. The fifth Indian vaccine candidate to clear preclinical phases is by Zydus Cadila.More than 150 potential vaccines are being developed and tested globally, with 38 in human trials, and candidates from Moderna Inc, Pfizer Inc and AstraZeneca Plc are already in late-stage trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-the-govt-have-rs-80-000-crore-for-covid-19-vaccines-sii-s-adar-poonawalla-asks/story-1q2ryAX6W9hDMq4YXNSGAM.html
26-09-2020||India||Economist Isher Ahluwalia passes away after battling cancer||Well-known economist and Padma Bhushan awardee Isher Judge Ahluwalia died on Saturday after battling brain cancer for nearly a year.She was married to Montek Singh Ahluwalia, a former Deputy Chairperson of the Planning Commission. She would have turned 75 on October 1. The couple has two sons -- Pavan and Aman.Isher Ahluwalia was Chairperson of the think-tank Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) for 15 years and had stepped down last month due to ill health.She had wide experience in the fields of economic growth, productivity, industrial and trade policy reforms, and urban planning and development.At ICRIER, Isher Ahluwalia led a major research and capacity building programme on the challenges of urbanisation in India. In 2009, she was awarded Padma Bhushan by the President for her services in the field of education and literature.Punjab Chief Minister Amrinder Singh said Isher Ahluwalia was one of India’s most distinguished economists “We had the privilege of having her as Vice-Chairman of State Planning Board in my last term.”Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairperson and Managing Director of Biocon, twitted: “Isher Ahluwalia, my dear dear friend and a brilliant remarkable intellectual economist, passed away after a brave battle with cancer. My deepest condolences to Montek Singh Ahluwalia and his sons Pavan and Aman in the family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economist-isher-ahluwalia-passes-away-after-battling-cancer/story-mD1yTqKJgMv8lqMVO269RI.html
26-09-2020||India||Truck driver arrested for issuing threat to CM Yogi Adityanath||A truck driver was arrested from Etah district of Uttar Pradesh on Friday evening for allegedly issuing a life threat to chief minister Yogi Adityanath while seeking the release of jailed Mafioso-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, police officials said on Saturday. This development comes at a time when the state government is going tough on Ansari and his gang members.The suspect sent multiple messages on the WhatsApp number of the state police integrated emergency service UP 112 three days ago, police officials said.The officials said the sender threatened to ‘remove’ the state government if Ansari was not released from jail within 24 hours. They said the messages were received on UP 112’s WhatsApp number between 9.56 and 10.11 am on Wednesday.The Lucknow police media cell said the accused was identified as Etah resident Amarpal, a truck driver by profession, and the threat messages were sent by him as a mischievous act. The suspect was initially traced in Delhi and was later arrested when he reached his house in Etah, they added.Also read: BJP announces new central team; Raman Singh, Vasundhara Raje are among national vice presidentsThey also said the police were further investigating the intentions behind the threat messages. They were also trying to ascertain whether anybody else was part of the crime.The Lucknow police had registered an FIR at the Hazratganj police station against unidentified people on Wednesday for issuing the threat through anonymous communication, the police said.Earlier, on June 12, two brothers from Gonda district had sent a message on the WhatsApp number of the Uttar Pradesh police, threatening to blow up the chief minister’s residence and 50 other places in the state. The two brothers had secretly used a rival’s phone to frame him to settle personal scores.On May 21, a similar message to target the CM was sent on the WhatsApp number of UP 112. A Mumbai resident, Kamran Ameen Khan, was arrested in this connection on May 23. A day later, another Mumbai resident, Sayyed Wahab, was arrested when he threatened to carry out blasts if Ameen was not released from police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truck-driver-arrested-for-issuing-threat-to-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-ajCVMJ2s1DwiHxD0J4L19I.html
26-09-2020||India||Manish Sisodia’s health improves, to be shifted from ICU to normal ward||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is being treated for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and dengue, is showing further improvement, a report said on Saturday. Sisodia is likely to be shifted out of the intensive care unit (ICU) of private Max Hospital in Saket and moved to a normal ward, news agency PTI said.The 48-year-old Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader was administered convalescent plasma therapy on Friday after which there was an improvement in his health condition, officials had said.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education and finance minister, had tested positive for the coronavirus disease on September 14 and then for dengue on Thursday. His blood platelet count and oxygen level fell on Thursday and was moved to Max Hospital from government-run LNJP Hospital.He had announced on Twitter that he had tested positive for the coronavirus disease. “Had got my COVID-19 test done after I had a mild fever. The report has come positive. I have gone into self-isolation. As of now, I have no fever or any other issue. I am fine. By your blessings, I will recover fully and return to work soon,” Sisodia had said.Before Sisodia, Delhi’s health minister Satyendra Jain had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 17. Jain has recovered from the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-sisodia-s-health-improves-to-be-shifted-from-icu-to-normal-ward/story-2rp2sK6LO2GkTzW8IWZVrN.html
26-09-2020||India||UP, Bihar top two beneficiaries of PMGK scheme announced in March||Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar have been the two biggest beneficiaries of the free ration – cereals and pulses -- distributed under Rs 1.7 lakh crore Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) announced in March to provide immediate relief to the poor in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.While UP distributed about 34.98 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of food-grains among over 150 million from April 1 to September 7, Bihar gave 17.28 lakh MT to over 80 million, according to data compiled by the Union finance ministry.Maharashtra is the third on the list in terms of offering free food-grains to the poor during the pandemic followed by West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh (MP).The relief package announced on March 26 aimed to ease the economic distress of the poor by providing them free food and cash security. Among other things, the government promised free distribution of 5 kg wheat or rice to about 800 million individuals every month and 1 kg of pulses per month to every family till June this year. Later, the scheme was extended till November.Also Read: Vigilance panel formed to ensure fair distribution of subsidised food grains in ChandigarhUnder the scheme, Maharashtra has distributed 15.35 lakh MT of grains among 70 million as of September 7, West Bengal over 12.19 lakh MT of grains among over 60 million poor, and MP 10.62 lakh MT grains among over 50 million people.When it comes to the number of people getting pulses for free, UP tops the list with over 30 million beneficiaries availing 1.39 lakh MT pulses, followed by Bihar over 10 million people getting 54.23 thousand MT pulses.“So far 178.85 lakh MT of foodgrains and 6.82 lakh MT of pulses have been distributed free of cost to approx 75 crores [750 million] beneficiaries under NFSA [National Food Security Act] and this scheme will continue till November 2020,” minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur told the Lok Sabha last week.Besides distributing foodgrains for free, the Union government has so far provided cash assistance of Rs 68,820 crore to 420 million poor under PMGKP till September 7, he said. The package is a part of Rs 20.97 lakh crore comprehensive stimuli the government had announced between March and May this year.“UP and Bihar have been given the maximum advantage in this distribution. Perhaps it is because of how larger groups of beneficiaries were identified in these states,” said Vasundhara Sirnate Drennan, co-founder and director of research at The Polis Project Inc, a New York City headquartered non-profit think-tank.“However, it could also point to the distribution of patronage to states for political reasons which are something we should always keep in mind. India has long been identified as a patronage democracy where public goods are seen as tradable commodities for political gain.”Many state and national governments have practised this in India over time, she said. “So, this isn’t new. However, as always distributional biases of this nature are to be viewed as a part of emergent populist politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-bihar-top-two-beneficiaries-of-pmgk-scheme-announced-in-march/story-ga0LNR6cG3iwKWM7xfzW2H.html
26-09-2020||India||Amid India-China stand-off, 131 soldiers join Ladakh Scouts Regiment||Amid protracted India-China stand-off in eastern Ladakh, 131 young soldiers joined the prestigious Ladakh Scouts regiment in Leh on Saturday.“Attestation Parade was held on Saturday at the Ladakh Scouts Regimental Centre, Leh to mark the entry of 131 well-trained recruits into the Ladakh Scouts Regiment as young soldiers. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the profound ceremony was conducted without the parents of the recruits following all the norms and advisories. The attestation parade was conducted in the highest traditions of the Indian Army and reviewed by Brigadier Arun CG, deputy general officer commanding, Leh Sub Area,” said a defence spokesperson.The soldiers, hailing from all across Ladakh, took oath in unison to serve the nation. Also read: India and Japan to tie-up for 5G technologies, QUAD to pitch inArun CG congratulated them and urged them to devote their lives in the service to the nation as proud soldiers of the Indian Army. “He exhorted the young soldiers to continue to strive hard in pursuit of excellence in all spheres of the profession and take a solemn vow to uphold the sovereignty of the nation against all odds in the true spirit signified by the ethos of the Indian Army,” said the spokesperson.The young riflemen were awarded medals for their outstanding performance during the training. It was indeed a proud moment for the recruits who hail from far-flung areas of Ladakh to join the Ladakh Scouts Regiment as soldiers.On June 15 at least 20 Indian soldiers laid down their lives in the line of duty while combating Chinese troops at the Galwan valley. Week after the incident Prime Minister Narendra Modi had visited Leh to review the ongoing border conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-india-china-stand-off-131-soldiers-join-ladakh-scouts-regiment/story-iJtsNBRZ26CD6KOsETM1DP.html
26-09-2020||India||‘I can eat Rukhi-Sukhi rotis’: Chouhan reinstates Indore food safety officer||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has cancelled the suspension order of a food safety officer, who had reportedly not served fresh chapatis to the CM during his visit to Indore on Wednesday.Manish Swami was suspended for alleged dereliction of duty during the CM’s visit, said an officer of the district administration. However, when the CM learnt of the punishment through the social media late on Friday, he asked the collector to reinstate Swami.Talking to media persons in Sagar on Friday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “I don’t have any problem in eating ‘rukhi sukhi’ chapatis and I don’t feel that it is appropriate to suspend an officer for serving not so fresh food to me. I never mind if I go through any difficulty during my visit to different districts because I am a public servant and dedicated to work for the welfare of the people.”Also Read: Chouhan refers to poll panel’s guidelines, tweets appeal to wash ‘hand’ completelyManish Swami thanked CM and said, “I don’t know the reason behind my suspension but I am so happy that the CM sir thought about me and ordered the revocation of the suspension order.”Indore district collector Manish Singh, who issued the order of suspension, couldn’t be contacted for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-can-eat-rukhi-sukhi-rotis-chouhan-reinstates-indore-food-safety-officer/story-Yew353uh0gBwgGvBLctRHL.html
26-09-2020||India||Union government temporarily retained Rs 47,272 crore GST cess||The Union government had temporarily retained Rs 47,272 crore excess Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess in the Consolidated Fund of India (CFI) pending reconciliation, which cannot be construed as a diversion as the money was fully utilised in providing compensation to states, two officials said.The amount collected as GST compensation cess has not been used for any other purpose, the officials working in the finance ministry said requesting anonymity.They were commenting on observations of a recent report prepared by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) that pointed out “short crediting” of Rs 47,272 crore cess in the non-lapsable GST Compensation Cess Fund. The amount was collected for 2017-18 and 2018-19.Also Read: Farmers have lost all faith in PM Modi-led govt: Rahul Gandhi“The short-crediting was a violation of the GST Compensation Cess Act, 2017. The amount by which the cess was short credited was also retained in the CFI and became available for use for purposes other than what was provided in the act,” said the CAG report on ‘Accounts of the Union Government’, which was tabled in the Parliament on September 23.The finance ministry “accepted the audit observation” and told CAG in February this year that the proceeds of cess collected and not transferred to the Public Account would be transferred in the subsequent year, the report said.Explaining the technical nuances of short crediting, the report said: “Short crediting of cess collected during the year led to overstatement of revenue receipts and understatement of fiscal deficit for the year. Further, any transfer in the subsequent year would become an appropriation from the resources of that year and would require Parliamentary authorisation.”One of the officials mentioned above said, “In all earnest, there has been no diversion of funds, whatsoever as to the compensation due to the states for the year 2017-18 and 2018-19 were fully paid and the time taken in the reconciliation of compensation receipts can’t be termed as diversion of GST Cess Fund when the dues to states were fully released by the Centre.”Also Read: Most states choose Rs 97k crore borrowing to plug GST deficitThe CAG, in its report, has not said that the cess was diverted, he said. “The amount collected under-compensation cess fund has been regularly and fully distributed to states as per their dues and budgetary provisions and by the end of July 2020 everything has been accounted for and released,” he added.The Union government had released the entire Rs 1,65,302 crore as GST compensation for 2019-20 to states by July this year even as the actual collection in the fiscal year was only Rs 95,444 crore.“To release the compensation for 2019-20, the balance cess amount collected during 2017-18 and 2018-19 was also utilised. In addition, the Centre had transferred some amount from CFI to meet the requirement,” a second official said.At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime, the GST law assured state governments a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years and the Centre committed to meet any shortfall in revenue through the cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and other tobacco commodities.The officials said the government makes all efforts to transfer all amounts collected by the end of every financial year into designated funds by making necessary budget provisions.“The amount of cess collected first gets collected in CGI since Article 266 requires that all amounts collected by the Centre should get credited to the CGI. It is further transferred to the Compensation Cess Fund through a budget head. However, since the final accounts of amounts collected are known only after the end of the financial year, normally by the end of June next year after necessary reconciliation, any amount collected over and above the estimate, will remain in CFI temporarily,” the first official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-government-temporarily-retained-rs-47-272-crore-gst-cess/story-EiBMV7pyfN8CFJWvl90z4N.html
26-09-2020||India||PM Modi holds virtual bilateral summit with Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa||India on Saturday asked Sri Lanka to fully implement constitutional provisions aimed at giving more powers to Tamil-inhabited areas of the island nation even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a grant of $15 million for promoting Buddhist ties between the two sides. Sri Lanka’s peace and reconciliation process figured in the first virtual bilateral summit between Modi and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa, which also focused on maritime security, countering the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the development of the strategic Colombo East container terminal. Modi called on Rajapaksa’s new government to work “towards realising the expectations of Tamils for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka by achieving reconciliation nurtured by implementation of the constitutional provisions”, according to a readout from the external affairs ministry. He also emphasised that implementing the “13th amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution is essential for carrying forward the process of peace and reconciliation”, the readout said. At a media briefing after the hour-long summit, joint secretary (Indian Ocean region) Amit Narang said India has always stood for peace and reconciliation, “including through the full implementation of the 13th amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution” and this point was highlighted by the Indian prime minister. The 13th amendment, an outcome of the 1987 India-Sri Lanka peace accord, is aimed at devolving more powers to the Tamil minority. Rajapaksa and his brother, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, have shied away from committing to full implementation of the amendment. They have also hinted they won’t go against the wishes of the Sinhala majority while working on any resolution in Tamil-inhabited areas. Modi announced a grant of $15 million for promoting Buddhist ties between the two sides. The grant will be used for construction and renovations of Buddhist monasteries, archaeological cooperation, reciprocal exhibitions of Lord Buddha’s relics, and supporting the Buddhist clergy. India will facilitate the visit of a delegation of Sri Lankan Buddhist pilgrims in the first inaugural flight to the sacred city of Kushinagar, which now has an international airport. The contentious issue of the development of the Colombo East container terminal under a trilateral agreement signed by Sri Lanka, Japan and India in 2019 also figured in the talks, with Modi expressing confidence that the Sri Lankan government will take “early and decisive steps” for the early implementation of infrastructure and connectivity projects in line with existing understandings. Narang described the discussions on this issue as “positive and constructive”, and said: “Both sides remain committed to these ventures and are working towards ensuring their implementation for mutual benefit.” Last month, workers at Colombo port stopped work to protest what they described as the privatisation of the container terminal. They also sought a written pledge from the Sri Lankan president that the facility wouldn’t be handed over to India. The agreement on the container terminal was signed by the previous government and the current administration has put it on hold. This was Modi’s first virtual summit with the leader of a neighbouring country, and the Indian delegation included external affairs minister S Jaishankar, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla. This was the Sri Lankan premier’s first bilateral engagement with a foreign leader after the victory of his Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna party in parliamentary elections in August, and he was assisted by foreign minister Dinesh Gunawardena, fisheries minister Douglas Devananda and other ministers and senior officials. The two sides agreed to extend an MoU on high impact community development projects by India for five years from 2020, and to continue the Indian housing project. The two leaders instructed officials to fast-track the construction of 10,000 houses in Sri Lanka’s plantation sector. While discussing the economic impact of the pandemic, Modi and Rajapaksa underlined the need for close coordination on trade and investment and deepening the integration of supply chains. Modi expressed hope that Sri Lanka’s temporary restrictions on imports of some products will be relaxed soon. India recently provided a $400-million currency swap facility to Sri Lanka’s Central Bank to tackle Covid-19-related disruptions, and an additional request for a bilateral currency swap of around $1 billion and the deferring of debt repayments were being discussed, Narang said. The Indian side also proposed a bilateral air travel bubble, he said, adding: “We feel that early resumption of travel will assist in their economic recovery.” The two leaders also discussed security and defence cooperation and agreed to further strengthen cooperation on personnel exchanges and training, maritime security cooperation and India’s support to Sri Lanka in defence and security. The recent coordination by the armed forces of both sides in controlling the fire on the merchant vessel MT New Diamond, which was carrying a crude oil cargo of 270,000 MT, was acknowledged as an example of practical collaboration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-virtual-bilateral-summit-with-sri-lankan-counterpart-mahinda-rajapaksa/story-RqdQDFOFLCw1s5NAJhXcWP.html
26-09-2020||India||Kashmiri pandit leader on hunger strike to draw Centre’s attention||Kashmir’s prominent pandit leader Sanjay Tickoo has been on a hunger strike for the past one week to protest against Centre’s alleged apathy to the demands and needs of nearly 800 Kashmiri pandit families that never left the valley.Some other leaders of the local Kashmiri Pandit Sanghrash Samiti (KPSS), led by Tickoo, are also sitting on the fast unto death at the courtyard of a local temple in Srinagar with the hope that it will force the Centre to take note of the community’s grievances. The strike has entered the seventh day.Samiti leaders alleged that more than 800 Kashmiri pandit families, who never migrated from the Valley, have been ignored by the government while framing the policies for migrant pandit families.The Samiti is demanding jobs for the unemployed youths of the pandit families living in Kashmir and also monthly cash assistance on the pattern of the scheme in place for migrant pandit families living in Jammu and other parts of the country.“Yesterday, ADC Srinagar approached us and assured that the administration will look into our demands and revert in the shortest period of time,” Tickoo said, adding that he decided to sit on the fast unto death after alleged non fulfilment of verbal assurances from authorities.Also Read: UN General Assembly: India dismisses Pakistan PM’s criticism on Kashmir issueOn Friday, National Conference expressed solidarity with the striking members of the Samiti and the party’s provincial president, Nasir Aslam Wani, visited the non-migrant pandits at Ganpatyar Temple.“Our Party expresses solidarity with them and extends support to their cause,” NC spokesman said.Samiti leaders have maintained that unemployment among the youths of the community is the biggest problem they face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-s-pandit-leader-on-hunger-strike-to-draw-centre-s-attention/story-ybKiwU9DhpWDXbQGAppmmN.html
26-09-2020||India||BJP announces new central team; Raman Singh, Vasundhara Raje are among national vice presidents||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s national office bearers’ team was announced on Saturday, nine months after the party appointed JP Nadda as its new president.About 60% of the team comprises new faces and there is more representation of women and OBCs. Member of Parliament in Rajya Sabha Saroj Pandey, Ram Madhav and Murlidhar Rao have been dropped as national general secretaries. The party has included Dushyant Kumar Gautam, D Purandeswari, CT Ravi, Tarun Chugh and Dilip Saikia in the list of the national general secretaries. Dushyant Gautam was a national vice-president in the earlier team.BL Santhosh continues to remain a national general secretary of the organisation. V Satish, Saudan Singh and Shiv Prakash continue to be the national joint secretaries.The BJP has also announced the appointment of Rajesh Aggarwal as a treasurer of the party; the post had been vacant since 2014 after the incumbent Piyush Goyal was appointed a minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet.Sudhir Gupta, a member of Parliament, will be the joint treasurer.There are several additions in the list of national vice-presidents, including West Bengal leader Mukul Roy, former Jharkhand chief minister Raghubar Das, members of Parliament Rekha Verma, Annapurna Devi, Bharatiben Shiyal, DK Aruna, Radha Mohan Singh (who is also a former minister), M Chuba Ao and AP Abdullakutty. Former chief minister of Chattisgarh Raman Singh is also on the list along with former Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje and Jay Panda.Senior leaders Uma Bharti, Prabhat Jha, OP Mathur, Renu Devi, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Avinash Rai Khanna and Shyam Jaju have been dropped from the vice-presidents’ list.Amit Malviya is in charge of national ID and social media cells, while MP from Karnataka Tejashwi Suriya is in charge of the Yuva Morcha. Dr K Laxman from Telangana is in charge of the OBC cell while Raj Kumar Chauhan an MP from Uttar Pradesh will head the Kisan Morcha. Lal Singh Arya will head the SC Morcha while the ST Morcha head will be Samir Oaraon; Jamal Siddiqui will head the minority Morcha. Anil Baluni, Rajya Sabha MP and chief spokesperson will continue to remain in charge of media and Sanjay Myukh MLC from Bihar will be the media co-in charge.Former minister for Information and Broadcasting Rajyavardhan Rathore, Karnataka MP Chief Chandrashekhar, Aparajita Sarangi, a former bureaucrat and MP from Odisha, Heena Gavit, an MP from Maharashtra, Guru Prakash from Bihar, and West Bengal MP Raju Bista have been included in the team of national spokespersons.A party person aware of the details said a cabinet reshuffle is also expected and some people who have not been included in the national team could find a berth in the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-announces-new-central-team-raman-singh-vasundhara-raje-are-among-national-vice-presidents/story-jD5uvyhp7UxqebGGT2IFeO.html
26-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor leave NCB office after hours of questioning||Three Bollywood actors, including Deepika Padukone, were questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday as part of its investigation into a drug case related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year, officials said.Deepika Padukone is one of more than a dozen people from Bollywood who have been questioned by the agency in the past two weeks. Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan were also questioned for hours by NCB.WATCH | Deepika, Shraddha, Sara at NCB office for questioning in drugs caseThe anti-drugs agency arrested Rhea Chakraborty on September 8 for the allegedly procuring drugs for Rajput. Her brother Showik has also been arrested along with dozens of others. Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.Here’s what we know so far:Deepika PadukonePadukone was the first to arrive at a guest house in Colaba in south Mumbai from where an NCB team is operating. She had received summons earlier in the week while shooting a movie in Goa.Padukone was questioned for more than five hours by NCB and confronted with her manager Karishma Prakash during questioning, news agency PTI said citing sources.Padukone, who reached NCB guest house at around 9.50am, left around 3:50pm, a police official said, according to PTI. Prakash was the first one to come out of the guest house, followed by Padukone. They left in their cars separately, the police official said.Sara Ali KhanShe had reached NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai at around 1pm. Her name cropped up during the questioning of Rhea Chakraborty, who has been arrested by NCB in the drugs case along with over a dozen others, officials said.Sara’s statement was recorded for around four-and-a-half hours. She left the NCB office around 5.30 pm. Sara was Rajput’s co-star in “Kedarnath” film.Karishma PrakashKWAN talent management agency’s Karishma Prakash was also interrogated and confronted with Padukone on their individual statements in the matter. Prakash, an employee at KWAN, has also been questioned in the past.Prakash arrived for questioning soon after Padukone reached the NCB guest house. She was questioned for around seven hours on Friday. “Prakash reached the NCB guest house just before 11am,” an official said, according to news agency PTI.PTI cited sources as saying that Prakash’s WhatsApp chats included conversations about drugs with one ‘D’ and the central agency wanted to find out who this person was.Shraddha KapoorShraddha Kapoor had reached the NCB’s zonal office around 12pm to record her statement in the drugs probe linked to Rajput’s death. The NCB probe team is recording her statement regarding the drugs case related to Rajput’s death and Bollywood drugs nexus as well.She left around 5.55pm, after nearly six hours, an official said, according to PTI.Also read | Rhea’s lawyer on claim Rajput was strangled: ‘Conclusion on basis of photo is dangerous’Her name cropped up during the interrogation of those who were earlier summoned by the probe team. Shraddha Kapoor had worked with Rajput.Other who have been questionedNCB had on Wednesday summoned Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shradha Kapoor, Rakulpreet Singh, fashion designer Simone Khambatta and celebrity manager Shruti Modi in the matter. KWAN CEO Dhruv Chitgopekar was also questioned in the case earlier this week.Rakul Preet Singh recorded her statement on Friday. She was questioned for about four hours. Dharma Productions’ executive producer Kshitij Ravi was also questioned by the NCB on Friday.The NCB team also got important information about the case during the questioning of Rajput’s talent manager Jaya Saha, reports have said. Shruti Modi, the former business manager of actor Rajput, has also been questioned by the NCB in the case in the past as well.Also read | No drugs consumed at July 2019 party, says Karan Johar, clarifies no ‘aides’ probed by NCBThe case is being probed by the three central agencies -- the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate, and NCB. All the agencies are exploring different angles related to the case.NCB started its investigation after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation.ED had registered an Enforcement Case Information Report in the actor’s death case on July 31 after an FIR was filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh against Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28. The FIR lodged by Patna Police was later transferred to CBI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-questioning-of-deepika-padukone-shraddha-kapoor-sara-ali-khan-by-ncb-continues/story-zBqzyvQYbXlbYHJgOTuITO.html
26-09-2020||India||Thoothukudi custodial deaths: CBI files charge sheet naming 9 police personnel for torturing father, son||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a chargesheet against nine Tamil Nadu police officers, including then station house officer (SHO) of Sathankulam police station in Thoothukudi, for allegedly illegally picking up and torturing P Jayaraj and J Bennicks all night in June. The men died in hospital.The charge sheet names former SHO of Sathankulam police station S Sridhar, two sub-inspectors K Balakrishnan and P Raghuganesh, two head constables S Murugan and A Samadurai, and four constables M Muthuraja, S Chelladurai, X Thomas Francis and Veyil Muthu for criminal conspiracy, murder, wrongful confinement, destruction of evidence and levelling false charges. All nine are currently lodged in jail. Sub-inspector Pauldurai, whom the agency arrested in July and who died in jail due to Covid-19, has not been accused in the charge sheet but his role has been mentioned in the alleged conspiracy, officials said.P Jayaraj (59) and his son J Bennicks (31) were arrested on June 19 and lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail for keeping their mobile phone shop in the main market of Sathankulam town open during a curfew imposed during the Covid-19-induced lockdown.The father and son were allegedly tortured during the police custody after which they were admitted to the Kovilpatti government hospital on June 22. While Bennicks died the same night, Jayaraj breathed his last on the morning of June 23.The incident had led to massive public outrage across the country with demand of action against the accused police officers. The Tamil Nadu government ordered a CBI probe in the first week of July, after which a special team was sent to investigate the custodial death.CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said, “A CBI team camped at Madurai and worked untiringly through Covid-19 pandemic.”In fact, nine CBI officers were infected with Covid-19 while investigating the case.Sharing details of charge sheet, Gaur said, “The investigation revealed that the father-son duo were arrested on June 19, 2020 and tortured at the Sathankulam police station by the accused in the evening as well as in the intervening night, consequent to which both of them succumbed to the injuries and died in the intervening night of June 22 and 23”.Officials who didn’t wish to be named added that Sathankulam police station officials, “to cover up their misdeeds, not only destroyed the evidence of torture but also registered false cases against both the deceased on the allegations that father and son had not closed their mobile shop even after the permitted time and thereby violated general prohibitory orders.”This officer added that role of others in the deaths as well as subsequent cover-up is being further investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thoothukudi-custodial-deaths-cbi-files-charge-sheet-naming-9-police-personnel-for-torturing-father-son/story-g2KgTLkPzRCCv1yRa17VzK.html
26-09-2020||India||Odisha man made fake Covid vaccine with ‘top secret’ formula, arrested||A man was arrested on Friday in Odisha’s Bargarh district on charges of manufacturing a dubious vaccine for Covid-19. The authorities raided his premises and seized several vials labelled ‘Covid-19 vaccine’ from his possession. The raid was conducted after the man himself emailed the authorities asking for a licence to sell his product.Police and drug enforcement officials in western Odisha district of Bargarh arrested 32-year-old Prahallad Bisi after a raid on his premises in Rusuda village. When drug inspectors asked him to reveal the composition of his purported vaccine, he refused, calling it a “top secret”.“We got to know about his claim when he sent an email asking for a licence to sell the product he calls the vaccine. During the raid, we found several glass vials with stickers of Covid-19 vaccine, some powders and chemical materials,” said Bargarh drug inspector Sasmita Dehury.Also Read: Odisha Covid-19 cases touch 2 lakh, temporary shutdown in some places“We have booked him under section 18(c) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940. We are investigating if the man was previously involved in administering any drugs in the locality,” Dehury added.The accused, who has studied up to class 7, however, had yet not started selling the fake vaccine.Also Read: Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine produces strong immune response in early trialApart from the fake vaccine, the officials also found some medicines to cure infertility at his premises. Bisi said it fetched him a high price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-made-fake-covid-vaccine-with-top-secret-formula-arrested/story-qTY7OMgKEfJZFHwetan7pJ.html
26-09-2020||India||On former PM Manmohan Singh’s birthday, Chidambaram seeks Bharat Ratna for him||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram made a strong pitch for the Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian award, for former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh who turned 88 on Saturday. “Today is Dr Manmohan Singh’s birthday. I wish the former PM many more years of good health and service to the nation. The story of Dr Singh’s life is a story of the rise of a young boy from a humble background to the heights of public service armed only with one tool — his education and scholarship,” he tweeted. “The whole nation is proud of the life and service of Dr Singh and holds him as an example for every young boy or girl. If anyone in public life alive today is deserving of Bharat Ratna, it is undoubtedly Dr Manmohan Singh,” he added. The whole nation is proud of the life and service of Dr Singh and holds him as an example for every young boy or girl If anyone in public life alive today is deserving of Bharat Ratna, it is undoubtedly Dr Manmohan Singh.Chidambaram served as the union home and finance minister during Singh’s ten-year tenure as the Prime Minister, heading the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government from 2004 to 2014. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted his Singh on his birthday. “Birthday greetings to Dr Manmohan Singh Ji. I pray to Almighty that he is blessed with a long and healthy life,” Modi tweeted. Singh is credited with playing a key role in ushering in economic reforms as the finance minister in the PV Narasimha Rao government during 1991-96. “India feels the absence of a PM with the depth of Manmohan Singh,” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said. “His honesty, decency and dedication are a source of inspiration for us all. Wishing him a very happy birthday and a lovely year ahead,” he tweeted. Also Read: Manmohan Singh birthday: Former prime minister turns 88Singh was born on September 26, 1932, in Pakistan’s Gah village, a part of united Punjab before partition. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee too greeted the former Prime Minister. “Greetings to former Prime Minister and Economist Dr Manmohan Singh ji on his birthday. Wishing him good health and more productive years in public life,” he tweeted. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also wished Singh. “Birthday wishes to former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji. I pray for his long and healthy life,” he tweeted. The Congress, on its official Twitter handle, said a dedicated leader’s primary aim is always to eradicate the worst evils that plague the society in the soonest and surest possible way. “Today, we celebrate former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh’s commitment towards the overall well-being of each Indian,” it said. In his journey towards greatness, he took a billion people along, the party said in another tweet. “One of the most competent world leaders, Dr Manmohan Singh’s vision for our nation is uncompromising. India is forever indebted to this great son for leading her through highs & lows,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-former-pm-manmohan-singh-s-birthday-chidambaram-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-him/story-Ac9li3dKT9Vg0xIKNuO67M.html
26-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Lancet praises India’s early lockdown, pool testing and vaccine development initiatives||The Lancet has assessed how India handled the Covid-19 situation and given a mixed review. In its editorial titled “Covid-19 in India: the dangers of false optimism”, it said India is clearly facing a “dangerous period”, though the country has responded well in many regards, “especially for such a large and diverse nation”.“India has also been at the forefront of efforts to develop and manufacture a vaccine, both through domestic vaccine candidates and manufacturers such as the Serum Institute of India preparing production capacity for internationally developed vaccine candidates,” the British medical journal noted.Also Read: Can Covid-19 affect the heart? Likely, says study“The rapidly growing case numbers, alongside the continuing relaxation of restrictions, are creating an atmosphere of fatalism mingled with false optimism that undermines effective use of non-pharmaceutical interventions such as masks and physical distancing,” it added.4 things Lancet credits India for* Early lockdown, which was praised by the World Health Organization (WHO)* Rolling out pooled testing, where multiple swab samples are tested using one RT-PCR test kit. If the pool tests negative, the entire group can be called negative. If the pool tests positive, at least one of the samples is positive.* Research for vaccine* Increasing tertiary care provision, including access to specialist equipment such as ventilators.4 things Lancet discredits India for* Atmosphere of fatalism mingled with false optimism that is undermining importance of social distancing, the use of masks etc.* ICMR supporting Covid-19 treatment with hydroxychloroquine despite insufficient evidence .* Parallel crisis of economic slowdown, including the migrant crisis.* Presenting the current situation in India with a too positive spin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-responded-well-in-many-regards-but-epidemic-is-far-from-over-says-lancet/story-g8hnywsG4cs93geHhjWHZO.html
26-09-2020||India||‘India feels absence of PM with the depth of Manmohan Singh’: Rahul Gandhi’s birthday wishes to Congress veteran||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday extended wishes to the former prime minister Manmohan Singh on his 88th birthday. Taking to Twitter to wish the party veteran, Gandhi said that “India feels the absence of a PM with the depth of Dr Manmohan Singh”.“His honesty, decency and dedication are a source of inspiration for us all,” Gandhi said. “Wishing him a very happy birthday and a lovely year ahead,” he added.Wishes poured in from all quarters for Manmohan Singh who served two consecutive terms as the country’s prime minister between 2004 and 2014.Describing the leader as among the world’s most competent ones, Congress Party wrote “Dr. Manmohan Singh’s vision for our nation is uncompromising,” on its official Twitter handle.Also read | Manmohan Singh birthday: Former prime minister turns 88“In his journey towards greatness, he took a billion people along. One of the most competent world leaders, Dr. Manmohan Singh’s vision for our Nation is uncompromising. India is forever indebted to this great son for leading her through highs and lows,” Congress said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also wished Manmohan Singh on Twitter.“Birthday greetings to Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji. I pray to Almighty that he is blessed with a long and healthy life,” PM Modi said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also wished Singh on Twitter. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee also wished good health more productive years in public life for Singh.“Greetings to former Prime Minister and Economist Dr. Manmohan Singh ji on his birthday. Wishing him good health and more productive years in public life,” she wrote on Twitter.Born in 1932, Singh hails from Gah village, now in Pakistan. He completed his Economics Tripos at the University of Cambridge. He also has a doctorate from Oxford. He is a renowned economist, credited for introducing sweeping reforms in the 1990s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-feels-absence-of-pm-with-the-depth-of-manmohan-singh-rahul-gandhi-s-birthday-wishes-to-congress-veteran/story-n3kZSJUPHU9iMyYjNlVwWI.html
26-09-2020||India||Chouhan refers to poll panel’s guidelines, tweets appeal to wash ‘hand’ completely||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cryptic appeal to voters in Bihar, MP, Karnataka and other states on Saturday to follow Election Commission of India (ECI)’s guidelines to sanitise and wash ‘hand’ completely triggered a war of words between ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress in Madhya Pradesh. Chouhan in a tweet said, “My dear friends! Elections are to be held in several places including Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Karnataka. We have to pay utmost attention to the election commission’s guidelines in view of the Corona period. ‘Hand’ has to be washed completely by ‘sanitising’.” On Friday, ECI announced dates for assembly elections in Bihar, to be held in three phases by November 7 and results to be declared on November 10. The commission is yet to announce dates for by polls in MP to be held for 28 assembly seats. While Chouhan’s tweet evoked reactions in support and in protest on social media, Opposition Congress termed the tweet as contempt of ECI and demanded action from ECI against the CM. Also Read: With Madhya Pradesh bypolls drawing nearer, personal attacks on rise in campaignsState Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “This is contempt of ECI. It’s unfortunate that MP CM has dragged the ECI in his political war against the Congress just to influence the voters ahead of the by polls as he knows well that BJP is not going to win the by polls and thus the BJP is bound to lose power in the state as well.” Also Read: Congress-BJP war on farm loan waivers intensifies ahead of key MP by pollsDhanopia said, “We are going to lodge a complaint with the ECI and demand legal action against Chouhan. We are in the process of lodging the complaint.” State BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “What chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said is a general appeal to people to follow all the safety protocols in view of coronavirus so that they are not affected by the disease. Congress has overreacted to the tweet without trying to understand the message in it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chouhan-refers-to-poll-panel-s-guidelines-tweets-appeal-to-wash-hand-completely/story-IAH15J7k7m8GkG31W7IXVP.html
26-09-2020||India||‘Special priority to relations between Sri Lanka, India’: PM Modi holds virtual bilateral summit with Rajapaksa||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a virtual bilateral summit with his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa on Saturday. During the summit, PM Modi told the Sri Lankan PM that under the country’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy, India “gives special priority to relations between the two countries.”“The relations between India and Sri Lanka are thousands of years old. According to my government’s neighbourhood first policy and SAGAR doctrine, we give special priority to relations between the two countries,” said PM Modi.Rajapaksa expressed gratitude for India’s work for other countries during the Covid-19 pandemic.“The operation to douse off the fire on MT New Diamond ship provided an opportunity for greater cooperation between the two countries,” Rajapaksa said.A Greek-owned oil tanker caught fire in Sri Lanka’s eastern coast on September 3. Indian navy and the coast guards helped in carrying out rescue efforts and sent firefighting chemicals to the neighbouring country.The virtual bilateral summit is preceded by the state visits of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and PM Rajapaksa to India in November 2019 and February 2020, respectively. Since then, leaders have kept in close touch and spoken to each other on the telephone on several occasions including in the context of cooperation to tackle the health and economic impact of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.In April this year, India sent 10-tonne consignment of essential medicines, including hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and paracetamol to Sri Lanka.On Friday, India offered a Line of Credit worth USD 100 million to Sri Lanka for three solar projects, according to an official statement by the Indian Mission.This is PM Rajapaksa’s first diplomatic engagement with a leader of a foreign country after he was sworn in as the Prime Minister on August 9, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-priority-to-relations-between-sri-lanka-india-pm-modi-holds-virtual-bilateral-summit-with-rajapaksa/story-RS7j2furb13TRnJn6Pg8rO.html
26-09-2020||India||National Pharma Pricing Authority caps price of medical oxygen||The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) has capped the prices of medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders following complaints of black marketing and hoarding because of increased demand for them for Covid-19 patients.Officials said the move is aimed at ensuring the availability of medical oxygen at reasonable prices. Many states are dependent on the medical oxygen supply from other states.The demand for medical oxygen has gone up almost four times, from 750 metric tonnes per day to 2,800 metric tonnes daily, causing a strain at all levels in the value chain of production and supply.Also Read: Can Covid-19 affect the heart? Likely, says study“During COVID, the supply of medical oxygen through cylinders has increased from 10% to around 50% of total consumption. Price regulation at this end is imperative for the continued availability of medical oxygen across the country,” said an official statement.An empowered group at the Centre responsible for looking into this issue had recommended NPPA to consider capping the ex-factory prices.Officials said the Union health ministry gave a free hand to NPPA to take all necessary steps to immediately regulate the availability and pricing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-pharma-pricing-authority-caps-price-of-medical-oxygen/story-U4M0YRKO0kIP6wzGeqaGWI.html
26-09-2020||India||India and Japan to tie-up for 5G technologies, QUAD to pitch in||India and Japan have decided to join hands in technical development of 5G and 5G plus technologies with the help of other QUAD strategic dialogue members—US and Australia—and Israel. The development of next generation telecommunications technologies will be discussed between QUAD Foreign Ministers in a meeting in Japan next month.According to authoritative government sources, while India and Japan have decided to pitch in for 5G and plus technologies, India is also eyeing the 3GPP, umbrella mobile telecommunications standard organization, and has been successful in the global standards consortium to accept the first Indian rural standard for telecommunication. India along with its partners now will be setting more technological global standards. It is understood that majority of 3GPP standards have been set by the Chinese telecommunication development companies.Also read: High-speed train, Quad figure in 1st call between Japan’s Suga, PM ModiOn Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to newly appointed Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and the two decided to take the bilateral special strategic and global partnership to a new level. It is understood Prime Minister Suga told PM Modi that Japan wanted to push QUAD with other three partners and contribute to multilateral efforts for a “free and open Indo-Pacific.” Both India and Japan have been at the receiving end of Chinese aggression this year with a stand-off with Chinese Army in Ladakh and muscle flexing in Senkaku Islands.“India and Japan have agreed to closely cooperate and develop the 5G and advanced technologies with US and Australia ramping up technological support. We are also taking help from Israel. There are discussions on within the government and our 5G policy will take a final shape in the coming days. But Japan will be a close partner nevertheless,” said an official involved in the exercise.Also read: Japan announces emergency loan for India to fight Covid-19 pandemicOn September 10, India and Japan signed an acquisition and cross servicing agreement that allows the Japanese Self Defence Forces and the Indian Armed Forces to share supplies and transport duties. Indian and Japanese navies are currently exercising with the possibility of Australian Navy joining the QUAD exercise in November not ruled out. While Japan is still coming to terms with its legacy of the past century, the Chinese aggression over Senkaku Islands has forced Tokyo to increase its defence budget as the ruling party leaders are very vocal about defending the contested Islands from the PLA Navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-japan-to-tie-up-for-5g-technologies-quad-to-pitch-in/story-AO6Rnv5JSjzuulS9WMgJ3L.html
26-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Issues from Mumbai can be sent as parcel to Bihar, says Sanjay Raut and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: Issues from Mumbai can be sent as parcel to Bihar, says Sanjay RautA day after the Election Commission of India announced the schedule of Bihar elections to be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said if Bihar doesn’t have enough issues, Mumbai can parcel some. Read moreShraddha Kapoor, Deepika Padukone at NCB office, questioning underwayShraddha Kapoor and Deepika Padukone are at the office of Narcotics Control Bureau in Mumbai’s Colaba area. Deepika arrived at 9.45 am on Saturday. They are being questioned about an alleged WhatsApp group where exchanges of narcotics substances was discussed. Read moreUNGA: India questions Pakistan PM Imran Khan’s claim to be protector of MuslimsAn Indian diplomat, who delivered India’s response to the Pakistan PM’s diatribe at the UN General Assembly, sought to remind PM Khan of the “genocide” perpetrated by his country on Muslims of erstwhile East Pakistan before it became Bangladesh. Read moreSussanne Khan gives tour of her luxurious Mumbai home, even Hrithik Roshan can’t believe how stunning her kitchen is. WatchSussanne Khan is taking fans inside her luxurious home in Mumbai which she created with a lot of love and care. The house is full of eclectic decor and has a stunning view too. Here’s how Hrithik Roshan and others reacted to her video. Read moreIPL 2020, CSK vs DC: MS Dhoni reveals Ambati Rayudu’s comeback dateIPL 2020, CSK vs DC: Chennai Super Kings won the first game due to the heroics of Ambati Rayudu and Faf du Plessis. But Rayudu has missed the last two matches with an injury and his absence has clearly been felt by the team. Read moreWorld Tourism Day 2020: Safety Tips for domestic and international travel amid Covid-19World Tourism Day 2020: The current pandemic may have put a damper in travel plans for many people, but it cannot deter them entirely. Follow these tips for domestic and international travel to ensure your safety. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-issues-from-mumbai-can-be-sent-as-parcel-to-bihar-says-sanjay-raut-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5ISqgz2JJf404l0BchPKiK.html
26-09-2020||India||Dry weather likely over N-W India from Monday; rain forecasted over east and N-E India||There is likely to be heavy rain over east Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next 24 hours, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Conditions are becoming favourable for the withdrawal of southwest monsoon from West Rajasthan and adjoining areas Monday onwards as moisture reduces over the region and rainfall stops.A low-pressure area is lying over east Bihar and its neighbourhood and the monsoon trough is running north of its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal).Also Read: Delhi’s air quality set to worsen this weekDue to these favourable conditions, widespread rain with isolated thunderstorm and lightning is likely over east Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya and Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next 24 hours. Very heavy rain is also likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya during the next 24 hours. A trough (area of low pressure) is running from Madhya Maharashtra to the Comorin area across Interior Karnataka and Kerala at lower tropospheric levels. Under the influence of this system, scattered to heavy rain with thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and coastal Karnataka during next 24 hours.Dry weather is likely over most parts of the northwest India from September 28 onwards.Overall, monsoon rain is 9% in excess over the country since June 1 with a 28% excess over south peninsula; 16% excess over central India; 15% deficiency over northwest India and 3% excess over east and northeast India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dry-weather-likely-over-n-w-india-from-monday-rain-forecasted-over-east-and-n-e-india/story-SdbD4OucgyMt1Nel4ApBAO.html
26-09-2020||India||‘SAD is trying to remain in alliance’: Farmers’ body accuses Akali Dal of doing politics over farm bills||The leaders of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which is spearheading the ‘Rail Roko’ agitation in Punjab, have accused Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of indulging in politics over the ongoing farmers’ protests against agricultural reforms.“Akali Dal is not taking an unequivocal stand. They’re trying to remain part of the alliance and doing politics,” general secretary of the committee Sarwan Singh Pandher said, as reported by ANIShiromani Akali Dal is the oldest ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance. Despite the party’s alliance with ruling BJP, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has been criticizing the passage of the three farm bills, passed in Parliament in the recently concluded monsoon session. On September 17, Harsimrat Kaur stepped down as the Union food processing minister protesting the farm bills.On Friday, both Badal and Harsimrat took part in ‘chakka jam’ (road blockade) at Lambi in Muktsar district.A SAD delegation had also met President Ram Nath Kovid on September 21, requesting him to not give his nod to the farm bills.The farm bills--Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 -- have been passed by the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha. They now await President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent to become law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-is-trying-to-remain-in-alliance-farmers-body-accuses-akali-dal-of-doing-politics-over-farm-bills/story-58GTk2M0fw5DKlzvlwImfM.html
26-09-2020||India||CBI should set up new medical board for impartial probe in Rajput’s death: Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer||Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde demanded that a new medical board be set up by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to keep investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput death case impartial. He also claimed that the agencies were being pressurised to reach “pre-determined results” in view of the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections.“The disclosure of a 200% conclusion by an All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) doctor on the forensic team headed by Dr Sudhir Gupta in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, on the basis of photographs, is a dangerous trend. To keep the investigations impartial and free from inference, the CBI must constitute a new medical board. The agencies are being pressurised to reach a pre-determined result for obvious reasons in view of upcoming Bihar elections. We have seen the VRS of DG (Gupteshwar) Pandey unfolding a few days back. There should not be a repetition of such steps,” said Maneshinde. Maneshinde was responding to a tweet by Rajput’s family lawyer Vikas Singh. “Getting frustrated by the delay in CBI taking a decision to convert abetment to suicide to murder of SSR. The doctor who is part of AIIMS team had told me long back that the photos sent by me indicated 200% that it’s death by strangulation and not suicide,” he claimed in a tweet.In a press conference held on Thursday, Singh had said that the family of late actor Rajput was disappointed that the investigation had derailed. “The family feels that the investigation is going in such a way that the truth is not coming out. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) case has become like the Mumbai Police investigation, all stars are now being called. The people called in and not are a part of a syndicate and not distributors. It is just a Mumbai Police type of investigation. Sushant’s case has taken a back seat,” Singh said, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-should-set-up-new-medical-board-to-look-into-rajput-s-death-rhea-chakraborty-s-lawyer/story-K5NhlmIPYgRL3glmE1ElCO.html
26-09-2020||India||UN General Assembly: India dismisses Pakistan PM’s criticism on Kashmir issue||India has dismissed Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s reference to Kashmir and criticism of the Indian government in his address to the UN General Assembly, saying the neighbouring country’s unrelenting support to terrorism poses a threat to global security. In his pre-recorded video statement to the UN General Assembly on Friday, Khan made repeated references to India and the Kashmir issue and called on the world community to prosecute Indian personnel allegedly involved in “state terrorism” and “crimes against humanity” in Jammu and Kashmir. The Indian delegate present in the General Assembly, Mijito Vinito, first secretary at the Indian mission to the UN, had walked out as Khan’s video statement was being played on a large overhead screen. India subsequently exercised its “right of reply” to respond to Khan’s speech, and the response was delivered by Vinito, who said: “Let me assert here loud and clear: The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral and inalienable part of India. The rules and legislations brought in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir are strictly internal affairs of India. Also Read: PM Modi to address UNGA today, expected to urge global action against terrorism“The only dispute left in Kashmir relates to that part of Kashmir that is still under illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to vacate all those areas that it is in illegal occupation of.” Vinito, a diplomat from the 2010 batch of the Indian Foreign Service who hails from Nagaland, also referred to Pakistan’s track record in failing to effectively counter terrorism. “What should rather be on the agenda of the UN is Pakistan’s deep state and its unrelenting political and financial support to terrorist organisations and mercenaries, which are a threat to global peace and security,” he said. “The only way for Pakistan to become a normal country is to abjure its moral, financial and material support to terrorism, turn its attention to the problems faced by its own population, including its minorities, and stop misusing UN platforms to further its nefarious agenda.” Khan’s address, Vinito said, marked a “new low” on the 75th anniversary of the UN. “The leader of Pakistan today called for those who incite hate and violence to be outlawed. But, as he went on, we were left wondering, was he referring to himself?” he added. The General Assembly had “heard the incessant rant of someone who had nothing to show for himself, who had no achievements to speak of, and no reasonable suggestion to offer to the world”, and instead Khan offered “lies, misinformation, war mongering and malice”, the Indian delegate said. Also Read: Indian diplomat walks out after Imran Khan raises Kashmir issue at UN“For a nation that is deeply buried in medievalism, it is understandable that the tenets of a modern civilised society such as peace, dialogue and diplomacy are farfetched,” Vinito said. The Indian response pointed out that Pakistan had “brought genocide to South Asia 39 years back when it killed its own people”, and the country is “shameless enough not to offer a sincere apology for the horrors it perpetrated even after so many years”. Vinito added, “This is the same country that provides pensions for dreaded and listed terrorists out of state funds. This is the same country that has the dubious distinction of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN.” He noted that Khan had once referred to slain al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden as a “martyr” in Pakistan’s Parliament, and admitted in the US in 2019 that Pakistan still has 30,000 to 40,000 trained terrorists who have fought in Afghanistan and Jammu and Kashmir. “This is the country that has systematically cleansed its minorities including Hindus, Christians, Sikhs and others, through the abuse of its blasphemy laws and through forced religious conversions. For someone who professes to be a champion of Islam, this is also a country that has encouraged killing of fellow Muslims merely because they belonged to a different sect, or to a different region in Pakistan, and through sponsoring terrorist attacks against its neighbours,” Vinito said. “The only crowning glory that this country has to show to the world for the last 70 years is terrorism, ethnic cleansing, majoritarian fundamentalism, and clandestine nuclear trade,” he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address the UN General Assembly through a video statement on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-general-assembly-india-dismisses-pakistan-pm-s-criticism-on-kashmir-issue/story-iHmPmEZ8AKaTSTh450OViP.html
26-09-2020||India||Farm bills protest: 70 RLD workers booked for holding demonstration without permission||Seventy RLD workers and leaders, including its district president, were booked for holding a protest against new farm bills without permission from the administration, police said on Saturday. RLD’s district president Ajit Rathi, party spokesman Abhishek Choudhry and former MLC Choudhry Mushtaq are among the 70 people who have been booked under Section 188 of the IPC, SHO DK Tyagi said. A case was registered against them on Friday for holding a protest outside the district magistrate’s office against the Centre’s farm bills without permission from the administration, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-protest-70-rld-workers-booked-for-holding-demonstration-without-permission/story-kqNMrKCWrCqXHephuQyd7M.html
26-09-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: Issues from Mumbai can be sent as parcel to Bihar, says Sanjay Raut||A day after the Election Commission of India announced the schedule of Bihar elections to be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said if Bihar doesn’t have enough issues, Mumbai can parcel some. His jibe came in the backdrop of allegations that the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who hailed from Bihar, is being used as an election issue in Bihar.“Elections in Bihar should be fought on the issues of development, law and order, and good governance, but if these issues have exhausted, then issues from Mumbai can be sent as parcel,” the Shiv Sena leader said. The state police departments of Bihar and Maharashtra locked horns over the investigation into the death of Rajput who was found dead on June 14 at his Mumbai residence. Former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey accused Maharashtra Police of not co-operating with them. It is also being speculated that Pandey may join politics after he took a VRS. The Shiv Sena may contest in the Bihar polls, Raut hinted. “Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a call on Shiv Sena contesting the Bihar elections in coming 2-3 days. The election in Bihar is held on caste and other things. Labour laws or farmers bills will not be an issue in Bihar elections,” Raut said on Friday. The Shiv Sena leader has been made a party in the case pertaining to the demolition of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut’s office.The MP has recently criticised the questioning of several Bollywood personalities by the Narcotics Control of Bureau in a drug case related to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-elections-2020-issues-from-mumbai-can-be-sent-as-parcel-to-bihar-says-sanjay-raut/story-mFKYlmvU3LU6mkjVoqYTNL.html
26-09-2020||India||Centre analyses police response during lockdown, says they showcased humane side||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has analysed the response of Indian police during the Covid-19 pandemic, particularly during the 68-day lockdown, saying the personnel showcased their humane side and went beyond the call of duty. The ministry, however, has failed to mention anything about police excesses on the migrant labourers, who walked hundreds of kilometres from urban centres to their villages. In a special compendium titled The Indian Police Response to Covid-19 Crisis, published last week, MHA’s think-tank Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) has stated that police forces in states/Union territories, as well as central paramilitary forces, not only ensured a strict lockdown and meticulously tracked Covid-19 patients, but also played a key role in the distribution of goods and supply of essential services to migrant labourers and donated plasma for patients. Also Read: Study links worsening of Covid-19 with shorter time span from symptom onset to hospitalisationIn the report, BPRD said that when the lockdown, announced from March 25, and its multiple extensions impacted the livelihood of unskilled migrant workers, and lakhs of workers walking home posed a serious threat to themselves as well as others in their hometowns, police counselled them about exercising restraint and provided them with food, shelter medicines, footwear and arranged transport for their return. They were all thermally screens and tested for Covid-19.It added that police officers went beyond the call of duty and even performed last rites of Covid-19 patients. “Some police officers even transported pregnant ladies to hospitals in police vans. WhatsApp groups were formed to communicate with expecting mothers and providing them assistance in case of discomfort during the pandemic. In some instances, police personnel even purchased birthday cakes and celebrated birthdays at the house of kids/senior citizens etc.,” the document states. The police forces, the compendium states, extensively used state-of-the-art technology, including drones, to identify vulnerable access points across porous borders, containment zones and to enforce lockdowns. “CCTV systems were used at important and sensitive locations for keeping a close watch at quarantine centres and violation of laid down procedures including social distancing norms. Geo-mapping coupled with Geo-tagging corresponding to the area of interest was used by law enforcement agencies for effective tracking of those in quarantine and for zeroing in on location of their contacts,” BPRD analysis stated. It cited the example of Bengaluru, wherein the whole city was geo-mapped for grocery, vegetable, medical outlets, community kitchen, donors, NGOs, etc. The police across the country also extensively used social media like WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter to disseminate government orders/guidelines as well as to dispel fake news and rumours. “Digital media platforms comprising websites, blogs, portals and customised mobile apps targeting specific segment of population were launched as well,” the document states. Almost all police departments across the country also used public awareness programmes to educate people about social distancing and the use of masks and sanitiser, according to BPRD. To publish the document, BPRD took into account comments from all states and paramilitary forces detailing the various schemes and ways they devised to deal with the situation. It added that around 400 police personnel across the country had lost their lives due to Covid-19 while 76,000 were infected with the virus till August. Maharashtra topped the list with 12,760 cases so far. Prakash Singh, a retired IPS officer, said, “I agree with the BPRD analysis because police definitely did an excellent job during the lockdown, particularly while dealing with the migrant crisis. Even PM Narendra Modi has acknowledged their contribution. Police were on the frontline during the lockdown.” Former Delhi Police Commissioner Neeraj Kumar agreed as well. He said, “Undoubtedly, police personnel went beyond the call of duty during the lockdown. First of all, managing such a huge lockdown is a challenge in itself. Then the cops provided every possible help they could.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-analyses-police-response-during-lockdown-says-they-showcased-humane-side/story-AQPyWIPy2vrxBeWsgxCx6K.html
26-09-2020||India||‘Humble persona is SP Balasubrahmanyam’s true legacy’, says Oscar-winning sound engineer||My last text to SP Balasubrahmanyam was on August 8, wishing him well. He replied, “We will meet soon”. I didn’t know that it would be the last response from him. I am just so shocked and devastated by his loss that it’s hard for me to describe what he meant to me, and what his impact has been on me, as a musician and as a human being. I remember listening to the song Ek Duje Ke Liye (1981) on a cassette my brother-in-law brought from the Gulf. I remember listening to it and being in awe of the man with such uniquely melodious voice. I still play the same tape, and the song in my house. I believe that someone, who has mastered the art of saat sur (seven notes) which go from nabhi to uchi, has seen Lord Brahma. And I believe SP Balasubrahmanyam saw Lord Brahma. I said the same thing on the stage in February this year, when I saw people gathering in huge numbers just to touch his feet at an event in Thrissur, Kerala. I believe, only when you have seen Brahma, can you have such an impact on the masses. And his impact was across generations. I remember him believing in my work, and whatever I wanted to do. I always wanted to work with him, but we kept missing each other. There was just so much that I wanted to learn from him about music. I also remember, during one of his concerts, a guitar player’s instrument was not tuned correctly. SP Balasubrahmanyam apologised to the crowd on stage, asked them for some time, went to the guitarist, told him that it is okay and he can take his own time to tune it back. Imagine the nervousness the guitarist must be going through when he was playing the mistuned guitar, and how he was immediately put at ease by the very man he was getting nervous for! This is one of the qualities of a person who is a higher being. I mean, apart from his legacy in music, which is unparalleled, his unassuming, humble and calm persona is what I think is his true legacy. I remember in 1995, as a kid, we were going to music studios, as a part of the curriculum. And I remember visiting his studio. That was the first time I saw him, live. His first concern was not even related to music. It was if all of us had food. That, I think, says everything about him. He was always so kind, so humble, had no airs about what he had achieved, and was always such a positive personality. I regret not working with him. I regret not getting the chance to work with him. I think he left us too soon. There was so much left that he could have taught us, not just through his music, but through his personality. I know, wherever he goes, he will continue to leave an impact, and mesmerise everyone with his uniquely melodious voice. (Resul Pookutty is an Oscar-winning sound mixer and designer) (As told to Samarth Goyal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humble-persona-is-sp-balasubrahmanyam-s-true-legacy-says-oscar-winning-song-engineer/story-bBeU35b35NK0gg5uuuzN7N.html
26-09-2020||India||PM Modi to address UNGA today, expected to urge global action against terrorism||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) for the general debate in the 75th session of the General Assembly on Saturday. He is expected to highlight India’s priorities as a member of the Security Council during 2021-22 and urge for global action against terrorism, according to people familiar with the development.The issues India will focus on during its stint as a non-permanent member of the Security Council include the “5-S approach” of samman (respect), samvad (dialogue), sahyog (cooperation), shanti (peace) and samriddhi (prosperity). The prime minister is expected to focus on these in his speech, the people cited above said.Strengthening of global action to counter terrorism is one of India’s priorities and this is expected to be reflected in the prime minister’s speech, they said.“India will push for more transparency in the process of listing and delisting of entities and individuals by the UN sanction committees,” they added.The virtual assembly will broadcast PM Modi’s pre-recorded video statement at the UNGA hall in New York. He is scheduled as the first speaker of the assembly in the forenoon of Saturday.India, one of the largest troop-contributing countries to the peace missions, will seek to engage intensively in finalising mandates for the UN peacekeeping mission, according to news agency ANI. It will also stress on issues relating to sustainable development and climate change.The theme of the 75th UNGA is ‘The future we want, the United Nations we need, reaffirming our collective commitment to multilateralism - confronting the Covid-19 through effective multilateral action’.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-unga-today-expected-to-urge-global-action-against-terrorism/story-WRaZg2iLE0KIyHLecxTqaM.html
26-09-2020||India||Legendary SP Balasubrahmanyam dies aged 74||Legendary playback singer SP Balasubrahmanyam, who blurred boundaries of language by recording 40,000 songs in 16 languages in a career spanning five decades, died in a Chennai hospital on Friday. He was 74. The singer was admitted to hospital last month after he contracted Covid-19, tested negative on September 4 but suffered a cardio- respiratory arrest on Friday. He died at 1.04 pm, announced his son SP Charan. “SPB belongs to everyone. He will live on in his songs,” Charan added. Born Sripati Panditaradhyula Balasubrahmanyam at Nellore in coastal Andhra Pradesh on June 4, 1946, SPB (as he was popularly known) wanted to become an engineer but dropped out to pursue his dream. He made his professional debut in 1966 in a Telugu film. Accolades quickly followed, bringing him six national awards for songs performed in four languages -- Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Hindi. His 54-year-long career included stints as a musician, composer, producer and voice-over artist, even actor but it was his distinctly melodious voice that won him millions of fans across India. “Where did you go Balu? I asked you to get up and come. You didn’t listen to me. Have you gone to sing for angels? For me world is empty now,” music maestro Illaiyaraja said. SPB and Illaiyaraja, one of India’s best music composers, were bandmates in the 1970s in a Chennai band. The singer will be cremated at 11 am on Saturday with state honours at his farm house in Red Hills on the outskirts of Chennai. The Tamil Nadu government said a memorial will be erected for the singer.In Chennai, a pall of gloom descended as news of his death spread. Fans crowded the hospital and people were seen crying on the streets humming “Paadun Nila“ (singing moon) as he was known as after one of his hit songs in Tamil.He won the Padma Shri in 2001 and the Padma Bhushan, the nation’s third-highest civilian award, in 2011. For legions of fans, SPB was the voice of actor Kamal Haasan, not only dubbing for his films in Telugu but singing songs for him, most notably in the 1981 blockbuster “Ek Duje Ke Liye”. “Like everyone else, he has been a part of my romance, melancholy, part of my happiness, first love and marriage as well,” Haasan said, referring to SPB as his brother. In Bollywood, he was known as the voice of actor Salman Khan – a partnership that began with the 1989 hit Maine Pyar Kiya and peaked in the 1994 blockbuster Hum Aapke Hain Koun! “Heartbroken to hear about #SPBalasubrahmanyam sir... you will forever live on in your undisputed legacy of music!” Khan tweeted. The versatile performer collaborated with cinema’s top composers, including MS Viswanathan, Ilaiyaraaja and AR Rahman, who said that he was “devastated” by the news.He was also known for his generosity, with former chess world champion Viswanathan Anand paying tribute to him for being “my first sponsor” at a 1983 tournament. “Really sad to hear about the passing away of such a great yet simple person,” Anand tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legendary-sp-balasubrahmanyam-dies-aged-74/story-Vagsw0l3vt0ulqfCX2VGaL.html
26-09-2020||India||Ayodhya Deepotsav as usual on Dipawali but people can only participate virtually||Like previous years, the majestic Ram Ki Paidi ghat in Ayodhya will again bathe in the light of earthen lamps (diyas) this Diwali to mark Deepotsav (festival of earthen lamps).However, people will be able to participate in it only virtually as the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to keep spectators away from Deepotsav celebrations this year to maintain Covid-19 protocol.“There will be an online option to click ‘diyas’ and ensure your participation in the event,” said Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay.“Due to the pandemic, people will not be allowed to attend the event like previous years,” Upadhyay added. Before the event, the government will make available the URL for online participation, said a government official.The Yogi Adityanath government has been celebrating Deepotsav in Ayodhya since 2017. Each year, there has been an upgradation in the grandeur of the event.Also Read: Nehru’s policies, Ayodhya dispute, land reforms out of Assam Class 12 syllabusThe Ayodhya administration has also identified 208 temples where the concerned management will make arrangements for Deepotsav celebrations.In other temples, which have no financial resources, the Ayodhya administration will provide assistance. The Ram Janmabhoomi campus will also be lit up with ‘diyas’ and a special prayer will be organised at these temples.Also Read: Yogi Adityanath holds meet with leading filmmakers over film city projectThere will be no performance of Ramleela of foreign countries in Ayodhya this year. However, nine-day ‘Ayodhya ki Ramlila’ will be performed at Laxman Quila on the banks of the Saryu from October 17-25, in which Bollywood actors will play various characters of the epic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-deepotsav-as-usual-on-dipawali-but-people-can-only-participate-virtually/story-GJ46x8RUYd3Q2jpFgzg7WM.html
26-09-2020||India||International and domestic flights: Four major relaxations provided to airlines||From a complete shutdown of international and domestic flights in March and April, India has come a long way achieving the one crore passenger mark in the domestic sector. Vande Bharat Mission (VBM), which started in May, facilitated repatriation and outbound travel of nearly 18 lakh citizens, according to aviation ministry data. “Moving towards Pre-COVID figures. Congratulations to all stakeholders on achieving this milestone! We continue our journey towards creating an #AatmaNirbharBharat,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri has tweeted. More than One Crore passengers on 1,08,210 flights since recommencement of domestic operations on 25 May 2020. Moving towards Pre-COVID figures.Congratulations to all stakeholders on achieving this milestone!We continue our journey towards creating an #AatmaNirbharBharat. pic.twitter.com/jOCJDvCeK8In this period of time, several major relaxations have been provided to the airlines to boost domestic and international traffic. Private airlines in Vande Bharat MissionWhen initiated in May, Vande Bharat Mission was led by Air India. During the third phase of the VBM, the Centre allowed private airlines to take part. The seventh phase of VBM will begin in October.Frequency, capacity Domestic passenger flights are now operating at their 60 per cent of pre-Covid capacity. When domestic services resumed on May 25, after a gap of two months, they were not allowed to operate more that 33 per cent of their capacity, which in June was increased to 60 per cent. Several cities initially put a cap on the number of flights arriving. In a staggered manner, these restrictions have been relaxed leading to an increase in domestic traffic.Internation air traffic got a leg-up after India started signing air bubbles with specific countries allowing both-way traffic. At present, India has air bubbles with 14 countries.Baggage rulesAirlines are now allowed to implement their own check-in baggage policies instead of one check-in bag of up to 20 kg per passenger — a rule that was put in place when domestic flights commenced on May 25. On-board meal servicesIn August, the government allowed airlines to serve pre-packed meals, snacks, beverages on domestic flights and hot meals on international flights. No meals were allowed on domestic flights in the initial months. International flights were allowed to serve snacks, pre-packed cold meals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-and-domestic-flights-four-major-relaxations-provided-to-airlines/story-6Rbsji3ElU7URvmHszORdN.html
26-09-2020||India||‘Lies, misinformation, warmongering’: India responds to Pakistan PM Imran Khan’s UN address||In a firm message, Indian delegate Mijito Vinito on Friday called Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan’s virtual address at the 75th United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) full of “lies, misinformation and warmongering”.Vinito, who had walked out of the hall during Khan’s pre-recorded address at UNGA where the prime minister raised the Kashmir issue, later requested the UN for the floor to exercise ‘Right of Reply’.In India’s response to Khan, Vinito said, “Pakistan has always called for a peaceful solution. To this end, India must rescind the measures it has instituted since August 5 in 2019, end its military siege and other gross human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir.” During his virtual address, Khan raised the Kashmir issue and criticised the Indian government, which the prime minister has done in several of his recent speeches. “The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral and inalienable part of India. The rules and legislation brought in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir are strictly internal affairs of India.Also read | Terrorism, clandestine nuclear trade Pakistan’s ‘only crowning glory’ for 70 years: India at UNThe only dispute left in Kashmir relates to the part of Kashmir that is still under illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to vacate all those areas that it is in illegal occupation of,” said Mijito Vinito, First Secretary, India Mission to the United Nations.India’s strong-worded response to Pakistan came after India exercised its 'Right of Reply' once all the country speeches in the high-level debate of UNGA’s 75th session were concluded on Friday.During India’s reply to Pakistan, Vinito pointed out that Khan is the “same person who referred to the terrorist Osama Bin Laden as a ‘Martyr’ in his Parliament in July”.“This Hall heard the incessant rant of someone who had nothing to show for himself, who had no achievements to speak of, and no reasonable suggestion to offer to the world. Instead, we saw lies, misinformation, warmongering, and malice spread through this Assembly. The words used today at this great Assembly by the leader of Pakistan (Imran Khan) demean the very essence of the United Nations,” he added. “This is the country that brought genocide to South Asia 39 years ago when it killed its own people. This is also the country that is shameless enough not to offer a sincere apology for the horrors it perpetrated even after so many years. This is the same country that provides pensions for dreaded and listed terrorists out of State funds. This is the same country that has the dubious distinction of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the United Nations,” Vinito further said.After Khan’s UN address, T S Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, in a tweet had hinted that India would use its Right to Reply to respond to Pakistan.“PM of Pakistan statement a new diplomatic low – at 75th UN General Assembly. Another litany of vicious falsehood, personal attacks, war mongering and obfuscation of Pakistan’s persecution of its own minorities & of its cross-border terrorism. Befitting Right of Reply awaits,” Tirumurti wrote on Twitter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to address the 75th session of United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) virtually on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lies-misinformation-warmongering-india-responds-to-pakistan-pm-imran-khan-s-un-address/story-DNM70UWwqpH24KqxtaLyYK.html
26-09-2020||India||Over 5.9 million Covid-19 cases reported in India; 1,089 fresh deaths in 24 hours take tally to 93,379||India’s coronavirus tally crossed 5.9 million-mark on Saturday after a spike of 85,362 fresh cases were reported, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Saturday. The country at present has 9,60,969 active cases.As many as 1,089 fresh deaths were reported in last 24 hours, taking India’s Covid-19 toll to 93,379 on Saturday.The total cases tally in India stands at 59,03,933 including 48,49,584 recovered/discharged cases, 9,60,696 active cases and 93,379 deaths due to Covid-19.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), as per data on September 25, the total number of Covid-19 samples tested stands at 7,02,69,975. Around 13,41,535 number of samples on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-5-9-million-covid-19-cases-reported-in-india-1-089-fresh-deaths-in-24-hours-take-tally-to-93-379/story-Sl16W4vxAVjOTYO8CJTZiL.html
26-09-2020||India||Rail roko: Farmers agitation in Punjab enters third day, extended till September 29||The ‘rail roko’ agitation against the farm bills passed in Parliament in the recently concluded monsoon season entered its third day on Saturday. It was scheduled to conclude on September 26 but now has been extended by three more days. Several special passenger trains have been cancelled till September 26. The railways are yet to announce its further schedule given the extension of the ‘rail roko’ protests.“On September 27, members of women’s groups will join the protest, while on September 28, youth will take part in the protest on the occasion of Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary,” Sarwan Singh Pandher, state secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti, announced on Friday.Farmers from various parts of the country are protesting against three farm bills -- Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020. On September 25, close to 250 farmer bodies came together under the banner of All India Kisan Sangharsh Committee for a national strike between 10am and 4pm, terming the laws as “anti-farmers” and asked the government either to withdraw these legislations or at least provide minimum support price (MSP) protection in them. “We will not allow any leaders of the political parties to address the farmers at the protest site. Our struggle will continue till recently passed farm bills are not withdrawn,” Pandher said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-farmers-agitation-in-punjab-enters-third-day-extended-till-september-29/story-uzbaBrLn6GTbrZOhL8PFML.html
26-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine trial begins at Mumbai hospital today: All you need to know||The first dose of Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by the Oxford University and AstraZeneca will on Saturday be administered to three volunteers at the King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital in Mumbai while 10 more volunteers have been selected for the clinical trial.Another Mumbai hospital BYL Nair will commence the process of clinical trials from Monday.Volunteers given the vaccine dose at the KEM hospital will be checked regularly and within 29 days a second dose will be given to them.Here’s everything you need to know about Covid-19 vaccine trial--All three volunteers who will get the shot today have been screened to rule out any underlying health issues, KEM Hospital officials said. They also underwent RT-PCR and antibody testing. “The three participants have been screened after their consent and they don’t have any comorbidity. As per randomisation, out of every four participants, one will receive placebo (false drug),” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, Dean, KEM Hospital.--According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, each of the volunteers has been covered with Rs 1crore life insurance in case of death due to any side effects during the trial. They have also been covered under Rs 50lakh medical insurance if they develop any adverse effect from the vaccine.--“We will administer the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to the three volunteers on Saturday” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. He added that 10 more people will be screened on Saturday which will take the number of volunteers to 23. “We will check how they respond after the inoculation and test them for antibodies,” he said.--After the volunteers are given the shot, they will have to stay at the hospital for two hours to check if they are having any complications,--The vaccine induces a strong immune response. It provokes a T cell (white blood cells that can attack cells infected with the coronavirus) response within 14 days of the dose, and an antibody response within 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-trial-begins-at-mumbai-hospital-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-qtN0xTZnbOyz84QRwXJWnJ.html
26-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Will take appropriate action, says Finance Ministry on Vodafone tribunal setback and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Will take appropriate action, says Finance Ministry on Vodafone tribunal setbackThe government may take appropriate action on the Vodafone tax case, two finance ministry officials said adding that there is no question of India losing Rs 20,000 crore as Vodafone did not pay the tax, including interest and penalty on it. Read moreThere’s place for dissent but within decorum, says Lok Sabha Speaker Om BirlaIn his first interview after the monsoon session of Parliament was cut short on September 23, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla spoke to Saubhadra Chatterji about the challenge of holding proceedings during the pandemic, the speed with which bills were cleared, and the Opposition’s complaints of not holding debates on important issues. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘That is what the quality of the man is’: Gautam Gambhir names ‘no.1 player in IPL’Kings XI Punjab captain KL Rahul struck the first century of Indian Premier League 2020 on Thursday against Royal Challengers Bangalore. Rahul hammered an unbeaten 132 in 69 balls to help his side to a mammoth total of 206/3 in 20 overs. Read moreRomantic proposal takes funny turn due to a biker. Here’s what happenedTalk about a memorable proposal! People plan a great deal to make a proposal special. However, sometimes things just happen and turn them into even more memorable events. Read moreHarley Davidson exit from India to impact 2,000 jobs across dealerships: FADAAutomobile dealer body FADA on Friday said the closure of Harley-Davidson’s operations in India would lead to job loss for up to 2,000 workers across the brand’s 35 dealerships. Read moreKaran Johar issues statement after ‘malicious campaign’: ‘I don’t consume narcotics, don’t promote or encourage consumption’Filmmaker Karan Johar, late on Friday, took to social media to post a long note, denying that any narcotic substance was consumed during a party that he hosted in 2019. Read moreIPL 2020: Delhi Capitals thrash Chennai Super Kings by 44 runsPrithvi Shaw starred with a half-century as Delhi Capitals beat Chennai Super Kings by 44 runs to register back-to-back wins in Indian Premier League 2020. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-will-take-appropriate-action-says-finance-ministry-on-vodafone-tribunal-setback-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4WamXhomiyBee8L87v04LM.html
26-09-2020||India||BJP treads cautiously with SAD: Partnership could be in question||The fissures that have emerged in the ties between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and one of its oldest allies, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) are all set to deepen with the latter intensifying its attack against the BJP government over the recently passed farm bills. The bitterness and the war of words that erupted after the BJP and the Shiv Sena, also an old ally, failed to reach an agreement over power-sharing in Maharashtra, has been noticeably missing after cracks emerged in the ties between the BJP and the SAD. But while the BJP is still treading with caution, referring to the SAD’s tirade against it as “political compulsion”, the SAD has taken its criticism of the bills a notch higher. On Friday, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said at a rally in Punjab, “During World War 2, the US shook Japan up with an atomic bomb. Akali Dal’s one bomb (resignation of Harsimrat Kaur Badal) has shaken up the Modi government. For the past two months, there was no word on farmers, but now as many as five ministers are speaking on the issue.” Also Read: Farm bills anger spills onto highways, railwaysThe SAD pulled out its only minister from the Narendra Modi cabinet in protest against the government pushing through the new legislations in Parliament. Though the BJP said it is ready to address all SAD’s concerns about the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance the Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the SAD is pulling no punches in its disapproval. The BJP, on its part, has decided to focus attention on creating awareness about the new legislation’s benefit to farmers. “They have nothing to lose and the statements they are making stem from political compulsions. It is not right for the BJP to join issue with their ally,” said a senior party functionary. Exiting the coalition: Will they, won’t they?The question, however, is if the disagreement would pave the way for the exit of another BJP ally from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). According to SAD’s Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral, though there is pressure from the cadre to pull out, the party will not take a hasty decision. “We are mindful that we are a border state and we cannot destabilise the situation. Our cadre is pushing us to break away from the NDA, but we will not rush into it. We will take a decision, which is in the interest of the people of Punjab and our country,” he said. Also Read: ‘Will challenge farm bills in Supreme Court’: Punjab finance ministerThe SAD leader also explained that the party voiced its concerns to protect the interests of the farmers. “In any coalition, all partners’ ideology cannot be the same. Whenever we have disagreed on issues that were contrary to our thinking, such as the attack on minorities or the Delhi riots, we spoke up. But we have never made stipulations. We spoke up so that we could stick to the core of our ideology. The farm bills affect us, our workers and leaders are farmers, how could we not speak up?” Gujral said. Communication issues While the government claims that the bills were adequately discussed, and has rolled out a massive outreach led by Union ministers to dispel concerns about the bills, allies claim there has been little by way of communication. “The NDA this time is unlike the NDA of the [Atal Bihari] Vajpayee era. There is no consultative process, we never meet and there are no coordination meetings. We found out about the ordinance only when it was put before the Cabinet where our minister protested. We said the bills are not in the interest of farmers, not in the least in Punjab. And because our concerns were not addressed, it was not feasible for us to stay in the government,” Gujral said. Shiv Sena’s Lok Sabha MP Vinayak Raut echoed the SAD’s view that the BJP does not take its allies into confidence. “When we were part of the NDA, there were no meetings of the allies. To have a meeting of the leaders at the Business Advisory Committee is not the same as keeping allies informed and taking their views into consideration,” Raut said. Ahead of the upcoming Bihar elections in October, the Lok Jan Shakti Party, another ally, has been stoking a controversy by criticising a third ally, the JDU in the state, indicating that all is not well within the NDA in the election-bound state. The BJP has had to step in to settle squabbles between two allies, which has given fodder to the Opposition in the state. The BJP functionary quoted above said the allegations of BJP not being amenable to allies have been made to score a point. “We have always treated allies with respect and kept them informed,” the functionary said. On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also instructed party workers to reach out to farmers across the country to dispel the “misleading” accusations made by the Opposition. All BJP Karyakartas should reach out to the farmers on the ground and inform them in very simplified language about the importance and intricacies of the new farm reforms, how these will empower them. Our ground connect will bust the propaganda being spread in the virtual world. pic.twitter.com/LuofRKzL5dHunt for new allies Before the BJP snapped ties with the Shiv Sena in 2019, with which its equations saw many ups and downs over the years, it parted ways with the Telegu Desam Party. In March 2018, Chandrababu Naidu’s party decided to break its ties with the BJP and pulled out two of its ministers—Ashok Gajapathi Raju and YS Chaudhary—from the Modi cabinet. The TDP, which had been an ally of the BJP in the southern state for nearly four years, broke away following the Centre’s decision to not grant special category status to Andhra Pradesh. At that time, there was speculation that the BJP could warm up to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), which won the 2019 assembly polls in the state. Rakesh Reddy, BJP’s spokesperson in Telangana, said the party has never had friendly ties with the TRS before or after the carving out of Telangana state. He said the BJP has been fighting the TRS on the ground for the last six years and is equally distant from both the TRS and the TDP. “We are a strong contender in the state and have already begun preparations for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections scheduled early next year. When we allied with the TDP, a party that was opposed to the carving out of Telangana, we suffered in the elections,” he said. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, where the ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) is counted as a friendly party in Parliament, the BJP asserts that the bonhomie is limited to support for “issues” and does not indicate forging an alliance. “There has been talk of BJP tying up with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in Tamil Nadu and the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in Odisha, but these parties have contested against the BJP in their respective states. They have supported some bills in Parliament, because those were issues they agreed on. If every instance of support is indicative of an alliance, then what about the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which supported the BJP on Jammu and Kashmir reorganisation, but differs on other issues?” said a second BJP functionary. A changed NDA What the allies called a changed complexion of the NDA, Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) called the new working style. “They have numbers on their side, but this is the government’s new style of functioning. They want to be seen as decisive and not given to negotiations or talks once they have made up their mind about an issue,” he said. The complaint from allies of being left out, he said does not “create a good impression” but has not “adversely affected” the BJP so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-treads-cautiously-with-sad-partnership-could-be-in-question/story-zfZXwj7y9KTArYeL1OJk7L.html
26-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput probe: No drugs consumed at July 2019 party, says Karan Johar, clarifies no ‘aides’ probed by NCB||Filmmaker Karan Johar on Saturday issued a statement saying he neither consumes any narcotics substance nor does he promote or encourage its use. He also rubbished reports that claim two persons being questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the drug link in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death are his “close aides.”Johar’s name sprang up in Bollywood’s alleged drug links with politician Manjinder Singh Sirsa renewing his claims that a ‘drug party’ was hosted at the director’s residence in July last year. The director-producer, however, dismissed the allegations as baseless and fake. “In view of the current malicious campaign. I am reiterating that the allegations are completely, baseless and false. No narcotics substance was consumed in the party. I WOULD LIKE TO UNEQUIVOCALLY ONCE AGAIN STATE THAT I DO NOT CONSUME NARCOTICS AND I DO NOT PROMOTE OR ENCOURAGE CONSUMPTION OF ANY SUCH SUBSTANCE,” he said in a statement on Instagram. Johar also stated, “several media / news channels have been airing news reports that Kshitij Prasad and Anubhav Chopra are my aides/close aides. I would like to place on record that I do not know these individuals and neither of these two individuals are “aides” or “close aides” NEITHER I, NOR DHARMA PRODUCTIONS CAN BE MADE RESPONSIBLE FOR WHAT PEOPLE DO IN THEIR PERSONAL LIVES. THESE ALLEGATIONS DO NOT PERTAIN TO DHARMA PRODUCTIONS.” His clarification comes in the backdrop of film executive producer Kshitij Ravi Prasad and assistant director Anubhav Chopra being quizzed by NCB in connection with the drug link in Rajput’s death on June 14. Johar wrote that Chopra wasn’t an employee at Dharma Productions and was only briefly associated with them for two months as a second assistant director for a film between November 2011 and January 2012 and then as an assistant director for a short film in January 2013. Prasad, Johar said, joined Dharma Productions’ sister concern Dharmatic Entertainment in November 2019 as one of the contract basis for a project which eventually did not materialise. Prasad and Chopra’s name came up during the interrogation of Powai hotelier Ankush Arneja, an alleged drug peddler, who was arrested by NCB on September 13. NCB had recovered 42 grams of hashish and cash Rs1.12 lakh from his Powai home. Arneja is accused of selling drugs to high-profile individuals.With several Bollywood celebrities under NCB’s scanner, the central agency has so far questioned actor Rakul Preet Singh, celebrity manager Shruti Modi, Rajput’s former talent manager Jaya Saha, Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash and film producer Madhu Mantena among others. Summons have also been issued to Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor, and fashion designer Simone Khambatta.Actors Rhea Chakaborty, her brother Showik are among the 18 people who have been arrested by NCB in connection with the drug-related angle in Rajput’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-probe-no-drugs-consumed-at-july-2019-party-says-karan-johar-clarifies-no-aides-probed-by-ncb/story-cOVeHEvloxeHdaKkRjvcaK.html
26-09-2020||India||Deepika Padukone reaches NCB office, questioning in drug case underway||Actor Deepika Padukone reached the Mumbai Port Trust Guest House in Colaba, from where Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is operating, at 9.45am on Saturday. She is being questioned in connection with the investigation into a drug angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Padukone, who was in Goa, reached Mumbai on Thursday with her husband Ranveer Singh.  Mumbai: Actor Deepika Padukone arrives at Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) SIT office. She has been summoned by Narcotics Control Bureau to join the investigation of a drug case, related to #SushantSinghRajputDeathCase. pic.twitter.com/kzxaHGvXFlShe was summoned by the agency on Wednesday and she acknowledged the summon on Thursday. Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh, among others, were also summoned for questioning on the same day. Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan are also expected to appear before the agency on Saturday.Rakul Preet Singh’s statement was recorded after she was grilled by the NCB for four hours on Friday. She was seen entering the guest house from where the agency is operating around 10.30am, news agency PTI reported. “Rakul Preet Singh’s statement was recorded by the SIT today. It will be analysed and produced before the court,” Mutha Ashok Jain, NCB’s director general, told reporters.Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash and Rajput’s former manager Shruti Modi were also questioned in the case on Friday. Prakash has been summoned again on Saturday.The NCB, one of the three agencies investigating the case, launched its probe after it received an official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) related to a possible drug nexus in Bollywood.The ED registered an Enforcement Case Information Report on July 31 in the late actor’s death case after a First Information Report was filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh against Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28. Chakraborty has been arrested in the drug case.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai flat on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deepika-padukone-sara-ali-khan-shraddha-kapoor-likely-to-appear-before-ncb-today/story-cKRME6daUCWbLgIxbroL3L.html
26-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Over the past week (till September 24), the seven-day average of daily new cases of Covid-19 has fallen by around 7,000 in India. By itself, this is important for two reasons.One, it has never happened before in India, although it has in other countries. The US (the closest comparison to India by size, geographical area, and number of Covid-19 cases) has seen two peaks (and two troughs), with cases on the rise again (the seven-day average is the highest in that country since early September). The Indian numbers are from HT’s database and the US ones from The New York Times’s. In contrast to the US, India’s numbers have never fallen – until now, that is.Two, 7,000 is a significant number, whichever way you look at it, and already there have been a few seemingly analytical pieces celebrating the slowing of cases in India. The tone of some of these suggests that we can stop worrying — and start living.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn early September, it looked like it would only be a matter of days before India saw at least 100,000 daily new cases of Covid-19, but that hasn’t happened (which is definitely cause for some cheer). But it isn’t easy to translate these numbers into some intelligence on which way the pandemic’s curve is headed. There’s a reason why.Over the two weeks to September 24, India’s Covid-19 numbers have not stuck to script , and show no discernible pattern. Until then, it was easy to predict what the number would be even a month down the line. Indeed, HT’s Covid-19 data specialist Jamie Mullick correctly predicted the dates when India would cross 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 million cases. India ended September 24 with a total of 85,909 cases, and September 25 with 85,506. And most people have got their 6-million date prediction horribly wrong. That’s because, over the past two weeks, India’s daily new case numbers have fluctuated, from a low of 74,693 on September 21 to a high of 97,932 on September 16. In the same period, the number of tests has fluctuated even more wildly, from a low of 731,534 tests on September 20 to a high of 1,492,409 (almost 1.5 million) tests on September 24. Not surprisingly, the positivity rate (the number of people testing positive expressed as a proportion of the tests conducted) has been volatile too – from a low of 5.7% on September 24 to a high of 11.9% on September 20. As the chart accompanying this column shows, even the movement within this range has been jagged, not unidirectional.There has been no change in testing protocol or anything else that can explain this behaviour (or rather misbehaviour) of the numbers.Sure, several states and Union Territories continue to rely on unreliable rapid antigen tests, which they continue to use in contexts where the use of these makes little sense, but they were doing this even in July and August. Regular readers of this column will know that this is one of my pet peeves — but my objection is based on science and math. Rapid antigen tests have a high proportion of false negatives — the identification of infected individuals as uninfected, and any state or UT using a lot of them is artificially (and disingenuously) pushing down the positivity rate, apart from allowing a lot of infected people to walk around (infecting others). Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar continue to depend on these for the bulk of their testing.My fear is that the home ministry, which is expected to issue new guidelines for what is called Unlock 5.0 over the weekend or sometime next week, may use this data as the basis. Sure, the pandemic may be slowing in India, but we have no way of arriving at this conclusion based on the numbers of the past two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-oQp0Yx56Kq7JquZgblaruO.html
26-09-2020||India||Covid-19: How nasal, one-shot and passive vaccines work||In the ongoing race for an effective Covid-19 vaccine, several pharma companies are exploring off the beaten path. Johnson & Johnson is conducting a trial of a single-shot vaccine, while traditional vaccine candidates require two shots. Bharat Biotech has announced manufacturing of intranasal vaccine, which will set it apart from the intramuscular ones.Here is all you need to know about these non-traditional vaccinesNasal vaccinesMost Covid-19 vaccine candidates are intramuscular where the shots are injected into the muscles. This process requires medical professionals, equipment etc. Intranasal vaccines can do away with this. It can be self-administered thereby reducing cost. Bharat Biotech has inked a licencing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri, the US, for such vaccines.“We are proud to collaborate on this innovative vaccine. We envision that we will scale this vaccine to one billion doses. Individuals can be vaccinated by a single dose regimen. An intranasal vaccine will not only be simple to administer but also reduce the use of medical consumables such as needles, syringes, etc, significantly impacting the overall cost of a vaccination drive,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director (MD), Bharat Biotech.Also Read: China aims to make 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses a yearOne-shot vaccinesThe vaccines being developed by Moderna, Pfizer, and Astrazeneca are all double shots which are being administered to participants in a gap of several weeks. Johnson & Johnson and the intranasal vaccine Bharat Biotech is collaborating will be single shots. Like intranasal vaccines, these are also aimed at making the process easy. “The benefits of a single-shot vaccine are potentially profound in terms of mass immunization campaigns and global pandemic control,” Dr. Dan Barouch, a Harvard vaccine researcher who helped design J&J’s COVID-19 vaccine, told Reuters.A single dose of Johnson & Johnson’s experimental COVID-19 vaccine produced a strong immune response against the novel coronavirus in an early-to-mid stage clinical trial, Johnson & Johnson’s interim results published on Friday claimed.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine: When will US get its first vaccine?Passive vaccinesDevelopment of passive vaccines for Covid-19 is a possibility as scientists have identified highly effective antibodies against the novel coronavirus.Unlike in active vaccination, passive vaccination involves the administration of ready-made antibodies, which are degraded after some time.The scientists at the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) and Charite - Universitatsmedizin Berlin isolated almost 600 different antibodies from the blood of individuals who had overcome COVID-19, reported PTIThis is the mechanism in which plasma therapy works, but scientists are now exploring whether this can be used for the immunisation of people who are not yet infected by Covid-19. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-how-nasal-vaccines-one-shot-vaccines-passive-vaccines-work/story-8wO8qawduEHZzMSlApuPSJ.html
26-09-2020||India||Manmohan Singh birthday: Former prime minister turns 88||Dr Manmohan Singh, veteran Congress leader and former prime minister who ran a coalition government between 2004-2014, turns 88 today.Before he became the prime minister, his brightest moment was ushering in the 1991 economic reforms under the Narasimha Rao government. He was Rao’s finance minister.The 1991 Budget is feted by many as one that laid the foundations of a modern India and the roadmap for pushing economic reforms in the country. However, Singh never stopped to share the credit with his boss PV Narasimha Rao.“It was a hard choice and a bold decision and it was possible because Prime Minister Narasimha Rao gave me the freedom to roll out things, after he fully understood what was ailing India’s economy at that time,” Singh, who has also been held the post of the RBI Governor during his celebrated career, was quoted as saying by the PTI at Rao’ centenary celebrations.Here’s everything you need to know about one of Congress’ greatest stalwarts-- Singh was born on September 26, 1932 in the Punjab province of Pakistan before the partition of India.--He studied at the Panjab University, University of Cambridge and obtained his doctorate in economics from the University of Oxford. He later taught at the Panjab University as well as Delhi School of Economics, and the University of Delhi.--Dr. Manmohan Singh served as the 13th Prime Minister of India between 2004 and 2014 after the UPA defeated the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government. The economist served as the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha from 1998 to 2004.--The Indian economist also served as the governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from 1982 to 1985.-- Singh has held several key posts including the chief economic advisor between 1972 and 1976 while was the head of the Planning Commission from 1985 to 1987.-- Dr. Singh also worked with the United Nations twice, once from 1966 - 1969, as economic affairs officer for the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). His second stint in the UN from 1987 to 1990 was as the secretary general of the South Commission, which is an intergovernmental organisation of developing economies.--He is currently a Rajya Sabha member from Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-birthday-former-prime-minister-turns-88/story-pyDk16kFshKsyuaKgxUA5M.html
26-09-2020||India||J&K police set up SIT to probe killing of advocate Babar Qadri in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Friday formed a five-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the killing of advocate Babar Qadri in Srinagar a day earlier, officials familiar with the matter said.Police said that Qadri was at his home when two persons, wearing masks, came as clients. “They called the lawyer saying that they have an accident case and wanted some suggestions. As the lawyer came down they fired upon him . He died on the way to hospital,” said Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar in a press conference.Doctors said Qadri had sustained bullet wounds on his neck, near the eye, under his arm and on his arm. The militants also fired in the air while fleeing. “We are analysing CCTV footage from the lane and are trying to ascertain which outfit is responsible for the attack. The SIT will be headed by SP Hazratbal,” he said.The SIT has been asked to find which militant outfit is involved. “We will attempt to arrest them, if they are not caught, we will try to neutralise them in an encounter. This case is our top priority,” the IGP said.Just hours before his death, Qadri in a Facebook live had said he had been receiving intimidating messages after he had written against the High Court Bar Association president over bar elections. He said he feared for his life and had urged the police to register an FIR against a social media user who had accused Qadri of being ‘projected by agencies’ on Twitter. The IGP said that Qadri had ‘unfortunately’ tagged the Jammu police handle instead of Kashmir police handle. “If he had called ….or shared his threat perception with us, we would have taken some action,” he said.The IGP said Qadri was not a protected person but in 2018, his car was fired upon. “His relative, who works with the police, and local police officers had requested him to not live in Hawal, which is a congested area and difficult to patrol. He was not ready to leave his home,” he said.JeM hand suspected in CRPF officer’s killing Kumar said officer said the attack on CRPF personnel in Budgam district on Thursday morning was suspected to be the handiwork of a Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit.“On Thursday morning, a CRPF patrol was carrying out routine work in Budgam when it was fired upon. One of our ASIs was killed in the attack. We suspect JeM involvement in the case. An M4 was used to fire on the officers. The weapon is usually used by JeM,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-set-up-sit-to-probe-killing-of-advocate-babar-qadri-in-srinagar/story-9EnwBdS32ankiIyYEx3kIJ.html
26-09-2020||India||Kerala govt faces more heat with CBI set to probe housing project scheme||Facing enough heat in the gold smuggling case, more trouble is in store for the Kerala government after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday registered a case into alleged irregularities in the state’s pet housing scheme ‘Life Mission Project’.The project, which aimed at building free houses for the poor, got into a controversy after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) seized Rs one crore cash and two kilograms gold from the bank locker of gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh in July. She later told the NIA that Rs one crore was the commission she got for clinching a deal with an international aid agency ‘Red Crescent’ which funded the project in Vadakancherry in Thrissur district. She said gold was gifted to her during her marriage.Also read: PM Modi’s speech at UNGA to focus on global push to counter terrorLater a news channel controlled by the CPI(M) came out with more revelations claiming Rs 4 crore was paid as commission in the Rs 20 crore project. Later it came to light that no permission was taken from the Union government for accepting the foreign contribution. The anti-corruption unit of the CBI has registered a case under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). When the issue snowballed into a controversy, the state government maintained that it will not come under the purview of the FCRA.Though the issue came to light almost two months back, the state government had announced a vigilance probe into it only two days ago. State opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala had also written several letters to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking a copy of the agreement but he got it only a couple of days back.The Congress and the BJP have sought a CBI probe into alleged irregularities into the project but chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said they were plotting to sabotage the project intended to help the poor.“It is time for the CM to quit before the CBI comes knocking at his doors,” said Chennithala. But the ruling CPI(M) maintained it was least bothered over the latest probe. The CM also said the government will go ahead with the project. Also read: ‘Will never waver...’ - Confident Nitish spells out plans for next termDuring 30-kilogram gold smuggling investigation, probe agencies also found that a heavy consignment weighing more than 4,000 kilos had arrived in 31 bags on March 4 and was taken to Malappuram. State higher education minister KT Jaleel later claimed that these packets contained only religious books and he took them to his constituency for distribution. But the Opposition alleged that some consignments also carried gold and Jaleel was using holy books to cover up his illegal act. The minister was questioned twice by the probe agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-faces-more-heat-as-cbi-to-probe-housing-project-scheme/story-xwGb7indkQztkL1a6wmauJ.html
26-09-2020||India||EC sets stage for India’s 1st Covid-era elections in Bihar||Seventy-two million people will vote in three phases over 11 days in late October and early November to choose a new government in Bihar, the Election Commission of India announced on Friday, setting the stage for India’s first mass poll after the Covid-19 pandemic struck the country.Voting in one of the world’s largest electoral exercises in the Covid-19 era will be conducted on October 28, November 3, and November 7. Results for the 243-member assembly will be announced on November 10. “The elections are a leap of faith, not a leap in the dark,” said chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, announcing unprecedented guidelines and arrangements to regulate the processes of nomination, campaigning, voting and counting — to keep the raging pandemic that has claimed around 900 lives in the state at bay.  In the first phase, 71 constituencies will go to the polls with 31,000 polling stations set up. In the second phase, 94 constituencies will vote with 42,000 polling stations dedicated for it. In the third phase, 78 constituencies will have 33,500 polling stations. Arora said 700,000 units of hand sanitisers, 4.6 million masks, 600,000 personal protective equipment suits, 760,000 face shields and 2.3 million gloves would be given to the polling staff. The commission has also acquired 72 million single-use hand gloves for voters.The previous election, held over five phases in 2015, saw 58% of the electorate exercising their franchise. Arora said the commission reduced the number of phases because of large-scale of deployment of security forces and sweeping Covid-19 protocols.“As a commission, we don’t regard it as a misadventure... it is a very, very meticulously worked exercise from our side,” the CEC said, citing the example of the recently-held JEE and NEET and saying thousands of candidates from various district across India attended the examinations. He also referred to a recent Supreme Court observation, saying life had to go on.The Bihar assembly was slated to lapse on November 29. The election will see chief minister Nitish Kumar seek a fourth consecutive term. His Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Lok Janshakti Party, the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and smaller parties form the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which will square off against a fractured Grand Alliance led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and comprising the Congress, Left parties and others. In the previous election, when Kumar’s JD(U) was an ally of the RJD, the Grand Alliance won a thumping victory against the BJP — securing 178 seats against the latter’s 58. But in 2017, Kumar broke away from the alliance and joined hands with the NDA.One of India’s more impoverished states, Bihar is currently battling the aftermath of devastating floods that displaced 8 million people. The return of thousands of migrant workers during the pandemic is also set to change the electoral map in large parts of the state. Arora said 230,000 migrant workers were added to the voter rolls. Polling time was also increased by an hour, from 7am to 6pm. “As the pandemic spreads across the world, the first reaction was to postpone elections hoping that the pandemic would lose grip and they can conduct the elections in more conducive environment,” Arora said. “More than 70 countries initially postponed their elections.” He added: “However, as days and months passed and the pandemic showed no signs of abating, it became evident that some way will have to be found to balance democratic rights of citizens to choose representatives, while making a systematic effort to protect the health and safety of the electors.”Also read| Bihar polls: CEC warns social media firmsThe CEC said he wanted to dispel doubts that there would only be virtual campaigning and that district election officers had already identified places where gatherings could take place following social distancing norms. “The propaganda that only virtual meets will take place during campaigning is way off the mark,” he said.The announcement of poll dates was welcomed by all political parties — including those that earlier demanded that the election be postponed until the pandemic is over. Senior BJP leader Bhupender Yadav said the NDA will repeat its Lok Sabha performance of winning 39 of the 40 seats from the state. “The NDA is going to win this election with a three-fourth majority,” he added.RJD MP Manoj Jha welcomed the commission’s decision but raised a few concerns. Congress MP and Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil said the Grand Alliance will form the government. “The people of Bihar want freedom from the BJP and JD(U) and today the EC has announced the day on which they will obtain their freedom,” Gohil said.With announcement of the election dates, the model code of conduct stands enforced. The EC will stringently enforce the code, especially the declaration of the criminal antecedents for which it has already announced a detailed schedule.The EC has already announced a slew of changes in the processes of nomination, campaigning, voting and counting to ensure distancing to contain the spread of the virus.Candidates can fill nomination forms and pay money online and only two people are allowed to accompany during the process. Door-to-door campaigning is limited to five persons, convoys are restricted to five vehicles and grounds for public meetings need to be have earmarked circles for audience, along with masks, sanitisers and thermal scanning. Nodal officers will be appointed to ensure no overcrowding.On voting day, a maximum of 1,000 electors will be allowed in a polling station, which will need to be sanitised a day before. If during thermal checking, a voter is seen running a high temperature, she will be asked to come back during the last hour of polling. Quarantined voters, disabled, essential workers and those above 80 will be given postal ballots. All, except the latter, will be also be allowed to cast their vote in the last hour of polling day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-sets-stage-for-india-s-1st-covid-era-elections-in-bihar/story-48vK8OgLctnFIgoOkyItdO.html
26-09-2020||India||Three more India-made Covid-19 vaccines to enter trials||Three more India-made Covid-19 vaccines are set to enter human trials, according to an official of the Union government’s department of biotechnology that is supporting the development of several experimental coronavirus vaccines in the country.The new vaccine candidates are from Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, Biological E and Bharat Biotech, which has developed one of the two already in clinical trials. The fifth Indian vaccine candidate to clear preclinical phases is by Zydus Cadila. “There are several vaccine candidates in different stages of development, some are at a very early stage. But three vaccine candidates are finishing up their pre-clinical study and will soon enter human trials,” said Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology (DBT), which is the nodal agency coordinating the vaccine development initiatives in the country.Swarup added that government-level talks are also underway on the Russian vaccine, which is among five to have been given early approval for use in people. Globally, there are 38 vaccine candidates in human trials, in addition to around 150 more that are undergoing testing in animal subjects.Russia is the only country to have approved a Covid-19 vaccine, although experts have questioned the scientific wisdom of doing so without large scale safety and efficacy tests in large groups of people. In addition, emergency approval has been granted to four vaccines, two each by China and the UAE, for limited use among some people. In addition to Bharat Biotech’s first vaccine candidate and the one by Zydus Cadila, a phase III trial of the vaccine candidate developed by Oxford university and British pharma company AstraZeneca is underway in India as part of a production- and testing deal with Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). The three vaccines Swarup referred to follow separate mechanisms to elicit and immune system response. Gennova’s shot uses the mRNA platform, which works by inserting a genetic code to prompt the body into making copies of what is known as the antigen protein. The antigen protein is a portion of the Sars-Cov-2 virus (the pathogen that causes Covid-19), which trains the body into recognising and fighting the pathogen. So far, no mRNA vaccines have been approved across the world but one of the leading Covid-19 vaccine candidates, from Moderna, uses the same platform. The Biological E vaccine uses a protein subunit — which involves injecting an isolated protein of the virus to prime the immune system. The second Bharat Biotech candidate uses an inactivated rabies virus to deliver a viral protein of Sars-CoV-2 to achieve the same effect. Bharat Biotech’s first candidate uses an inactivated version of Sars-Cov-2, a strategy that is one of the oldest to develop vaccines. Zydus Cadila’s vaccine uses a DNA plasmid to replicate portions of Sars-Cov-2 to teach the body to recognise it. According to a submission in Lok Sabha in the monsoon session, DBT has allocated ₹75 crore to support at least eight vaccine candidates in the country.For testing whether a vaccine candidate works, pre-clinical studies are done in animals to see whether it is safe and can produce immune response. This is followed by a small phase I trial to study safety in humans, a phase II trial to see whether it produces an immune response, and large phase III trial to see whether the vaccine can actually prevent the disease. Both phase II and phase III trials also focus on safety. Swarup said that data from clinical trials of a plant-based pharmaceutical product and whether the anti-tubercular BCG vaccine protects against Covid-19 will start coming in too. “The initial study of the phytopharmaceutical should start coming in soon, the data is being analysed. As for the study to see whether BCG is protective against Covid-19, the vaccines have already been administered and the follow-up has started. The initial data should start coming in from this study as well,” said Dr Swarup.Several studies, including one by scientists from JNU, has shown that the BCG vaccine does increase protection against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-more-india-made-vaccines-to-enter-trials/story-SL6NJ73n3vOpnIeR8Z0JFL.html
26-09-2020||India||Farm bills anger spills onto highways, railways||New Delhi/Chandigarh/Meerut Farmers across several states protested over key farm reform laws passed by Parliament this week, leading to disruption of life in Punjab, Haryana and parts of western Uttar Pradesh, even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused the opposition parties of spreading “lies” and misleading the farmers for their own political benefit in a video message, the third time he has had to defend the legislations.In the truncated session, Parliament approved the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, leading to a protest by farmer bodies and opposition political parties. The primary points of contention are the absence of any mention of a minimum support price (the government-decided floor) and the freedom given to private players and others to operate in areas beyond the physical boundaries of Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs). Also read: Farmers have lost all faith in PM Modi-led govt, says Rahul GandhiClose to 250 farmer bodies came together under the banner of All India Kisan Sangharsh Committee on Friday for a national strike between 10am and 4pm, terming the laws as “anti-farmers” and asked the government either to withdraw these legislations or at least provide minimum support price (MSP) protection in them. The government has maintained that MSPs will stay and there was no reason for farmers to worry. It has already announced MSPs for some winter-sown crops to reassure farmers who continue to insist that the support price protection be written into the law. Farmers blocked road traffic at several places in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, only allowing movement of emergency services such as ambulances. Road blockades in several places forced people to walk long distances to reach their destinations. The protest called by 185 farmer bodies was more or less peaceful with no major untoward incident reported from anywhere.According to Punjab government officials, a complete bandh was observed in all 22 districts, except the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stronghold of Pathankot, with business establishments and public transport not functioning. Railways had already suspended about two dozen trains originating from or passing through the state in view of the three-day rail blockade observed by farmer groups from September 24 to 26. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said he will not allow implementation of the laws in Punjab and directed the police not to book farmers for violation of Section 144 of CrPC imposed across the state for Covid management.Also read: Congress, NCP say no to farm bills in Maharashtra. Shiv Sena to decideIn Haryana, a near complete bandh was observed in farmer dominated districts of western and central parts of the state with not much impact seen in the northern parts. Traffic was blocked on the Rohtak-Chandigarh, Rohtak-Delhi, Jind-Chandigarh and Ambala-Hisar highways. Additional police force was deployed at Ambala and Panipat railway stations, officials said.In western UP, farmer organisations blocked major highways including the Yamuna Expressway in the national capital region and Agra-Lucknow expressway. Road blocks were also reported from Ayodhya and some parts of eastern UP. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan (KMS) and Rashtriya Kisan Sabha members demonstrated at various places.Political parties such as the Congress, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress and the Left parties supported the strike and their workers participated in the bandh.Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters in Jaipur that the Modi government has launched a brutal attack on the livelihood of 620 million people linked with farming at the time the country has been attacked by the Corona virus and China . Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav said the laws would enslave farmers to corporates and claimed that farm incomes have fallen in recent years instead of increasing as promised by the Prime Minister.PM Modi asked the BJP workers to reach out to farmers on the ground and inform them about details and benefits of the new agriculture reforms and how these will empower them.“They (Opposition) are spreading rumours. Saving farmers from such rumours and explaining the importance of the agriculture reforms is the responsibility and duty of all BJP workers because we have to make the future of farmers bright,” Modi said at a function organised to celebrate the birth anniversary of party’s ideologue Deendayal Upadhyay.The PM said small and marginal farmers, who constitute 85% of the peasant community, will benefit the most from these reforms as they would get better price for their produce. BJP leaders also held press conferences at various states capitals saying that farmers were being misled by the Opposition. “The Rabi crop has not been harvested yet and they are saying farmers will not get the minimum support price,” said BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra in Kolkata. “This kind of smear campaign will not work. The BJP government is committed to protecting the interest of farmers.” Outside the food bowl of northern India, protests were also reported from West Bengal and Bihar. The ruling Trinamool Congress and the Left partied led the protests in West Bengal. Traffic was blocked in Hooghly, North 24 Parganas, Nadia, South 24 Parganas, Burdwan, East Midnapore and other districts where farming is the main source of income for the rural population. In Bihar, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav led a protest in Patna. Roads were blocked at Ara, Purnia, Samastipur, Bhagalpur, Begusarai and Hajipur districts, officials said.However, there was not much impact of the bandh in states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, from where only sporadic protests were reported. Farmer bodies burnt copies of the laws at several locations and in Karnataka, entry of traffic into Bengaluru was blocked.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-anger-spills-onto-highways-railways/story-Xf0dSzakpvQfrIwvlsGWPL.html
26-09-2020||India||Bihar polls: CEC warns social media firms||Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora on Friday said that social media companies will be held responsible if they fail to make adequate arrangements to counter misuse and don’t take prompt action against adverse posts ahead of the Bihar assembly elections. “Adverse use of social media platforms has emerged as a new challenge in recent times,” Arora said. “If adequate arrangements aren’t made to counter the misuse of the social media, then they (social media companies) will not be allowed to take pretext of being only a platform and shall be held responsible if necessary action is not taken promptly and adequately.” Also read: EC sets stage for India’s 1st Covid-era elections in BiharHis reference is to the immunity social media companies claim by saying they do not control the content on their websites. The Commission has also asked political parties and candidates to sensitise their representatives not to indulge in ”malpractices, malicious propaganda and instances of hate-speech” on these platforms , and warned that those doing so will be dealt with “sternly” and “harshly”. “The commission would like to make it emphatically clear that anyone who misuses any such platform, such as for fomenting communal tensions, etc for electoral purposes, shall have to face consequences under the law of the land,” Arora said. Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Commission and social media companies such as Facebook and Twitter, along with Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) signed a voluntary code of ethics. According to the code, while the participants ‘”ecognise they are neither the author, nor the publisher of such content”, they are “committed to helping support democratic processes by improving the integrity and transparency of electoral processes”. Hindustan Times reached out to Facebook and Facebook-controlled Whatsapp for a comment but did not receive any response until press time. Twitter declined comment. The immunity provided to social media companies allows them to enjoy the upside of the media business (advertising, the main source of revenue for such firms) without having to exercise the responsibility or meet the statutory obligations of a media company. Recent reports have also shown that most of these companies are selective in their moderation. The Wall Street Journal reported in August that Facebook had selectively exercised its hate-speech policy to favour the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. The government was quick to react with Information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad writing to the company’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg saying that the platform allowed people to make posts against prime minister Narendra Modi. According to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named, the Commission draws its reservoir of power from Article 324 of the constitution. “Elections are conducted under Constitution and the Supreme Court in its judgment has held on a number of occasions that Article 324 gives vast powers to the Commission subject to certain restrictions such as fairness and transparency,” said one of them. Article 324 allows the Election Commission the “superintendence, direction and control of elections”. The EC invoked this provision in West Bengal in May last year, curtailing campaigning in the state ahead of Parliamentary elections after clashes between cadres of the BJP and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Kolkata. Experts, however, say ECI’s powers to regulate social media companies are limited. “Their authority to regulate platforms is not clearly provided,” said Raman Jit Singh Chima , global cybersecurity lead and Asia Pacific Policy Director at Access Now . “They are stretching the authority they have to regulate electronic media and threatening companies by proposing to further regulate or prosecute them.” “It’s commendable that the CEC is speaking about this; however, ECI has failed to advance any reforms to protect electoral democracy in the digital age in India. Prior to the 2019 general elections, many groups working on electoral reforms, democracy and fundamental rights issues wrote to the ECI and went public with their suggestion on how ECI can take steps in this area. They also recommended they engage all stakeholders on this important issue, not just political parties in Delhi , internet companies, and their industry lobby group. This has not yet occurred, which is deeply disturbing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-polls-cec-warns-social-media-firms/story-xuDybEVjHeP11e40y1QbYL.html
26-09-2020||India||Covid to flood: Tracing issues that may impact Bihar polls||The first state to go to the polls after the Covid-19 pandemic struck India, Bihar is struggling to manage not only the disease but also the return of millions of migrant workers. Moreover, floods have inundated 18 of the state’s 38 districts, killing 27 people and displacing over 7 million . The election – which will be held in three phases beginning October 28 --- coincides with the festival season when social distancing norms is difficult to enforce and which might see the return of even more migrant workers to their ancestral villages.A look at the key issues in these elections:Covid-19 management The state has come under some criticism for low testing, though the number has improved in recent weeks to 53670 per million, as compared to the national average of 51713. The positivity rate – a ratio of positive cases compared to total tests – has also fallen from 8.8% in mid-July to 2.7% by mid-September. As the state with the largest chunk of population living in rural areas, Bihar has always ranked low in availability of doctors and hospital beds. The government claims it has ramped up facilities, even in rural areas while the Opposition alleges that hospital beds and emergency services are inadequate.Migration The Opposition is trying to play up the distress of nearly 2.5 million migrants who returned to Bihar, pointing to their impoverished condition and alleging that the state government has done little to provide them jobs. The government has launched a slew of projects from fisheries to agriculture and said lakhs of migrants have been provided employment under MGNREGA and other schemes. Migration from Bihar is not a new phenomena but this is the first election where migration and the votes of migrant workers is set to be a decisive factor.Digital reachThe first big election in the Covid era is happening in a state with relatively low internet and telephone penetration. This will affect campaigning as big rallies and public meetings will not be possible. That will mean a paradigm shift in electioneering and greater dependence on technology. Teledensity — the number of telephone connections per hundred people in a given area — is the lowest in Bihar. Internet penetration in Bihar is 32 subscribers per 100 people, compared to the national average of 54. Mass media exposure, too, is poor. Flood havocFloods are cause of perennial sorrow in Bihar, where 28 of the 38 districts are marked flood-prone. This year, though, the floods were more severe than usual and affected the state at a time when people were already struggling to deal with the pandemic and lockdown. At least 8.3 million people in 16 districts were displaced, and many are living in relief camps still. The Opposition has claimed politicization of relief, while the government has blamed earlier regimes for weak embankments and corruption.Law & order This is an issue very close to the heart of chief minister Nitish Kumar, who first came to power in 2005 with the pledge to improve the law and order in the state after 15 years of Rashtritya Janata Dal (RJD) rule. But a spate of petty crimes and murder cases has emboldened the RJD-led Opposition. A war of words between government and Opposition leaders has ensued.Jobs Job creation was another central election plank of the Kumar administration. His government claims to have provided jobs to lakhs of migrants through MGNREGA and various other development schemes, but the Opposition says the youngsters and poor continue to suffer due to joblessness.Dalit and minority votesScheduled castes form 16% of the state, and they are set to play a decisive role in the state elections. The changing political dynamics are also underlined by leaders such as Jitan Ram Manjhi and Shyam Razak, who have moved from the Opposition alliance to the NDA, as well as the Lok Janshakti Party, which is driving a hard bargain with the BJP. In 2015, the Grand Alliance’s victory was attributed, in part, to the solid backing it received from the Muslim community that forms 16.87% of the state’s population. This time – in the absence of emotive issues such as Ram temple or Citizenship (Amendment) Act – and a fractured Opposition, how minorities vote – especially in the Seemanchal region – is difficult to predict. Farm bills This will be the first election after the contentious farm bills were passed in Parliament, triggering protests across India. Bihar had dissolved all agriculture marketing committees and marketing boards in the state in 2006 after repealing the state APMC Act. Kumar has already said it improved procurement, while the Opposition is on the streets in protest. Education Education has always been a big issue in Bihar. The ruling dispensation takes pride in a chain of national and state-level institutions, including medical colleges, engineering colleges and polytechnics, that were created during the NDA regime, the Opposition is focusing on the poor quality of school teaching.Sushant Singh Rajput caseOver the past three months, the debate over the controversial death of the 34-year-old actor has roiled Bihar and captured the imagination of people. With the actor’s family filing an FIR, prominent politicians supporting the demand for prosecuting actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family and the possible entry of former top cop Gupteshwar Pandey into politics, the fractious issue may have an impact on campaigning and polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-to-flood-tracing-issues-that-may-impact-bihar-polls/story-iLMMRQkSn0OPq1cCKaC6YN.html
26-09-2020||India||DDA in for a major overhaul, to downsize sanctioned workforce by half||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the Capital’s biggest landowning agency, is likely to undergo a major organisational re-haul that will reduce its sanctioned workforce by nearly 48% as its role changes from that of a developer to a planner and a regulator, officials familiar with the developments said.These changes, once approved, will mean that DDA does less of construction and more of planning and management of government land. The authority has had trouble selling several housing projects over the past six years, and has an inventory of about 10,000 vacant flats and 30,000 flats in various stages of construction.The restructuring was first planned in 2014, when DDA engaged the National Productivity Council (NPC) to look at the body’s future and optimal utilisation of staff going forward.According to the proposed phase-wise restructuring -- which has been shared with DDA employees on its website -- it plans to cut the total sanctioned strength from 13,383 to 6,860 by reducing its staff strength in the Group B and Group C categories by 1,974 (from 4,123) and 5,292 (from 8,611) respectively. Group A, which has a staff of 649, will be increased to 1,392.Group A employees are commissioners, directors, and deputy director-level officials; Group B are junior and assistant engineers; and Group C are support staff such as gardeners and security guards who manage DDA’s parks, housing projects and offices.“We are looking at a change in our role and moving towards being a planner, regulator and managing government land. This requires changes in the profile of departments. We will not require so many people in the future as our aim to make the organisation dynamic and ensure optimal utilisation of staff,” DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said.Once approved, this restructuring, however, will not require any layoffs, according to senior officials, since DDA already functions with only about 6,000 employees working at the moment. The rest of the posts have been lying vacant for years.A second DDA official, who asked not be named, explained the proposed changes in greater detail: “The reason why Group A employees will be increased is because, under DDA’s new role, it will focus more on urban planning and regulation with policies like land-pooling being implemented. At the same time, the sanctioned strength in Group B and C will go down because construction will reduce, as will management of facilities, and technology has enabled us to provide a lot of services online.”Despite DDA saying that existing staff will not be sacked, the proposal has not gone down well with the employees, especially in the engineering department, who are planning to start a protest. “DDA has arbitrarily decided on the numbers. The proposal will impact our promotions. We will stage a protest in October. We want the proposal withdrawn,” Param Yadav, president of All DDA Engineers Association and All DDA Employees Association, said.DDA was constituted in 1957 for planned developed of the city, including preparation of master plans, management of government land, and providing affordable housing.But over time, and particularly over the past decade, its role as a builder diminished with the rise of private firms in and around Delhi at competitive prices with higher quality. The role appeared to change further with the approval in 2015 of the land-pooling policy, which aims at the development in the outskirts to meet Delhi’s housing requirement. Under this, landowners will form consortiums to carry out development, and DDA’s role will be restricted to preparing the plan and facilitating the development. NPC submitted a report on a restructuring plan for DDA in January 2017. According to a third DDA official, the landowning agency then prepared a final proposal after consulting all departments heads, before sending the report earlier this year to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry. “On the ministry’s direction this month, we have put it in public domain for our employees to give their suggestions/objections. With a lot of services being taken online, the need for manpower in several departments has gone down,” the official said.The proposal will be sent back to the ministry for a final nod.Urban planners called the changes a step in the right direction. “It is a step in the right direction. With the scope of work changing and DDA becoming more of a planner and regulator, the requirement for staff will also go down. This exercise has been under process for a long time,” said Balvinder Kumar, former DDA vice-chairman and member of Uttar Pradesh RERA.But they also said that the body should not stop construction activities altogether.“Preparing the development plan for the city is a huge task. While DDA should focus on the preparation of the MPD and its strict implementation, it should continue to develop housing, especially for the economically weaker sections,” said R Srinivas from the Town and Country Planning Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dda-in-for-a-major-overhaul-to-downsize-sanctioned-workforce-by-half/story-uFiQsadLyd6FypiB4KH8iL.html
26-09-2020||India||Genetic defects may affect ability to fight Covid-19||One in seven people with severe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have genetic or immunological defects that affect their ability to fight the virus, according to two new studies that could help explain why some infected people end up in intensive care while others develop no symptoms at all. The findings were published in the journal Science and suggest genetics could in some part play a role. The researchers said some patients with life-threatening Covid-19 mount a warped immune response because the action of a key molecular messenger called type 1 interferon has been neutralised by either a genetic mutation or by its destruction by an autoimmune attack. Type 1 interferon leads the battle against infection, mounting an immediate and intense localised response the moment a virus invades a cell. They trigger cells to produce proteins to attack the virus and signal uninfected surrounding cells to strengthen immune defence. Severely-ill Covid-19 patients without interferon have to rely solely on virus-specific adaptive antibodies that develop over days, which gives the virus time to replicate and cause a full-blown infection. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage In one of the two new studies, an analysis of blood samples from 987 patients with life-threatening Covid-19 revealed 10.2% had rogue antibodies that attacked and neutralised the patients’ own type 1 interferon, which was undetectable in a subgroup of the patients. Lab studies confirmed the antibodies destroyed the interferon and cells exposed to the patients’ plasma failed to stop infection by Sars-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Asymptomatic and mild patients did not have these antibodies, which were found in 0.33% of healthy people, the study found. Another significant finding was that 94% of the patients with interferon-attacking antibodies were male, which partly explains why men with Covid-19 face higher risk of severe disease. “Autoimmune disorders are more common in women, but here women may be protected because of the X-chromosome recessive trait, since they have XX chromosomes, and men have XY. This needs to be investigated further,” said immunologist Dr NK Mehra, former dean, All India Institute of Medical Sciences Delhi, and emeritus professor, Indian Council of Medical Research. The second paper found severely ill patients were more likely to carry a type of mutation leaving them unable to make adequate type 1 interferon to fight Sars-CoV-2. Researchers examined 13 genes because flaws in them impair the body’s production or use of type 1 interferon, and because mutations in them underlie life-threatening influenza or other viral illnesses. Though each such mutation is rare, 3.5% of the critically ill patients collectively harboured rare mutations in eight of those genes. The analysis, done by the Covid Human Genetic Effort, which is an international consortium working to decipher the molecular, cellular, and immunological mechanisms by which causative monogenic variations cause resistance to viral infection or predisposition to severe disease, did not find the mutation in asymptomatic people and those with mild disease. Since the known risk factors of Covid-19 severity, which include increasing age after the age of 50, being male and various underlying medical conditions, alone cannot predict disease severity, human genetics are increasing helping demystify the wide variations in Covid-19 disease progression, and many genes, including ones not related to interferon, could affect a person’s response to the virus. “Our findings suggest that there may be mutations in other type 1 interferon-related genes in other patients with life-threatening Covid-19 pneumonia. They also suggest that the administration of type 1 interferon may be of therapeutic benefit in selected patients, at least early in the course of Sars-CoV-2 infection,” said the study titled, Inborn errors of type I interferon immunity in patients with life-threatening Covid-19, which is the first paper to establish disease-causing mutations as factors for severe Covid-19. Since the auto-antibodies spare one particular form of interferon – the beta form – these patients might also benefit from the experimental treatment with inhaled interferon beta. “These studies are very significant and help explain why innate immunity is on an overdrive and adaptive immunity remains low in Covid-19, while it is the other way around in other viral infections. Innate immunity also mediates the development of a cytokine storm associated with rapid disease progression and death of Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Mehra. “None of the study participants with mutations or the so-called rogue antibodies had a history of severe viral illnesses, which suggest that we are more reliant on type 1 interferon to protect against Sars-CoV-2 versus other viral infections. Trials on synthetic interferon and therapies that boost interferon action are ongoing, but these won’t work on patients with mutations or those with rogue antibodies that attack them,” said Dr Mehra. These studies also red flag convalescent plasma therapy since donated plasma may harbour interferon-neutralizing antibodies, which can worsen disease in susceptible people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/genetic-defects-may-affect-ability-to-fight-covid/story-WzJfpOXHEZzY3Al8K6B3AJ.html
26-09-2020||India||Delhi court directs Delhi Police to file FIR over morphed video of CM Kejriwal||A Delhi court has directed the city police to lodge an FIR over a morphed video that attempts to show chief minister Arvind Kejriwal singing an obscene song, after a complainant contended that the tone and tenor of the video was an attempt to tarnish the CM’s image and reputation.Metropolitan Magistrate Kishor Kumar on Friday told the Station House Officer (SHO) of Paschim Vihar police station to take action within a week.“In the video in question, the tone and manner of the song is not only lowering the reputation of the constitutionally elected chief minister but the same is also addressing public/voters in abusive manner who have exercised their constitutional/ electoral rights while voting for Aam Aadmi Party for the purpose of electing Arvind Kejriwal as the chief minister of Delhi,” the court said in its order.Lawyer and social activist Amit Sahni had moved the petition on March 3 in which he said that after the video was uploaded on YouTube soon after the results of Delhi assembly elections on February 12, 2020.In its action taken report (ATR), the police said that they had not found anything obscene in the videos and no cognisable offence was made out to register an FIR.In its order of September 24, however, the court disagreed with the police’s assessment. “I find there is prima facie cognisable case having been disclosed by the complainant on the basis of the CD in question in which Arvind Kejriwal as the chief minister of Delhi is shown singing ....under Section 294 (obscene acts and songs) of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) read with 67 (lascivious content) of the Information Technology Act,” the judge said while directing the police to file the compliance report by December 2.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment.Sahni said that the abusive content was being circulated to public at large, which would create a negative impact on kids who were unable to understand the manner in which the video was morphed.“The video was uploaded on February 12, 2020, and the result of Delhi Vidhan Sabha Election was announced on January 11, 2020, with the sole object of degrading the constitutionally elected chief minister,” the complaint read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-directs-delhi-police-to-file-fir-over-morphed-video-of-kejriwal/story-QgLa4c8vVbAEq1bUf7eCnM.html
26-09-2020||India||Indian diplomat walks out after Imran Khan raises Kashmir issue at UN||The Indian delegate at the UN General Assembly meeting in New York walked out of the hall when Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s pre-recorded statement was played on Friday. The delegate, a junior diplomat named Mijito Vinito from the 2010 batch of the Indian Foreign Service, picked up his papers and left the hall as Khan’s speech was played on a large overhead screen. Khan raised the Kashmir issue, as he has done in recent speeches to multilateral bodies, and criticised the Indian government on several issues. After Khan’s speech, TS Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, tweeted that the country would use the “right of reply” facility to respond to the Pakistani premier’s address. “PM of Pakistan statement a new diplomatic low – at 75th UN General Assembly. Another litany of vicious falsehood, personal attacks, war mongering and obfuscation of Pakistan’s persecution of its own minorities & of its cross-border terrorism. Befitting Right of Reply awaits,” Tirumurti said in his tweet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to address the UN General Assembly through a video statement on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-delegate-walks-out-during-pakistan-pm-imran-khan-s-speech-at-un/story-GlQiOjgqFNJzCBNOgmj9FO.html
26-09-2020||India||Need 4th law to make buying farm produce below MSP an offence: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||The Centre’s recent legislations to usher in reforms in the farm sector have met with a blowback in several states. Haryana’s former chief minister and current leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda spoke to Vinod Sharma about why farmers are angry, the concerns about the laws, and corrective steps needed for an equitable balance in an expanded market.  Edited excerpts: Why is the farming community restive in your state and neighbouring Punjab? What is causing them concern about the framework laid down by the three legislations on the farm sector? It is inappropriate to say the community is ‘restive’. It’s actually ‘voicing out’ the corrective measures that must be in place to ensure protection for their produce. Farmers should get minimum support price (MSP) based on the Swaminathan Commission’s C2 formula calculated 50% above cost of cultivation (covering labour cost, operational capital, storage, transport, rent of land and incidental expenses). Farmers don’t have the capacity to store their produce for a long time. The idea eventually is to ensure that the farmers should not be facing any logistical pressure.The freedom to sell agriculture produce outside the notified agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) would expand the marketplace for farm produce with scope for better prices. What then makes the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government so indispensable to the farmer?A correction in the framing and interpretation [of the law] is a must. Here I wish to re-clarify that the Congress manifesto always spoke about rationalising the APMC Act, not removing it. The contract farming rules we made in 2007 were all pro-farmer. Our focus was on basic protection. The rules we devised for contract farming were: one, registration of contract with the district marketing enforcement officer; two, agreed rate/contract will not be less than the MSP of the previous year; three, the buyer shall deposit an amount up to 15% of the price of produce as per MSP or a bank guarantee for the sum (as security) with the committee in which the land is situated ;and four, the security shall be released within 30 days after the satisfactory execution of the agreement between the farmer and private player. Only such measures can eliminate distress sales by farmers outside APMCs where I have seen tomatoes sold for Re 1 per kg and potatoes for nine paise per kg a few years ago. Such a regime will protect the farmers from exploitation by big business that has deep pockets. But many agriculture experts see in the new previsions the potential of ushering in a paradigm shift to make farming remunerative rather than it being relief/subsidy oriented.The positive and negative aspects have to be fairly weighed. It is correct to say that the market for farmers will expand. Yet the expansion may lead to either better prices for farm products or may cause exceptional highs and lows of demand. The equilibrium and security given to farmers through a fixed MSP as part of a rationalised policy is the right idea. It’s the best (option) for the government and the farming community. What kind of assurances or amendments should be made for a broad consensus on the laws?Our demand is that the government should bring the fourth Bill stating that the contract agreement (with private buyers) should not be less than the MSP. Purchase of farm produce at a price less than the MSP should be punishable by law. I am above party politics on the issue as I am the son of a farmer. If they bring the Bill, I will welcome it as it will be for the betterment of farmers. I want them to bring the fourth Bill to safeguard MSP. If they are saying they will give the benefits then where is the glitch in bringing the Bill?The government made an announcement of increased MSP for six Rabi crops including wheat. Does that not disprove claims that it intends disbanding APMCs and the MSP mechanism?MSP assurance for some Rabi crops and wheat is not the only thing required. We are talking about India where Kharif crops (bajra, jowar) and rice play an important role in demand and consumption. The MSP mechanism and the Mandi Act as a whole have to be fair and just. The agriculture sector is subsidised even in developed countries the world over. That makes one doubt your worries. Why would the government fall on its own sword by disbanding MSP or resorting to mechanisms that hurt farmers?The reality we all are running away from is that the government has been experimenting with delicate areas of concern over the last few years. It they fail, like they have in many other sectors, they will blame destiny, the coronavirus or the Opposition. Let us get real and accept that we are a developing nation where the poor people need essential commodities at extremely low or subsidised prices. Implementing free flow without MSP might raise prices -- and the poor will literally starve. Similarly, the farmer needs to earn in a secure way. The game plan of having corporates enter this sector will harm every state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-govt-to-bring-fourth-bill-to-safeguard-msp-bhupinder-singh-hooda/story-Q4J53SQFg2JXpaEUIu0mBM.html
26-09-2020||India||India, Japan ‘non-contact’ naval drills in Arabian Sea begin today||India and Japan will kick off three-day maritime drills in the northern Arabia Sea from Saturday, an Indian Navy spokesperson said on Friday, days after India conducted an exercise with Australia in the Indian Ocean.The India-Japan maritime bilateral exercise (JIMEX) is conducted biennially. Its last edition was conducted off the coast of Visakhapatnam in October 2018. “JIMEX-20 will showcase a high degree of inter-operability and joint operational skills through conduct of a multitude of advanced exercises, across the spectrum of maritime operations. Multi-faceted tactical exercises involving weapon firing, cross-deck helicopter operations and complex surface, anti-submarine and air warfare drills will consolidate the coordination developed by the two navies,” the navy said in a statement. The drills come after Indian and Australian navies conducted a passage exercise in the eastern Indian Ocean Region (IOR) from September 23-24. A passage exercise is normally undertaken whenever an opportunity arises, in contrast to pre-planned maritime drills.Just like the Indo-Australian drills, JIMEX-20 is being conducted in a “non-contact at-sea-only format”, in view of Covid-19 restrictions.Indian warships Chennai, Teg, Tarkash and fleet tanker Deepak will represent the Indian Navy at JIMEX-20, while Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force is sending its warships Kaga and Ikazuchi for the drills, the statement said, adding that P8-I long range maritime patrol aircraft, integral helicopters and fighter jets will also take part in the exercise.“JIMEX-20 will further enhance the cooperation and mutual confidence between the two navies and fortify the long-standing bond of friendship between the two countries,” it added. The stage is also set for Australia to be part of the next Malabar naval exercise conducted by India with the US and Japan. The next edition of Malabar, already delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic, is set to be held by the end of the year.China has also been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year.The navy has been on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean where scores of warships are ready for any task in the aftermath of the border row with China in the Ladakh sector. India has positioned warships along critical sea lanes of communications and choke points under its mission-based deployment and the vessels could be diverted for any mission.Indian warships are deployed from as far as the Persian Gulf to the Malacca Strait and northern Bay of Bengal to the southeast coast of Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-to-kick-off-naval-drills-in-arabian-sea-tomorrow/story-eVIxuU0r20ZVdkauQqZDQO.html
26-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rakul Preet Singh records statement before NCB, Deepika Padukone may appear today||Actor Rakul Preet Singh’s statement was recorded on Friday by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drug case related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput in June. The agency had on Wednesday also summoned actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor, fashion designer Simone Khambatta and celebrity manager Shruti Modi for the ongoing case.According to news agency PTI, Rakul Preet Singh, 29, was seen entering the guest house, from where the central agency is operating, in Colaba around 10.30am. “Rakul Preet Singh’s statement was recorded by the SIT today. It will be analysed and produced before the court,” Mutha Ashok Jain, NCB’s director general, told reporters.NCB said that Karishma Prakash, actor Deepika Padukone’s manager, joined the investigation and she has been called again on Saturday. Karishma Prakash works at KWAN talent agency.Also read | Bombay HC to hear Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik’s bail pleas on TuesdayKWAN’s CEO Dhruv Chitgopekar and film producer Madhu Mantena have also appeared before NCB for questioning in the matter. Shruti Modi, the former business manager of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has been questioned by NCB as well.Padukone, who was in Goa, reached Mumbai on Thursday with her husband Ranveer Singh.According to NCB, Padukone has submitted to join the investigation on Saturday, in connection with a drug case related to the late actor.Actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was arrested in the drug case, is in judicial custody which has been extended till October 6.NCB had launched an investigation after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation.The ED had on July 31 registered an Enforcement Case Information Report in the late actor’s death case after a First Information Report was filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh against Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28. Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rakul-preet-singh-records-statement-before-ncb-deepika-padukone-may-appear-tomorrow/story-Gj1xEHsD41kJkywA6w0quJ.html
26-09-2020||India||Karnataka speaker admits Congress’s no-confidence motion against BJP govt||Karnataka assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Thursday admitted a no-confidence motion moved by the Congress against the BS Yediyurappa government. A day before, the Congress had alleged that the CM and his family was involved in corruption. It is not sure if the JDS will support the motion.Earlier in the day, leader of opposition Siddaramiah speaking after a meeting of Congress legislature party said that the state government had failed on all fronts and that is why the party has decided to move the no-confidence motion.“There has been corruption in procurement of equipment for Covid treatment, government officials are making money by indulging in transfer business and allocation of posts. Yediyurappa and his family are interested in only making money. Governance has collapsed,” he claimed.In the assembly, when Congress members stood up to insist on the motion being taken up for discussion immediately, ruling party members objected to it. The Speaker continued with the listed business of some bills to be moved and refused to take up the motion immediately, saying it was under his consideration and he would decide when time should be allocated for the same. The assembly is scheduled to wrap up the monsoon session by Saturday.Even as revenue minister R Ashoka termed the no-confidence motion a ‘political gimmick’ as the opposition did not have the numbers, Siddaramiah claimed that there would be cross-voting from the treasury benches in favour of the motion, a claim which was pooh-poohed by the ruling party.Former speaker and current BJP MLA KG Bopiah claimed that a no-confidence motion can be taken up anytime within three days. The JDS has also not clarified whether it would support the Congress party’s no-confidence motion.In the 224-member Karnataka assembly, the BJP has 117 members, Congress 67, JDS 33, three independents and four vacant seats. On Thursday,Congress MLA dies of Covid-19In another development, Congress’s Basvakalyan MLA B Narayan Rao died due to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Bengaluru after being admitted with a severe infection on September 1. He was 65.A first time legislator, Rao was considered a loyalist of Siddaramiah. CM Yediyurappa, KPCC Congress leaders DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah, JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy, among others, have condoled the death of Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-confidence-motion-moved-by-congress-against-karnataka-govt-accepted/story-qZJQXtCv7s8OtVYzcddiJP.html
