27-09-2020||India||7 out of 8 prisoners who escaped from jail amid Covid-19 quarantine in Haridwar arrested||Uttarakhand police have so far arrested seven out of the eight prisoners who had escaped last Tuesday from a makeshift prison while being in mandatory quarantine in Haridwar district. According to SIIDCUL police station in-charge Lakhpat Butola, the seventh absconding prisoner, Shubham Pawar was arrested from Bahadarpur, Selaqui area in Dehradun district late on Saturday evening. “Shubham Panwar’s arrest took the tally of the arrested absconding prisoners to seven and now only Nipul, resident of Mangalore, is left for whose arrest, a search operation is being carried out. Monitoring of suspects’ houses, relatives, close aides and other hideouts are being done. Hopefully, we will be able to arrest him soon as his other seven accomplices have been already apprehended,” said Butola. A cash reward of Rs 2,500 has been announced for the police team which nabbed Shubham, while the same reward has been announced for Nipul by the district police. Meanwhile, district magistrate of Haridwar C Ravi Shankar has set up a probe into the escape of the eight prisoners from the temporary jail in Roshnabad with additional district magistrate (Sadar) Gopal Singh Chauhan to submit the report to him in a fortnight. “A probe is being carried out in this incident with ADM (Sadar) Gopal Singh Chauhan to submit the report in fifteen days’ time. After the report is submitted, action will be taken on the basis of the report,” said Ravi Shankar. In a separate development, eight Covid-19 positive prisoners in the district prison have been put up in a separate barrack. According to district chief medical officer Dr Shambhu Nath Jha, of the three hundred prisoners whose reports have been received so far, eight have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-out-of-8-prisoners-who-escaped-from-jail-amid-covid-19-quarantine-in-haridwar-arrested/story-YQbw3UJMoPW0HPUVkRq4dJ.html
27-09-2020||India||Leaders across party lines condole former Union minister Jaswant Singh’s demise||Country’s political leaders and bureaucrats paid rich tributes to former Union minister Jaswant Singh who passed away after a prolonged illness in New Delhi on Sunday.“Jaswant Singh Ji served our nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long association with politics. During Atal Ji’s Government, he handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs. Saddened by his demise,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi.In Jodhpur, Jaswant Singh’s son Manvendra Singh lit the funeral pyre amid chanting of mantras. Singh’s family members and relatives were present during the cremation at the farmhouse located near a civil airport. Singh’s body was brought to Jodhpur from New Delhi by air and was kept in the farmhouse where people offered floral tributes. A wreath was also laid on behalf of the Indian Army.Also read: Jaswant Singh, founding member of the BJP and former Union minister, passes awayJaswant Singh was 82. He was one of the founding members of the BJP and a close associate of ex-prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday condoled the death of the BJP veteran saying he was a man of impeccable integrity, an able administrator and an excellent parliamentarian.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said Jaswant Singh served the nation in several capacities and distinguished himself as an effective minister and parliamentarian.“Jaswant Singh ji would be remembered for his intellectual capabilities and stellar record in service to the nation. He also played a key role in strengthening the BJP in Rajasthan. Condolences to his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti,” Singh said.Also read: Jaswant Singh - A gentleman politician and Vajpayee’s globetrotting trouble-shooterCongress leader Sonia Gandhi also expressed her condolences. “Jaswant Singh was a man who lived his life with the utmost honour and integrity, whether as an Army officer, a politician or a cabinet minister who held the most crucial portfolios of external affairs, defence and finance,” Gandhi said in a letter to Manvendra Singh.Former prime minister Manmohan Singh also said that Singh was an able administrator and an outstanding parliamentarian. “In his death, our country has lost a great leader who always worked for the betterment of the society,” said the former PM.In a statement, BJP leader Lal Krishan Advani described Singh as one of his closest colleagues and a dear friend. He said Singh was an “outstanding parliamentarian, astute diplomat, great administrator, and above all, a patriot”.Advani noted that a “very special bond was formed between Atal ji, Jaswant ji and myself” while handling tenacious issues during those six years (1998-2004) in power.“As a person, Jaswant ji was a true gentleman and will be remembered as a soft-spoken, erudite and warm-hearted person. He was known for his sharp, analytical mind and was respected by people across the political spectrum,” Advani said.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday also expressed remorse on Singh’s passing away.“My heartfelt condolences at the passing away of senior leader from Rajasthan and former union minister, shri Jaswant Singhji,” Gehlot tweeted. “Saddened at the passing away of former Defence Minister and one of India’s longest-serving parliamentarians, Jaswant Singh Ji. My condolences to his family and his many admirers,” West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted.Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha also expressed pain. The Lt Governor said he was deeply saddened to hear about the passing away of the former Union minister. He said Singh worked dedicatedly for the welfare of the people while serving the country in various important capacities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-across-party-lines-condole-former-union-minister-jaswant-singh-s-demise/story-W5ceHi24GSXjDQ9D5KVVlL.html
27-09-2020||India||‘Great to see Akali Dal holding flag of farmer’s rights aloft’: Farooq Abdullah on NDA exit||National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah on Sunday called up SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and praised him for taking a stand against the farm bills.The NC chief also backed the Shiromani Akali Dal’s demand for inclusion of Punjabi in the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill.President Ram Nath Kovind had earlier in the day, given his assent to the contentious farm legislations and the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill which provides for inclusion of Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi in the list of official languages, in addition to Urdu and English.The SAD on Saturday quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm legislations and the non-inclusion of Punjabi as official language in Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill. Praising the “courageous and principled stand” taken by the SAD, the NC chief said: “In doing so, you are not only living up to the glorious legacy of your party but have also provided a ray of hope to the farmers and other beleaguered sections of society in the country”.According to a statement issued by the SAD here, Abdullah said that he was proud of his “long association with the Akali movements as a regional party committed to the setting up of a genuinely federal structure in the country.” “No one in the country has fought for farmers like the Akalis always have and it is great to see you holding that flag aloft,” said the statement quoting Abdullah.Abdullah expressed complete support and solidarity with the SAD in its fight for justice for farmers and the status of Punjabi language in Jammu and Kashmir.Badal thanked Abdullah for his support and blessings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-to-see-akali-dal-holding-flag-of-farmer-s-rights-aloft-farooq-abdullah-on-nda-exit/story-RYa1Gqq3RW89WkMwQTXaNP.html
27-09-2020||India||Two terrorists killed in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipora||Two terrorists were killed in a gun battle with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Sunday, couple of days after two so-called Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commanders were shot dead in Bijbhera, officials said.The encounter between security forces and terrorists in Samboora began in the afternoon after officials received inputs about the presence of terrorists in the area. The identity and the affiliation of the terrorists killed in the encounter have not been ascertained, officials said.While searching the area, the security forces were fired upon by the terrorist which triggered the encounter, officials said. “A cordon was laid and contact was established with the terrorists which ensued in a firefight,” an Indian Army spokesperson said.Kashmir police had tweeted earlier in the evening that an unidentified terrorist was killed in the encounter. “The operation is going on and further details will follow,” it had said.On Friday, the so-called LeT commanders were killed following a night-long encounter in Sirhama area in Bijbhera. The terrorists were identified as Adil Ahmad Bhat of Pulwama and Abu Rehan alias Towheed, a Pakistani national.A terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces on Tuesday in an overnight gunfight in Central Kashmir, officials said. He was identified as Asif Shah resident of Samboora Pulwama. He was affiliated with proscribed outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM).On September 17, three Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Batamaloo area of Srinagar. According to the police, a woman was also killed in the crossfire during the gunfight.Around 181 terrorists have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir so far this year in around 75 anti-terrorist operations, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-killed-in-an-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-awantipora/story-IaQ0Y1n3xWDg7Oi7D3TyAI.html
27-09-2020||India||Congress declares second list of candidates for assembly bypolls in MP||The Congress declared the second list of its candidates for the bypolls to be held for 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh. The list released by Congress national general secretary Mukul Wasnik contains 9 candidates’ names, as per the state Congress. With these 9 candidates Congress has announced the names of 24 candidates so far. It released the first list containing 15 names on September 11. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is yet to announce the names of its candidates. The Election Commission of India is yet to announce the dates of the bypolls. However, it had said recently the bypolls would be held along with Bihar state assembly polls by November end. The candidates in the second list include ex-BJP MLA Parul Sahu from Sagar who recently joined the Congress. She will contest from the Surakhi assembly seat in Sagar district that she represented from 2013 to 2018. She was denied a ticket by the BJP in the 2018 assembly elections. From BJP, it’s minister for transport and revenue in Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet, Govind Rajput who is likely to contest from the seat. Rajput resigned from the seat on March 12 this year as a Congress MLA to later join the BJP.Other candidates and the constituencies for which their candidature has been announced by the Congress include Pankaj Upadhyaya- Joura assembly seat, Ajay Kushwaha- Sumaoli, Satish Sikarwar- Gwalior East, Harivallabh Shukla- Pohri, Kanhaiya Ram Lodhi- Mungaoli, Uttam Raj Narain Singh- Mandhata, Abhishek Singh Bana- Badnawar and Rakesh Patidar- Suwasara. State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “Selection of and announcing the names of candidates are internal matters of the Congress. However, the list suggests Congress doesn’t have much choice to select among party leaders and merit of the party leaders has been ignored which will soon be reflected in the rumblings in the party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-declares-second-list-of-candidates-for-assembly-bypolls-in-mp/story-O1sS5wE3Fil1TGh6qq4KGP.html
27-09-2020||India||‘Over 700 CBI investigations pending for more than a year’: Central Vigilance Commission||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has claimed that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has been slow in investigating certain cases due to several reasons including work overload, delay in obtaining reply to the Letter Rogatories (LRs) sent to various countries seeking information, government departments not supplying relevant records and sanction to the agency, delay in obtaining forensic reports from laboratories, among other reasons. Other reasons cited by the apex vigilance body for CBI investigations getting stuck for years are shortage of manpower, time taken in scrutiny of voluminous records in economic offences, bank fraud cases and significant time spent by officers in locating and examining witnesses living in distant places. Also read: Bihar polls - Too many glitches and hitches in NDA’s seat-sharingAccording to CVC’s annual report, which was released on Sunday, investigation was pending in 744 CBI cases for more than a year at the end of December 2019 out of which 678 were related to Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act. It was found that about 25 corruption investigations in CBI are pending beyond five years. Overall, total 1,239 investigations and enquiries were pending in CBI till December last year. The data reveals that the CBI registered total 608 FIRs and 102 preliminary enquiries (PEs) in 2019. Another worrying trend for the CBI, as shown in the CVC annual report, pertains to pendency of its cases in courts. As of December 2019, a whopping 6,226 PC Act cases probed by the CBI were pending trial in various courts across the country, some for more than 20 years. When it comes to appeals and revisions filed by agency and accused persons in various high courts, Supreme Court and additional session courts are taken into account; a staggering 11,380 appeals/revisions are pending in courts, CVC data suggests. The CVC says, “The Commission is concerned about the slow progress of disposal of the large number of cases pending trial in different courts for long periods, at times for over twenty years. Such inordinate delays in investigation defeats the very purpose of efficient vigilance administration and are an impediment to the fight against corruption.” The CBI spokesperson was not available for comments. However, an officer, requesting anonymity, said “Many of the high profile white collar criminals use their money to delay the cases in courts”. Also read: Sharad Pawar lauds SAD’s Badals for their strong pro-farmer stanceThe delays in courts, the CVC adds, happen due to limited number of hearings, non-availability of witnesses, dilatory tactics adopted by the accused by way of filing applications for transfer of cases from one court to another challenging the legality of investigation by CBI and court stay and inadequate strength of prosecution staff due to vacancies. Discussing the nature of cases received against government officials, the CVC says large number of complaints received against public servants are “frivolous, vague, non-specific, pertaining to procedural lapses, or administrative violations.” Also, a significant number of complaints seeking investigation against officials in Central ministries, departments are “anonymous”, having wild or unverifiable allegations and in some cases, the intention of the complainant is just to harass someone rather than reporting corrupt activities. As a general policy, anonymous complaints are not entertained by the CVC since October 2018 and only those complaints are recommended for investigation which have a clear vigilance angle. According to the CVC’s annual report for 2019, out of total 35,649 complaints against public servants, almost 20 percent (7,425) were vague while 19 percent (6,975) were anonymous in nature. “In many complaints, the allegations were found to be either vague or unverifiable. The Commission received a large number of complaints against public servants working in the state governments and other organizations who do not come under the jurisdiction of the Commission or which are of administrative nature,” stated the CVC report reviewed by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-700-cbi-probes-pending-for-more-than-a-year-central-vigilance-commission/story-kCFUYulS8oI7MXzIde9L2M.html
27-09-2020||India||Bihar’s Covid-19 recovery rate inches closer to 92% as state logs 1,527 new cases||The number of new infections edged past the recovery of patients in a single day, as 1,527 new cases reported on Sunday took the state’s Covid-19 tally to 1,78,882 while two deaths pushed the toll to 888. As many as 1,405 patients had recovered during the same period on Saturday, taking their total to 1,64,537 with a recovery rate of 91.98%. The state reported 13,456 active cases — most of them preferring home isolation to institutional facility. Vaishali and Bhagalpur reported one death each, as per the health department’s Covid-19 bulletin on Sunday. Besides, three deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna. The deceased were women between 40 and 67 years of age from Patna. While two died on Saturday evening, one succumbed to the infection on Sunday, said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS- Patna. Of the 1,527 new infections, Patna accounted for 259 cases, followed by Purnia 116, Muzaffarpur 96, Bhagalpur 63, Madhepura 57, Gopalganj 53, East Champaran, Saran and Nalanda 51 each among others. Patna topped with a cumulative case burden of 27,256 and 203 deaths, followed by Muzaffarpur 8,127 cases and 32 deaths, Bhagalpur 7,277 cases and 62 deaths, East Champaran 6,439 cases and 36 deaths, Begusarai 6,249 cases and 25 deaths among others. Meanwhile, beginning Monday, the health department will undertake mass drug administration (MDA) campaign under the National Programme for Elimination of Lymphatic Filariasis in 11 districts, which include Bhojpur, Darbhanga, Kishanganj, Lakhisarai, Madhubani, Nalanda, Nawada, Purnia, Rohtas, Samastipur and Vaishali. The MDA will be undertaken adhering to Covid-19 protocols, including hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene (mask) and social distancing, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-inches-closer-to-92-as-state-logs-1-527-new-cases/story-Kjw89NoxsK5tsm2LsFIoBJ.html
27-09-2020||India||Ahead of monsoon session of Odisha Assembly, 136 test positive for Covid-19||At least 136 people, including government chief whip Pramila Mallick, tested positive for Covid-19 ahead of the monsoon session of the Odisha Legislative Assembly starting on Tuesday, officials said.A total of 757 people, including 20 MLAs, their PSO and drivers, Assembly staff and some journalists, had undergone RT-PCR test on the premises of Odisha Assembly on Saturday of which 136 tested positive. On Sunday, around 350 people had given their samples for RT-PCR test, their results are awaited.Apart from Mallick, Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MLA Debi Prasad Mishra tested positive for the second time after testing positive for the virus on August 30. However, it is still not clear whether his was a case of re-infection. Besides, some journalists who were to attend the session and PSOs, drivers of MLAs as well as a few Assembly staff have also tested positive for Covid-19.The monsoon session of the Assembly is scheduled to begin from September 29 and will run till October 7. However, Assembly Speaker Surya Patro said the House may not run for the scheduled period considering the positive cases of Covid-19. “The Business Advisory Committee of the Assembly will meet tomorrow to decide how long can the House run. We have twelve bills scheduled for tabling in the House,” said Patro, adding that those who tested positive will not be allowed inside the Assembly.Also read: ‘Will hug CM if I have Covid-19’ - BJP’s new national secy from BengalPatro said all those who tested negative this time will undergo Covid-19 test again after five days. Earlier, at least 40 of the 147 MLAs of the Assembly had tested positive for Covid-19. However, more than half have recovered.Meanwhile, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation Commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said Covid-19 cases in Bhubaneswar have plateaued.“Covid-19 scenario in Bhubaneswar is now on plateau mode. As per the studies across the world, there is usually a peak, plateau and then decline. We hope the same trend will be seen in Bhubaneswar as well. The ICMR study also suggests that the graph will decline further. With all things operational, we are managing the situation and hopefully, Covid-19 cases will come down gradually,” said Chaudhary.He said that Bhubaneswar used to report around 400 to 500 cases per day but it has come down to 300 to 325 cases per day.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Bhubaneswar is 20,855 of which 3,576 are active at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-monsoon-session-of-odisha-assembly-136-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-uheo34hO2Rtq9cfhHUciTK.html
27-09-2020||India||Can you reach Bengaluru airport from city in 10 mins? Virgin Hyperloop to study feasibility||Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) and Virgin Hyperloop on Sunday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to conduct a feasibility study for a proposed hyperloop corridor from the Kempegowda International Airport to the city.The move is aimed at finding ways to tackle congestion and supporting economic growth in Bengaluru, officials said. The MoU agrees on the pre-feasibility study, which focuses on technical, economic and route feasibility, is expected to be completed in two phases of six months each, an official release stated.The MoU, exchanged virtually between Sultan bin Sulayem, chairman of Virgin Hyperloop and DP World, and TM Vijay Bhaskar, chief secretary of Karnataka government and chairman of the board of directors at BIAL.“We are honoured to partner with Bangalore International Airport Limited to explore ways in which hyperloop can become a part of the solution to tackle congestion and support economic growth in Bengaluru,” Sultan Bin Sulayem said.“Beyond just the transit of passengers, airports are a crucial conduit for goods, especially time-sensitive deliveries. A hyperloop-connected airport would dramatically improve the delivery of cargo and create an ultra-efficient supply chain,” he added.BIAL CMD Hari Marar said the hyperloop mode of transportation promises “enormous economic potential, connecting passengers at unprecedented speeds, with zero emissions.”Preliminary analysis shows that with speeds of up to 1,080kmph, hyperloop could transport thousands of passengers per hour from the airport to the city centre in under 10 minutes, the release stated.The state’s chief secretary said that the Karnataka government has implemented several measures to improve the transport infrastructure of the state. “The commissioning of a feasibility study for hyperloop connectivity from BLR Airport is another major step towards building the infrastructure required to define mobility for the future, enabling the efficient movement of people,” Bhaskar said.In addition to the road network, the airport will also be connected with the suburban railway soon and will have Metro connectivity in four years.The release said travellers could streamline their multi-modal trip with a seamless check-in and security for both their hyperloop as well as air travel at centrally-located hyperloop portals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-you-reach-bengaluru-airport-from-city-in-10-mins-virgin-hyperloop-to-study-feasibility/story-Wh2JtBLcOSdAKF8hCksSzI.html
27-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pawar lauds Akali Dal over decision to quit NDA and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sharad Pawar lauds SAD’s Badals for their strong pro-farmer stanceNCP chief Sharad Pawar applauded Shiromani Akali Dal for breaking away from the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA over the disagreement regarding the farm bills on Sunday. Read more here. Daughters’ Day 2020: Tahira-Ayushmann Khurrana, Akshay Kumar, Soha Ali Khan-Kunal Kemmu and Karisma Kapoor go gaga over their ‘jaan’Bollywood made the most of this Sunday by going down the memory lane and digging out old pictures of their little munchkins on Daughters’ Day 2020. Read more here. IPL 2020: KL Rahul-Mayank Agarwal demolish Rajasthan Royals during record-breaking partnershipKings XI Punjab openers KL Rahul and Mayank Agarwal left Rajasthan Royals’ bowlers in tatters after they stitched a record-breaking partnership on Sunday. Punjab were riding high on confidence after a 97-run win over Royal Challengers Bangalore, and the duo showcased why they are a dangerous combo up the top. Read more here. Samsung Galaxy Tab S7 Plus review: A value-for-money premium Android tabletSamsung Galaxy Tab S7 Plus is fine hardware but probably not a laptop killer. It is sleek, good looking, and durable. Read more here. Shabana Azmi’s ‘Mee Raqsam’ goes to CoSAFFProfessional beekeeper explains what she does if a colony doesn’t have a queen bee. WatchProfessional Beekeeper, Erika Thompson from Texas Beeworks has been educating and entertaining netizens, all at once, with interesting short videos that document her work life. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pawar-lauds-akali-dal-over-decision-to-quit-nda-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9ia2xaD0tn1mAuZG7KF2dK.html
27-09-2020||India||Man flees to Dubai after giving second wife talaq by post, police on chase||A man fled to Dubai after sending talaqnama to his second wife by post following which police were on the chase to get him back to India and take necessary action on an FIR lodged by the victim in Jugsalai police station (PS) in Jamshedpur, Jharkhand late Saturday evening, police said on Sunday.“An FIR has been lodged against Hasibulah Khan under sections 498A, 504 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 3/4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act and section 4 of the Muslim Women (Protection of rights on marriage) Act-2019 in Jugslai PS late last evening. We had gone to his house in Jakirnagar under Mango Police Station but his brother told us that he had left for Dubai a couple of days ago. His second wife, Rashida Begum, had stated in her complaint that he was to leave India on Sunday. We are taking necessary steps to call him back to India and further investigation is on,” Alok Ranjan, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Law and Order, said.The prompt action came after Mahila Vikash Manch (MVM) leader Nishat Khatoon tweeted Rashida’s plight tagging Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Jharkhand police DIG Kolhan and East Singhbhum DC. Jharkhand police immediately forwarded the matter to Jamshedpur SSP Dr Tamil Vanan who formed a team headed by DSP (law and order).Also read: ‘Will hug CM if I have Covid-19’: BJP’s new national secy from Bengal“I have also tweeted the matter, copy of FIR and passport and other details to Emirate Steel - where Hasibullah works in Abu Dhabi-, Indian embassy in UAE, UAE government and Union Ministry of External Affairs, Delhi, seeking prompt and necessary action to get him back. MVM has also filed a detailed complaint with the Jamshedpur SSP. As per Supreme Court’s order and central law, talaq by post, WhatsApp or on telephone, et cetera., have been banned and is now illegal,” Nishat Khatoon, MVM president said.Rashida, on the other hand, has accused her husband Hasibullah of sending talaqnama by post on September 18 without meeting and discussing it with her. “He didn’t even give me talaq in person and yet just sent a talaqnama to my parental house in Mahato Para under Jugsalai PS by post on September 18,” Rashida alleged in her complaint to DIG Kolhan and Jugsalai PS OC last evening. HT has a copy of her complaint.She has also accused Hasibullah of hiding his first marriage, torturing and threatening her to get Rs 5 lakh from her parents. “I was married as per Muslim rituals to Hasibullah Khan from Jakirnagar (Mango) on November 16, 2018. I came to know that he was already married after he took me to Abu Dhabi six months after marriage. When I started questioning him on this he started manhandling and torturing me and threatened to give talaq, demanding Rs 5 lakh,” Rashida alleged.She further alleged that she was branded omnious and was not allowed to enter the house after her mother-in-law died of Covid-19 on August 10 this year, She was driven out of the house on August 14 by Hasibullah and his elder brother Sifulah Khan, she said. Nishant said the first wife, Nauseen, had separated from Hasibullah after taking Khula.Hasibullah, on the other hand, accused his second wife of breach of trust and lying in his talaqnama sent by post. “Our marriage was on the condition of her bearing me a child as my first wife was not able to bear a child. After six month in Abu Dhabi, I had brought her back here. 10-15 days after I went to Abu Dhabi again, she told me that she was pregnant. I had sent Rs 25,000 and Rs 65, 000 to my mother for her treatment,” Hasibullah’s talaqnama read.“After nine months, when my mother asked about the date of delivery, she said that she had delivered a stillborn baby. She even refused to show me medical documents for this though. Later when documents were checked, she gave the excuse that she had a tumour in her stomach, breaching all my trust. Hence, I have given her talaq and she is no more my wife,” Hasibullah said in the talaqnama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-flees-to-dubai-after-giving-second-wife-talaq-by-post-police-on-chase/story-8O1AIBluxsiPgX0LzbJfMJ.html
27-09-2020||India||Viral caseload shoots up in Kerala as it logs more than 40,000 new Covid-19 cases in 1 week||After keeping coronavirus in check for barely some time, the viral caseload has increased alarmingly in Kerala in the past one week forcing health authorities to review containment strategies. State health minister K K Shailaja on Sunday admitted that it is a testing time for Kerala and cases may go up sharply by next month.More than 40,000 cases were reported in the last one week and the positivity rate has gone up to 11.9% while the national average is below 8%. “Our strategy was right from day one and we contained deaths considerably. Our death rate is still below one per cent. But of late cases are surging and it was expected. It is the second wave of the virus,” she said.The minister asked people not to lower their guard at this critical point and avoid big gatherings to avoid high mortality rates. She said relaxations during the Onam festivities and the ongoing protest by the opposition parties were the main reasons for the present surge. The state is witnessing protests seeking the resignation of minister KT Jaleel who was interrogated in connection with the sensational gold smuggling case.The minister said the state with high density of population (860 people per square km) and with a high population of elderly people (more than 15 per cent of the population is above 60) was a sitting duck but it managed well, slowing down the death rate (reported 678 casualties). She held a high-level meeting to review the situation. The health department has asked asymptomatic patients to remain in isolation in their homes and not to crowd hospitals. In Covid-19 active cases (56,709) the state is in the fifth position now in the country. According to health experts what is worrying is that in Kerala, Covid-19 cases peaked when other states are showing a downward trend and they expect the situation will continue like this till October-end. “The reverse quarantine was successful to a large extent. Despite surge in cases the state managed the death rate considerably,” said Dr B Iqbal, chairman of the expert committee for Covid-19 management.On Sunday, the state reported 7,445 new cases taking the total to 1,75,384. Patients who have recovered stand at 1,17,921 and active cases are 56,709. With 21 new casualties, the death toll has gone up to 678. The state has also increased tests with 54,493 tests being carried out on Sunday. The total number of tests has gone up to 27,71,533.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/viral-caseload-shoots-up-in-kerala-as-it-logs-more-than-40-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-1-week/story-yLuSLlwutL27GNZ9x2b6KJ.html
27-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India far from achieving herd immunity, says health minister Harsh Vardhan||Indians will have to follow the safety protocols against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as herd immunity in the country still remains a distant goal, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday.India on Sunday inched closer to the 6 million mark of Covid-19 cases after it recorded 88,600 fresh infections between Saturday and Sunday morning. The nationwide death toll mounted to 94,503 after 1,124 people died due to the viral disease in the last 24 hours.“Indian population is still far from achieving herd immunity against Covid-19 as shown by ICMR’s second serosurvey. Hence, all of us should continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” the Union minister said during his social media programme ‘Sunday Samvaad-3’.Herd immunity is used to describe the indirect protection a population acquires in which the majority of people have natural or acquired immunity to infection. This is possible either through a large proportion of the population getting infected or vaccinated.“The first serosurvey of May 2020 revealed that the nationwide prevalence of novel coronavirus infection was only 0.73 per cent,” the health minister also said.Harsh Vardhan said that the findings of the second serosurvey, which determines the prevalence of the coronavirus strain in the country, are going to be released soon. The serosurvey also aims to determine how the disease prevalence has changed since the first one in May, when the nationwide lockdown was in force, to now when there are fewer restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-far-from-achieving-herd-immunity-says-health-minister-harsh-vardhan/story-0aP1I4YHYhcXydIuXOoRRM.html
27-09-2020||India||Over 2.25 lakh affected across 9 districts as fresh wave of floods hits Assam||One person has died and over 2.25 lakh people in 219 villages of thirteen revenue circles are affected in a fresh wave of floods in Assam due to heavy rainfall over the past few days. According to an Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) bulletin, the affected districts in the third wave of flood this year are - Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Morigaon, Nagaon, Majuli, West Karbi Anglong, Sibsagar, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia. Floodwaters have damaged thirteen roads in Morigaon district while four roads in Nagaon district have been submerged and two roads in West Karbi Anglong district have been affected, the bulletin said. Also read: ‘Will hug CM if I have Covid-19’ - BJP’s new national secy from BengalNearly 10,000 hectares of crop area has been submerged by floodwaters in the affected districts. According to a bulletin issued by the Central Water Commission (CWC), the Brahmaputra river was flowing above danger mark at Nematighat and Jorhat, Jia Bharali at Sonitpur and Kopili at Dharamtul and Kampur. One person died due to drowning at Kampur in Nagaon district on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-25-lakh-affected-across-9-districts-as-fresh-wave-of-floods-hits-assam/story-aBbMhvcXmam4PgH1OzhweM.html
27-09-2020||India||Amit Shah launches Destination North East-2020 to promote region’s tourism, culture and business||Coinciding with World Tourism Day, Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday inaugurated Destination North East 2020, a four-day festival to promote and showcase the region’s tourism, culture, heritage and business. The inauguration took place through video conferencing and was attended by Union minister for development of north east region (DONER) Jitendra Singh and the chief ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland and Sikkim. “I have been to several places within the country and abroad and visited many tourist destinations. But I don’t think I have seen such natural beauty in any place except northeast,” Shah said. “Importantly, people in the region have preserved and promoted their rich and diverse languages, traditions and culture beautifully despite a lot of challenges. I am sure with the initiatives taken by our government, the region will become one of the most sought after tourist destinations in coming years,” he added. Calling the region a prized ornament, Shah said that without the Northeast’s culture assimilating with the rest of India, the country’s culture can never be called complete. Destination Northeast is an annual festival organised by the DONER ministry with the objective of showcasing and celebrating the region to other parts of the country in order to strengthen national integration. The theme for this year’s event is ‘The Emerging Delightful Destinations’ and will be a virtual event due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The festival held earlier at Varanasi, Chandigarh and Delhi had attracted lots of visitors and educated people in those places about the northeast. I hope the next festival is held at my constituency Gandhinagar in Gujarat,” Shah said. Stressing on the need for peace in the once strife-torn region in order to promote tourism and investment, the Union home minister said since 2014 steps taken by the Centre have helped replace violence with development. Shah mentioned the Centre’s Act East Policy, which aims to open the Northeast region for trade and tourism with South East Asia and listed the initiatives taken in the past six years for development and connectivity in the region. “At the time of the country’s independence the northeast contributed nearly 20% of India’s GDP, but it gradually declined over the years. Our efforts are to ensure that it reaches those levels again,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-launches-destination-north-east-2020-to-promote-region-s-tourism-culture-and-business/story-I0z9VIPDrrOvNnEF570YhI.html
27-09-2020||India||Farm bills get President’s assent amid protests, SAD’s exit||The three farm bills, which were passed in both houses of Parliament during the monsoon session, received the Presidential assent on Sunday evening. President Ram Nath Kovind signed the bills, making them an act, and the government notified them.The passage of these bills has led to a series of protests by farmers across the country, the Shiromani Akali Dal’s exit from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and also saw the suspension of eight parliamentarians of the Rajya Sabha when Parliament proceedings were ongoing.Protests against the three acts - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - began in Punjab and Haryana in early September before the monsoon session had begun.Also Read: Address farmers’ issues now | HT EditorialFarmers and farmers’ union leaders are still continuing to stage protests all over the country over the passage of these bills as they fear public procurement will be affected and the system of minimum support prices (MSP) will exist no more. Farmer leaders believe that the passage of these bills will affect how the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) used to work exposing farmers to the whims and fancies of private players and corporations belonging to the agricultural sector.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has continually assured farmers that their agricultural produce will continue to be sold under the ambit of MSP and government procurement will not be affected. Opposition parties had earlier requested the President to not give his assent to the three bills.Parliament also saw huge ruckus in the upper house which then led to the suspension of eight opposition members due to unruly behaviour. Former Union minister and SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from her post as her party voiced its concerns regarding the passage of the bills.Farmer agitations against the passage of the bills continue across northern India. Farmers in Punjab held a ‘Rail Roko’ agitation while in Rohtak farmers blocked the Rohtak-Chandigarh National Highway. Protests were also held in Bengaluru and Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-get-president-s-assent-amid-protests-sad-s-exit/story-5CLoiIi9r3HhTHWJbuZwLL.html
27-09-2020||India||‘Will hug Mamata Banerjee if I have Covid-19’: BJP’s new national secretary from Bengal||A day after becoming Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national secretary from West Bengal on Saturday, Anupam Hazra got into a controversy by saying that he will hug chief minister Mamata Banerjee if he is infected by Covid-19. Hazra’s comments came during his media interaction at Baruipur in South 24 Parganas district where he went to attend a meeting of party workers on Sunday afternoon.Hazra and a large number of BJP workers were not wearing masks and social distancing norms were not maintained during the meeting. Reporters asked Hazra why wasn’t he or the others wearing any mask. “Our workers are fighting a bigger enemy than corona. They are fighting Mamata Banerjee. Since they were not affected by corona they are not scared anymore. I will hug Mamata Banerjee if I have corona (get infected). She treated victims of the disease pathetically. Their bodies were burnt with kerosene. We don’t even treat dead cats or dogs like that,” said Hazra. Also read: Bihar polls - Too many glitches and hitches in NDA’s seat-sharingTrinamool Congress (TMC) spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “Only insane and immature people make such statements. Any sane person who hears Hazra will understand what kind of a person he is.”Hazra switched over from the TMC before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He was fielded against popular actress Mimi Chakraborty, the ruling party’s candidate from the Jadavpur Lok Sabha constituency. Hazra was defeated. On Saturday, Hazra replaced party veteran and former state president Rahul Sinha as national secretary. An agitated Sinha said, “after serving the party since its birth I had to make way for people coming from the TMC”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hug-mamata-banerjee-if-i-have-covid-19-bjp-s-new-national-secretary-from-bengal/story-Ym0XJJrLQMPA2r2VsfKEfK.html
27-09-2020||India||Ward boy at Covid hospital in Lucknow tests positive after patient allegedly damages his PPE||The Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) on Sunday ordered a probe into an alleged manhandling of a ward boy by a patient admitted at a Covid hospital that it runs in Lucknow,The incident at the Rajdhani Covid Hospital, which took place on September 19, turned serious as the PPE kit of the ward boy was allegedly damaged in the scuffle with the patient and he went on to test positive for Covid-19 positive four days later.The patient allegedly became violent when the ward boy asked him to wait for dinner for some time.Director SGPGIMS professor Radha Krishna Dhiman has directed the security committee to conduct a probe into the matter.“Manhandling of medical professionals, especially the corona warriors, is not acceptable. People must understand that everyone serving the patient is also a human being. They need support as they are already under heavy stress,” said Dhiman.“Doctors and medical staff are already working under immense pressure. Many of the staff members are not able to meet their families for days. Staff and doctors on duty need some protection. We want the hospital administration to take action against the patient,” said a doctor serving at the Rajdhani Covid hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ward-boy-at-covid-hospital-in-lucknow-tests-positive-after-patient-allegedly-damages-his-ppe/story-VI1PELwjrrDZ2FIJCkJSeJ.html
27-09-2020||India||‘Dark day for democracy, farmers’: SAD’s Sukhbir Singh Badal after President’s nod to farm bills||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Sunday President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent to the three contentious farm bills marked a ‘dark day for democracy and farmers’.“Extremely sad that @rashtrapatibhvn refused to heed farmers & Punjabis’ cries & has signed #FarmBills and J&K bill excluding #Punjabi as official language. Hopes that President will act as nation’s conscience & return Bills to Parliament dashed. Dark day for democracy & farmers,” Badal tweeted. Extremely sad that @rashtrapatibhvn refused to heed farmers & Punjabis’ cries & has signed #FarmBills and J&K bill excluding #Punjabi as official language. Hopes that President will act as nation’s conscience & return Bills to Parliament dashed. Dark day for democracy & farmers. pic.twitter.com/BSJXMYMrgfThe SAD had on Saturday snapped ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre to protest the bills.Also read: President Kovind gives his nod to all 3 farm bills, government notifies themThe Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside the notified Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market yards.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, will give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price.The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, will remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potato from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dark-day-for-democracy-farmers-sad-s-sukhbir-singh-badal-after-president-s-nod-to-farm-bills/story-GXHksW4L9iVFrczcfWxP0N.html
27-09-2020||India||Dungarpur violence: Over 6,000 booked in 20 cases, more FIRs to follow||More than 6,000 people were booked in 20 cases in the violent protests by candidates of a teacher recruitment exam in Rajasthan’s Dungarpur and Udaipur districts. “In 20 cases, 6,019 people have been booked under various sections for arson, damaging public property, rioting, assaulting a public servant. A total of 1,219 accused have been named in the FIRs and the rest are unidentified,” said a senior police official familiar with the development of the case. He added, “Out of these 20, eight each are registered at Dungarpur Sadar and Bicchiwara police station in Dungarpur district and rest four at Kherwara police station of Udaipur district. So far, 34 accused have been arrested.” Also read: President Kovind gives his nod to all 3 farm bills, government notifies themThe official further said that the number of FIRs will see a sharp rise in the coming days as the victims who bore damage to their properties or those who got injured in the incident are yet to register the FIRs. Meanwhile, the first phase of panchayat election to be held on September 28 and September 29 in Sarada and Gogunda block have been postponed due to deteriorating law and order situation in the state. Yesterday, one person was killed and at least five were injured in Udaipur. The protesters vandalised over 100 houses in a residential colony of the town. State government has sought Rapid Action Force from Centre to rein in the agitators. The state government on Saturday rushed three senior police personnel – director-general of police (DGP) (crime) ML Lathar; Jaipur police commissioner Anand Shrivastwa; and additional director-general of police (ADG), anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Dinesh MN – to Udaipur to bring the situation under control. Violence erupted across districts on Thursday when the candidates of teachers’ recruitment examination-2018 blocked Udaipur-Ahmedabad highway, pelted stones at the police, damaged properties and torched vehicles demanding filling of 1,167 general vacant posts with Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates. The violence continued on Friday and incidents occurred on Saturday as well. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot urged the protesters to maintain calm and put an end to the demonstration. Gehlot said his administration is ready to meet all legitimate demands, according to a statement. Governor Kalraj Mishra spoke to CM Gehlot on phone in Jaipur and called principal secretary (home) Abhay Kumar and ADG (law and order) Saurabh Srivastava to Raj Bhawan, directing them to control the situation, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dungarpur-violence-over-6-000-booked-in-20-cases-more-firs-to-follow-in-coming-days/story-mD9f1AGszxWaOo0hnCV4aM.html
27-09-2020||India||A day after Fadnavis-Raut meeting, Sharad Pawar visits Uddhav Thackeray||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar met Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday, a day after BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis met Shiv Sena lawmaker Sanjay Raut, sparking speculation in political circles.The NCP, along with the Congress party, is a partner in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by Uddhav Thackeray’s Shiv Sena.News agency PTI said citing sources Pawar met Thackeray at the chief minister’s official residence and that the meeting lasted for about 40 minutes. It added that what transpired during the meeting could not be known immediately. The process of unlocking Maharashtra and the Covid-19 situation in the worst-hit state were some of the issues that were discussed during the meeting, PTI reported.Sharad Pawar has met Thackeray several times in the past over similar issues.The meeting between the veteran Maratha leader and Shiv Sena chief came after Fadnavis and Raut met at a hotel in Mumbai on Saturday sparking speculation over whether the two sides are trying to mend their relations amid the slugfest between the two in the past few months.On Sunday, Raut said that he met the former Maharashtra chief minister to discuss some issues and that both of them could have ideological differences but there was no enmity between them. Fadnavis also asserted that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has no intention of joining hands with the Shiv Sena or to bring down the Thackeray-led state government. Fadnavis also said the meeting was regarding an interview for Shiv Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’.The Shiv Sena had withdrawn from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre in November last year and then snapped ties with the BJP after the Maharashtra assembly elections over the issue of sharing the post of the chief minister. Thackeray became the Maharashtra chief minister after the support from Congress and the NCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-fadnavis-raut-meeting-sharad-pawar-visits-uddhav-thackeray/story-FemAk3KAl2J6rij3ZMuDMK.html
27-09-2020||India||23-year-old student held for harassing woman online||A 23-year-old student was arrested for allegedly harassing a woman by sending her obscene messages on social media, police said on Sunday. The accused has been identified as BA first-year student Kafil, a resident of Mehrauli, they said. A woman lodged a complaint that a Facebook user was harassing her by sending obscene and abusive messages on her account, a senior police officer said. “During investigation, police obtained the details of the user and with the help of technical surveillance, he was arrested on Saturday,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. During interrogation, the accused said he would create fake Facebook IDs in order to make friends with women and send them obscene messages, police said. He used hotspot or WiFi services of others to evade detection, they said.The accused was stalking the complainant online and presenting himself as a gym trainer, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-year-old-student-held-for-harassing-woman-online/story-YmmimlMbziwwnpAvBS2KMK.html
27-09-2020||India||President Kovind gives his nod to all 3 farm bills, government notifies them||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave his assent to all the three contentious farm bills, which opposition parties say are anti-farmer and corporate-friendly, after they were recently passed by Parliament during its monsoon session amid vehement protests.The three bills - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - have now become acts.The government, which has said that these landmark legislations will make farmers self-reliant, has notified them. More than a dozen opposition parties had urged President Kovind not to sign the contentious bills, alleging that they were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary norms.SAD quits NDA: How farm bills ended friendship between oldest alliesThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) even pulled out of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) coalition at the Centre over the passage of the contentious farm bills, which the Punjab-based party said were “lethal and disastrous”. The SAD and the BJP had been allies since 1996 when both forged a pre-poll alliance ahead of the 1997 Punjab assembly elections which brought them to power.Farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the bills and have said the Centre’s farm reforms would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big companies.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been trying to allay the fears of the farmers, saying that the country’s agriculture sector has unshackled itself after the passage of these bills. Farmers and the farm sector, Modi said, need to be strong to lay a strong foundation of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. “They have the power to sell their fruits or vegetables to anyone, and anywhere. It is this power which is the foundation of their growth, now the same power has been given to farmers across the country. They have got the freedom to sell not only fruits and vegetables but grains, sugarcane, mustard and anything that they grow, they can now sell to anyone and anywhere they like,” PM Modi said while addressing the 69th edition of his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme.Also Read: Harsimrat Kaur Badal quits Cabinet over farm billsSeveral Union ministers, including defence Minister Rajnath Singh, have said said the Centre has taken the steps to ensure that farmers get the right price for their produce.“Our government has taken steps to ensure that the farmers get the right price for their produce. I have studied the bills, and I am saying that the farmers will benefit from it. But some people are trying to mislead the farmers,” Singh said recently.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside the notified APMC market yards (mandis). The government says this is aimed at facilitating remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price. And the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potato from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits.Pullout won’t help SAD in state polls: Sukhdev Singh DhindsaThe Sukhbir Singh Badal-led SAD had asked the central government not to bring the bills in Parliament till “all reservations” expressed by farmers are “duly addressed”. But when the Centre did not pay heed, the SAD asked the government to send these farm bills to a select committee, which did not happen. SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal then resigned from the Union Cabinet in protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-of-india-gives-assent-to-farm-bills-govt-notifies-them/story-hcEVlDqYVXXiWhvoaOeIlK.html
27-09-2020||India||President Kovind must not sign farm bills, says Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday urged President Ram Nath Kovind to not sign the agriculture reform bills that were recently cleared in the Rajya Sabha, saying the Centre is misleading farmers of the country.“We urge the President not to sign the farm bills that were passed in Parliament in an unconstitutional manner. We also demand that the NDA government takes back these black legislations and ensure ‘one nation, one market and one price’,” Bhupesh Baghel said, according to news agency ANI.The Congress leader also slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his cabinet ministers for “misleading farmers”. “PM Modi, his cabinet colleagues and BJP leaders are saying that farmers can now sell their agriculture produce anywhere. I want to ask them: when were farmers not allowed to sell their produces as per their wish? They’re misleading farmers,” the chief minister said.On September 20, the Rajya Sabha passed the two key farm bills - Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. During the agriculture reform bills debate, the upper house witnessed ruckus as several opposition parties raised a strong objection.PM Modi on Sunday once again hailed the passage of the bills on his Mann Ki Baat radio programme, saying it has empowered the country’s farmers.“One who is grounded stays firm even during the biggest storms. During these tough times of corona, our farm sector, our farmers are a living example of this. Even during this crisis, our agricultural sector has again shown its prowess. Our farmers, farm sector, villages, are the foundation of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. If they are strong, the foundation of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India)’ will be strong,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-must-not-sign-farm-bills-says-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel/story-655nymUkgyO3ZAV7utDDlJ.html
27-09-2020||India||Derek O’Brien backs NDA’s former ally SAD, says fighting for farmers is part of Trinamool DNA||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Sunday extended its support to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which exited the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance late on Saturday, in its protest against the Centre over the three contentious farm bills.“We support Sukhbir Singh Badal and Akali Dal’s stand with the farmers. Fighting for farmers is part of Trinamool DNA,” TMC lawmaker Derek O’Brien said.The Rajya Sabha MP, who was suspended from the Rajya Sabha over the ruckus last week along with seven other members during the passage of the bills, said his party will contest the farm bills passed by both the Houses as it has a direct bearing on states’ role, minimum support price, public distribution price and procurement.Also read | SAD quits NDA: How farm bills ended friendship between oldest allies“In 2006, Mamata Banerjee risked her life on a historic 26 day fast for farmers’ rights. We oppose #FarmBills2020 as they endanger States’ role, MSP, PDS and procurement,” O’Brien tweeted.The TMC’s support for NDA’s former ally comes after the SAD exited coalition saying that the legislation will destroy the agriculture sector. SAD member and former Union minister in the BJP-led government Harsimrat Kaur Badal had exited the Cabinet on September 17 over the bills which the party has been bitterly opposing.SAD leader Sukhbir Singh Badal has said the decision to quit the NDA was taken because of the “Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of farmers crops on MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and Sikh issues like excluding the Punjabi language as an official language in Jammu and Kashmir.”Parliament had recently passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill; Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill.Also read: ‘All must unite against Centre’, says SAD chief Sukhbir Singh BadalThe SAD is the third major NDA ally to pull out of the alliance after the Shiv Sena and the TDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/derek-o-brien-backs-nda-s-former-ally-sad-says-fighting-for-farmers-is-part-of-trinamool-dna/story-GhwwBYRBb4LTUt1jwkQKMI.html
27-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand hoteliers keep fingers crossed as business returns slowly||Hoteliers in Uttarakhand have claimed that there is a gradual improvement in the tourism sector after the government eased Covid-19 restrictions on tourism activities last week. They said the influx of tourists in the state’s popular spots like Mussoorie and Nainital has started. Hotels in the state which were closed down for about 5-6 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic have been receiving queries for booking for the next few days especially in the first week of October. “Post relaxations we have seen some improvement in the business which was hard hit by the pandemic. In the last few days, about 10-15% business is back with some tourists visiting Nainital and Mussoorie on Saturday,” said Sandeep Sahni, president, hotel and restaurant association of Uttarakhand. He, however, said that the industry will take several months to get fully back on track. “Our industry is a perishable industry and the losses incurred can never be recovered. During the lockdown, we lost our business during the prime season which is during the summers. We lost about ₹2,000 cr during that in the state. We are expecting about 30-40% of the business by the end of October but for 100% it will take months,” said Sahni. Sanjay Agarwal, general secretary of Mussoorie Hotel Association said, ‘post restrictions, the hotels have got about 70% of the total bookings for the first week of October which has got a long weekend.’ “Tourists are slowly coming after the restrictions on movement were lifted. We are getting maximum bookings and queries from Delhi-NCR region which are closer to Mussoorie,” said Agarwal. He also said that hoteliers have no option but to be patient to recover their losses. “It will however take a considerable time to fully recover. But we have no option but to wait,” he said.Ved Sah, general secretary of the Nainital hotel association too claimed that the hotels in the popular tourist spot are getting bookings for the next few weeks. “As the restrictions have been eased, the tourists have started coming. We are getting bookings from tourists for the first week of October which is a good sign for business,” he said. However, president of the Uttarakhand hotel and restaurant association, Sahni claimed that the industry will collapse if the government doesn’t provide assistance. “The medium and small hotels in our industry have been majorly affected. They don’t have money to sustain and have suffered job losses. The whole industry is on the verge of collapse if there is no timely government assistance,” said Shani. The state government, however, seemed optimistic that the tourism sector which is a major source of revenue generation, will recover. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday said, “The government is taking many steps to boost the tourism in the state. We have been undertaking projects to ensure tourism activities round the year including water sports, adventure sports, circuits for religious tourism and others.” “The pandemic has surely affected the industry, but it will surely gather pace after once the pandemic ends,” said Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hoteliers-keep-fingers-crossed-as-business-returns-slowly/story-9SgB7ObSHd5CbRDJeEuVXM.html
27-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recoveries close to 5 million, 76% come from 10 states, UTs||Nearly 5 million patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have recovered so far, exceeding the active cases by 3,985,225, data from the Union health ministry showed on Sunday. The single-day recoveries have been more than 90,000 on average for the last few days, according to the ministry’s data.A total of 92,043 recoveries have been recorded in the last 24 hours across the country, while 88,600 new Covid-19 infections were reported during the same period, according to the data updated on the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.“This high rate of daily recoveries has sustained India’s leading global position as the country with the maximum number of recovered cases... Maintaining its upward trend, the national recovery rate presently has risen to 82.46 per cent,” the ministry highlighted.As many as 21 states and Union territories have reported higher numbers of new recoveries than new Covid-19 cases, the ministry said. A total 76% of the new recovered cases came from 10 states and UTs of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Odisha, Delhi Chhattisgarh, Kerala and West Bengal.Maharashtra continues to top this list. It has alone contributed more than 23,000 recoveries followed by Andhra Pradesh with more than 9,000 cases, the ministry said. Close, proactive, calibrated and effective coordination between the Centre and states and UT governments has made this sustained high level of single-day recoveries possible, it added.“The number of active patients has been below 10 lakh for several successive days. The active caseload is merely 15.96 per cent of the total caseload,” the ministry said.These results have been ensured through sustained, multi-pronged strategies and effective actions, coupled with regular review by the Union Government. Early identification through high countrywide testing, prompt surveillance and tracking supplemented with standardised clinical care have aided these encouraging outcomes, it pointed out.The health ministry also said that 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh -- account for 77% of the 88,600 new Covid-19 cases reported between Saturday and Sunday morning. Maharashtra continues to lead this tally as well. It has contributed more than 20,000 Covid-19 cases followed by Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh with more than 8,000 and 7,000 cases respectively.The viral disease has claimed 1,124 lives in the last 24 hours with 10 states and UTs accounting for 84% of the fatalities. These states and UTs are Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh, the ministry said.Of the new deaths, Maharashtra reported more than 38% of deaths with 430 deaths followed by Karnataka and Tamil Nadu with 86 and 85 deaths, respectively.India’s Covid-19 caseload surged to 5,992,532 and the death toll due to the coronavirus disease climbed to 94,503.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recoveries-close-to-5-million-76-come-from-10-states-uts/story-gkNhj5gwgxFr5KImuE0BTP.html
27-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Uttarakhand braces for twin protests over labour issues, farm bills and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Twin protests in Uttarakhand on Monday over farm bills and labour issuesAmid the widespread protests by farmers against the recently passed agriculture bills in the Parliament, the Opposition Congress will hold a protest march towards the governor house on Monday. The march to be led by state unit president Pritam Singh has been organised on the call of the national leadership. Read more here. Akshay Kumar shares adorable Daughter’s Day post for Nitara: ‘You are my definition of perfectAkshay Kumar, who is currently in Scotland with his family, has shared an adorable picture with his eight-year-old daughter Nitara on the occasion of Daughter’s Day. He can be seen holding her and a dog she’s playing with her in the cute picture. Read more here. Australia’s Alyssa Healy breaks MS Dhoni’s T20I recordFormer India captain MS Dhoni is regarded as one of the best wicketkeepers of the modern era. Dhoni, who retired from international cricket in August, led Indian team to three ICC trophies - 2007 T20 World Cup, 2011 ODI World Cup and 2013 Champions Trophy. Dhoni also played some crucial innings lower down the order and went on to be regarded as one of the best finishers of his time. Read more here. Mouni Roy’s bikini shoot on ‘Sunny Sunday’ in the Maldives and will make you go weak in the kneesTeasing our travel nostalgia, television-turned-Bollywood ctor Mouni Roy shared a glimpse of her sultry vacay in the Maldives and fans could not keep calm. Looking like spot of sunshine in yellow bikini amidst the azure ocean, Mouni made fans go weak in the knees as she made the most of her “sunny Sunday” vacay at the island nation. Read more here. ‘Amazed and creeped out’: Man spots robot dog roaming around Canadian street. WatchIf you are a regular user of the Internet, there’s a possibility you may have seen videos of robot dogs called Spot. From managing sheep to helping people maintain social distance, the clips are many. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-dehradun-braces-for-twin-protests-over-labour-issues-farm-bills-and-all-the-latest-news/story-bb7Q1DLm6C239pc0mT64XJ.html
27-09-2020||India||Uma Bharti tests positive for Covid-19 after Kedarnath-Badrinath yatra, says her driver was infected||Senior Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) leader Uma Bharti, who has tested positive for Covid-19 after Kedarnath-Badrinath yatra, has informed through social media that she is under home-isolation and is getting all possible treatment from doctors in Pauri Garhwal district of Uttarakhand. She denied contracting virus from priests, adding that her driver was positive for the virus. Manoj Bahukhandi, chief medical officer (CMO) Pauri Garhwal district, where the leader is under isolation said, “A medical team from Yamkeshwar block of the district is continuously in touch with her and providing all possible assistance to her.” Bharti had visited the Kedarnath shrine on Monday (September 21) where she offered prayers following all safety norms. She had visited Badrinath shrine in Chamoli district on September 24. On Sunday, Bharti tweeted, “After the news of me being coronavirus positive spread, all my well-wishers are very worried. I am here in Vande Mataram Kunj, surrounded by the Ganges stream, in the foothills of the Himalayas. All medical facilities are available here and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh, is just a few a kilometres away. The district administration of Pauri Garhwal is also very alert and taking good care of me.” Also read: Aware of studies that claim Covid-19 can affect heart, says Harsh VardhanThe leader further said that through media, she has learnt that she contracted the virus after coming in contact with the priests in the Himalayan state, which she denied and condemned. “The priests and saints should not be blamed. My driver was Covid-19 positive and we did not know about it, I might have contracted the virus from him. I followed all norms of safety and social distancing, so the priests should not be blamed,” she tweeted. On Saturday night, the leader, through her social media profile, informed that she got tested because she was down with a mild fever for three days and was positive for the virus despite following all Covid-19 norms, including social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uma-bharti-tests-positive-for-covid-19-after-kedarnath-badrinath-yatra-says-her-driver-was-infected/story-cw8mFt2IbOCnGiTyJvLrHP.html
27-09-2020||India||Bird hit forces IndiGo’s Delhi-bound flight to return to Mumbai||An IndiGo aircraft bound for Delhi was forced to return to Mumbai after a bird hit shortly after take-off on Sunday morning, the budget carrier said The Airbus A-320 aircraft with flight number 6E 5047 on the Mumbai-Delhi route had to be grounded after the bird hit.The aircraft took off at around 8.05 am, its scheduled departure time from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) but returned minutes later.“IndiGo flight 6E 5047 operating from Mumbai to Delhi had to turn back to Mumbai due to a bird hit. An alternate aircraft was arranged to operate the flight from Mumbai to Delhi. We regret the inconvenience caused to our passengers,” an IndiGo spokesperson said.The airline, however, did not reveal the number of passengers on board the Delhi-bound flight. On August 8, an AirAsia Mumbai-bound flight was forced to abort operations after it suffered a bird hit during the take-off at the Ranchi airport. The airline had to arrange for an alternate aircraft to accommodate the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-hit-forces-indigo-s-delhi-bound-flight-to-return-to-mumbai/story-77PindZegtP6X1ydXI82oM.html
27-09-2020||India||‘I don’t understand politics,’ says former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, joins JD(U)||Former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, who has recently taken voluntary retirement from his service, has joined Janata Dal (United) on Sunday after repeatedly claiming that he wouldn’t be joining politics. On Saturday, Pandey met chief minister Nitish Kumar at the party office and again dismissed speculations over his joining politic. After being the centre of the Maharashtra police versus Bihar police controversy in the investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput death case, his sudden decision to retire from his services triggered speculations.  Former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, who recently took VRS, joins JD(U) at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's residence in Patna. pic.twitter.com/jtVtl6eA1U“I was called by CM himself and asked to join. Whatever the party asks me to do, I will do. I don’t understand politics. I am a simple person who has spent his time working for the downtrodden section of society,” he said. Pandey’s voluntary retirement just before the Bihar Assembly Elections 2020 set tongues wagging as political ambition is not new for this 1987-batch IPS officer. In March 2009, he took premature retirement as he reportedly wanted to contest the Lok Sabha elections on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket but was not granted one.On Saturday, the former DGP met Nitish Kumar but said it was not a political meet. “I came here to thank chief minister Nitish Kumar as he gave me full freedom to work. There was no talk related to polls and I have not yet decided on my joining the JD (U),” Pandey had said.. But JD(U) sources have confirmed that the former DGP “would be joining the party at the earliest.” Just after his voluntary retirement, a music video featuring Pandey as ‘Bihar’s Robinhood’ was released on YouTube — in what is being seen as the groundwork to build his image.Bihar is scheduled to go to the polls in three phases — on October 29, November 3 and November 7. The counting will be held on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bihar-dgp-gupteshwar-pandey-likely-to-join-jd-u-today/story-Uo6FNWCeCJsYojblvmzniP.html
27-09-2020||India||Over 70 hot springs identified in Uttarakhand and HP for power generation||Over 70 hot springs in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh with potential to generate electricity, have been identified by the scientists of Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) Dehradun, said the institute. Kalachand Sain, director WIHG said they have identified around 40 hot springs in Uttarakhand and 35 in Himachal Pradesh, where thermal energy from the springs can be used to generate electricity. Sain said of the 40 hot springs in Uttarakhand, around 50% have electricity generation capabilities and further studies are being conducted on the rest of the hot springs. Similar is the status of power generation potential of hot springs identified in Himachal Pradesh. There are around 600 geothermal springs with varying temperature and chemical conditions in the Himalayas, according to the department of science and technology (DST). For many, it is a bit difficult to understand the existence of hot springs amid the snowy chilling conditions of the Himalayas.Anil Gautam, head of environmental quality monitoring group at People’s Science Institute said that hot springs are formed in the Himalayan region when water comes into contact with an underground geo-thermal point, gets heated up and comes out through a thermal vent, which is then called a hot spring. “The more and more we go deep inside the Earth, temperature keeps increasing due to different types of thermal activities already taking place under the surface of the Earth. When a water source passes nearby these zones (where thermal activities are taking place) it carries the heat along with it and releases through thermal vents as hot springs,” said Gautam. The WIHG director said this is first of its kind exercise to explore the power generating capacity of hot springs at such a scale here; which will also help in understanding practical challenges of plugging the release of carbon dioxide from these hot springs by condensing it back into the water. WIHG’s study of gas emissions from Himalayan geothermal springs has shown that they discharge a significant quantum of Carbon dioxide (CO2) rich water. Sameer Tiwari and Santosh Rai, senior scientists at WIHG working on this project, said they have selected one hot spring near Tapovan, Joshimath in Chamoli district to explore power generation in partnership with a Uttarakhand based private company named Jaydevm energy private limited.Also Read: Uttarakhand BJP to go among farmers to explain ‘benefits’ of agri bills “Geo-thermal points in the Himalayan region are scattered along the geological fault line of Main Central Thrust (the geological fault line where the Indian plate has pushed the Eurasian plate along the Himalaya), and hot springs are found along this fault line. Studying the geo-thermal points, we are finding out the reservoir energy estimate of the springs. While studying these points, we found that geo-thermal spring in Tapovan is capable of producing up to five megawatts of energy which is reserved there and can be converted to electricity. This geo-thermal energy can be used for producing electricity for the next 20 years,” said Tiwari. These scientists are now planning to build an infrastructure at the hot spring in Chamoli like a tube-well or a bore-hole where the hot water will be released and mixed with another substance with a lesser boiling point, to produce more steam to push the turbine for producing electricity. Tiwari added that this method will reduce CO2 emissions.“There will be almost zero carbon dioxide emission into the atmosphere as once the vapour is used for electricity generation, it will be condensed and transferred back into the earth, maintaining the water level and stopping carbon emission.” Also Read: 949 new Covid-19 cases take Uttarakhand past 46,000-mark, 11 patients die The senior scientist further added that for using geothermal energy the cost of setting up the infrastructure is around four times higher than the thermal power plants, but once set up, the cost of production is four to five times lesser. Manoj Kohli, director of Jaydevm Energy Private Limited said that with the technical support of WIHG, they are planning to set up the geothermal electricity generation plant by the end of this year in Chamoli. “We will start working on setting up the plant after a meeting with the chief minister, for which talks are underway. The project will cost around Rs 135 crores for the generation of five megawatts electricity. For this project, we will be making two structures similar to bore-well, for production and another well for transferring that water back into the earth,” said Kohli. The turbines will be connected to a generator for electricity production. One unit of electricity produced through this method is likely to cost around Rs 4-5.5 and the rate for selling this electricity will be discussed with the state government”, he said. What is a hot spring and where it gets heat from? A generally accepted definition of a hot spring says the temperature of water coming out of a natural source should be over 36.7 degrees Celsius. When a water channel of spring gets into touch with a heat source underground, it emerges as a hot spring. According to experts, there are various sources of this heat like the decay of naturally radioactive elements underground, shallow intrusions of magma (molten rock) and tectonic activities. Also, the temperature of rocks within the earth increases with depth and if water percolates deep enough, it is heated. Water of thermal springs can hold more dissolved solids than cold water due to which such springs have high mineral content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-70-hot-springs-identified-in-uttarakhand-and-hp-for-power-generation/story-bjJX2H9EHfaFVKeycOiOJP.html
27-09-2020||India||‘Ideologically there can be differences but we aren’t enemies’: Raut on meeting Fadnavis||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that he met former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday to discuss certain issues and that both of them could have ideological differences but there was no enmity between the duo.“I met Devendra Fadnavis yesterday to discuss certain issues. He is a former Chief Minister. Also, he is the leader of opposition in Maharashtra and Bihar Polls-in charge of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Our meeting was fixed as I wanted to take his interview for Saamna. Due to Covid-19 and other reasons, it could not materialise,” he said.“There can be ideological differences but we are not enemies. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was aware of our meeting. We were not sitting in a bunker it was an open meeting,” he added.In November last year, the Shiv Sena withdrew from NDA which ultimately led to party leader Uddhav Thackeray becoming Maharashtra Chief Minister through support from Congress, and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Raut also spoke on the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) pulling out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA).“The strong pillars of the NDA were the Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal. We were in power and opposition together. The Shiv Sena was forced to exit the NDA, now the Akali Dal left it. They were with BJP since 1996. NDA has got new allies, I wish them all the best. I do not consider an alliance as NDA that does not have Shiv Sena and Akali Dal,” Raut said talking to reporters here.Days after quitting the union cabinet, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday decided to pull out of the BJP-led NDA alliance over “Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of farmers crops on MSP”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ideologically-there-can-be-differences-but-we-aren-t-enemies-raut-on-meeting-fadnavis/story-Bs2ogEgcxq1Gd2M7z64FuM.html
27-09-2020||India||Monsoon to withdraw from north India in 2 days; rainy season to end on above-normal note||The southwest monsoon is set to retreat from parts of north India in the next two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday, while data suggests that the rainy season is most likely to end on an above-normal note.Overall, the country has received 9 per cent more rainfall than normal until September 26, according to data.“Conditions are becoming favourable for withdrawal of monsoon from west Rajasthan and adjoining areas from September 28,” the weather department said.Mahesh Palawat, the vice president of private forecaster Skymet Weather, said rainfall has reduced considerably.“The withdrawal of monsoon from west Rajasthan is likely to start from tomorrow (Monday). It looks like monsoon will withdraw on an above-normal note,” Palawat said.Rainfall in the range of 96 to 104 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA) is considered as ‘normal’, while precipitation in the range of 104 to 110 per cent of the LPA is ‘excess’.Nine states have received excess rainfall, while 20 states have recorded normal precipitation, the data shows.The official rainfall season in India is from June 1 to September 30. Monsoon arrived over Kerala on June 1, its normal onset date.June recorded 17 per cent more rainfall, while July saw 10 per cent deficiency. However, there was an excess rainfall in August -- the month recorded 27 per cent more rainfall than normal.Parts of north India -- Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir --- have recorded deficient rainfall. The Union Territory of Ladakh has recorded high deficiency of rainfall this year.Large parts of the country in west and south India, including Gujarat, Goa, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, have received excess rainfall. Sikkim is the only state to have received large excess rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-withdraw-from-north-india-in-2-days-rainy-season-to-end-on-above-normal-note/story-kCNu72HA0aZWTN54hkMsZN.html
27-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Why local administrations are choosing restrictions over relaxations||In a few days, India will be completing the fourth phase of the unlocking process that began in June but several cities, towns, districts are yet to come out of restrictions. In fact, some are voluntarily going back the lockdown road to arrest the spread of Covid-19. Unlock 4 in India commenced on September 1 and will be over by September 30 as all previous phases of the unlocking continued for a month.The Centre is not in favour of lockdown at this point of time when it is focussing on allowing more activities to boost the economy. In its Unlock 4 guidelines, the ministry of home affairs specified that there will be no local restrictions in areas which are not containment zones — without Centre’s permission.In a recent meeting with the chief ministers of seven states that are contributing maximum to the country’s Covid-19 tally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has urged the CMs to reassess local lockdowns and instead identify micro-containment zones so that the economic movement doesn’t get stymied.However, several administrations are choosing lockdowns instead of relaxations as people are flouting social distancing norms and the number of cases, on the other hand, is on the rise. Also Read: Fear of Covid-19 second wave in Maharashtra, says Uddhav ThackerayRaipurA total of 10 districts of Chattisgarh, including Raipur, are under complete lockdown from September 21 to September 28. Local administrations have taken the decision. Seven municipal corporation areas in Bilaspur are under lockdown from September 22 morning till September 28 midnight. Some areas are under lockdown till September 30. JodhpurThe district administration has imposed a three-day lockdown in Jodhpur from September 25 10pm to September 28 5am. “The decision was taken in view of the rising number of cases. People are not following the guidelines such as wearing mask and social distancing. Till the time a vaccine is developed, wearing mask and distancing is the only precaution,” said a district administrative official.The state government had earlier imposed CrPC Section 144, which prohibits the assembly of four or more people, in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Udaipur, Sikar, Pali and Nagaur.Narsinghpur in Madhya PradeshTraders associations and people have voluntarily decided to declare a one-week Janata curfew in Narsinghpur, a town located near Bhopal. Also Read: What are local lockdowns and micro-containment zones?As the number of Covid-19 cases is rising and the Centre has reservation against lockdowns, local administrations are relying on spontaneous curfews where traders and locals take part voluntarily. Several district collectors in Nagpur, Sangli, Kolhapur, Jalgaon, Raigad, Aurangabad among others announced Janata curfews in Maharashtra. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has also expressed apprehension over a second wave of Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-why-local-administrations-are-choosing-restrictions-over-relaxations/story-0q3JOAnHl8xdIqmY5ZNChM.html
27-09-2020||India||WHO chief hails Modi’s assurance of India’s vaccine prodn prowess to help nations fight Covid-19||World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assurance that India will use its vaccine production capacity in helping nations fight Covid-19, saying the pandemic can be defeated only by mobilising resources for common good.In his address to the 75th session of the UN General Assembly on Saturday, Modi said that “as the largest vaccine producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today. India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis.” He said that even during these very difficult times of the raging pandemic, the pharmaceutical industry of India has sent essential medicines to more than 150 countries.“Thank you for your commitment to solidarity, Prime Minister @narendramodi. Only together, by mobilising our forces and resources jointly for the common good, can we end the #COVID-19 pandemic,” WHO Director-General Ghebreyesus said in a tweet.Modi told the 193-member UN General Assembly that in India and the neighbourhood, “we are moving ahead with phase 3 clinical trials in India.” Modi further assured that India will also help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of the vaccines.He, however, questioned the response of the United Nations in combating the pandemic that has so far infected over 32 million people in the world and will soon reach the grim milestone of a million deaths.“Over the last 8 to 9 months, the whole world has been battling the pandemic of the Coronavirus. Where is the United Nations in this joint fight against the pandemic? Where is its effective response?” Modi said.Melissa Fleming, Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications at the United Nations, said Modi’s assurance is a “welcome news” because UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had told the General Assembly in his address last week that “vaccinationalism” is not only unfair but self-defeating.With the Covid-19 pandemic soon reaching the grim milestone of a million deaths, Guterres had chided those countries who are making “side deals” to have a Covid-19 vaccine exclusively for their own populations.“Such ‘vaccinationalism’ is not only unfair, it is self-defeating. None of us is safe, until all of us are safe. Likewise, economies cannot run with a runaway pandemic,” Guterres had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-chief-hails-modi-s-assurance-of-india-s-vaccine-prodn-prowess-to-help-nations-fight-covid-19/story-a9xM5e0cG8KhV0MAfySVdP.html
27-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM orders probe into electrocution of cyclist in Haldwani||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday directed Radhika Jha, secretary, Uttarakhand energy and non-conventional energy department to hold an inquiry into the electrocution of a man after a high tension wire fell on him on September 25 in Haldwani area of Nainital district. Rawat instructed Jha to take action against officials responsible for the incident. The deceased Kamal Rawat, son of MS Rawat and resident of Kathgodam, worked as a compounder at a private nursing home. He was commuting on his cycle towards the nursing home on Friday morning when the high-tension wire fell on him at Teri Puliya, killing him on the spot. Radhika Jha said following the CM’s order, chief engineer in the department ML Prasad has been made head of the inquiry and he will submit the report to her soon. She said in the preliminary inquiry conducted by a three-member committee of the department, dereliction of duty on the part of an officer has come to light. “Appropriate action will be taken against those responsible after the final report of the inquiry is submitted by Prasad”, she said Jha said to ensure such incidents do not reoccur, the junior technical staff in the department will be trained. “The kin of the deceased will be provided a compensation of Rs 4 lakh. Also, efforts are being made to provide financial help to the affected family through chief minister’s discretionary fund,” she said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-orders-probe-into-electrocution-of-cyclist-in-haldwani/story-V6yvLJVP7KSVc9WLJei5wJ.html
27-09-2020||India||Bollywood drugs case: Prasad remanded to NCB custody till Oct 3||Executive Producer Kshitij Ravi Prasad has been remanded to seven days in Narcotics Control Bureau’s custody till October 3 by a magistrate in Mumbai on Sunday afternoon. Prasad was arrested on Saturday by the bureau allegedly for receiving contraband from suspected peddlers who had supplied charas to actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik.NCB had sought Prasad’s custody for nine days till October 5 but the court granted the agency his custody till October 3. NCB told the court that it recovered ‘one roll joint believed to be remains of smoked ganja from Prasad’s house during the search conducted on Friday.The agency in its remand application before the court claimed that Prasad’s role was revealed during the interrogation of Sanket Patel, allegedly one of the drug peddlers. Patel had allegedly claimed to have delivered Ganja (Weed) to Prasad at his residence in Andheri on the instructions of Karamjeet Singh. Singh is alleged to be a drug distributor with a local network that caters to the Bollywood fraternity.The agency further stated that Patel had confessed to have delivered Ganja around 12 times to Prasad from May 2020 to July 2020. Further, Prasad paid Rs 3,500 for each delivery of 50 grams of Ganja,” read the application of NCB which sought Prasad’s custody.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor leave NCB office after hours of questioningThe agency further submitted before the magistrate that Prasad had admitted to taking Ganja from arrested alleged drug peddler Ankush Arneja and Singh through his associate Patel. It is to be noted that Patel had claimed that he used to supply contraband to Arneja on instructions of Singh.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister shares childhood pic of late star, Ankita Lokhande showers her love“From the above it is clear that Prasad purchased Hashish/Ganja from Arneja, further Arneja used to purchase drugs from accused Anuj Keshwani. Hence Prasad is part of the conspiracy for drug procurement with Arneja and his co-accused. Prasad was connected with Keshwani and Keshwani was linked with Kaizan Ibrahim, who was further linked with accused Dipesh Sawant and Sawant was linked with Showik, Rhea, Rajput,” reads the remand application.While disclosing the alleged chain of distribution of Ganja, the agency in its application has stated that, “Patel supplied Ganja/Weed to Arneja and the said contraband was purchased by him from accused Singh. On the instruction of accused Singh, accused Patel purchased Charas/Weed and further delivered it to Prasad. Samuel Miranda (Former house manager of Rajput) and Prasad have taken delivery of Ganja from Singh and his associate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bollywood-drugs-case-prasad-remanded-to-ncb-custody-till-oct-3/story-jvfyxkLIMhsbazbOwpiosO.html
27-09-2020||India||Indian Army ready for winter endurance test at 5,800 metres on Finger 4 of Pangong Tso against PLA||At the height of 5,800 metres on Finger 4 mountainous spur a winter endurance test is set to take place this winter with both the Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) facing each other with first short snow already fallen on the Karakoram and Kailash ranges in the Ladakh region.While the winter is expected to take the turn for worse after Diwali this year, the situation on all friction points is a stalemate with PLA accusing the Indian Army of upping the ante south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30 as a result of which their claimed withdrawal plans were scuttled.The situation along the 1,597-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh continues to be tense but under control with a small detachment of Indian Army facing off a PLA detachment on Gogra Hot Springs or patrolling point 17 A. The situation on the north bank of Pangong Tso is that a small number of troops on both sides are at the Finger 4 height with PLA stationed behind finger 6 and Indian Army on finger 3. There is no PLA presence on the ground level of PLA four or five but on the dominating height of finger four.ALSO WATCH | Ladakh: With tanks, combat vehicles, Indian Army ready to counter China amid tension On the southern banks of Pangong Tso, the Indian Army is dominating the Rezang la-Rechin La ridgeline on Kailash ranges with strong positions to defend the LAC despite PLA’s presence on Black Top and Helmet with the Indian troopers in between the two at the saddle. “The situation is that both sides are defending their positions but the ridgeline in the area is with the Indian Army,” said a military commander familiar with the postures of the two armies.Although the Indian Army will have a new Ladakh Corps Commander in Lt Gen PG K Menon in place of Lt Gen Harinder Singh in October, the former is Colonel of the Sikh Regiment who dishes out the choicest Punjabi cuss words despite being from Kerala. He has a vast experience on the LAC as he was the brigade general staff (Operations) of the XIV Corps in Ladakh before commanding a division in Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh.While the PLA has deployed a brigade strength of mechanized infantry around Tien-Wien Dien across the Daulet Beg Oldi LAC, the Indian Army troops are patrolling the Depsang bulge area within the patrolling limits despite the Chinese efforts to block them. The PLA air activity in this area is more than in the south of the DBO sector due to the close proximity of the Hotan airbase in Tibet.As another round of Indian and Chinese military-diplomatic dialogue for total Ladakh disengagement will soon take place, the Indian Army commanders are prepared for the long winter ahead. From November onwards, it will be the endurance powers of a voluntary army (India) against conscript (PLA) army that will be on display. Sitting on the glaciated heights of Saltoro ridge since 1984, the Indian Army will surely give a run for money to the adversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-ready-for-winter-endurance-test-at-5-800-metres-on-finger-4-of-pangong-tso-against-pla/story-79mBhBrvFh0Zho9RU4dr9M.html
27-09-2020||India||Statue of E V Ramasamy Periyar found smeared with saffron dye||A statue of reformist leader E V Ramasamy Periyar here was found smeared with saffron dye on Sunday by unidentified miscreants, drawing strong responses from political leaders in Tamil Nadu.A slipper was also found near the statue at Samathuvapuram colony in Inamkulathur here early this morning, police said, adding, a case has been registered for defacing and vandalising the statue.Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam condemned the vandalism and assured that stringent legal action would be taken against those involved.Political leaders, including DMK chief M K Stalin slammed the incident, the second such one in the state in recent months, after a statue of the rational leader was found daubed in saffron paint in Coimbatore.Locals blocked traffic for some time on the Dindigul highway, protesting against the vandalism and dispersed after police assured them that action would be taken.Panneerselvam lashed out at the incident, and hailed the leader’s struggle for ensuring social justice.“Stringent legal action will be taken against those anti-social elements involved in the incident,” he said in a tweet.Stalin slammed the defacing of the statue of the Dravidian stalwart and said people will “boycott” such persons.Periyar was not the leader of just a movement---Dravidar Kazhagam -- but that of Tamils, he said.“When are they going to realise that people will further boycott them if they repeatedly do the same mistake,” he said in a Facebook post without naming anyone.There have been repeated instances of Periyar statues being vandalised or desecrated in the recent past in the state.“Periyar is not the leader of just a movement. He is the leader of the Tamil race. Those who do such things thinking they are insulting him are insulting themselves,” he said and strongly condemned the incident.PMK leader S Ramadoss hit out at the defacing of the statue and demanded “strong action” against those involved.MDMK founder and Rajya Sabha MP Vaiko, AMMK leader and independent MLA T T V Dhinakaran and VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan, MP, also criticised the latest episode of targeting Periyar’s statue and demanded that such elements be dealt with strictly.E V Ramasamy, fondly addressed by supporters and followers in the reverential term ‘Periyar’, led a popular self-respect movement in the state based on rationalist principles and is the founder of DMK’s parent organisation, Dravidar Kazhagam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statue-of-e-v-ramasamy-periyar-found-smeared-with-saffron-dye/story-SjuMRHocYoKgxePGwdqt8O.html
27-09-2020||India||Delhi-bound IndiGo flight turns back to Mumbai after bird hit||An IndiGo flight from Mumbai to Delhi had to turn back after a bird hit on Sunday, officials said.An alternate aircraft was arranged to operate the flight 6E 5047 from Mumbai to Delhi, IndiGo spokesperson was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-bound-indigo-flight-turns-back-to-mumbai-after-bird-hit/story-ml6cRnFVTPqNzUgH6ux4EL.html
27-09-2020||India||Nadda’s team has 11 leaders from UP as party eyes 2022 state polls||Uttar Pradesh featured prominently in Bharatiya Janata Party chief JP Nadda’s new team announced on Saturday, prompting experts to say it was done keeping 2022 state polls in mind.The party chose Jat MP from Fatehpur Sikri, Rajkumar Chahar, 53, to head its national kisan morcha (farmers’ wing) replacing Virendra Singh Mast, the Ballia MP. Chahar has been given a key role as the ruling party defends its agriculture sector ‘reforms’ that the opposition parties have dubbed ‘anti-farmer’ and which have sparked widespread protests against the government leading to one of the oldest NDA constituent—Shiromani Akali Dal of Punjab-- leaving the coalition. In all, 11 leaders from UP have found a place in Nadda’s team. Former UP finance minister Rajesh Agarwal, a lawmaker from Bareilly, has been made treasurer in the national body while party MP Rekha Verma, a Kurmi leader, is among the 12 national vice presidents announced by the party. Verma had defeated Congress leader Jitin Prasada, currently busy connecting with Brahmins in UP.“The team has adequate caste representation as it has a Brahmin, a Thakur, a Vaishya and an OBC. It has a Muslim too, for Syed Zafar Islam is now a Rajya Sabha MP from UP,” a party leader said, adding all regions from west to east were represented in the new team. Arun Singh, a Thakur and Rajya Sabha member from UP, has been retained as the national general secretary and office in-charge. Amit Malviya, also from UP, would continue to be the party’s IT and social media head. Of the 11 members from UP in Nadda’s team, six are MPs from the state, including two Lok Sabha members.“Before being made party chief, Nadda ji had been UP in-charge and thus the selection of team members is a clever mix of caste and regional balance,” a party leader said. Also Read: State polls, regional outreach among the key reasons for BJP team rejigRashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) leader Shiv Prakash from Lucknow is among the three co-general secretaries (organisation) in the national panel. “Despite the focus on the south, as well as induction of leaders from Bihar and West Bengal, the two states due for elections soon, there is no missing the continued focus on UP. At a time when the party is facing an aggressive opposition over its recent agriculture reforms, it has made an MP from UP its kisan morcha head. Then another leader from UP continues to head the party’s IT strategy and yet another UP leader is now the national treasurer,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist and political expert. Also Read: Maharashtra BJP leaders Vinod Tawde, Pankaja Munde appointed party’s national office-bearers“I would say UP’s representation has been made keeping the 2022 state assembly polls in mind and that is why Lok Sabha MPs have been given place in the national body,” he said.BJP’s Basti MP Harish Dwivedi said his appointment as national secretary was proof of the party rewarding its cadre. “I am just a simple worker and yet I have been picked as national secretary. I am indebted to the party leadership,” he said. The 23-member media team too has three faces from UP, including two Rajya Sabha members – Sudhanshu Trivedi and Syed Zafar Islam. Gaurav Bhatia is the other member on the national panel. This the first major reshuffle in the national body since 2014. Former BJP chief Amit Shah, now the country’s home minister, after taking over from Rajnath Singh, didn’t bring about any major changes in the national team, party leaders said. Vinod Sonkar, the MP from Kaushambi, who headed the party dalit morcha (wing) is now the party’s national secretary.“It’s a perfectly balanced national body,” said UP BJP vice president Vijay Bahadur Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-s-team-has-11-leaders-from-up-as-party-eyes-2022-state-polls/story-pe73KMEcSkvuKaxnx9tvkJ.html
27-09-2020||India||‘Saddened’: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee mourns former Union minister Jaswant Singh’s demise||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday mourned the death of former Union minister Jaswant Singh, who died of prolonged illness in Delhi. Singh died of a cardiac arrest on Sunday morning. He was 82.Banerjee expressed her condolences to his family. “Saddened at the passing away of former Defence Minister and one of India’s longest-serving parliamentarians, Jaswant Singh Ji. My condolences to his family and his many admirers,” Banerjee tweeted.Prime Minister Narendra Modi was also among several leaders who condoled Singh’s death.“Jaswant Singh Ji served our nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long association with politics. During Atal Ji’s Government, he handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs. Saddened by his demise,” PM Modi tweeted.“Jaswant Singh Ji will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society. He also contributed to the strengthening of the BJP. I will always remember our interactions. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti,” he added.A nine-term member of Parliament, Singh was a former Union minister in the Atal Bihar Vajpayee cabinet. In 2009, he was elected from the Lok Sabha seat in West Bengal’s Darjeeling. The late minister held several important portfolios over the years such as external affairs, defence and finance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-mourns-former-union-minister-jaswant-singh-s-demise/story-a7uPT0D6R55fiCwaWdrunI.html
27-09-2020||India||George Everest’s house in Mussoorie to become cartography museum||The Uttarakhand government will turn the Mussoorie house of George Everest, former Surveyor General of India, after whom the world’s highest peak is named into a cartography museum at a cost of Rs Rs 24 crore, the state’s tourism secretary said.“The construction of a cartographic museum is proposed at George Everest and a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) will be signed soon with the Survey of India in this regard. Under a Rs 24 crore project, the George Everest’s house is being renovated as a tourist spot where eco-friendly log huts, mobile toilets, food vans, open theatre, approach road and a heritage track is being constructed for tourists,” Dilip Jawalkar, secretary for tourism in Uttarakhand, said Saturday evening.After an inspection of the site on Saturday, Jawalkar shared necessary guidelines with the representatives of Survey of India regarding the construction of the Cartographer Museum in George Everest’s house. He further said that on completion of the project, local people will get employment and this heritage site can become a popular destination for tourists. The secretary also inspected the progress of the Dehradun-Mussoorie ropeway project. After the removal of illegal encroachments, marking of land for the project has started, officials said. Jawalkar said that all preparations have been completed for the Dehradun-Mussoorie ropeway at the level of the Department of Tourism. A contractual agreement has been signed with a private firm for this project and work will soon start after environmental clearance from departments concerned. The Dehradun-Mussoorie ropeway is an ambitious project of the tourism department, which will have a carrying capacity of 1,000 people on a one-way trip. Tourists will be able to cover the distance (around 30 km) between Rajpur Road to Mussoorie Taxi Stand in just 15 minutes. “With the construction of this ropeway, on one hand, tourists will be able to enjoy the thrill of air travel while watching the greenery of the mountains and, on the other hand they will be able to avoid the problems of air pollution, carbon emission and traffic jam on the Dehradun-Mussoorie route,” the secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/george-everest-s-house-in-mussoorie-to-become-cartography-museum/story-hQK9kqSePK5MqtMVaLEkML.html
27-09-2020||India||Aware of studies that claim Covid-19 can affect heart, says Harsh Vardhan||The Centre is aware of the emerging studies that claim Covid-19 is not only a respiratory disease, but affects several other organs, including the heart, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday, addressing his weekly programme ‘Sunday Samvad’. Answering a question from a social media user who asked about Centre’s action plan to deal with the impact of Coronavirus on life expectancy and on general public health, the Union minister said, “We are well aware that there is recent emerging evidence that Covid-19 may not be just an acute respiratory disease. It not only impacts our lungs, but also cardiovascular and renal systems.” Here is the third edition of #SundaySamvaad !https://t.co/A0lgD1XXx0Feel grateful to thousands of you who share your views & raise questionsSimply overwhelmed by your continued response towards our wonderful 2-way dialogue !Hope you will find it informative & useful !“These studies are useful to draw our attention to the non-respiratory impacts of Covid-19, most of these studies are on a small scale, involving a small sample of people. Therefore, any generalisation of the results from these studies, especially in the context of our population, may be inaccurate. Anyway, the issue could always escalate and become serious. Therefore, we have an expert committee to look into these facets of Covid-19. We have urged our institutions like ICMR to actively study these issues.” Also Read | Can Covid-19 affect the heart? Likely, says studyOn the rampant use of remdesivir and plasma therapy in the treatment of Covid-19, “State governments and private hospitals have been discouraged from regular use of remdesivir and plasma therapy.”Urging people to not remove masks inside religious places, the health minister said, “God doesn’t forbid wearing of masks. Not only temples, if you visiting any crowded place, please wear the masks. Centre already issued an SOP on the reopening of temples and other public places. State governments have to ensure all safety guidelines are being maintained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aware-of-studies-that-claim-covid-19-can-affect-heart-says-harsh-vardhan/story-A4l8589HwIvBdwExGgp7XO.html
27-09-2020||India||Prasad key link in drug supply chain to Rhea says NCB, seeks custody extension||Executive producer Kshitij Ravi Prasad who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the drugs abuse case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death is being produced before a magistrate on Sunday. NCB has sought his custody for nine days till October 5.Prasad was arrested on Saturday for allegedly receiving contraband from the alleged peddlers who had supplied charas to Showik and Rhea Chakraborty. The agency has in its application, submitted before the magistrate court, said that during the house search done on Friday, they recovered ‘one roll joint believed to be remains of smoked ganja.’The agency has claimed that Prasad’s role was revealed during the interrogation of Sanket Patel, allegedly one of the drug peddlers. Patel claimed that he had delivered Ganja (Weed) to Prasad at his residence in Andheri on the instructions of Karamjeet Singh. Singh is alleged to be a drug distributor with a local network that caters to the Bollywood fraternity.“He (Patel) further stated that he delivered Ganja around 12 times to Prasad from May 2020 to July 2020. Further, Prasad made a payment of Rs 3,500 each time after taking the delivery of 50 grams of Ganja,” reads the application of NCB seeking Prasad’s custody.The agency further states that during interrogation Prasad admitted to have taken Ganja from arrested alleged drug peddler Ankush Arneja and Singh through his associate Patel. It is to be noted that Patel had claimed that he used to supply contraband to Arneja on instructions of Singh.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput case drug angle: NCB questions Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor“From the above it is clear that Prasad purchased Hashish/Ganja from Arneja, further Arneja used to purchase drugs from accused Anuj Keshwani. Hence Prasad is part of the conspiracy for drug procurement with Arneja and his co-accused. Prasad was connected with Keshwani and Keshwani was linked with Kaizan Ibrahim, who was further linked with accused Dipesh Sawant and Sawant was linked with Showik, Rhea, Rajput,” reads the remand application.Watch: ‘NCB probe is fine but…’: Ramdas Athawale asks CBI to probe Sushant’s deathWhile disclosing the alleged chain of distribution of Ganja, the agency in its application has stated that, “Patel supplied Ganja/Weed to Arneja and the said contraband was purchased by him from accused Singh. On the instruction of accused Singh, accused Patel purchased Charas/Weed and further delivered it to Prasad. Samuel Miranda (Former house manager of Rajput) and Prasad have taken delivery of Ganja from Singh and his associate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasad-key-link-in-drug-supply-chain-to-rhea-says-ncb-seeks-custody-extension/story-zle0g03Vg6c7Vz9QJGs1QM.html
27-09-2020||India||Govt assures Ladakh’s interest will be looked after, local groups withdraw call to boycott LAHDC polls||The people from Ladakh called off their protests on Sunday against the local body elections after the Centre assured them that all the issues related to language, demography, ethnicity and jobs from the region will be taken care of.The Centre has said it is open to include Ladakh in Sixth Schedule of Constitution, which will give the autonomous districts and council a certain degree of autonomy in framing laws to protect the interests of indigenous people.“The government of India is open to discuss protection available under Sixth Schedule of Constitution of India while looking into issues related to people from Ladakh,” Union minister Kiren Rijiju said.“After 15 days of Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, we will begin the process to consider their demand,” he added.A delegation led by MoS G Kishan Reddy will visit Ladakh to discuss the matter further. After the government’s assurance, the leaders from the region have agreed to withdraw their protests against the upcoming Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) elections.“The delegation has agreed to withdraw its call for the boycott of the ensuing election. The delegation was assured by home minister that government of India is committed to safeguard the interest of the people of Ladakh,” Rijiju said.The LAHDC elections are set to take place on October 16. Prominent leaders and monks from the region were boycotting the polls demanding constitutional safeguards for indigenous inhabitants by including the region in the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. The leaders had argued that without any Constitutional safeguard, the identity of the Ladakh region will be severely under threat from outsiders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-assures-ladakh-s-interest-will-be-looked-after-local-groups-withdraw-call-to-boycott-lahdc-polls/story-R4oAcSmXb3m76rIXcgvsQK.html
27-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Your arrangements will take care of all’, says Adar Poonawalla praises PM Modi’s vaccine vision and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Your arrangements will take care of all’: Adar Poonawalla praises PM Modi’s vaccine visionThe CEO of the Pune-based pharma company thanks PM Modi for his leadership, a day after his UNGA speech where he said India is committed to help the global community. Read moreOn Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi focuses on storytelling; hails passage of farm billsPM Modi started the Mann Ki Baat address with highlighting the art of storytelling. He said that the coronavirus disease pandemic has served in fostering bonding among family members, bringing them even closer. Read more‘Perfect boss and mentor’: Omar Abdullah condoles demise of former Union minister Jaswant SinghFormer chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Omar Abdullah, recalled the memories he has of working with former Union minister Jaswant Singh, who died of prolonged illness on Sunday and called him the “perfect boss and mentor”. Read moreIPL 2020: Dinesh Karthik names three KKR players he would ‘give’ to get Rabada, Iyer and Ashwin from Delhi Capitals “I’ll give you a hypothetical scenario. In the movie Pandavar Bhoomi, there’s one family. So you have to the opportunity to adopt three and give me three to adopt,” Ashwin told Karthik in a Youtube show called Hello Dubaiaah hosted by the former. Read moreLenovo ThinkBook Plus review: Brownie points for the attemptA well-built and a robust product, the ThinkBook Plus definitely changes the definition of a ‘clamshell’ laptop. Read moreMaintenance of vehicle documents, e-challans through IT portal from October 1Ministry of Road Transport & Highways has said that use of IT services and electronic monitoring will result in better enforcement of traffic rules in the country. Read moreAmid IPL 2020 and ‘crazy heat’ of Dubai, Preity Zinta misses ski trip and this throwback picture is proofCurrently in Dubai to support her team Kings XI Punjab at the Indian Premier League 2020, Preity Zinta set fans relating with her travel nostalgia as she shared throwback picture from her ski trip. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-your-arrangements-will-take-care-of-all-says-adar-poonawalla-praises-pm-modi-s-vaccine-vision-and-all-the-latest-news/story-s8eN5YxvGsBv2e15owAEZO.html
27-09-2020||India||Mann ki Baat: Farm sector playing key role in making India self-reliant, says PM Modi||The farm reforms introduced by the central government during the monsoon session of Parliament are benefitting farmers across the country and the agriculture sector is key in leading the country towards self-reliance, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, days after nationwide protests were held by farmers’ groups and opposition leaders against the controversial new legislations. In his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, Modi cited the examples of several states to underline how farmers had benefitted when they were allowed a choice to sell their produce directly in the market.Also read: With tweet on Covid-19 vaccine, Rahul Gandhi takes a jibe at PM’s ‘Mann ki Baat’“It is said that the one who is rooted to the ground, is equally firm during the course of the biggest of storms. In this difficult period of corona [pandemic], our agricultural sector, our farmers are a living testimony to this,” Modi said adding that the sector has been freed from restrictions.Parliament has passed three bills that the Modi government says are aimed at unleashing reforms in agriculture. While some experts have hailed the move, farmer bodies and opposition parties allege that the laws will benefit only the corporate sector and traders.The new laws aim to liberalise the agriculture sector by removing hurdles created by the Agriculture Marketing Produce Committee (AMPC) Act in direct procurement of agricultural produce by buyers and create a level-playing field for all, thereby allowing private players a bigger role in farm trade. Farmer bodies and opposition parties say that these reform bills take away price protection provided through MSP, whereas the government maintains that MSP will remain in place and the bills will ensure higher remuneration for farmers.“I keep receiving letters from these farmers who narrate how new dimensions are getting added to agriculture,” the Prime Minister said.Citing the example of Kanwar Chauhan in Haryana’s Sonepat district, and others who are selling directly in Delhi, Modi said: “What is different that these farmers have? They have the strength to sell their produce where they wish. Now the other farmers of the country have also got this strength. They have got the freedom to sell their produce, not just vegetables and fruits, where they want to.” “The agricultural sector of the country, our farmers, our villages are the very basis of Atmanirbhar Bharat, a self reliant India. If they remain strong then the foundation of Atmanirbhar Bharat will remain strong,” the PM said, referring the government’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ [self-reliant] initiative. Modi also spoke about paying tribute to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary on Monday, saying: “Can you imagine that an [British] Empire, which ruled over a huge chunk of the world... was terrified of this 23-year-old. Shaheed Bhagat Singh was as much a fighter as he was a scholar, a thinker.”In the coming days, we will remember many great personalities who have contributed to the making of India, Modi said, adding that the country will remember its two “great sons” Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on October 2.The Prime Minister began his address by talking about the art of storytelling and its role in the Indian society. “Storytelling is as old as civilisation...I urge all storytellers to include all inspirational stories from the period of foreign rule as we are going to celebrate 75 years of independence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-farm-sector-playing-key-role-in-making-india-self-reliant-says-pm-modi/story-8MyYwCxJLp17DDB58frLLI.html
27-09-2020||India||PM Modi’s adopted village in UP govt’s blueprint for rural tourism in Varanasi post Covid-19||The Uttar Pradesh tourism department is working on a post-Covid plan to promote rural tourism in Varanasi, a top tourism officer said Sunday.Post pandemic, foreign tourists arriving in Varanasi would be taken on a guided tour of some villages in the district. They would be given the option of arriving at these pre-decided rural destinations along the banks of the Ganga by boats.“There are several sites in rural pockets which have potential to attract domestic as well as foreign tourists. These sites have lush green and idyllic surroundings. As part of the plan, facilities for the tourists have been developed at these places. Ghats equipped with potable water facilities have been developed at Markandey Mahadev and Shooltankeshwar Temple,” regional tourism officer Keertiman Srivastava said. He expects the foreign tourist traffic to begin after the pandemic eases.“Foreign tourists would start arriving in Varanasi once the Covid-19 situation eases out. So we are working on a plan to promote rural tourism, one that would help foreigners get an idea of life in rural Varanasi and may enjoy boat rides in picturesque surroundings,” he said. But it is not just the foreign tourists that the tourism department is banking on to promote the rural circuit. There are plans to market these villages among domestic tourists as well.“Tourist guides would be involved in the whole plan as they would tell the tourists about the destinations and idyllic surroundings. So as of now, the tourists could be taken to see the village life in Kaithi, or be driven to Ramna, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s adopted village Jayapur or for that matter could be taken to Kakarahia to have a feel of rural life,” he said. “So far these Kashi villages are frequented by domestic tourists, mostly from places adjoining Varanasi. Now, we will market these villages among domestic tourists. The rural tourism would also give a boost to the village economy. We plan to involve boatmen too as through them we could offer tourists the option of visiting these destinations by boats too,” he said. This morning, tourism department officials met locals in Kaithi village to raise awareness among them about importance of tourism and how to welcome tourists and attend to them when they visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-adopted-village-in-up-govt-s-blueprint-for-rural-tourism-in-varanasi-post-covid-19/story-f5zdJzjeJHxuIEw9gxCJ5N.html
27-09-2020||India||‘Include inspirational stories from foreign rule, will inspire our young’, urges PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged storytellers to include inspirational stories from the period of foreign rule in the country. He said it will help the young generation understand India’s struggle as the country prepares to celebrate 75 years of its Independence in 2022.PM Modi was speaking at the 69th edition of his radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ where he addresses the nation last Sunday of every month.“I urge all storytellers to include all inspirational stories from the period of foreign rule as we are going to celebrate 75 years of independence. Especially between 1857 and 1947, all small and major incidents. We can introduce our new generation to them in form of stories. I am sure you will definitely do this. Let us all make efforts to strengthen the art of storytelling in our country,” the prime minister said.India was in a complete lockdown for several months after PM Modi announced a complete lockdown in the country as a precautionary measure against coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak.“Coronavirus crisis period has served in fostering bonding among family members, bringing them even closer,” Modi said.“As a family, set aside some time for storytelling. This will be a wonderful experience. The same way, highlight stories relating to the great women and men who have made India proud,” he added.The prime minister on his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ show also hailed the passage of agriculture reform bills, saying that it has empowered our farmers.“One who is grounded stays firm even during the biggest storms. During these tough times of corona, our farm sector, our farmers are a living example of this. Even during this crisis, our agricultural sector has again shown its prowess. Our farmers, farm sector, villages, are the foundation of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. If they are strong, the foundation of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India)’ will be strong,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/include-inspirational-stories-from-foreign-rule-will-inspire-our-young-urges-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-6fkl9X482346C5PVjtnDgJ.html
27-09-2020||India||‘Your arrangements will take care of all’: Adar Poonawalla praises PM Modi’s vaccine vision||A day after questioning India’s financial plan to buy and distribute Covid-19 vaccine, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla has now praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision on providing vaccines to the global community.  We share and applaud your vision @narendramodi ji, on providing vaccines to the global community. It is a proud moment for India, thank you for your leadership and support. It is clear that all your arrangements for India will take care of all needs for the Indian people. https://t.co/b57TH8fDSB“We share and applaud your vision @narendramodi ji, on providing vaccines to the global community. It is a proud moment for India, thank you for your leadership and support. It is clear that all your arrangements for India will take care of all needs for the Indian people,” Poonawalla tweeted.Addressing the United Nations General Assembly on Saturday, PM Modi said India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting the ongoing pandemic.“India provided more than 150 countries with medicines during the pandemic. As the largest vaccine-producing country of the world, I want to assure you India will do everything possible to further global good. From January 2021, as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, India will be committed to its responsibilities,” PM Modi said. Before PM Modi’s assurance on vaccine in his UNGA speech on Saturday, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla asked whether the government will have Rs 80,000 crores available over the next one year. “That’s what India needs to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India. This is the next concerning challenge we need to tackle,” Poonawalla tweeted. Quick question; will the government of India have 80,000 crores available, over the next one year? Because that's what @MoHFW_INDIA needs, to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India. This is the next concerning challenge we need to tackle. @PMOIndia“I ask this question, because we need to plan and guide, vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution,” he added.SII is the world’s biggest vaccine producer by number of doses produced every year. It is production and testing partner of Covishield, a vaccine being developed by Oxford University and pharma company Astrazeneca.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-arrangements-will-take-care-of-all-adar-poonawalla-praises-pm-modi-s-vaccine-vision/story-CZdon9Ofkm1z7iQ1KCCVVN.html
27-09-2020||India||India’s 10 states with highest number of Covid-19 cases||As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to infect people in India, the nationwide tally neared six million on Sunday after 88,600 fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. The death toll reached 94,503 after the disease claimed the lives of 1,124 people. As of Sunday morning, the number of total cases stands at 5,992,532, according to the figures published on the health ministry’s website.The health ministry has said that 10 states and union territories have the maximum number of cases - around 75 per cent. These states and UTs are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh. Here’s a look at the situation in these areas: MaharashtraMaharashtra continues to remain among the worst-affected states from Covid1-9 with 13,21,176 cases of infection. On Saturday, the state added 20,419 new cases of Covid-19 to the tally, according to the state health department. The number of people succumbing to the disease is at 35,191.Andhra PradeshAfter Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh is the second state to be worst-hit by the Covid-19. As of Saturday evening, the state has 6,68,751 cases of Covid-19 infection including 5,97, 294 recoveries, and 5,97, 294 active cases. The death toll stands at 5,663.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu on Saturday reported 5,647 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 5,75,017. While the number of people succumbing to the disease is at 9,233.Recoveries from Covid-19 were at 5,612, aggregating to 5,19,448 people getting cured so far.Karnataka Karnataka on Saturday reported 8,811 new Covid-19 cases and 86 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 5,66,023, and the death toll to 8,503, the Health department said.KeralaKerala, the state where the first Covid-19 case had appeared, now accounts for 1,66,939 cases. The state added more than 7,000 cases on Saturday, according to the state health department figures.More than 14,500 patients have now recovered from Covid-19 in the state. The number of active cases stood at 52,678. While over 50,000 people are presently under treatment.Uttar PradeshAs many as 4,412 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday took Uttar Pradesh’s infection tally to 3,82,835, as per the state health department figures.The number of active cases in the state is at 57,086 while 5,517 people have succumbed to the diseaseOdishaOdisha which is recording the highest number of Covid-19 infections for the last few days has a total of 2,05,452 cases of infection. It registered another hike on Saturday in the number of cases with 4,356 infections.The state also reported the highest number of recoveries, as well as 4,761 patients, were successfully cured of the deadly virus.The death toll is at 783.DelhiThe number of daily infection in the national capital remained under 4,000, indicating that the city might be on its way to flattening the curve.As of Saturday evening, the city had 2,67,822 cases of Covid-19 infection. While the death toll has reached 5,193.West BengalThe Covid-19 tally in West Bengal jumped to 2,44,240 after 3,181 people tested positive for the infection. The death toll is at 4,721, the state health department said on Saturday.ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh’s Covid-19 tally crossed 1 lakh-mark on Saturday as it registered 3,896 new cases in 24 hours. It was the highest single-day spike in the state so far.The total number of Covid-19 infections now stands at 1,02,461. While the death toll reached 817.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-10-states-with-highest-number-of-covid-19-cases/story-cm5H3u8ihxCBU9jCeIel9N.html
27-09-2020||India||Covid-19 brought families together: Top quotes from PM Modi’s Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the 69th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday. The Sunday’s show focused on art of story telling in India. During the address he also lauded the farmers, saying, “the agricultural sector of the country, our farmers, our villages are the very basis of Atmanirbhar Bharat”.He also paid tributes to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, a day before his birth anniversary on Mann Ki BaatMann ki Baat is a radio show where PM Modi interacts with the nation on the last Sunday of every month on ALL India Radio. The programme live streamed on the YouTube channels of AIR, DD News, PMO and information and broadcasting ministry.Here are the top quotes from 69th edition of Mann Ki Baat:- “History of stories is as ancient as the human civilisation itself. ‘Where there is a soul, there is a story’.... In India, there has been a rich tradition of storytelling. We’re proud to be denizens of land that nurtured tradition of Hitopadesha and Panch Tantra.”- “I urge all storytellers to include all inspirational stories from the period of foreign rule as we are going to celebrate 75 years of independence. Especially between 1857 and 1947. We can introduce our new generation to them in form of stories”.- “The coronavirus crisis period has served in fostering bonding among family members, bringing them even closer.”- “There is a saying: ‘One who is grounded, stays firm during the biggest of storms’. Our farmers are a living example of this during Covid-19.”- “During corona time-period, I would once again remind you — always wear a mask, do not venture out without a face shield. ‘Do Gaz Ki doori’ will protect you and your family. We should not forget ‘Jab tak dawai nahi tab tak koi dhilai nahi.”- “The agricultural sector of the country, our farmers, our villages are the very basis of Atmanirbhar Bharat, a self-reliant India. If they remain strong then the foundation of Atmanirbhar will remain strong.”- “Mahatma Gandhi’s thoughts and ideas are more relevant now than earlier. The economic principles of Mahatma Gandhi, if we would have been able to understand their spirit, grasp it and practically implement them, then the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan would not have been needed today.”- “Four years ago, around this time, the world witnessed the courage, bravery and valour of our soldiers during surgical strike. Our brave soldiers had just one mission and goal—to protect the glory and honour of mother India at any cost.”-||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-crisis-brought-families-together-top-quotes-from-pm-narendra-modi-s-69th-mann-ki-baat/story-yv6CM2pYImHkkJozl8VLPL.html
27-09-2020||India||‘Perfect boss and mentor’: Omar Abdullah condoles demise of former Union minister Jaswant Singh||Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Omar Abdullah, recalled the memories he has of working with former Union minister Jaswant Singh, who died of prolonged illness on Sunday and called him the “perfect boss and mentor”. “Never made me feel like my work did not matter,” Abdullah said as he paid his condolences to the late minister. “Jaswant Singh sahib was my senior minister when I was Minister of State External Affairs. He was supportive without being interfering, was always available for advice & never made me feel like my work didn’t matter. He was the perfect boss & mentor. Rest in peace sir,” Abdullah, Jammu & Kashmir National Conference party president, wrote on Twitter.Singh died of a cardiac arrest at the age of 82 on Sunday morning.Singh was a former Union minister in the Atal Bihar Vajpayee cabinet. Over the years, he held several important portfolios such as external affairs, defence and finance.Praising Singh’s work in finance, defence and external affairs, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over his passing.“Jaswant Singh Ji served our nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long association with politics. During Atal Ji’s Government, he handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs. Saddened by his demise,” PM Modi wrote on Twitter.Singh contributed to the strengthening of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the prime minister further said.“Jaswant Singh Ji will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society. He also contributed to the strengthening of the BJP. I will always remember our interactions. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti,” PM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/perfect-boss-and-mentor-omar-abdullah-condoles-demise-of-former-union-minister-jaswant-singh/story-oKwc0l6VGS42Ji2CJSLfkK.html
27-09-2020||India||Rajasthan violence leaves 1 dead, five injured; state seeks RAF from Centre||One person was killed and at least five were injured in violence that broke out in Udaipur’s Kherwara town on Saturday evening as protesters against vacant seats for teachers’ recruitment went on a rampage, damaging properties and torching vehicles in the area while the police fired rubber bullets to control the situation, officials said.The Rajasthan government has sought Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel from the Centre to handle the situation after three days of protests in southern parts of the desert state. Violence erupted across districts on Thursday when the candidates of teachers recruitment examination-2018 blocked the Udaipur-Ahmedabad highway, pelted stones at the police, damaged properties and torched vehicles demanding filling of 1,167 general vacant posts with Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates. The violence continued on Friday and incidents occurred on Saturday as well. The state government on Saturday rushed three senior police personnel – director-general of police (DGP) (crime) ML Lathar; Jaipur police commissioner Anand Shrivastwa; and additional director-general of police (ADG), anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Dinesh MN – to Udaipur to bring the situation under control. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also appealed the protesters to maintain calm, and end the demonstration, saying his administration is ready to meet all the legitimate demands, according to a statement. Governor Kalraj Mishra spoke to Gehlot on phone in Jaipur and called principal secretary (home) Abhay Kumar and ADG (law and order) Saurabh Srivastava at Raj Bhawan, directing them to control the situation, it said.On direction of the chief minister, former Udaipur MP Raghuveer Meena and other public representatives of Dungarpur district met a delegation of agitating candidates to resolve the matter on Saturday.“We have appealed the agitators to end the violence while assuring them that the government will do what is legitimate to meet their demand. The meeting was held in a positive manner,” Meena told news agency PTI.Internet services were suspended in four districts -- Dungarpur, Udaipur, Banswara and Pratapgarh -- of southern Rajasthan on Saturday and Section 144 (prohibition of gathering of five or more persons) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) was imposed.Police said one of the protesters, identified as Tarun Ahari, succumbed to his injuries. It is unclear how Ahari was injured in the protest. At least six trucks, five buses, four police vehicles, nine cars, nine tempos and a motorcycle have been torched in the region over the last three days. Over 1,000 rubber bullets were fired by the police to bring the situation under control. Demonstrators have also continued protesting at NH-8 . Between Friday midnight and Saturday night, eight trucks were torched in the Kakra Doongri area on NH-8. Protesters also vandalised over a dozen shops. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-violence-leaves-1-dead-five-injured-state-seeks-raf-from-centre/story-Sxrwl0bca5TCu4YNCZ30UO.html
27-09-2020||India||With tweet on Covid-19 vaccine, Rahul Gandhi takes a jibe at PM’s ‘Mann ki Baat’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday questioned the government on its strategy to deal with the coronavirus pandemic in India. On Twitter, he also took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is going to hold his Mann ki Baat today.“It’s a justified question, but how long will India wait for the government’s answer? Hope Covid access strategy would have been the ‘Mann ki Baat’,” Gandhi tweeted. He also attached a screenshot of a news article on development of Covid-19 vaccine. सवाल तो जायज़ है, लेकिन सरकार के जवाब का भारत कब तक इंतज़ार करेगा? काश, कोविड एक्सेस स्ट्रैटेजी ही मन की बात होती। pic.twitter.com/3ojAH8TBchPM Modi will address the nation through the 69th edition of his ‘Mann ki Baat’ programme. The outreach talk focuses on a range of subjects.The Mann Ki Baat’s latest episode comes a day after the Prime Minister’s pre-recorded video address to the UN General Assembly where he expressed his concerns about the pace of reform of the United Nations its response to challenges such as terrorism and the Covid-19 pandemic.PM Modi assured the international community that India’s coronavirus vaccine production and delivery capacity will help all humanity in fighting the pandemic.“As the largest vaccine producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today. India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis. In India and in our neighbourhood, we are moving ahead with phase 3 clinical trials in India. India will also help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of the vaccines,” he said.PM Modi said even during these very difficult times of the raging pandemic, the pharmaceutical industry of India has sent essential medicines to more than 150 countries.Gandhi had earlier attacked the Centre over Covid-19 vaccine, saying a strategy should have been in place by now and said the government’s alleged “unpreparedness” is “alarming”.He had demanded that the government clearly define an inclusive and equitable vaccine access policy to ensure its affordability and fair distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-tweet-on-covid-19-vaccine-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-jibe-at-pm-s-mann-ki-baat/story-GxsUcFE2UCWqEJ9Q43i6PJ.html
27-09-2020||India||Nearly 89,000 cases push India’s Covid-19 tally closer to 6 million mark, death toll at 94,503||India recorded 88,600 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which took the nationwide tally closer to six million mark.According to Union health ministry on Sunday, the number of active cases in the country stand at 9,56,402, while 49,41,627 patients have been cured/discharged from hospitals.The disease claimed 1,124 lives in the last 24 hours, which pushed the country’s fatality count to 94,503.The health ministry had said on Saturday that 75 per cent of Covid-19 cases are found concentrated in 10 states and union territories.The 10 states and UTs are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh.The ministry also said that India has conducted a total of seven crore tests for the detection of coronavirus infection till Friday with the country’s testing capacity having crossed 14 lakh tests daily.Asserting that India has substantially ramped up its testing infrastructure, it said as on date, there are 1,823 laboratories, including 1,086 government and 737 private ones.“The national cumulative positivity rate is 8.40 per cent and tests per million is presently positioned at 50,920,” the ministry said.Health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday that over five lakh personal protective equipment per day are being produced by the 110 PPE manufacturers in the country.“Now we have 110 PPE manufacturers in India, producing over 5 lakh per day. States who used to complain about not getting an adequate number of PPEs, now say they do not have a place to keep them when we talk about sending PPEs,” Harsh Vardhan said here at the 79th Foundation Day of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR).The minister also said that India’s recovery rate is around 82 per cent and the fatality rate is around 1.6 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-89-000-cases-push-india-s-covid-19-tally-closer-to-6-million-mark-death-toll-at-94-503/story-ePJGw1gmR6skugWSKLiY0N.html
27-09-2020||India||Jaswant Singh, founding member of the BJP and former Union minister, passes away||Jaswant Singh, former Union minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet who held the crucial portfolios of external affairs, defence and finance, died after a prolonged illness on Sunday morning. Having joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as one of its early founding members after serving in the Indian Army, Singh had a bitter falling out with his party in 2014 when he was denied a Lok Sabha ticket of his choice from Barmer in Rajasthan. He contested the 2014 general election, which was his last as an independent, but lost. Singh -- considered close to Vajpayee and veteran BJP leader LK Advani -- was twice expelled from the party; in 2009, the parliamentary board of the BJP expelled him after his book Jinnah - India, Partition, Independence was published. He rejoined the party after 10 months, but faced a second expulsion in 2014 when he defied party orders and challenged the BJP’s decision of not fielding him as a contestant from Barmer.  Watch | Former Union Minister Jaswant Singh passes away, PM Modi pays tributePrime Minister Narendra Modi condoled his death on Sunday, tweeting that Singh served the nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long association with politics. “…During Atal Ji’s Government, he handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs. Saddened by his demise,” the PM wrote. In separate tweets, he also said true to his nature, Jaswant Singh fought his illness with immense courage for the last six years. “Jaswant Singh Ji will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society. He also contributed to the strengthening of the BJP. I will always remember our interactions. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti,” PM Modi said tweeted. Singh -- a four-time member of the Lok Sabha and elected to the Rajya Sabha five times -- was the external affairs minister during the Kandahar hijacking case, and had escorted Mulana Masood Azhar and two other terrorists in lieu for the release of hostages on board Indian Airlines IC-814 that was hijacked on December 24, 1999. After India conducted the nuclear tests in 1998, and the US imposed sanctions on India, Singh was the lead negotiator for talks with the then US deputy secretary of state, Strobe Talbott. The two-year negotiations paved the way for the visit of the then US President Bill Clinton, considered to be a turning point in India-US relations. Singh had been ill after a fall at his home in August 2014 and was admitted to the Army Research and Referral Hospital in the national capital. He had been in and out of the hospital and was re-admitted in June this year. At 82, he died of a cardiac arrest on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaswant-singh-founding-member-of-bjp-former-union-minister-passes-away/story-ISIdNURH3YKDg7Q86oEDJO.html
27-09-2020||India||Refrain from surpassing CM: Mamata Banerjee to Governor Dhankhar||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday wrote to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and said he should remain within the mandate of the Constitution, expressing anguish over his letter to the state’s police chief over the law and order situation.In a nine-page letter, Banerjee said that the governor’s aspersions sadly consist of uncorroborated judgments and insinuations against the police and the state government.“I was extremely upset, anguished and disillusioned on reading your captioned letter and the note addressed to the Director General of Police which was placed before me, as well as to see your Twitter post regarding the same,” she said.“As per Article 163, you are mandated to act as per the aid and advice of your Chief Minister and her Council of Ministers which is the essence of our democracy, I am thus writing to you to express my deep pain and anguish at the excessive and blatant attempt at usurpation of constitutional mandates and unwarranted excesses on your part,” she wrote.Dhankar had written to DGP Virendra earlier this month, expressing concern over the law and order situation in the state.After a two-line reply from the DGP, Dhankhar asked the state police chief to meet him by September 26 to impart details of the “alarming decline in law and order” and the steps required to tone it up.In her letter, Banerjee said the governor is an executive nominee of the President whereas “I am the elected representative of the people of West Bengal”.“...I request, aid and advise you in the capacity of the Chief Minister of this state, to act within the mandates of the Constitution and refrain from acting on a political mandate, if any to destabilize a democratically elected government,” she said.“... refrain from surpassing the Chief Minister and her Council of Ministers and communicating with and dictating to State officials, in excess of your powers under the Constitution and directing them to attend before you,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refrain-from-surpassing-cm-mamata-banerjee-to-governor-dhankhar/story-6NNxueKms92H1usJsa5pFP.html
27-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to address 69th episode of Mann Ki Baat programme and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address 69th episode of Mann Ki Baat programmePrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 69th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday. Modi’s outreach talk that focuses on a range of subjects will broadcast on All India Radio, DD and Narendra Modi mobile app at 11am. Read moreFormer Union Minister Jaswant Singh passes away; PM Modi, Rajnath Singh tweet condolencesFormer Union Minister Jaswant Singh passed away on Sunday. He was 82. Read moreIPL 2020, KKR vs SRH: ‘Beautiful to watch’: Eoin Morgan’s huge praise for India youngsterFollowing Kolkata Knight Riders’ comfortable seven-wicket win over Sunrisers Hyderabad on Saturday, Eoin Morgan complimented young batsman Shubman Gill, calling his innings ‘beautiful to watch’. Read moreGoogle celebrates its 22nd birthday with a special DoodleIt’s Google’s 22nd birthday today! Google officially debuted on September 8, 1998, but the company has been celebrating its birthday on September 27. Read moreIPL 2020: Shubman Gill stars as KKR beat SRH by 7 wicketsKolkata Knight Riders made a strong comeback from the defeat against Mumbai Indians and produced a complete performance to beat Sunrisers Hyderabad by 7 wickets on IPL 2020 match No.8 in Abu Dhabi on Saturday. Read moreGajraj Rao draws inspiration from Amitabh Bachchan during Covid-19 pandemic: ‘He fought it, came back and is now busy shooting’Gajraj Rao is back with an all new comedy show, PariWar. The actor, who is known for his notable performances in Badhaai Ho and Shubh Mangal Zyada Saavdhan, plays the patriarch of a family in PariWar who is yet to make up his mind about passing on the rights of his property to his kids. Read moreRoommate surprises man with a kitten, his reaction is priceless. WatchGift-giving is an easy way to communicate many things. From ‘I am thinking of you’ to ‘I value you’ to ‘I know you well’, a thoughtful present, no matter how big or small, can convey all these and more. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-address-69th-episode-of-mann-ki-baat-programme-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MYmtUDZzfdFPSE38ru1gpN.html
27-09-2020||India||Jaswant Singh: A gentleman politician and Vajpayee’s globetrotting trouble-shooter||Former Union minister Jaswant Singh passed away on Sunday at the age of 82. He was born on January 3, 1938 in village Jasol in Barmer district of Rajasthan.With a BA and BSc, Singh was educated at Mayo College at Ajmer and later joined the Indian Army as a cavalry officer, living up to his childhood ambition. Singh gave up his commission and joined politics sometime in early 1970s.His political career saw Singh winning as Member of Parliament for nine times, yet losing a crucial election when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power in 1998-99. Also Watch | Former Union Minister Jaswant Singh passes away, PM Modi pays tributeHe lost the Lok Sabha elections from Rajasthan that year but it was his proximity to then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee that saw him getting elected to the Rajya Sabha in mid-1998 and then being made the Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission.Over the years, Singh held several high-profile portfolios like external affairs, defence surface transport. He often acted as Vajpayee’s globetrotting trouble-shooter. Within the BJP, he was considered a gentleman politician but also known for his heated debates in Parliament.Author of six books, Singh’s interests included international affairs, defence, environment, ecology and wildlife. During his leisure time, this lover of horses liked equestrian sports, read books and listened to music. He also indulged in golf and chess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaswant-singh-a-gentleman-politician-and-vajpayee-s-globetrotting-trouble-shooter/story-4CIwGLnMvBjKBcbyJyBUOP.html
27-09-2020||India||Former Union Minister Jaswant Singh passes away; PM Modi, Rajnath Singh tweet condolences||Former Union Minister Jaswant Singh passed away due to cardiac arrest on Sunday. He was 82.Singh “passed away at 6:55 am today. He was admitted on 25 June and was being treated for Sepsis with Multiorgan Dysfunction Syndrome,” Army Hospital, Delhi said in a statement.“He had a cardiac arrest this morning. His Covid-19 status is negative,” it also said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the demise of the former minister on Twitter.“Jaswant Singh Ji will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society,” said PM Modi.“ He also contributed to the strengthening of the BJP. I will always remember our interactions. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti,” PM Modi also said.Also read | Jaswant Singh: A gentleman politician and Vajpayee’s globetrotting trouble-shooterDefence Minister Rajnath Singh also shared grief over his passing.“Deeply pained by the passing away of veteran BJP leader & former Minister, Shri Jaswant Singh ji. He served the nation in several capacities including the charge of Raksha Mantri. He distinguished himself as an effective Minister and Parliamentarian,” Singh wrote on Twitter.Singh was one of its early founding members of the BJP after serving in the Indian Army. In 2014, he had a bitter falling out with his party when he was denied a Lok Sabha ticket of his choice from Barmer in Rajasthan.Singh held several high-profile portfolios like external affairs, defence surface transport, over the years.. He often acted as Vajpayee’s globetrotting trouble-shooter. Within the BJP, he was considered a gentleman politician but also known for his heated debates in Parliament.He contested the 2014 general election, which was his last as an independent, but lost. Singh has authored six books including “Jinnah: India, Partition, Independence” and “Defending India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-minister-jaswant-singh-passed-away-today/story-UcWRUaSxTyXutuWM2ezxpM.html
27-09-2020||India||SAD quits NDA: How farm bills ended friendship between oldest allies||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the oldest ally of Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), parted ways on the issue of farm bills which were recently passed by Parliament.The BJP government at the Centre has said that these landmark legislations will make farmers self-reliant.Also Read: ‘All must unite against Centre’, says SAD chief Sukhbir Singh BadalThe Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside the notified APMC market yards (mandis). This, the government says, is aimed at facilitating remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agri business firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price. And the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potato from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits.The SAD had sought from the BJP-led central government not to bring the bills in Parliament till “all reservations” expressed by farmers are “duly addressed”.But when the Centre did not pay heed, the Akali Dal asked it to send these farm bills to a select committee which was also not accepted.Thereafter, Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet in protest against the bills.Also Read: ‘No morality, just political compulsion’, says Punjab CM on SAD’s exit from NDAEarlier, the SAD had been maintaining that the Centre had assured that these ordinances would have no bearing on the existing crop procurement policy.The issue had become a thorny one for SAD. According to Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan, staying with the government would have sent a wrong message to a big chunk of votebank in Punjab - the farmers. SAD has a grip on the Malwa region of Punjab, which is dominated by farmers. And it doesn’t want to risk the 2022 Assembly elections.The Akalis formed the government in Punjab twice before 2017. But in 2017, they only got 15 seats out of 117. Looking to come back to power, the Akalis do not want to antagonise the farmers, according to Hindustan.SAD was part of the NDA since 1997. Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal used to describe ties with the BJP as ‘nau-mass da rishta’ (ties like nail and flesh).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-quits-nda-how-farm-bills-ended-friendship-between-oldest-allies/story-Mq3KPxuwhDGk84TPvsqn7L.html
27-09-2020||India||Senior Chhattisgarh journalist beaten up in Kanker district of Bastar region||A senior journalist working with a local daily in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region was beaten up publicly and allegedly threatened with dire consequences when he went to a police station to register a case against people who had beaten up another journalist allegedly over some news report on Saturday.Kamal Shukla (55), editor of Bhumkal Samachar, a Hindi daily published from Kanker district was attacked in the evening. Shukla is now on a hunger strike alleging involvement of local Congress leaders and workers in the assault.Police have rejected Shukla’s allegations and claimed that the violence was the result of a conflict between two groups of journalists and cases have been registered by both sides.Shukla is one of the leading voices demanding a journalists’ protection law in Chhattisgarh, promised in the Congress party’s manifesto. He has also raised voice against alleged atrocities against tribals and journalists in Bastar region on several occasions.“I am sitting on a hunger strike in front of the district collector’s office (to protest) against the violence against me,” said Shukla talking to HT.“Police are falsely saying that the incident was the result of a fight between two groups of journalists. The accused, who they are calling a journalist, is the leader of a workers’ union and runs a newspaper. The other accused are a Congress leader and his supporters,” Sukhla said.He went on to say that he was attacked in front of the cops, who did nothing to save him.“A journalist Satish Yadav was beaten up badly by Congress workers on Saturday and I went to the police station to register a case against the accused. Yadav was writing consistently about the Congress leader, whose wife is president of Kanker municipal corporation. When we were registering a case, some goons came and started to beat me up in public. The police officer present refused to help me,” said Shukla.Also Read: Chhattisgarh DGP calls for fair trial of 120 tribals in Burkapal attack caseHe further alleged that some Congress corporators and aides of local Congress MLA, including one Gaffar Memon were involved in the attack.“Memon also brandished a pistol inside the police station and everyone had seen it,” said Shukla.However, Gaffar Memon, lodged a counter complaint and alleged that Shukla had threatened him with dire consequences over payment for advertisements in the newspaper.P Sundarraj, IG Bastar, told HT that FIR has been registered and action will be taken after investigation.“The conflict was between two groups of journalists. The fight took place between Shukla, who is the editor of Bhumkal Samachar and the editor of Dainik Shrambindu, Ganesh Tiwari, and others including Jitendra Thakur, Makbool Khan and Gaffar Memon. Shukla’s medical examination has been done and a case has been registered against the accused under section 294, 506, 323 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and investigation is going on,” a written statement from IG Bastar stated.Also Read: SC says Sudha Bharadwaj has ‘good grounds’ for bail on meritsMeanwhile, Congress spokesperson Shailesh Nitin Trivedi said no Congress leader was involved in the attack.“The persons involved in the fighting have no relation with the Congress and the person involved in the violence had been expelled from the Congress. The accused is an independent corporator who fought against the Congress. We believe that strict action should be taken against the culprits,” said Trivedi.State unit of the BJP condemned the incident and alleged that the Congress party is not willing to listen to any criticism of its government in the state.“This is gunda-raj of Congress workers in the state. The people of the state are victims of this and now journalists are also being beaten up by them,” said senior BJP leader Sacchidanand Upasane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-chhattisgarh-journalist-beaten-up-in-kanker-district-of-bastar-region/story-jDzPrH3GNKN6BQ3lpfwo5J.html
27-09-2020||India||BJP leader Uma Bharti tests positive for coronavirus||BJP leader Uma Bharti has tested positive for coronavirus. She tweeted about her diagnosis in a late night post on Saturday and urged all those who had come in contact with her to get tested for the virus.The leader said she got tested because she was down with a mild fever for three days and was positive for the virus in spite of following all Covid-19 norms including social distancing over her recent trip to the Himalayas. “I am currently quarantined at Vande Mataram Kunj that lies between Haridwar and Rishikesh. I will get another Covid-19 test done after four days and if the situation remains the same, will consult doctors,” Uma Bharti tweeted.Meanwhile, India’s coronavirus tally crossed the 5.9 million-mark on Saturday after a spike of 85,362 cases in 24 hours. As many as 93,379 people have died due to the virus in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-uma-bharti-tested-positive-for-coronavirus/story-kUqJ7ryT3l41ycEOtZNrSO.html
27-09-2020||India||Amit Shah to inaugurate ‘Destination North East-2020’ event today||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will inaugurate a four-day event on Sunday to showcase north east India’s various potentials like eco-tourism, culture, heritage and business.The inauguration will take place via video-conference and Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region Jitendra Singh will be the guest of honour of the event.The ‘Destination North East-2020’ is organised by the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region annually. The objective of the event is to celebrating and showcasing the culture of the north east region to other parts of the country in order to strengthen national integration, an official statement said.The theme of the event this year is ‘The Emerging Delightful Destinations’. The event, being organised on the day of World Tourism Day, attempts to bring focus to the emerging tourist destinations in the region.Singh, unveiling the logo and theme song of the event earlier this week, said that the event aims not only at attracting tourists to the region but also young entrepreneurs to avail the advantage of unexplored potential of the region.After the coronavirus crisis subsides, the region will become sought after by tourists as it is largely virus-free and safe, the minister said. The region’s focus on “Vocal for Local” makes it an important engine for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call of Atmanirbhar Bharat, he added.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-inaugurate-destination-north-east-2020-event-today/story-SbW1Qp6EQn5KbiCXIE6B5O.html
27-09-2020||India||Over 5 lakh PPEs being manufactured per day in India, says health minister Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Saturday said that over 5 lakh personal protective equipment per day are being produced by the 110 PPE manufacturers in the country.“Now we have 110 PPE manufacturers in India, producing over 5 lakh per day. States who used to complain about not getting an adequate number of PPEs, now say they do not have a place to keep them when we talk about sending PPEs,” Harsh Vardhan said here at the 79th Foundation Day of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR).Also read: Covid-19 deaths in India near 1 millionThe Union health minister further said that India has conducted around seven crore tests for Covid-19 and the recovery rate is improving.“In the initial phase, the recovery rate stood at 9-12 per cent. But today, the recovery rate is around 82 per cent and the fatality rate is around 1.6 per cent,” he said.“We started with one lab when the COVID-19 crisis started but today we have 1823 labs. We have crossed 7 crore tests and are doing tests around 13-15 lakhs per day during the past few days. Vaccines in India are in the initial phases of the trial,” he added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe country’s Covid-19 case tally crossed 59-lakh mark with a spike of 85,362 new cases, said Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday.As many as 1,089 deaths were reported during the same period, taking the toll to 93,379.As per the Ministry, the total case tally in the country stands at 59,03,933 including 9,60,969 active cases, 48,49,585 cured/discharged/migrated cases and 93,379 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-5-lakh-ppes-being-manufactured-per-day-in-india-dr-harsh-vardhan/story-TlgLNQBtQFEXmfmXGcDdaI.html
27-09-2020||India||10th al Qaeda operative, part of group planning to trigger attacks in India, arrested||A week after nine al Qaeda operatives were arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for allegedly planning to carry out major terror strikes, another arrest was made from West Bengal on Saturday.Samim Ansari, the tenth operative of the terror group, was arrested by the NIA in association with the state police’s Special Task Force (STF) from Murshidabad.Ansari will be produced before the special NIA court in Delhi, the agency said.On September 19, nine operatives - three from Kerala and six from West Bengal - were arrested after the agency learnt that they were planning lone wolf attacks as human bombs.The suspects, according to the agency officials, acquired large quantities of weapons, country-made firearms, locally fabricated body armour, jihadi literature, and literature used for making explosives. They were planning attacks at numerous locations including Delhi-NCR, Kochi and Mumbai.In a statement released after the arrest of the nine suspects last week, the NIA had said, “As per the preliminary investigation, these individuals were radicalised by Pakistan-based al Qaeda terrorists on social media and were motivated to undertake attacks at multiple places including the National Capital Region. For this purpose, the module was actively indulging in fundraising and a few members of the gang were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition. These arrests have pre-empted possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10th-al-qaeda-operative-part-of-group-planning-to-trigger-attacks-in-india-arrested/story-6HUe6G8DR8C6ZUb1RT4nRN.html
27-09-2020||India||PM Modi to address 69th episode of Mann Ki Baat programme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the 69th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday. Modi’s outreach talk that focuses on a range of subjects will broadcast on All India Radio, DD and Narendra Modi mobile app at 11am. “Do join tomorrow, 27th September at 11 AM. #MannKiBaat,” PM Modi wrote on microblogging site Twitter on Saturday. The programme will also be streamed live on the YouTube channels of AIR, DD News, PMO and information and broadcasting ministry.In his previous address, the Prime Minister had called for startups in the country to come together to make India a manufacturing hub for toys. “India should become a hub for toy production,” he had said, adding that the global toy industry is over Rs 7 lakh crore but India’s share is very small and the nation will have to work to increase it.“Some areas are being developed as toy clusters. The best toys are those which encourage the creativity of children,” he added, suggesting startups to “team up for toys”. Come, let’s play,” he had said.Modi had also renewed his pitch for the nation to become self-reliant across all domains. “At a time when Atmanirbhar Bharat is becoming a mantra of the people, how can any domain be left untouched by its influence?,” he said He had also suggested people to bring home dogs of local breeds. Modi had also highlighted the potential of the country’s young people by drawing attention to the ministry of electronics and information technology’s Atmanirbhar app challenge launched on July 4 that threw up alternatives to popular applications such as Twitter and TikTok.Mann Ki Baat’s latest episode comes a day after the Prime Minister’s pre-recorded video address to the UN General Assembly where he expressed his concerns about the pace of reform of the United Nations its response to challenges such as terrorism and the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi’s speech focussed largely on the need to reform the UN with him saying today’s world and contemporary challenges are significantly different from those of the era when the body was created in 1945.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-69th-episode-of-mann-ki-baat-programme/story-b1wwVaMTJYbeotBK7lzJFO.html
27-09-2020||India||PM Modi pledged that every poor person will have a roof over their head by 2022: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has pledged that by 2022 every poor person in the country will have a roof over their head. “Now our Prime Minister has pledged that by 2022, when the country will be celebrating the 75th anniversary of independence, then every poor person in the country will have a roof over their head. The country had to wait so long for this economic planning. Whereas Deendayalji was saying the same thing in the 1960s,” Singh tweeted (roughly translated from Hindi).“Today, in the Deendayal Smriti Lecture, I spoke on the topic of ‘Sankalp Bharat Ka Sankalp’. The relevance of the national goals that Deendayalji had set after attaining independence has not diminished from any point of view. Those goals are important in fulfilling the resolve of self-reliant India,” he tweeted. Deendayal Upadhyaya had said that there should be a system that protects political freedom, Singh added. “For this, an ordinary Indian can also get a chance to live a life of honor. Prime Minister Modi has started many schemes, due to which the poor of the country have an account in the bank, have gas facility in their homes, electricity facility in the villages, road facilities, now internet facility is being provided,” Singh tweeted. In a country where half of the population are farmers, agriculture was neglected for such a long time that farming became a profitable business. Due to vested interests, agriculture and farmers of this country have never been given the land where the farmers of this country can also get the full fruits of their hard work, the defence minister stated.Now, Prime Minister Modi has taken some such steps which will help the farmers of this country to get a better price for their produce, he added. “In the last session of Parliament (monsoon session), two agricultural bills have been passed, through which farmers have got freedom to sell their produce in the true sense,” Singh wrote. “Our commitment for the welfare of the farmers of India dates back to the days of Deendayal Upadhyay. No one can deter us from this path. For the first time after independence, Atalji had made the country’s village, poor and farmer the centre of his policies. Now Modiji is working on the same path and in a big way,” he added. “Recently, I released a negative list of 101 defense equipments, through which this policy was decided, that all these equipments and platforms will no longer be imported in India. Only one decision has led to manufacturing opportunities of Rs 52,000 crore in a year,” Singh tweeted. The Defence Minister further stated that the second major policy announcement in the defense sector is the approval of FDI up to 74 per cent in the field of defense. This has made the path of ‘Make in India’ easier for foreign defense companies as well. Soon we are also going to introduce new Defense Production and Procurement Policy.“Self-reliance is very important in the field of defense. A country that depends on imports for its defense equipment will never be strong and self-respecting. Therefore, being self-sufficient in the defense sector is linked to the ‘self-respect’ and ‘sovereignty’ of our country,” Singh tweeted. “Today at the UNGA meeting, Prime Minister has kept the points of people of India with full clarity and strength. Today, the whole world has heard and appreciated his message as the lofty voice of self-respecting India. I heartily congratulate him for his effective address,” he added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pledged-that-every-poor-person-will-have-a-roof-over-their-head-by-2022-rajnath-singh/story-bTHqO9EGV14Zlhtkdm4ncO.html
27-09-2020||India||‘All must unite against Centre’, says SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday urged all political parties and farmer unions to unite against the Central government.Sukhbir was in Ludhiana to mobilise party workers for the October 1 protest march against farm bills, which would commence from all three holy Takhts in the state and culminate at Mohali. From here, a SAD delegation would go on to submit a memorandum to Punjab governor VPS Badnore for the President. A meeting was also held at the hall of Gurdwara Shri Manji Sahib, Alamgir, where social distancing norms were given a miss.Also read: Snapping over two-decades-long ties, SAD pulls out of NDA over farm billsWithout naming any party, Sukhbir told the gathering that the parties should not get into petty politics. He also demanded the immediate promulgation of an Ordinance by the Punjab government to declare the whole of the state as an agriculture market (mandi) to ensure that the Centre’s new Acts did not apply in the state.Also read| ‘No longer the NDA envisioned by Vajpayee, Badal sahab’: Harsimrat after SAD’s exit from allianceSukhbir also asked the chief minister to repeal amendments that the Congress government had made to the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act in 2017. “These amendments are exactly the same as the black laws of the Centre against which farmers are protesting. We will fully support the state government’s initiative to repeal these.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-must-unite-against-centre-says-sad-chief-sukhbir-singh-badal/story-NY9yOjSVWhBkvJG4sSjfBJ.html
27-09-2020||India||Govt needs Rs80,000 crore over next year to vaccinate everyone against Covid-19: SII chief||India will need to spend around Rs80,000 crore over the next year to give the Sars-Cov-2 vaccine to all its citizens, the chief executive of Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) said in a tweet on Saturday, while asking the government whether it is prepared for such funding. SII is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer and has partnered with multiple vaccine manufacturers that have candidates in clinical trials, including a widely watched one by Oxford University and AstraZeneca. If any of these vaccines are approved, SII is expected to produce around 400mn of them by the end of the year. “Quick question; will the government of India have 80,000 crores available, over the next one year? Because that’s what @MoHFW_INDIA needs, to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India. This is the next concerning challenge we need to tackle,” said SII’s CEO Adar Poonawalla, while also tagging the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) twitter handle.He was quick to add another tweet explaining the reason behind him asking the question.“I ask this question, because we need to plan and guide, vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution,” Poonawalla said.Officials in the PMO refused to respond to queries on the tweet. Experts indicated the government will need to step in over the pricing issue as well. “Forget about it. The vaccine will have to be taken over by govt and reasonably priced providing it free to the poor and govt health care givers... the rest pay and buy as per the administered price. Can perhaps be covered under Insurance to be examined,” K Sujatha Rao, former secretary of health and family welfare ministry, said in reply to Poonawalla’s tweet.It was not immediately clear how Poonawalla arrived at the figure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-needs-rs80-000-crore-over-next-year-to-vaccinate-everyone-against-covid-19-sii-chief/story-tMrQwGl2wuVgfndNqfrWsM.html
27-09-2020||India||Suit seeks removal of mosque in Mathura||A civil suit was filed before the court of Civil Judge, senior division Mathura on behalf of child deity, Bhagwan Shri Krishna Virajman on Friday seeking removal of the Shahi Idgah Masjid which stands adjacent to the Sri Krishna temple complex at Mathura, and claiming ownership of the entire 13.37 acres land which is believed to be birthplace of Lord Krishna.The suit comes 10 months after a case filed on behalf of child deity Ram Lalla succeeded before the Supreme Court in relation to the disputed site at Ayodhya, with the top court ruling in favour of Ram Lalla on November 9, 2019. The suit has been filed through the next friend (a legal term for a person who represents someone directly unable to maintain a suit) of the deity, Ranjana Agnihotri, an advocate and a resident of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. Six other devotees are also plaintiffs to the suit.“A suit filed before Mathura civil court on behalf of Bhagwan Shri Krishna Virajman seeks a declaration that the entire 13.37 acres of land be vested in the deity and also for cancellation of collusive compromise decree,” said advocate for the plaintiff, Vishnu Shankar Jain.Jain’s reference is to a settlement entered into between the Shri Krishna Janamsthan Seva Sansthan which is the governing body of the temple complex and the Committee of Management of Trust of Shahi Idgah in 1968 based on which the dispute regarding the land was settled.The UP Sunni Central Waqf Board, the Idgah Trust, Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan and another trust Shree Krishna Janambhoomi Trust have been made defendants to the suit which claims that the Idgah Trust encroached upon the land belonging to Shri Krishna Janamasthan Trust and the deity and erected a super structure at the place.The birthplace of Lord Krishna lies beneath the structure raised by the trust, it added.As per the suit, the recent history of the temple complex can be traced back to 1618, when Raja Veer Singh Deva Bundela of Orchha built a temple dedicated to Lord Shri Krishna at the latter’s birth place by spending the equivalent of ₹33 lakh. This temple was partly demolished in 1669 on the orders of Mughal ruler Aurangzeb and the Idgah mosque was built. After Marathas came to power in 1770, the temple was restored, it said.Later the area fell into the hands of East India Company in 1803, which auctioned it in 1815. It was purchased by Raja Patni Mal of Banaras.In 1944, Rai Kishan Das and Rai Anand Das, the heirs of Raja Patni Mal, executed a sale deed on consideration of ₹13,400 (paid by Jugal Kishore Birla) and the ownership of 13.37 acres was transferred in favour of Mahamana Madan Mohan Malviya, Goswami Ganesh Dutt and Bhikhen Lalji Aattrey.“Name of Sri Krishna Janambhoomi Trust is entered as owner and right has been granted to offer ‘namaz’ on Eid at the Eidgah site which is owned by us. Muslims should voluntarily give away their claim for amicable solution,” Gopeshwar Chaturvedi, Shri Krishna Janambhoomi Trust member said.  Tanveer Ahmed, Secretary at Shahi Masjid Idgah in Mathura said there is no dispute. “Mathura is land of peace, those in politics are not in favour of peace and are raising the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suit-seeks-removal-of-mosque-in-mathura/story-7NAouMj59EnwRxpguZAlmO.html
27-09-2020||India||JP Nadda sets up new BJP team||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced a new team nine months after the party appointed JP Nadda as its new president that comprises 12 vice presidents, eight general secretaries, three national joint secretaries and 13 secretaries, with almost 60% of the office bearers being new. Members of Parliament in Rajya Sabha Saroj Pandey and Anil Jain, and Ram Madhav and P Muralidhar Rao have been dropped as national general secretaries, but their exclusion has sparked speculation of a coming cabinet reshuffle, with some of them being accommodated. Also read: State polls, regional outreach among the key reasons for rejigThe changes have seen the appointment of party functionaries from election-bound states of Bihar, West Bengal and Kerala in key roles -- a clear indication that the changes are being made with an eye on coming assembly elections.  “Effort has been made to ensure there is representation from all regions of the country, from North-East to the Southern states. In keeping with the BJP’s concerted attempt to give young people more opportunities; the average age of this team is much lower than the previous teams,” said a party functionary who asked not to be named. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his congratulations to the team and said: “I am confident they will uphold the glorious tradition of our Party of serving the people of India selflessly and with dedication. May they work hard to empower the poor and marginalised.” The new team includes MP Dushyant Kumar Gautam, a Dalit leader, D Purandeswari from Andhra Pradesh, CT Ravi, an MLA from Karnataka, Tarun Chugh from Punjab and Dilip Saikia an MP from Assam in the list of the national general secretaries. All are new entrants. Kailash Vijayvargia, Bhupender Yadav and Arun Singh have been retained as national general secretaries. Among those dropped, while Madhav was in charge of the North Eastern states and Jammu and Kashmir, Rao was in charge of Karnataka and Rajasthan. Pandey and Jain were in charge of Maharashtra and Haryana. “New faces have been given a chance; dropping of some names from the national general secretaries list does not imply a falling-out of favour,” said a second BJP functionary who asked not to be named. The BJP has also announced the appointment of Rajesh Aggarwal, a former cabinet minister from Uttar Pradesh as the treasurer of the party; the post had been vacant since 2014 after the incumbent Piyush Goyal was appointed a minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet. Sudhir Gupta, an MP from Madhya Pradesh where several assembly seats are up for by-election, will be the joint treasurer. There are several additions in the list of national vice-presidents, including West Bengal leader Mukul Roy. A former TMC leader, Roy’s appointment has scotched speculation that he will break away from the BJP in the election-bound state where friction within the party unit has become a cause for concern for the central leadership. Roy’s appointment however led to Rahul Sinha, who was dropped from the team to post a video to express his disappointment. A person familiar with the developments in the state said the changes have created friction in the state unit, as both Roy and Anupam Hazra who has been appointed national secretary are former TMC leaders. Former Chattisgarh CM Raman Singh and former Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje remain national vice presidents as does Baijayant Panda. Nadda is shortly expected to announce the states that the party’s general secretaries will be in charge of. This will be followed by appointments of officer bearers at the state level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-sets-up-new-bjp-team/story-J2Bi17zmEdtyW6fdDHbqRL.html
27-09-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths near 1 million globally||Deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are set to cross 1 million on Sunday afternoon and the World Health Organization (WHO) warned that another million could die before the pandemic is brought under control, a reminder of the unprecedented human toll exacted by the crisis that has shown little signs of relenting. Sunday is also when the number of confirmed infections in India is likely to cross 6 million, as its fatality count nears 95,000.“Unless we do it all, (2 million deaths) ... is not only imaginable, but sadly very likely,” Mike Ryan, head of the UN agency’s emergencies programme said late on Friday, while adding: “We are not out of the woods anywhere.”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Overall, there are at least 32 million confirmed infections, according to worldometers.info. Three countries – the United States, India and Brazil – have been the worst hit, recording more than 17 million infections between them, and together accounting for nearly 55% of all cases and over 44% of all deaths in the world. In India, the total number of infections crossed 5.99 million on Saturday after 88,951 new infections were recorded in the past 24 hours. The country at present has 957,414 active cases and the number of deaths is 94,539 — fast approaching the 100,000 mark by adding an average of 1,109 deaths a day in the past week.India has had the worst Covid-19 outbreak in the world since the first week of August, accounting for more than a quarter of all recorded since then. In the past week, nearly one in every three (29.9%) new infections reported in the world and one in every five deaths (20.9%) have come from India.But, in what has been seen as a silver lining, there has been a recent drop in daily infections. The seven-day average of daily cases dropped for the 10 consecutive days leading to Saturday — something that has never happened since the outbreak started in India in March. Over these 10 days, the seven-day average of daily new cases of Covid-19 has fallen by over 8,900. India has conducted over 70 million tests for the detection of Covid-19 till now, with the country’s testing capacity having crossed 1.4 million tests daily. (With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-in-india-near-1-million/story-LxKwlfd7U8Q4v0UaJsY4FN.html
27-09-2020||India||‘A win for the farmers’: Surjewala on SAD’s NDA exit||Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Saturday said that Shiromani Akali Dal’s exit from the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance is a win for the farmers. A long time ally of the BJP quit the Centre over the passage of three farm bills during the monsoon session of the Parliament. He said, “Finally, peasants and farmers have one. Akali Dal, who supported the black laws, had to leave the NDA and sever ties with the Modi-led government. They had to bow to the demands of the peasants and farmers.”Surjewala also posted a video where former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal - who resigned from the Centre over the issue of farm bills - is seen speaking to a news channel regarding how the farm bills will positively impact the agricultural sector.  आख़िर किसान-मज़दूर की जीत हुई,काले क़ानूनों के समर्थक अकाली दल को NDA छोड़ मोदी सरकार से रिश्ता तोड़ना पड़ा,किसान-मज़दूर की ड्योढ़ी पर झुकना पड़ा।अब बीबी हरसिमरत कौर का ये इंटरव्यू भी देखें जहां वो खेती विरोधी काले क़ानूनों को सही ठहरा रही थी 👇 #AkaliDalLiesExposed pic.twitter.com/0Z8ppnEU80Punjab’s Shiromani Akali Dal on Saturday after quitting the NDA-led government said that the decision was taken during a core committee meeting headed by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal. They cited that the Centre has ‘stubbornly refused’ to give ‘statutory legislative guarantees’ over the marketing of crops under the minimum support price (MSP). The Congress party has demanded that the government withdraw these bills as they believe that these three legislations will hurt food procurement practices and the system of minimum support price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-win-for-the-farmers-surjewala-on-sad-s-nda-exit/story-K3a1dykuuCyUIeCsMmHLnN.html
27-09-2020||India||Janata lockdown in Madhya Pradesh town as Covid-19 takes turn for worse||Traders associations, public representatives and others in Narsinghpur town, 241 km south east of Bhopal, have come forward to declare a one-week Janata lockdown in the district to check the spread of coronavirus over there. The district reported as many as 2126 Covid-19 cases with 13 deaths till Friday evening as per the state government’s data. While the Janata lockdown decision was announced by representatives of traders associations in the town on Friday, traders associations of Gadarwara and Gotegaon, two other towns in the district, joined the self-lockdown campaign on Saturday, as per associations’ representatives and the district administration. With the Covid-19 situation getting worse by the day in the state traders associations and others in certain pockets of other cities like Indore, Jabalpur etc took decisions on self-lockdown in the past one week or so but Narasinghpur in Mahakoshal region happens to be the first town in Madhya Pradesh where different traders associations and public representatives came together to impose self-lockdown restrictions in the Unlock period for one week at a stretch which are as good as lockdown restrictions, said Ashish Jain, grocery association office-bearer in Narasinghpur. “The administration didn’t enforce it at all. It’s good to see public representatives led by local MLA Jalam Singh Patel and traders associations coming forward to take the decision on their own. The associations pertain to cloth merchants, ornaments, grocery etc. However, there is no restriction on supply of milk, sale of vegetables and medicines or other essential commodities. At the same time, there is no punitive action against anyone if he is running his shop”, said collector, Narasinghpur Ved Prakash. In Jabalpur, another city in Mahakoshal region, jewellers association, medicine dealers associations and certain other traders associations observed self-lockdown in the third week of September. The other towns in Jabalpur district where people imposed self-lockdown include Sihora, Patan and Gosalpur towns in the district for certain days this month. In Indore which saw self-down in different pockets of the city earlier as many as 20 traders associations came forward a few days back to declare self-down on Saturday and Sunday in the entire city, a decision which was appreciated and supported by the district administration. Ramesh Khandelwal of Ahilya Chambers of Commerce said, “We are making constant appeals to traders to comply with the self-lockdown decision which is in the interest of all in the city.” However, differences cropped up too among traders over the issue of self-lockdown. Indore’s Maharani Road Electric Appliances Market Association’s patron Jeetu Bagani said, “The sale at our shops has been reduced to merely 10%. Now, festivals are approaching. Lockdown has already broken our back. Hence, we are not supporting the self-lockdown.” In Sagar, Panna, Damoh, Tikamgarh and Chhatarpur cities in Bundelkhand region several traders associations observed self-lockdown on different days this month. Welcoming the decisions taken by the traders associations in different parts of the state a senior government official said, “Coronavirus is spreading mainly because people are not following safety protocols. It is not only Madhya Pradesh but also other parts of the country which are witnessing alarming spread of Coronavirus. People will have to understand that the government has its own limitations of resources and there is no medicine or vaccine so far to cure the disease. Hence, the decisions taken in different parts of the state on self-lockdown will definitely help all of us.” As per the health department’s bulletin released on Friday night, Covid cases tally touched 117588 with 2227 cases reported in the past 24 hours. There were 30 deaths reported from across the state in the past 24 hours to increase the tally of deaths to 2152. So far, the state has seen recovery of disease of 93238 patients while the number of Covid tests conducted till Friday night stood at 1929748. (With inputs from Neha Jain in Indore and Anupam Pateriya in Sagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/janata-lockdown-in-madhya-pradesh-town-as-covid-19-takes-turn-for-worse/story-9Q33uXs5Bqo8cDj7G7PhCK.html
27-09-2020||India||Dalit woman gang-raped in UP battles for life||A 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was allegedly raped by four men in Hathras, is struggling for life in an Aligarh hospital where she has been put on a ventilator, officials said on Saturday.The woman, who was gangraped on September 14, was brought to the Aligarh hospital the next day. She has sustained injuries on the neck and is on ventilator, a JN Medical Hospital spokesperson said. Hathras Superintendent of Police Vikrant Vir said the four accused have been arrested. Giving details of the incident, the SP said that the woman had gone to the fields with her mother on the fateful day and had gone missing soon after. She was later found brutally injured, with her deep cuts on the tongue. The accused also attempted to strangulate her. The SP said initially they came to know that Sandip (20) had tried to kill her following which he was arrested the same day. In her statement to the magistrate, the survivor said that, besides Sandip, Ramu, Lavkush and Ravi raped her and when she resisted, they tried to strangulate her, leading to the cut in the tongue, the official said. Later, Luvkush and Ramu were also arrested and the fourth accused was arrested on Saturday, the SP added. A report from Aligarh said the condition of the girl was “critical”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-woman-gang-raped-in-up-battles-for-life/story-CT45SE1juTvT4I2K1MsbhP.html
27-09-2020||India||1 killed,5 injured as Rajasthan stir over exam intensifies||One person was killed and at least five injured in Udaipur as violent protests by candidates of a teacher recruitment exam in Rajasthan’s Dungarpur reached other districts late on Saturday, police said.Earlier, an official said, the protesters vandalised over 100 houses in a residential colony of the town. State government has sought Rapid Action Force from Centre to rein in the agitators. DG Crime ML Lathar, Jaipur police commissioner Anand Shrivastwa and anti-corruption bureau ADG Dinesh MN have been flown to Udaipur to bring the situation under control.On Thursday, hundreds of protesting ST candidates of Rajasthan Teacher Eligibility Test 2018 (REET) blocked national highway-8 in Dungarpur before setting vehicles on fire and injuring several policemen. They demand that 1,167 unreserved posts of government teachers be filled with scheduled tribe (ST) candidates. Bharatiya Tribal Party MLA Rajkumar Roat said peaceful protest was going on for 18 days. The government cancelled the meeting twice. “People became aggressive after the meeting was cancelled the second time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-killed-5-injured-as-rajasthan-stir-over-exam-intensifies/story-IcndTTBV4kubzSj8fQC4zN.html
27-09-2020||India||Delhi reports 46 Covid-19 deaths, highest toll in 72 days||With 46 deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi saw the highest single-day fatalities in 72 days, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The city had reported 58 deaths due to the viral infection on July 16 during the previous surge in cases. So far, 5,193 people have died of the infection in the city. With this, the seven-day case fatality ratio (CFR) – the fraction of people who died among those who tested positive – went up to 1%. The average seven-day CFR has been increasing steadily over the last two weeks, from just 0.68% recorded 14 days ago. “The city had seen an increase in the number of cases, with over 4,000 cases being recorded each day. However, the patients admitted to the hospitals do not die on the very first day; they die over a period of time which is probably the reason for the increase in the number of deaths that we are seeing now. With the number of cases now slowly stabilizing, I think the number of deaths will also be controlled over the next week or so,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor of pulmonology at Safdarjung Hospital. The cumulative CFR – calculated on the basis of the total number of cases and deaths reported in the city – however has been on a steady decline, with the figure standing at 1.94% in Saturday’s bulletin. This indicates that a higher proportion of the deaths in the city happened during the surge in cases in June and July. The highest number of deaths reported in a day during that period was 101, according to data provided by the chief minister’s office. Dr Gupta said, the hospitals are slowly reporting a decline in the number of serious patients. The daily health bulletin shows that the number of hospitalisation as on Friday was 6,840, which was lower than the 7,019 hospitalisation on average reported during the last seven days. The number of cases also saw a dip in Saturday’s health bulletin, with only 3,327 new Covid-19 cases being reported in the city, despite over 57,000 samples being tested. The positivity rate – fraction of samples that return positive among the total samples tested – has also seen a decline, with it dipping below 6% for the first time since mid-August when very few cases were being reported. The positivity rate stood at 5.77% as per Saturday’s health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-46-covid-19-deaths-highest-toll-in-72-days/story-VUvjPQTVnrwrMZFwCQDngI.html
27-09-2020||India||Akalis quit NDA over farm bills||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said on Saturday it was exiting the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) coalition at the Centre after Parliament’s approval of three contentious farm bills, days after the party’s lone minister in the central government resigned from the Union Cabinet over what the party said were “anti-farmer” laws.All leaders at the SAD’s emergency core committee meet late on Saturday were unanimous in deciding that the party can no longer be part of the NDA, its president Sukhbir Singh Badal said.Parliament has passed the three bills that the Narendra Modi-led government says are aimed at unleashing reforms in agriculture. While some experts have hailed the move, farmer bodies and opposition parties allege that the laws will benefit only the corporate sector and traders.While announcing the decision to snap its 24-year-long ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the SAD cited “injustice to farmers, Sikhs, Punjab and the Punjabi language”. “The core committee decided unanimously to pull out of the BJP-led NDA alliance because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of farmers crops on MSP [Minimum Support Price] and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and Sikh issues like excluding Punjabi language as official language in Jammu and Kashmir,” said a statement issued by SAD spokesperson Harcharan Singh Bains after the three-hour-long meet.The SAD, a long-time constituent of the NDA, and the BJP have been allies since 1996, when they forged a pre-poll alliance ahead of the 1997 Punjab assembly elections that brought them to power. In a statement, Badal said that the SAD will continue to stand by its core principles of peace, communal harmony and guard the interests of Punjab, Punjabi in general and Sikhs and farmers in particular. Last week, the SAD’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned as the Union minister for food processing in protest against the three farm bills that were later passed in the monsoon session of Parliament.The new laws aim to liberalise the agriculture sector by removing hurdles created by the Agriculture Marketing Produce Committee (AMPC) Act in direct procurement of agricultural produce by buyers and create a level-playing field for all, thereby allowing private players a bigger role in farm trade.Farmer bodies and opposition parties say that these reform bills take away price protection provided through MSP, whereas the government maintains that MSP will remain in place and the bills will ensure higher remuneration for farmers.Badal said the new laws on agricultural marketing are lethal and disastrous for the already beleaguered farmers. He said the SAD was the oldest ally of the BJP but the government did not listen to it on honouring the sentiments of farmers.Responding to the developments, BJP national spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said: “Farm bills are for the benefit of the farmers… MSP was an administrative mechanism, which will continue to be operational as earlier. The Akali Dal’s apprehensions are uncalled for. Hope they will realise it and come back to the NDA fold. But our government will continue on the path of farmers’ welfare and take steps to increase agriculture sector income.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akalis-quit-nda-over-farm-bills/story-lsvL3rGoqp5g3XE0CUoAWL.html
27-09-2020||India||Noted economist, Padma Bhushan awardee Isher Judge Ahluwalia dies||Eminent economist Isher Judge Ahluwalia (74), who has served as the chairperson of Delhi based think-tank Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER), died on Saturday. She was suffering from brain cancer.Ahluwalia is survived by her husband Montek Singh Ahluwalia, former deputy chairman of the Planning Commission and their two sons. Her memoir “Breaking Through”, a testament of a career that broke many glass ceilings, was recently published.She was a professor at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), and then director, and later chairperson, of ICRIER. Over the last decade and a half, she has built ICRIER into a leading global think tank. Yamini Aiyar, who is currently heading CPR, tweeted: “She was the first female scholar at CPR in the 1980s and paved the path for generations of us.”Ahluwalia has served as Chair of the Board of the International Food Policy Research Institute and the Chair of the High-Powered Committee on Urban Infrastructure Services set up by the Centre in 2008. She is a graduate of Presidency College and Delhi School of Economics, and received her PhD from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr Ahluwalia is also a recipient of the Padma Bhushan.BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted: “Saddened by the passing away of Dr Isher Ahluwalia. We have lost a great mind today. Her seminal work in the fields of urban development and macro-economic reforms, and her life journey are an inspiration to many. Heartfelt condolences to Montek ji & the family.”Former finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram tweeted: “Deeply saddened and shaken by the passing away of Dr Isher Ahluwalia, a close friend for nearly 25 years. She was a distinguished economist whose life, work and contribution to economics are beautifully captured in her recently published autobiography, a must read for every student of economics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noted-economist-padma-bhushan-awardee-isher-judge-ahluwalia-dies/story-EahoCFYS24BF0jazsgVF1J.html
27-09-2020||India||Amid rising demand for treating Covid-19 patients, pharma authority caps price of medical oxygen||The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), which regulates drug prices in the country, has capped the prices of medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders over complaints of black marketing and hoarding, in view of the increased demand for treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients.The price, at present, has been capped for a period of six months. Officials familiar with the matter said that the move was aimed at ensuring the availability of medical oxygen at reasonable prices, as many states are dependent on medical oxygen supply from other states.“As of now, there is no supply shortage. However, since major oxygen manufactures in the country are not equitably distributed, it is pertinent to take proactive measures to ensure there is no shortage in future also, considering the demand is increasing because of Covid-19,” a senior government official familiar with the issue said, requesting anonymity.Delhi, for instance, does not have an oxygen manufacturing unit, and gets its supply from Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. Punjab gets its supply from Haryana; Madhya Pradesh from Rajasthan, Gujarat from Maharashtra; while Andhra Pradesh and Telangana get most of their supplies from Karnataka.The demand for medical oxygen has gone up almost four times, from 750 metric tonnes per day to 2,800 metric tonnes daily, causing a strain across the production and supply chain. “During COVID, the supply of medical oxygen through cylinders has increased from 10% to around 50% of total consumption. Price regulation at this end is imperative for the continued availability of medical oxygen across the country,” the ministry of chemicals and fertilisers said in an official statement.Adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen is an important pre-requisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid-19, with about 6% of the Covid-19 patients, including those in intensive care units (ICUs) and on mechanical ventilators, requiring oxygen therapy at any given time.An empowered group at the Centre responsible for looking into this issue had recommended that the NPPA consider capping the ex-factory prices. Officials cited above said the Union health ministry gave a free hand to NPPA to take necessary steps to immediately regulate the availability and pricing.A statement by the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers said, “The Authority deliberated upon the matter in its extra ordinary meeting held on 25.09.2020. It has been decided to invoke extra-ordinary powers in public interest, under Para 19 of DPCO, 13 and under Section 10(20) (l) of Disaster Management Act, 2005 to deal with the emergent situation arising due to the pandemic.”As a result, the ex-factory price of liquid medical oxygen at the manufacturers’ end has been capped at Rs15.22 per cubic metre, exclusive of GST; and the ex-factory cost of medical oxygen cylinder at the filler end has been capped at Rs25.71 per cubic metre, exclusive of GST.The Centre has also constituted an inter-ministerial empowered committee to take measures, including setting up a control room to monitor supply and demand of oxygen on a real-time basis, to ensure availability. The committee comprises members from the Union health ministry, department for promotion of industry and internal trade, department of pharmaceuticals and ministry of textiles, among others.The measures taken by the committee include the provision for a 24x7 green corridor for movement of liquid medical oxygen tankers between states, so that there is an “unrestricted and unhindered” movement of tankers. The entry of heavy vehicles ferrying the tankers into the city limits during the day has also been permitted, to cut down on turnaround time.States have also been advised to ensure facility-wise or hospital-wise oxygen inventory management and advance planning, for timely replenishment so that there is continuous availability. Also, micro-level planning is to be done to maintain oxygen pipelines and oxygen manufacturing units, so that there is no leakage of oxygen.Critical care specialists say it is important to ensure a seamless supply of oxygen during the current pandemic.“Unhindered oxygen supply is critical in saving the lives of Covid-19 patients. In moderate to severe Covid-19 cases, the lung cells don’t participate in normal functioning that results in lungs failing to take up oxygen from the blood and also not being able to remove carbon dioxide from the blood. It leads to oxygen levels dropping in the blood, for which oxygen support is given externally to compensate for the impaired lung function,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care department, Medanta Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pharma-authority-caps-price-of-medical-oxygen/story-LvfdGHhKJZIe4Ta2l4FyjP.html
27-09-2020||India||Centre orders early procurement of paddy in Punjab, Haryana at MSP||The Union government has ordered early procurement of paddy in Punjab and Haryana at minimum support prices, a move widely seen as being aimed at reassuring agitating farmers about the sanctity of the procurement system through notified market yards run by agricultural produce market committees (APMC).Harvests of paddy, the key summer-sown staple, have begun arriving at mandis, or APMC markets in Punjab and Haryana, prompting the government to start the procurement process through the Food Corporation of India, a government order said on Saturday. In other states, procurement of paddy will begin on October 1, it added. Interestingly, protests against the recently passed farm reform bills have been the most intense in these two states. “Agencies including the Food Corporation of India are in a state of readiness for smoothly undertaking procurement operations,” a government notification said.Also read| ‘MSP not most preferred mode for farmers in Uttar Pradesh’: NITI Aayog study“In view of early arrival of paddy in the ‘mandis’ of Haryana and Punjab, Government of India has approved the commencement of procurement operations for paddy/rice immediately in both these states from today i.e. with effect from 26th September, 2020 to ensure that farmers are facilitated in selling their produce at Minimum Support Price (MSP) expeditiously,” the notification added.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has pushed three farm bills through Parliament to deregulate the trade in agricultural commodities. The Opposition has accused the government of passing the controversial farm reforms in a haste without scrutiny of a parliamentary select panel. Also read: Here’s why farm protests have been loudest in Punjab, HaryanaFarmers on Friday blocked roads and rail lines in protest against the bills. The reforms will replace a socialist-era regime that required farmers to sell their crops to licensed middlemen at state-run APMC market yards. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the bills “historic”, insisting that freer trade will benefit farmers by allowing better price discovery in newer tax-free markets, where they will be able to engage with buyers outside the APMC system.Also read: Paddy procurement to commence in Haryana from Sept 27The reforms have stoked anxieties among farmers — particularly in the food-bowl states of Punjab and Haryana — about whether the state-owned Food Corporation of India will continue to buy agricultural products at minimum support prices set by the government. The government has targeted to procure 31% of total paddy from Haryana and Punjab. It has targeted to procure 113 lakh tonnes of rice from Punjab and 44 lakh tonnes from Haryana during the kharif procurement season. Total rice procurement target has been set at 495.37 lakh tonnes for the whole country for the 2020-21 kharif season. This is the second procurement-related move taken by the government to reassure protesting farmers in recent days. On September 21, it made an advance announcement of MSPs for several winter-grown crops. Economists have said liberalising farm trade is critical to boosting productivity and bring private investment in post-harvest infrastructure to increase rural incomes. “The broader reforms are aimed at corporatisation of the agriculture sector, which need not be a bad word. Ultimately, there has to be a market clearing mechanism for agricultural trade. The government clearly wants to send out a message that, despite the reforms, MSPs and the procurement mechanism will remain intact,” said R Mani of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-orders-early-procurement-of-paddy-in-punjab-haryana-at-msp/story-dgfB7KMOABGtxy9Q69YwEO.html
27-09-2020||India||State polls, regional outreach among the key reasons for BJP team rejig||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s new team of national office bearers has some surprises , but the composition of the team is in line with the party’s established approach of always keeping an eye on elections, rewarding those who join the fold, and focusing on communication and outreach. Almost 60% of the team is now, and the 70-member team has 12 women as well as representatives from scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and Other Backward Classes. Eye on elections The presence of representatives from states that will pick new assemblies over the next year is an indication that the party is already in election mode and preparing for major poll battles in states such as West Bengal and Kerala. Representatives from the election-bound states of Bihar, West Bengal and Kerala are conspicuous by their presence on the team, which took over nine months to finalise. A notebale exclusion is that of functionaries from Tamil Nadu, which also goes to polls in 2021. As against three and two members from WB and Kerala respectively and five from Bihar there are none from TN.  The party has pitched itself as a contender for the seat of power in West Bengal; it has dislodged the Congress as the prime opponent of the Pinarayi Vijayan Government in Kerala. In Tamil Nadu, where its chances of becoming a strong political force is still weak, there is speculation that the party is playing a role in bringing together warring AIADMK factions. The AIAIDMK has been supportive of the government in Parliament and has lent support for the passage of critical bills, including the recent farm laws. New believers While the BJP leadership asserts that the team has been picked for ensuring regional balance and the optimal mix of social groups, the elevation of t those who joined the party after 2014 has stoked some unrest. The picks from West Bengal, former TMC leaders Mukul Roy and Anupam Hazra, have proved contentious already . BJP leader Rahul Sinha who was dropped from the list was the first off the block to criticise the appointment of former TMC leaders instead of loyal RSS and BJP workers. In Kerala too, the party has picked a former Congress leader Tom Vadakkan and a former Congress and CPM leader Abdullah Kutty riling the state unit. Both the West Bengal and Kerala units of the party are rife with factionalism. Regional Balance The regional balance and the outreach towards the North Eastern states has also been ensured with the naming of two representatives from Nagaland. While well known faces from the South, Ram Madhav and Murlidhar Rao have been dropped as national general secretaries; representation has been maintained through the nomination of representatives from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana. Communication Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s repeated instruction to party members to communicate with the electorate at regular intervals has meant that the party has to undertake massive outreach campaigns not only ahead of elections or policy announcements, but to counter the opposition’s narrative in real time. On Friday, the PM gave direction to party workers to counter the opposition’s criticism of the farm bills. The party has a long line-up of spokespersons and it is not surprising that it has strengthened its team of national spokespersons. The new team has 23 members, up from the previous 11, and includes three former ministers and 9 MPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-polls-regional-outreach-among-the-key-reasons-for-rejig/story-kQOq8gsKClc0RA0G1MsMqO.html
27-09-2020||India||In 9-page letter, Mamata Banerjee warns Governor Dhankhar of legal consequences||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in a nine-page letter, has warned Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar of legal consequences and has accused him of trying to destabilise an elected government. “You have passed judgments on the current state of affairs of our state in the following words ‘safe haven to terror, crime, flourishing illegal bomb-making, corruption’ etc. Such unsubstantiated statements without evidence or mere imputations are absolutely false and baseless and may cause unnecessary panic among common people and cause loss of life, for which law will hold you responsible,” the letter stated. On September 19, after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested six alleged Al Qaeda operatives from Murshidabad district, Governor Dhankhar, in a series of tweets, had alleged that the state has become a “home of illegal bomb-making”. Also read: ‘No morality, just political compulsion’ - Punjab CM on SAD’s exit from NDA“Thus with due respect to your August post, in the interest of the people of West Bengal and the Constitution, I request, air and advise you in the capacity of the chief minister of this state, to act within the mandates of the Constitution and refrain from acting on a political mandate, if any, to destabilize a democratically elected government,” Banerjee wrote in her letter. Late in the night, Dhankhar tweeted that he would respond on Sunday.  As communication @MamataOfficial has found way in public domain I seek media to focus on my eye opener note @WBPolice Significantly, unlike her earlier physical stance in support of cop ⁦@KolkataPolice⁩, this time defence is by way of letter. Response tomorrow pic.twitter.com/wjQy8o8cfDThe letter stated that the Governor had enquired into criminal investigations which were going on against an accused named A Singh. Even though the letter didn’t clarify who is A Singh, a senior police officer said that it was Arjun Singh, a Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker. “This is illegitimate and reeks of favoritism. Further, the accused, by successfully obtaining the Governor’s extra-legal intervention and interference, has actually put the Governor in a dangerously precarious position which might have consequences under the law,” the letter stated. Also read: Meeting between Fadnavis, Sanjay Raut sets tongues waggingDhankhar tweeted: “DGP @WBPolice did not appear as requested-third time in a row- can’t be overlooked. DGP does not want to explain affairs @MamataOfficial CM writes instead, on his behalf. Is this what constitutionalism envisages? Is CM being rightfully counselled? Would respond to CM.” The acrimonious relationship between Raj Bhawan and the government has been making headlines since last September with the TMC accusing Dhankhar of overstepping his limits and interfering in day-to-day affairs of the government. Expressing her “pain and anguish” the chief minister also wrote in her letter that the governor is like the “British Crown” and has no right to interfere with the day-to-day administration of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-9-page-letter-mamata-banerjee-warns-governor-dhankhar-of-legal-consequences/story-mj3PjZEex7MHHaohbVrhQO.html
27-09-2020||India||949 new Covid-19 cases take Uttarakhand past 46,000-mark, 11 patients die||With 949 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday, Uttarakhand crossed the 46,000 mark taking the tally of total cases to 46,281. The state also reported the death of 11 Covid-19 patients, taking the death toll to 566. Out of the 566 fatalities, 181 cases were of deaths due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. On Saturday, the state reported 1007 recoveries with the maximum 389 from Dehradun, taking the tally of total recoveries to 34,649. With this, the recovery rate now stands at 74.87% and the rate of doubling of cases stands at 34.07 days. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday evening, the maximum of 295 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by Haridwar (178), Almora (92), Pauri (80), Nainital (65), US Nagar (63), Uttarkashi (59), Pithoragarh (48), Champawat (37), Chamoli (15), Tehri (12), Rudraprayag (3) and Bageshwar (2). Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 12,339 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (8907), US Nagar (8152) and Nainital (5683). The state has so far tested over 6.68 lakh samples of which results of over 11,000 are awaited. The positivity rate stands at 7.17% in the state at present. Uttarakhand currently has 481 containment zones in nine districts including 335 in Haridwar district. To strengthen the health infrastructure and fight the epidemic, the state government has 17 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals functional along with 418 Covid Care Centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/949-new-covid-19-cases-take-uttarakhand-past-46-000-mark-11-patients-die/story-bl8er0obNSUB51GdIYEtLK.html
27-09-2020||India||Noted economist Isher Judge Ahluwalia dies||New Delhi Isher Judge Ahluwalia, 74, arguably India’s most famous female economist, who was till recently serving as the chairperson of the Delhi based think-tank ICRIER died on Saturday. She was suffering from brain cancer.Ahluwalia is survived by her husband Montek Singh Ahluwalia, former deputy chairman of the Planning Commission and their two sons. Ahluwalia recently published her memoir “Breaking Through”, a testament of a career that broke many glass ceilings.After starting her career at the International Monetary Fund, Ahluwalia returned to India where she authored two landmark books—Industrial Growth in India: Stagnation since the Mid-Sixties and Productivity and Growth in Indian Manufacturing. She was a professor at the Centre for Policy Research, and then director, and later chairperson, of ICRIER. Over the last decade and a half, she has built ICRIER into a leading global think tank.Yamini Aiyar who is currently heading CPR tweeted: She was the first female scholar at CPR in the 1980s and paved the path for generations of us. Proud to be leading an institution that was once her home.Ahluwalia has served as Chair of the Board of the International Food Policy Research Institute and the Chair of the High-Powered Committee on Urban Infrastructure Services set up by the Government of India in 2008. In later part of her life, she has written extensively on challenges relating to sustainable urbanization with special focus on delivery of clean drinking water and solid waste management.She is a graduate of Presidency College and Delhi School of Economics, and received her PhD from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr Ahluwalia is also a recipient of the Padma Bhushan.Former finance minister P Chidambaram tweeted: “Deeply saddened and shaken by the passing away of Dr Isher Ahluwalia, a close friend for nearly 25 years. She was a distinguished economist whose life, work and contribution to economics are beautifully captured in her recently published autobiography, a must read for every student of economics.”Former union minister and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said: “Isher Ahluwalia who just passed away, was one of India’s distinguished economists, a MIT PhD, and author of an influential book ‘Industrial Growth in India’. She built up ICRIER, a fine economic think tank. She had her own distinctive identity apart from being Montek‘s wife.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noted-economist-isher-judge-ahluwalia-dies/story-E6tJZTk4uXndFZX1wJHBNO.html
27-09-2020||India||Manipur govt announces austerity measures as pandemic hits state economy||Close on the heels of banning recruitment processes because of the adverse impact of Covid-19, Manipur government announced a cut on non-essential expenditure to ensure that scarce resources are made available for meeting unavoidable and committed expenditures of the state, official sources said.The state finance department issued an Office Memorandum in this regard on Thursday, stating that economic dislocation inflicted by the pandemic has seriously impacted the resource availability of the state government.As austerity measures, the government has decided to cut down as many as fourteen categories of non-essential expenditure, including excess authorisation over budget provision, commitments on expenditure, ban on recruitment, ban on creation of new entities, ban on printing of diaries, coffee table book, purchase of office furniture/equipment and luxury items, among others, with immediate effect.“On the other hand, the amount to be incurred on meeting recurring expenditure is likely to see an increase during the current fiscal due to certain commitments made by the government, including unavoidable expenditures on Covid-19 related activities,” the memorandum signed by chief secretary Dr Rajesh kumar said.Also read: Meeting between Fadnavis, Sanjay Raut sets tongues waggingDirecting that no financial commitments shall be made by any department on items for which expenditure sanction has not been obtained, the memorandum asked all major tax and non-tax revenue collecting departments to take urgent necessary measures to meet their targets for the current fiscal year, 2020-21.Reiterating that all on-going recruitment processes should be put on hold except those already started with the approval of the cabinet, it has also banned the creation of new entities directing that no new entities, either functional or territorial, involving expenditure out of the consolidated fund of the state will be created.It said that utmost economy shall be observed in organising conferences/seminars/workshops/exhibitions/fairs among others and only essential events should be held.“Holding of or participating in exhibitions/seminars/workshops abroad at the cost of the state government is prohibited,” it added.“There will be a ban on holding meetings and conferences at hotels except for those which are of vital importance to the state.”It further directed to conduct meetings through video conferencing as much as possible and also asked to ban the purchase of new vehicles with immediate effect.“There will be a complete ban printing of diaries, greeting cards, coffee table books and calendars in physical forms by administrative departments except those published by DIPR,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-govt-announces-austerity-measures-as-pandemic-hits-state-economy/story-c0qFKS0D7ESkqAZy51MIvJ.html
27-09-2020||India||14 scientists bag Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize||The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) announced the names of 14 scientists who have been chosen as this year’s recipients of the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize, one of the most coveted awards for multidisciplinary research in the country. The prize is given to scientists below the age of 45 years for outstanding research in seven fields – biology, chemistry, environment science, engineering, mathematics, medicine and physics. In a small ceremony to mark the 79th foundation day of CSIR on Saturday, health minister Harsh Vardhan felicitated the winners as well as those of six other awards.The Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize includes a Rs 5 lakh award and a citation that was given to two researchers from each of the seven fields .“The present time is a difficult time. It has been nine months that we have been continuously engaged with the fight against Covid-19. Apart from the health ministry, the whole scientific community of India has been serving the cause of mitigation of Covid-19. Now, the Feluda paper diagnostic kit in the offing, and I am very eagerly waiting for it as it will revolutionise the testing capability and capacity,” said Harsh Vardhan, the union science minister, at the event. The minister’s reference was to an on-spot Covid-19 test, which has been shown to have high rates of accuracy. One of the researchers, Debjyoti Chakraborty, who worked on developing the Feluda test was felicitated on Saturday as among the winners of the Yong Scientists Award for 2020, the names for which were announced in July.Chakraborty is part of CSIR’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. The test has been created by using a gene-editing platform called CRISPR, which allows for the Sars-Cov-2 be detected on a portable test kit that resembles the commonly available pregnancy test strips and can be done easily at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-scientists-bag-key-award/story-tIvnqkIy6YoyPXTPDYNDlM.html
27-09-2020||India||Snapping over two-decades-long ties, SAD pulls out of NDA over farm bills||In a politically significant development, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday pulled out of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) citing “injustice to farmers, Sikhs, Punjab and Punjabi language” as reasons for snapping its 24-year-long ties with the Bhartiya Janata Party.The decision was taken at a late-night emergency meeting of the party core committee, the apex decision-making body of the SAD, presided over by party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal.Watch | BJP loses oldest ally Akali Dal amid farmer protests against reform bills “The core committee decided unanimously to pull out of the BJP-led NDA alliance because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of farmers crops on MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and Sikh issues like excluding the Punjabi language as official language in Jammu and Kashmir,” said a statement issued by SAD spokesperson Harcharan Singh Bains after a marathon party meeting lasting three hours. Also read: ‘MSP not most preferred mode for farmers in UP’ - NITI Aayog studyShiromani Akali Dal core committee decides unanimously to pull out of the BJP-led #NDA because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of crops on #MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and #Sikh issues. pic.twitter.com/WZGy7EmfFjThe SAD, a long-time constituent of the NDA, and the BJP had been allies since 1996 when both forged a pre-poll alliance ahead of the 1997 Punjab assembly elections which brought them to power.In a statement, Badal said that the SAD will continue to stand by its core principles of peace, communal harmony and guard the interest of Punjab, Punjabi in general and Sikhs and farmers in particular.He said the decision (to pull out of the NDA) has been taken in consultation with the people of Punjab, especially party workers and farmers.Last week, SAD’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal, wife of Sukhbir, had resigned as the Union minister of food processing in protest against the three farm Bills that were later passed in the monsoon session of the Parliament. If Pain & Protests of 3 cr punjabis fail to melt the rigid stance of GoI, it's no longer the #NDA envisioned by Vajpayee ji & Badal sahab. An alliance that turns a deaf ear to its oldest ally & a blind eye to pleas of those who feed the nation is no longer in the interest of Pb. https://t.co/OqU6at00JxBadal said that the bills on agricultural marketing brought by the BJP government are lethal and disastrous for the already beleaguered farmers.He said the SAD was the oldest ally of the BJP but the government did not listen to it on honouring the sentiments of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snapping-over-two-decades-long-ties-sad-pulls-out-of-nda-over-farm-bills/story-0ShUwriDNbayptdl2qLTLM.html
27-09-2020||India||Stopping a Covid-19 generation of stunted children essential||The take-home rations programme under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) was halted for the first three weeks after the lockdown, following which the government and partners swung into action to ensure they reached beneficiaries, which are upwards of 70 million children and 17-19 million women. “Many states started giving take-home rations on a fixed day, some like Telangana used volunteers to distribute to homes. But even with the best efforts, the reach has not returned to pre-Covid levels. If take-home rations over the past seven months reached 50% of beneficiaries of pre-Covid days, we should accept it as success,” said Dr Rajan Sankar, director, The India Nutrition Initiative, Tata Trusts. Under the take-home ration programme, energy-dense micronutrient fortified extruded blended food (Balbhog) is given to children between the ages of seven months and three years (seven packets to normal weight, 10 for severe underweight) to meet their nutritional requirements. Initiatives such as these have helped bring down stunting (low height for age) from 48% in 2005-06 to 34.7% in 2018, and a close to 10% decline in underweight children, with 33.4 per cent children recorded as underweight in 2018.But with 50 million children remaining stunted (low height for age), India still accounts for a third of the global burden of childhood stunting. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The first two months after lockdown were a nightmare, and take-home rations stopped completely. Raw materials were not available, markets were closed, transport stopped, staff and self-help groups were afraid of infection and did not know the safety protocols or what to make. There were lots of practical problems, which got streamlined by the middle of May. If anything, it proved the need for decentralisation and standardisation,” Sachin Jain, Right To Food campaign activist in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. Since March, millions of India’s poor have been depending on rice, wheat and dal (lentils) given under the public distribution system, which does not meet the nutritional needs of pregnant women and children under three years. Experts fear it will lead to a surge in underweight, stunting and wasting among children, low birth weight babies, anaemia, and low body weight adolescents and adults. “India took two decades to bring down low birth-weight in children. This will be the first thing that will go up. Underweight and stunted children will grow up to be small adults and they will have small children. So, we will have a Covid generation of underweight adults who will produce one more generation of underweight children. We have to really work to prevent this, and hopefully plasticity may help overcome the nutritional deficit,” said Sankar. Plasticity is human adaptability to adapt to changing environment. Poor nutrition in the first 1,000 days of life causes irreversible damage to the child’s physical and mental development. Undernourished children are physically smaller than average and have weaker immunities, raising their chances of getting infections, including life-threatening ones such as pneumonia and diarrhoea. Each episode of diarrhoea leads to a child losing vital nutrients from the body, with repeated infections leading to stunting and wasting. The Covid-19 setback will make it tougher to achieve India’s national nutrition mission vision 2022 gals to lower undernutrition by 3% each year and decrease anaemia in children and women by a third. “It will take anything from between three and six months (to reach pre-lockdown beneficiaries), if we make a sincere attempt to start doing it for all services to ensure optimally nutritious food reaches children, and pregnant and lactating women,” said Shankar. India’s ICDS programme is the world’s biggest food supplementation programme that targets children in the first 1,000 days of life, pregnant women and women in the first six months after delivery to lower food insecurity and protein-energy malnutrition. Since 1975, hunger has reduced dramatically in India, which calls for a need to focus on nutritionally-optimal supplementation to also meet micronutrient deficiencies so that it supplements a poor diet being eaten at home, and does not simply replace it with another poor diet.An obvious way to supercharge supplementation is by fortification, which can be done at the smallest self-help group level with standardization and training. “Supplements with empty calories should not be used, we should have a balanced energy-protein supplement with the right nutrients. No new research is required, we know what is needed, it just needs to be changed. We have a programme, we have the budget for it, we just need to correct it to make it nutritionally optimal. The moment we do it and show it, it will work,” said Sankar. Using the same food for mothers and children doesn’t work as children between six months and two years require highly nutritionally dense food because they eat less than adults. Since the nutritional requirement per kg of bodyweight is much higher for children, giving them adult food children doesn’t provide them the required calories or vitamins and minerals to develop. ICDS ration must be especially prepared for children in much smaller quantities for optimal growth and development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stopping-a-covid-generation-of-stunted-children-essential/story-gs7Mq97KCkaAhini8cfCiJ.html
27-09-2020||India||India’s vaccine production, delivery ability will pull the world out of Covid-19 crisis: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday India will pave the path for the rest of the world with its vaccine production and delivery capacity and pull humanity out of the crisis generated by the coronavirus pandemic.“Your Excellency, even though the pandemic presented difficulties and its own set of challenges, India made sure that its pharmaceutical industries send essential medicines to more than 150 nations,” Modi said while addressing the United Nations General Assembly’s 75th session.“As the world’s largest vaccine producing nation, I want to assure the world community that India’s vaccine production and production delivery ability will help humanity tide over this crisis,” the Prime Minister said in a pre-recorded speech in Hindi.“We are now approaching Phase III of our clinical trials. India will also help cold chain and cold storage facilities of other nations as well,” he added.India has said more than four vaccines against Covid-19 are in advanced stages of pre-clinical trial in the country. The government is also closely tracking the progress of candidates being tested by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited and Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is one of the frontrunners in the race for a Covid-19 vaccine in India. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has struck a production and clinical trials deal with AstraZeneca for the UK’s Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will begin its Phase III trials in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow and Gorakhpur. Serum Institute of India will also begin its Phase III trials of the Covishield vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University at Sassoon General Hospital in Pune.PM Modi also called for a stronger global response towards the Covid-19 pandemic. In his speech, he questioned the United Nations, “Where is the United Nations in this joint fight against the pandemic? Where is its effective response?”Globally, more than 32.8 million people have been infected with Sars-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, of which 994,503 people have lost their lives. India has recorded 5,903,932 cases so far with 93,379 people dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-vaccine-production-delivery-ability-will-pull-the-world-out-of-covid-19-crisis-pm-modi/story-SFvJFx9rz2xBB9xpxU8DiK.html
27-09-2020||India||School reopening: Bihar, Tripura, Tamil Nadu likely to resume classes in next few weeks||The Haryana government has allowed the reopening of universities and colleges from September 26 on a trial basis. It was one of the few states that resumed schools from September 21. A week after schools in Assam, Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya,J&K, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh partially resumed classes, some other states are planning to do the same in the upcoming weeks. Private school associations, too, are pressing the state governments to resume schools.Here are the latest updates from a few states:BiharSchools in Bihar are set to reopen from September 28. Students of classes 9 to 12 not belonging to containment zones are allowed to visit schools if they need guidance from the teachers.TripuraAll the government and its aided schools of Tripura would be reopened from October 5 that were closed since March due to Covid-19 pandemic.“We have decided to reopen schools from October 05. Students of Class 9 to 12 can come to schools to consult with teachers about their subject-related queries, but they need to get written consent of their parents first,” said Education Minister Ratan Lal Nath.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu government is likely to allow classes 10, 11, and 12 students to visit schools on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from teachers from October 1. Uttar PradeshLucknow Unaided Private Schools’ Association (UPSA), Uttar Pradesh, on Friday requested deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma to allow reopening of schools for senior sections (class 9-12) in the state from October 12. “We have requested that classes 10 and 12 be called for project work, practical, assignments and may be mid-term examinations. Then after seeing the response, class 11 and then class 9 be called. It was decided that all standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be adhered to as per the government Instructions,” said Anil Agarwal, president, UPSA.No date has been announced yet.West BengalSchools are unlikely to reopen in October amid Durga Puja. The state government is aiming at reopening the schools in November.DelhiThe AAP-led Delhi government has postponed the reopening of schools to October 5. A final decision will be taken in this regard keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation of the capital. Initially, the Kejriwal government was in favour of allowing senior students to visit their school campuses on voluntary basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-reopening-these-states-are-likely-to-resume-classes-in-next-few-weeks/story-6JfOeYd7vz2JTRmKINxs5J.html
