28-09-2020||India||One more dies in Assam floods, over 3 lakh people affected in 13 districts||As the third wave of floods hits Assam, nearly 3.18 lakh people across 13 districts have been affected. One more person died due to drowning on Monday taking the total number of deaths this week to two. According to a bulletin by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 389 villages in 23 revenue circles have been affected by flooding due to heavy rainfall in the past few days. One person drowned at Raha in Nagaon district on Monday. Earlier, another person had drowned in Kampur area of the same district on Saturday. Also read: Assam’s only woman CM Syeda Anwara Taimur passes away in Australia at 83The flood-affected districts include Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Biswanath, Kamrup, Morigaon, Hojai, Nagaon, Majuli, Jorhat, Sibsagar, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and West Karbi Anglong. A total of 13,463 hectares of crop area has been affected due to flooding and 117 people are taking shelter at two relief camps in Nagaon districts, the ASDMA bulletin mentioned. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), Brahmaputra river was flowing above the danger level at Nematighat and Tezpur while Jia Bharali and Kopili rivers have crossed the red mark at three places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-more-dies-in-assam-floods-over-3-lakh-people-affected-in-13-districts/story-ypYX294jx1CDwFhiOpEu6J.html
28-09-2020||India||At UNHRC, India takes on Pak over rights’ violations||New Delhi India rejected on Monday Pakistan’s criticism of the human rights situation in the country and called on Islamabad to do more to tackle issues such as the persecution of minorities, enforced disappearances and influx of outsiders in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Exercising its “right of reply” at a discussion in Geneva on situations requiring the attention of the UN Human Rights Council, India also pointed to Pakistan continuing to be a “safe harbour for terrorists” and said more training camps and launch-pads for terrorists had come up in PoK. “None of Pakistan’s vile accusations against India could stifle the voice of the minorities and the people under its subjugation. The fate of religious and ethnic minorities is well known when beheading is the only option in Pakistan in exchange for freedom of religion,” India said in its response delivered by Pawan Badhe, first secretary in the permanent mission in Geneva. “It should be a matter of concern for the Council that Pakistan has been continuously misusing this august forum for malicious propaganda against my country,” he added. Different international organisations had described Pakistan as the “killing field for minorities” and the Ahmadi community continues to be the most persecuted community in Pakistan. “Hundreds of Christians are persecuted every year while maximum of them are subjected to violent deaths in Pakistan,” Badhe said. Pakistan had also “institutionalised enforced disappearance as a tool of subjugation against dissent and criticism” against individuals and the entire society, the Indian response said. “Children as young as 12 years old in Balochistan, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Sindh are normally abducted and trained to be suicide bombers. In a chilling reminder to what Pakistan is capable of, ministers of Pakistan proudly call for another full-scale genocide against [the Baloch people] to resolve the political crisis in Balochistan,” it added. Badhe also said Pakistan’s “deceit and hypocrisy” is reflected in the “orchestrated mass influx” of outsiders to the Pakistan-occupied parts of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh through “discriminatory domicile laws”. “It’s baffling that there are three outsiders for every four [people] in the Pakistan occupied parts of Indian union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. While civil, political and constitutional rights are non-existent in Pakistan occupied parts of Indian union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, deliberate economic policies have also subjugated them to a life of extreme poverty,” he said. At the same, “full scale training camps and launch pads of terrorists are being escalated in Pakistan occupied parts of Indian union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh at great expense for sustaining cross-border terrorism against India. It’s not without reason that Pakistan remains a safe harbour for terrorists. While the world is busy combating the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan hoodwinks the world to allow delisting more than 4,000 proscribed terrorists to sustain its terror ecosystem,” he added. The Indian repose said nothing can change the fact that the “entire territory of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh is an integral part of India”, and Pakistan should see the reality and “stop coveting territories of other countries”. Statistics and data from international organisations have demonstrated that Pakistan is a “minefield for journalists and human rights defenders”, who are often subjected to murder, harassment and assault, the response further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-unhrc-india-takes-on-pak-over-rights-violations/story-QcogjxkttkHIb0hHblxryJ.html
28-09-2020||India||BJP’s Tejasvi kicks up row with ‘terror hub’ remark||Tejasvi Surya, the newly appointed national president of the BJP’s youth wing, has stirred up a political storm over his remark that Bengaluru has become the “epicentre of terror activities”, with the opposition Congress calling for his removal.“In last few years, Bengaluru, the Silicon Valley of India, has become epicentre of terror activities. It has been proved through many arrests and sleeper terror cells busted by the investigative agency in the city,” Surya said on Sunday, citing the August riots in the city. Violence broke out in the city on August 11 over an offensive Facebook post, allegedly by the relative of a Congress MLA. Three persons were killed in police firing and 60 policemen were injured during the clashes at DJ Halli and KG Halli areas in the eastern part of Bengaluru. The MP, who represents Bengaluru South in Lok Sabha, said he has asked Union home minister Amit Shah to open a cell of the National Investigation Agency in the city. “For a long time there was a demand that there must be a full-fledged NIA office in Karnataka,” he said, pointing out that the Central agency currently has their base in Hyderabad. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar condemned the Surya’ remarks, saying that Bengaluru had been known as a city of technological innovation. “GDP growth has crashed. With such statements, who will come and invest in Bangalore and Karnataka? Will the PM and FM answer?”The social media in-charge of JD(S) Prathap Kangal, too, hit out at Surya. “Dear Bengaluru South, you elected this clown! Now sit back relax and enjoy his circus!,” he tweeted.Chief minister Yediyurappa,however, extended support to the MP. “He said in the sense that in Bangalore terror activities these days are more.” The CM added that the government had been demanding an NIA division for the state and said that the new division would help in curbing terror activities. “I congratulate the PM for agreeing to this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-tejasvi-kicks-up-row-with-terror-hub-remark/story-86WF1ikL0eG4sjpOMX5aMP.html
28-09-2020||India||Maha govt frames SOPs for reopening of restaurants: CM Uddhav Thackeray||With the present lockdown in Maharashtra coming to end on September 30, the state government has framed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of restaurants and a decision will be taken once these guidelines are finalised, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Monday.The chief minister interacted with representatives of associations of restaurateurs from Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur via video conferencing, an official statement said.“The state government has framed SOPs for reopening restaurants and those have been sent to the people concerned.“A decision about reopening restaurants will be taken once these (SOPs) are finalised,” the statement quoted Thackeray as saying.The chief minister said that given the Covid-19 threat, his government was taking steps cautiously and SOPs have been framed accordingly.The SOPs are not for putting restaurateurs in trouble, he added.Thackeray laid emphasis on wearing masks, cleaning hands and maintaining physical distance while living with Covid-19 and added these precautions need to be taken when restaurants are reopened.“It will be important to take care of the health of chefs and other staffers in restaurants. They must wear masks, clean hands and ensure safety and cleanliness in restaurants,” the chief minister said.He also spoke about the state government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative and urged restaurateurs to join it.He also asked all the stake-holders to sit together and finalise SOPs.Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sitaram Kunte said the SOPs will be finalised after holding another round of meeting with representatives of restaurants, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-govt-frames-sops-for-reopening-of-restaurants-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-90koDq2l80eoYuLPOGLe5N.html
28-09-2020||India||India gets a national Covid-19 registry for real-time hospital data||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday inaugurated the National Covid-19 Registry and a vaccine web portal aimed at collecting quality real-time clinical data on the Coronavirus disease (Covid19) patients from hospitals and laboratories. It will also document India’s efforts towards developing vaccines against the disease.The need for maintaining a registry was felt as documentation and description of the cases infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and their course of illness is imperative for obtaining useful information regarding the illness, its behaviour in various groups of patients and the natural history of the disease.Context specific information in patients with tuberculosis or malnutrition as comorbidity is also pertinent to document as it may particularly influence clinical decision making and policy updates in the Indian setting. The registry will follow a hub and spoke model with primary data being collected in the electronic data capture form by satellite centres that are dedicated Covid-19 hospitals that are being trained, mentored and supervised by medical institutes of national repute chosen region-wise.The registry is being rolled out in phases, and the duration of the registry is at least for a year.In the first phase, 50 satellite centres and 14 registry sites have been included. The Central Implementation Committees have been constituted to provide supportive supervision, along with a steering committee of experts that has been put in place to provide overarching guidance.Among the 14 registry sites, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh is chosen to coordinate with states such as Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh. All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, will handhold Delhi and Bihar, and Rajasthan respectively. King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, will take care of Uttar Pradesh.In the Western part of the country, NHL Municipal Medical College, Ahmedabad, will handle Gujarat, Daman & Diu and Dadra & Nagar Haveli; and Armed Forces Medical College, Pune, is handling the state of Maharashtra and Goa.In the east, Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research, Kolkata, will be the mentor for West Bengal; and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar, will collect data from Odisha.Data from south Indian states of Karnataka, and Telangana, Andhra Pradesh will be collected by National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, and Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad, respectively.Central India— Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, will be handled by All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhopal, and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Raipur.All eight north eastern states will be handled by the North-Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences, in Shillong. Data management for the registry, including the development of the electronic data capture form, is being done by ICMR’s National Institute of Medical Statistics. There will be full confidentiality maintained as patient identifiers are not being collected as part of the process.The vaccine web portal that was also launched alongside has a detailed information on development of Covid-19 vaccine candidates, especially the three candidates that are currently under advanced stages of human trials in India. “The portal provides useful and important information related to vaccine development, ongoing clinical trials and progress made in this area locally and globally at regular intervals. Today, in the times of Covid, vaccine development is watched very closely. Thus, it becomes important to showcase the status of vaccine development in the country,” said Harsh Vardhan, during the launch.Apart from Covid-19, the portal also has information on other vaccines such as those against Cholera, hepatitis, HPV, Shigella etc.“Both the Clinical Covid-19 Registry and Vaccine portal are live and functional,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gets-a-national-covid-19-registry-for-real-time-hospital-data/story-Pj5l9e329khje8cZ6DfMKL.html
28-09-2020||India||Top Lashkar commander, involved in major attacks, gunned down in Kashmir’s Samboora||Among the two terrorists killed in south Kashmir’s Samboora village in Pulwama district on Monday, one was identified as a top Lashkar commander by the police. He was active from the last five years and played a pivotal role in recruiting new terrorists.The 20-hour long encounter came to end on Monday morning after the forces retrieved two bodies and two weapons from the encounter spot. The Indian Army’s 50 Rashtriya Rifles, police and the CRPF had launched an operation in Samboora after they got information about the presence of terrorists in a house. Though two terrorists were killed late last night, the police revealed their identities only after the bodies were recovered in the morning.The slain terrorists were identified by the police as Ajaz Reshi and Sajjad Ahmad Sofi. Reshi, police said, was involved in series of attacks on the forces and had recruited many into militancy since 2015 when he joined the ranks as an over ground worker.Also read: Proud of my son, says father of Pakistani man who stabbed 2 in ParisDirector-General of Police Jammu and Kashmir, Dilbag Singh termed Reshi’s killing a big success for the forces. “He (Reshi) had joined militant rank and file before Burhan Wani and was the important recruiter for the Lashkar. First, he was working as an over ground worker and was involved in many attacks.”Singh said the operation was stopped last night and resumed in the morning. “In the morning, the bodies were recovered during the search and two Ak 47 and Ak 56 rifles, besides a large quantity of arms and ammunition, were recovered from them.”He said that Reshi was active from the last five years. “He took part in an attack at EDI Pampore in which eight forces personnel were killed. He had transported the terrorists to the spot and joined militancy thereafter. He participated in another attack which was led by him at Kadlabal, Pampore in which three army personnel were killed. He was also involved in several other attacks and recruited militants.” The DGP said that he recruited four top terrorists who were all killed in different encounters.Singh also said that from the recent data it is evident that the graph of terrorism has come down in Kashmir, so has the fresh recruitment. He said from the last two weeks three youths were brought back and this year 24 youths have joined their families after they had left their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-lashkar-commander-involved-in-major-attacks-gunned-down-in-kashmir-s-samboora/story-IkA5D7TPSGuqZOSorua1KN.html
28-09-2020||India||India, Denmark elevate ties to ‘green strategic partnership’, PM Modi calls for resilient supply chains||India and Denmark on Monday elevated their relations to a “green strategic partnership” that will focus on expanding economic ties, green growth and cooperation on global challenges such as climate change. The decision was made during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first virtual summit with a counterpart from a European Union nation, Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen. The two leaders also agreed to expand their cooperation on ways to combat Covid-19 and future pandemics, including the development of vaccines. However, the issue of Danish national Kim Davy, the main accused in the 1995 Purulia arms drop case – which had taken India-Denmark ties to an all-time low in 2012 – also figured in the meeting and both sides agreed that concerned officials will work for an early resolution of the matter. In his opening remarks at the meeting, Modi said the events of the past few months have highlighted the necessity of like-minded countries such as India and Denmark, which share a rules-based and democratic value system, to work together. The Covid-19 pandemic has also shown it is risky for global supply chains to rely heavily on any single source, he said. “We are working together with Japan and Australia for diversification and resilience of supply chains. Other like-minded countries can join this effort,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi. A joint statement said the new “green strategic partnership” will build on an existing Joint Commission for Cooperation, created in 2009, for cooperation in politics, economics and commerce, science and technology, energy, environment and education. It will also complement existing joint working groups on renewable energy, urban development, agriculture, innovation, shipping, labour mobility and digitisation. Joint secretary (Central Europe) Neeta Bhushan told reporters that the partnership is expected to lead to joint ventures and technology transfers, and help expand cooperation in renewable energy, environment, circular economy, water and waste management and air pollution. A time-bound action plan would be drawn up with specific targets for the next few years, she said. Danish companies with niche technologies and expertise have offered to help India in meeting its air pollution control targets, including in the key area of tackling the problem of burning crop stubble, she added. Asked whether the matter of Kim Davy had figured in the meeting, Bhushan said the extradition of the main accused in the Purulia arms drop case was mentioned and the two sides agreed that the concerned officials will be in “touch with each other and both sides will work for the early resolution of the issue”. In 2012, India had scaled down diplomatic ties with Denmark to signal its displeasure with the refusal of Danish officials to appeal in the Supreme Court against a lower court’s order barring Davy’s extradition. The two countries finally put their ties back on an even keel in 2018, when they decided to separate the Davy issue from the overall relationship. With more than 140 Danish companies having a presence in India, Modi proposed the creation of “India-Denmark energy parks” in areas with large numbers of Danish firms and a “India-Denmark skill institute” to train Indian manpower. Frederiksen, who was invited to visit India by Modi, offered to host the second India-Nordic summit in Copenhagen. “With India and Denmark joining hands together today, I am confident that we [will be] able to overcome both the situation when it comes to Covid-19 [and] climate change,” she said. The joint statement said the two sides also agreed to hold regular consultations on climate change and renewable energy and to cooperate in water efficiency and water loss, with the Jal Shakti ministry and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and Danish environment ministry being tasked to develop a work plan for 2021-23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-denmark-elevate-ties-to-green-strategic-partnership-pm-modi-calls-for-resilient-supply-chains/story-BSEH0JLuzm5SoXlM5NuJ0M.html
28-09-2020||India||‘Stubble burning can spike Covid-19 deaths’: Petition in SC||Pollution caused by stubble burning in Delhi’s neighbouring states can exponentially increase the mortality rate due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), claimed a petition filed in the Supreme Court seeking total ban on stubble burning.The plea has been moved by two young environmental activists – a Class 12 student, who under his own initiative of “Plant A Million Trees”, has planted 1.5 lakh trees in Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR), and a third-year law student who is an active campaigner against the use of single-use plastic.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde has listed the petition for hearing on October 6 along with the batch of MC Mehta matters pertaining to Delhi pollution. The petition was mentioned by senior advocate Harish Salve who is assisting the Court as amicus curiae (friend of Court).Also read: Covid-19 vaccine portal launched, all data linked to research on it“The consequence of allowing any stubble burning to take place in the times of this pandemic will be catastrophic,” the petition by the two young environmentalists said. Citing international medical studies, the plea stated that medical studies have found that people with weak respiratory system or living in polluted areas are at serious risk of contracting Covid-19 leading to death in some cases.“Any increase in air pollution levels in Delhi-NCR this year while the Covid-19 pandemic is spiralling out of control, will exponentially increase the mortality rate due to Covid-19 by compromising the respiratory system of the citizens, particularly in the case of senior citizens and children,” the petition stated. Further, it stated that enhanced pollution level can offer “direct pathway for airborne transmission” of Covid-19 virus.Salve told the Court that the petition raised an important issue and requires to be heard. Delhi witnesses an exponential rise in air pollution levels around this time of the year due to stubble burning by farmers in Punjab, Haryana Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Last year, the air quality index (AQI) crossed the 1,000 mark as stubble burning releases suspended particulate matter in the air and emits harmful gases such as carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide and methane.Farmers have to prepare the fields for sowing of the rabi crop after harvesting the Kharif crop. As the period between the two events is short, the remains of the Kharif crop cannot be manually plucked out and to remove it, they are set on fire. As a way out, the petition suggested that stubble removing machines should be either provided at affordable rents by state governments to small and marginal farmers. It recommended daily wage workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MNREGA) scheme. The petition has even recommended putting strict curbs on construction activities and polluting industries in Delhi-NCR if AQI crosses 150.In the MC Mehta case, the Supreme Court has been monitoring the stubble burning issue by asking respective state governments to inform progress made on setting up biomass plants and providing stubble removal machines to small farmers. Alternatively, the Court has directed setting up of a smog tower in Delhi on an experimental basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubble-burning-can-spike-covid-19-deaths-petition-in-sc/story-8ErNjDNtAbazZ08J3vbZQP.html
28-09-2020||India||PD Vaghela appointed new TRAI chief||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Monday appointed 1986-Gujarat cadre IAS officer PD Vaghela to lead the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India. Vaghela was the secretary, pharmaceuticals, since August 2019. He played a crucial role in regulating prices of medicines and medical goods. Vaghela is also considered one of the foremost bureaucrats to have rolled out the goods and services tax (GST) in 2017. Vaghela’s term as chairperson of the telecom body will last for three years or until he turns 65. Vaghela will succeed RS Sharma, whose tenure as chief of TRAI lapses on September 30. Prior to TRAI, Sharma led the creation of Aadhaar as the director general and mission director of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) during 2009-2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pd-vaghela-appointed-new-trai-chief/story-VSvDexRaEw4JtfGOgxVEyL.html
28-09-2020||India||Amid a political storm, CM Yediyurappa downplays Tejasvi Surya’s ‘terror hub’ remark||The controversial statement of newly appointed Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya on Sunday that Bengaluru had ‘become the epicentre of terror activities’ and that is the reason why the home ministry had agreed to sanction a new National Investigative Agency office in the city, has kicked off a political storm.KPCC President D K Shivakumar hit out at Surya saying that while Bengaluru had been known as a city of technological innovation responsible for export of 34 per cent of the country’s IT services, Surya’s statement that it was an epicentre of terror was condemnable. “GDP growth has crashed. With such statements who will come and invest in Bengaluru and Karnataka? Will PM and FM answer?” he asked.However, chief minister Yediyurappa chose to downplay Surya’s comment saying, “He said in the sense that in Bengaluru terror activities these days, are more.” The CM went on to add that the government had been demanding an NIA division for the state and said that the new division would help in curbing terror activities. “I congratulate the PM for agreeing to this.”Surya had made the statement citing the recent Bengaluru riots in DJ Halli and KG Halli in which three people were killed and several people including policemen had been hurt after violence due to an alleged insult to the prophet of a religion. Investigations are ongoing in the case and nearly 370 people have been arrested in the violence with more than 65 FIR’s registered.The social media in-charge of JD(S) Prathap Kangal too hit out at Surya tweeting, “Dear Bengaluru South, you elected this clown! Now sit back relax and enjoy his circus!” Kangal was referring to the fact that Surya represents the Bengaluru South Lok Sabha seat in Parliament.The Congress has demanded that the BJP sack Surya from the party for besmirching Bengaluru and Karnataka’s reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-a-political-storm-cm-yediyurappa-downplays-tejasvi-surya-s-terror-hub-remark/story-BuCJtfp8FzaJIifyTFcDnM.html
28-09-2020||India||Journalist associations press for strict action in Chhattisgarh scribe attack case||Journalist associations set a deadline - October 1 - for the administration to take action against the accused who attacked senior journalist Kamal Shukla. Failing which, they said, they will go on an indefinite dharna from October 2 in front of the chief minister’s house in Raipur. A senior journalist working with a local daily in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region, Shukla was beaten up publicly and allegedly threatened with dire consequences when he went to a police station to register a case against people who had beaten up another journalist allegedly over some news report on Saturday.Shukla has alleged Jitendra Singh Thakur, a former president of Kanker Nagar Palika; Gaffar Memon, a representative of local Congress MLA; Shadaab Khan, a corporator; local scribe Ganesh Tiwari and others roughed him up. One of the accused, said Shukla, also brandished a pistol during the attack and the accused were Congress leaders and workers. Journalists of Chhattisgarh have also demanded that the accused be booked under more stringent sections of the IPC. “Journalist associations, including me, are demanding the charge of attempt to murder (section 307 ) be added in the FIR. We are also demanding that the collector and superintendent of police (SP) of Kanker district should be removed,” Kamal Shukla told HT. “The journalists of Chhattisgarh will gather on October 2 in Raipur and start a dharna in front of CM house,” Shukla added. A memorandum was also submitted by journalists to Governor Anusuiya Uike in which the journalists sought action. Meanwhile, Sunderaj P, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range), told HT the investigation is underway. “We are investigating the case from all angles,” the IG said. On Sunday, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel assured strict action against the accused. “What has happened is wrong. Irrespective of party affiliations, the action has been taken against the accused persons. It is a matter of investigation whether the accused had brought a pistol. If it is found to be true, further sections (of the IPC) will be included in the case,” the CM said while answering reporters on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-associations-press-for-strict-action-in-chhattisgarh-scribe-attack-case/story-o6BrqdVW9wY8tIKa0r93QN.html
28-09-2020||India||Assam’s only woman CM Syeda Anwara Taimur passes away in Australia at 83||Assam’s first and only woman chief minister Syeda Anwara Taimur passed away in Australia on Monday reportedly due to cardiac arrest. The 84-year-old was staying with her son in Australia for the past four years. Taimur was in the news in 2018 when her name didn’t appear in the Assam National Register of Citizens. She later informed that her family members may not have applied to get her name included in the list. “Condolences to the family and well-wishers of former Assam CM Syeda Anwara Taimurji. Her contribution towards Assam’s development will be remembered. May her soul rest in peace,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. A four-time Congress MLA beginning with her first election in 1972, Taimur held portfolios like education before becoming chief minister for a brief period from December 6, 1980 to June 30, 1981. She was nominated for a Rajya Sabha term in 1988. Taimur joined the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in 2011. “Saddened to know about the death of former CM Syeda Anwara Taimur-a veteran mass leader who championed the cause of politics with an undertone of people’s development. I convey my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members,” Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi said in a statement. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal also expressed condolences on the death of the veteran leader, offered condolences to the family and prayed for the departed soul. “An able administrator and affable people’s person, Syeda Mam was the only woman CM of Assam. A 4-term MLA, she had an illustrious political career spanning over 4 decades. My prayers and condolences,” Assam health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted. Congress Assam unit president Ripun Bora and the party leader of opposition in the Assam assembly Debabrata Saikia also expressed condolences at the death of Taimur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-only-woman-cm-syeda-anwara-taimur-passes-away-in-australia-at-83/story-FYokGRyun9lOBbkP8FgqaI.html
28-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre drops offset clause in govt-to-govt deal in new weapons buying policy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre drops offset clause in govt-to-govt deal in new weapons buying policyThis overrides the offset policy that required foreign vendors to invest in the country to boost indigenous capabilities at least 30% (it could go up to 50%) of the value of all contracts worth more than Rs 300 crore awarded to them. Read moreSonia Gandhi urges Congress-ruled states to override Centre’s farm lawsThe opposition party is citing the BJP government’s move in 2015 when it asked party-ruled states to bring their own laws to override the land acquisition act of 2013 passed during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) tenure for boosting infrastructure development. Read moreChandrababu Naidu told to move out of riverfront Amaravati bungalow, served noticeFor the second consecutive year, the residence of Telugu Desam Party president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on the Krishna riverfront at Vundavalli in Amaravati is facing a submergence threat due to heavy inflow into the river from upstream. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He’s a captain in the making’ - KXIP co-owner Ness Wadia’s huge praise for star performerKings XI Punjab captain KL Rahul showcased his talent with the bat when he hammered an unbeaten 132 runs in 69 balls against Royal Challengers Bangalore last week. Read moreNokia 5.3 review: This phone has a lot of catching up to doNokia 5.3 is the latest offering from HMD Global in India. But the phone faces stiff competition from its growing rivals. Read moreJeff Daniels interview: The Comey Rule star discusses if the show can sway the US elections, spell doom for Donald TrumpJeff Daniels, who plays former FBI director James Comey in the miniseries The Comey Rule, discusses if the show can have an impact on the mind of American voters ahead of the US presidential elections. Read moreWill Covid-19 pandemic normal become just plain normal?One feature of the Covid-19 Era is how much the standard ways of seeing and doing things have been remixed and turned upside down. The obvious question is then whether people will decide to make these new arrangements permanent or return to the old. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-drops-offset-clause-in-govt-to-govt-deal-in-new-weapons-buying-policy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dIysqgmLiZJjJ8di7XVSxJ.html
28-09-2020||India||India, Bangladesh foreign ministers to hold virtual meet to review ties||Connectivity and development projects and sharing of river waters are expected to be on the agenda of a meeting of the India- Bangladesh joint consultative commission (JCC) to be held on Tuesday, people familiar with developments said.The creation of a new mechanism to review the progress of bilateral development projects is also expected to figure in the virtual meeting to be chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Bangladeshi counterpart AK Abdul Momen, the people said on condition of anonymity.The Bangladeshi side is likely to raise the repatriation of Rohingya refugees to Myanmar and trade issues such as the recent Indian ban on onion exports. Other issues that are likely to come up are irritants in border management and creation of an air bubble, they added.Also read: Top Afghan negotiator in Taliban talks meets Pakistani leadershipThe sixth meeting of the JCC is being held at a time when bilateral ties have been affected by a string of irritants, including concerns in Bangladesh over comments by BJP leaders about the deportation of illegal migrants from Assam, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the ban on onion exports.The JCC meet will prepare the ground for a virtual meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina in December. The Bangladeshi foreign minister announced this meeting while interacting with reporters in Dhaka on Monday, though the date is yet to be finalised.“It will be a virtual meeting… but if the pandemic situation improves, it could be in person (in December),” Momen said. He indicated some agreements could be signed during the meeting between the premiers.Referring to the JCC meeting, Momen said, “India is our neighbour and our best friend. We have many things to discuss.” The JCC meeting will provide both sides an opportunity to clear the air on issues that have impacted the overall relationship. New Delhi took the initiative to put ties back on an even keel by sending foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to Dhaka in August when he delivered a message from PM Modi to Hasina.Shringla had also discussed the creation of a high-level mechanism to regularly review the progress of development projects funded by India during his meeting with Hasina. At least five key projects, including an oil pipeline and three cross-border rail links, are set to be completed in 2021. The monitoring mechanism will be jointly chaired by the Indian envoy in Dhaka and the Bangladeshi foreign secretary and will be on the lines of a similar mechanism India has created with Nepal.Also read: Centre drops offset clause in govt-to-govt deal in new weapons buying policyThe JCC meeting is also expected to decide the date for holding a meeting of the Joint Rivers Commission (JRC) which has not met since 2010. Bangladesh had called off a meeting of the JRC scheduled for December last year when concerns in Dhaka about the CAA and National Register of Citizens (NRC) were at a peak.The foreign ministers are expected to discuss a draft framework for water-sharing agreements on six rivers - Manu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gomti, Dharla and Dudhkumar - the people cited above said.The JCC meet will also discuss programmes to be organised during “Mujib Borsho” or the birth centenary of Bangladesh’s “Father of the Nation” Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and to mark the 50th anniversary of the creation of Bangladesh in 2021.The 5th JCC meeting was held in New Delhi in February last year wherein the two sides had signed four MoUs to strengthen multifaceted cooperation. However, Momen said no agreements were expected to be signed during Tuesday’s meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-foreign-ministers-to-hold-virtual-meet-to-review-ties/story-WV1nwKCAHmOb7zdJDTuOaI.html
28-09-2020||India||‘Funds cut, might serve only black tea’: Bengal Guv attacks Mamata Banerjee||Throwing a volley of charges against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar alleged on Monday that she has breached the Constitution, turned Bengal into a police state and ordered electronic surveillance on politicians, businessmen and the media. Dhankhar, during a 90-minute speech at a media conference, also alleged that fund allocation for the Raj Bhawan has been cut to such extent that guests might be served only black tea in future. Though he had made some of these allegations in the recent past, Dhankhar went a step ahead and took the acrimonious relationship between the Raj Bhawan and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government a notch higher. He said that by not replying to his repeated queries on several issues, the chief minister has breached the Constitution. “Despotic tendencies can be seen prominently,” he said. Dhankhar also shot off a long letter to Banerjee, who was in north Bengal on a three-day tour. The letter was in connection with an earlier one in which he had asked Virendra, the director general of police (DGP) to give him a report on the law and order situation. Dhankhar said the DGP did not reply but the chief minister sent him a long letter on September 26, questioning his authority. “Sadly, Madam Chief Minister, you have chosen to take untenable alibi of Constitutional provisions, calling the Governor executive nominee, a mere spectator, to explain abdication of core police responsibilities by the DGP. This was least expected from you on such sensitive aspect. As Governor I am neither a post office nor a ‘rubber stamp’. I am stakeholder not in politics but surely in governance, to ensure it conforms to constitutionalism. State of affairs concerning law and order, health and finance could not have been more alarming as of now…”, the governor wrote in a letter to the CM. “To shield those, who need to be held accountable, signals death-knell of democratic governance - a situation staring us in the face, and now for long. Surely Madam Chief Minister, this is not in consonance with your oath that ordains you to ‘bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established,” Dhankhar wrote. “While contention of Governor’s role under the Constitution can and should be debated, Madam Chief Minister, is it appropriate for the Chief Minister, answerable to her own people, to so justify her DGP’s inactions and omissions ! Your defence of DGP vindicates my stand that governance in the State is on ‘police crutches’ and signals public admission of this by you,” the letter said. “….what is amiss if the Governor wants the DGP to elaborate and explain the deteriorating law and order in the wake of political violence, political vendetta, ruthless quelling of opposition, incessant extortion by the syndicates on free run and frequent hurling of bombs. Maoism raising its head and terror outfits making state their haven add to our worries,” he added. The governor requested that he be provided with facts on all police cases registered since 2016. “Your favouring me with facts on all the FIRs registered since 2016 provided to the NCRB would be eye opener ! Since DGP is not imparting details of the crimes in the State, I will rely on NCRB data on the State crime, and come point by point on political violence, false cases under POSCO, NDPS, Arms Act etc. against political opponents, electronic surveillance on anyone who dares against powers that be, tolabazi (extortion), corruption cases and systematic santras (terror). I will also come point by point how and why a case was registered or not registered, with manipulated incriminations, under the dictate of powers that lack legal authority or sanction,” wrote Dhankhar. Suggesting that electronic surveillance had made people feel insecure, Dhankhar wrote, “People now prefer to speak on FaceTime. If they do not, then are advised to. Our state has become a FaceTime state. Does this indicate safe and secured environment? Answer is obvious- No. If not DGP, who then will answer to it? Fact is no response is forthcoming from both sides.” “The biggest question, Madam Chief Minister, in our State is: Whether the police are doing their duty as prescribed by the law? And, if the political executive itself is seen as forcing the police to behave like party worker, then who should decide, whether the police are right or wrong? Can the chief of the police of the state hide behind his Chief Minister for his inactions, omissions and failure to conform to law and conduct? Can or should it be allowed? Would it not be a ‘murder of democracy?’ I am not in doubt - all this cannot be countenanced in a system accountable to Constitution,” Dhankhar continued. The governor spoke of the “alarming ground reality” and urged the chief minister to travel incognito to experience it first hand. “There can be no denying the explosive decline in situation of law and order in the State. Going by the recent revelations of terror modules functioning, the situation is now even beyond ‘cliff hanging’. Just for a change get into objective mode, open your window and traverse State incognito, you’ll find that every reflection by me is authentic mirroring of pathetically alarming ground reality,” wrote the governor. Seeking a meeting with Banerjee, Dhankhar wrote, “Sensitive issues, that I do not seek to put in print, for fear of sensationalism, as indicated to you, will be shared once you, conforming to constitutional prescriptions, spare time to brief me. I have as a matter of fact underplayed the glaring enormity that ridicules democratic governance.” Moving to arrest the narrative, TMC leaders and ministers refuted Dhankhar’s statements. “Dhankhar referred to Article 167 of the Constitution at the media conference, saying its provisions had been breached by the chief minister. Article 167 says the governor can seek information from the government but does not specify any deadline for the chief minister to reply. The constitution says that executive powers of the governor shall be executed through the officers of the state. The governor does not have any executive power of his own,” said Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson. “The governor is distorting the spirit of the Constitution for his own convenience to satisfy the party in power at the Centre. He could have done the same as state president of the BJP,” quipped panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee. CPI(M) lawmaker and leader of the Left parties in the assembly, Sujan Chakraborty, however did not criticise Dhankhar. “He was speaking on behalf of the people of the state,” said Chakraborty. Congress legislator and leader of the opposition in the assembly, Abdul Mannan, also supported Dhankhar. “Banerjee is questioning the governor’s authority because an autocratic leader cannot tolerate criticism,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despotic-tendencies-seen-prominently-bengal-guv-targets-mamata-banerjee/story-M2OvOX9wLwEObFDC0uDmoK.html
28-09-2020||India||Covid: Arunachal may reopen for tourists after October, says CM Pema Khandu||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu on Monday hinted that the state will reopen for tourists after October.Attending a virtual programme organised by the central government, Khandu said that the tourism sector has suffered a lot in the last six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic which affected the livelihood of thousands of people and dented the state’s revenue.“Tourism is one major source of revenue and employment. Keeping all considerations in mind, we will be re-opening the sector. If everything goes well, after October we will be open to visitors,” he said at the Destination North East programme.Destination North East is a calendar event of the Ministry of Department of North Eastern Region (DoNER) showcasing the region’s rich heritage, diversity and tourism potentials. Union Home Minister Anit Shah inaugurated the four-day programme on Sunday.Khandu lauded the DoNER ministry and the North East Council (NEC) for organising the virtual event and said that it would boost tourism in the region post-pandemic.He said that Arunachal Pradesh with its diversity of geographic and demographic profiles can become a centre of rural, cultural and adventure tourism.The chief minister said that in the last six years, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, North East has witnessed a paradigm shift in its infrastructure development.“Thanks to Modiji’s love and concern towards the region, today we have railways, roads and airports. Several projects are under implementation while several are in the pipeline,” he said.Endorsing DoNER Minister Dr Jitendra Singh’s prediction that North East would be next tourism hub of post- Covid-19 India, Khandu said “We are committed to preserve our culture while walking the path of development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-arunachal-may-reopen-for-tourists-after-october-says-cm-pema-khandu/story-nJIcC98Iz5v21IHs8mNDbN.html
28-09-2020||India||Kerala CM Vijayan calls for all-party meeting amid surge in Covid cases||As the Covid-19 case graph continues to go up, the Kerala government has called an all-party meet on Tuesday to discuss ways to contain the pandemic. In last one week, the state has reported more than 41,000 cases and the test positivity rate has also gone up to 12.59 but mortality rate is 0.4 per cent, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The national test positivity rate is around 8 per cent. The government has also decided to implement virus control measures stringently. Fine for those who failed to wear a mask will be doubled and in marriage parties, the number of invitees cannot exceed 50. At cremations, only 20 people will be allowed. The CM said strict action will be taken against shops and business establishments if they flout norms.“Situation is really serious and it is time to step up our containment efforts. There is no room for any laxity and all will have to rise up to the occasion,” the CM said. He said some of the cured patients were showing many post-Covid complications and special clinics will be opened for them. In view of rising cases, Congress-led United Democratic Front has stopped its ongoing stir against higher education minister KT Jaleel, who was questioned by the National Investigation Agency and Enforcement Directorate in connection with the gold smuggling case. Earlier state health minister KK Shailaja had blamed opposition parties for the recent surge in cases. The state had witnessed violent protests. On Monday, the state reported 4538 cases; 1,21, 268 people have recovered and there were 57,979 active cases. With 20 deaths, the toll has gone up to 698. Among new cases, 67 are health workers and Kozhikode district has overtaken Thiruvananthapuram with most Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-vijayan-calls-for-all-party-meeting-amid-surge-in-covid-cases/story-WLogCdd6k7LVpmzrk68kkO.html
28-09-2020||India||Land acquisition matter: Some clarity needed on larger bench verdict, says SC||The Supreme Court Monday said some clarity was required on a judgement delivered by its five-judge constitution bench on the issue of land acquisition and payment of fair compensation as it creates some confusion.A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian observed that there were “some questions” which were required to be discussed.“There are some questions in my mind. I want to discuss it with my brothers (judges on the bench). The constitution bench judgement, I think, creates a confusion,” said the CJI.The bench observed, “Suppose, there is a property of which the government has not taken possession and has not paid compensation, then the acquisition will lapse.” “If the government has taken over possession but not paid compensation, the five-judges says the acquisition will not lapse,” it said.“For how long, is the question,” the bench said, adding, “For how long if the government does not pay compensation, the acquisition will continue?”. A five-judge bench of the apex court had on March 6 this year delivered a verdict and held that disputes over land acquisition and payment of fair compensation to owners cannot be re-opened under the 2013 Act if the legal processes have been completed before January 1, 2014.The constitution bench had interpreted section 24 of the ‘Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013’ as there were two conflicting verdicts by different benches of the apex court on the issue.Section 24 of the Act deals with situations under which a land acquisition proceedings shall deemed to have been lapsed.The provision said that if no award of compensation has been decided in a land acquisition case by January 1, 2014, then the provisions of 2013 Act will apply in determining the compensation for acquisition of land.“We will discuss it and take up the matter,” the bench said.“We have certain questions. There is something which we want to be clear about,” it said adding that it will hear the matter after two weeks. In its verdict, the constitution bench had said that under the provisions of Section 24(1)(a) of the Act, if the award is not made as on January 1, 2014, there is no lapse of proceedings and compensation has to be determined under the provisions of 2013 law.It had said the deemed lapse of land acquisition proceedings under section 24(2) of the 2013 Act takes place where due to inaction of authorities for five years or more prior to commencement of the law, the possession of land has not been taken nor compensation has been paid. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench that these matters, which concerned section 24 of the Act, were kept pending as the issue was referred to the constitution bench.He said several such matters are pending in the apex court as well as different high courts.“The judgement of the constitution bench would operate differently based on the facts of each case,” Mehta told the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/land-acquisition-matter-some-clarity-needed-on-larger-bench-verdict-says-sc/story-1C9aUu5jmVnjFjmRsUigPI.html
28-09-2020||India||Defence ministry clears military purchases worth Rs 2,920 crore, rifles from US among them||India’s defence acquisition council (DAC) on Monday cleared the decks for the purchase of military hardware worth Rs 2,290 crore, including assault rifles for frontline troops from the United States and the smart anti-airfield weapon, a defence ministry spokesperson said. The Indian Army is laying the groundwork to buy an additional 72,000 Sig Sauer assault rifles from the US, officials said. These rifles will cost Rs 780 crore, the spokesperson said. This proposed purchase follows an order for 72,400 assault rifles placed with the US last year. India signed the previous order worth Rs 700 crore in early 2019 and the deliveries of all the rifles have been completed. The DAC, headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, also cleared the purchase of the smart anti-airfield weapon at a cost of Rs 970 crore to add to the firepower of the navy and the air force, the ministry said in a statement. “The DAC approved procurement of static HF transceiver sets…The HF radio sets will enable seamless communication for the field units of army and air force and are being procured at an approximate cost of Rs 540 crore,” it added. The Sig Sauer rifles are being bought to meet the army’s requirement of a total of eight lakh assault rifles. The new assault rifles will gradually replace the flaw-ridden 5.56mm INSAS (Indian Small Arms System) rifles inducted around 22 years ago. The remaining requirements of the army will be met through a Make in India project for the local production of AK-203 assault rifles at Amethi’s Korwa, and this procurement is in its final stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-clears-military-purchases-worth-rs-2-920-crore-rifles-from-us-among-them/story-RYz3ghrd3l6zJrO6DofMHP.html
28-09-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi urges Congress-ruled states to override Centre’s farm laws||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday advised party-ruled states to explore the possibilities to pass legislations under Article 254(2) to negate the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government’s “anti-agricultural laws” and prevent the “grave injustice” being done to farmers.The opposition party is citing the BJP government’s move in 2015 when it asked party-ruled states to bring their own laws to override the land acquisition act of 2013 passed during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) tenure for boosting infrastructure development.“Congress president has advised Congress ruled states to explore the possibilities to pass laws in their respective states under Article 254(2) of the Constitution which allows the state legislatures to pass a law to negate the anti-agriculture central laws encroaching upon state’s jurisdiction under the Constitution,” Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal said in a statement.“This would enable the states to bypass the unacceptable anti-farmers’ provisions in the three draconian Agricultural laws including the abolition of MSP and disruption of APMCs in Congress-ruled states,” he added.The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government pushed three bills to deregulate agricultural trade, which were passed controversially by Parliament, overriding demands by the Opposition for greater scrutiny and voting. Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, are protesting the bills, fearing deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful corporate agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before.The reforms have cost the BJP one of its oldest allies, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which has quit the ruling alliance. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 seek to liberalise farm trade, enable modern supply chains, allow agribusinesses and farmers to enter into contracts, break interlocked markets and create a seamless commodities trade, currently fragmented. The ‘Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020’ allows barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade of primary agricultural commodities, bypassing notified markets under the agricultural produce market committees. The bill will enable food traders to buy farmers’ produce from any market, rather than bind them to the specific markets where they are licensed to operate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-urges-congress-ruled-states-to-override-centre-s-farm-laws/story-cG0aRIINWnyLHKDTeO1t3N.html
28-09-2020||India||Make realistic budget estimates, ministries told over unused funds issue||The government will ask ministries and departments to provide realistic estimates of their annual outlays to avoid accumulation of huge unspent money at the end of the financial year even as the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) last week pointed at Rs 4.72 lakh crore unspent amount in FY-19 due to injudicious formulation of budget, two government officials said. About Rs 4.72 lakh crore could not be spent in the financial year ended March 2019 due to various reasons, including regulation of spending, short transfer against budget estimate, reversal of expenditure and shortfalls in performance, they said requesting anonymity.A recent CAG audit report on the Union government’s account for 2018-19 pointed at the discrepancy. The report was tabled in Parliament on September 23. The government draws specified sums from the Consolidated Fund of India (CFI) for identified activities and functions as approved by Parliament. Authorisations by Parliament are based on budget estimates (BE) prepared by ministries and departments as directed by the budget division of the ministry of finance.“These instructions envisage that the BEs are prepared realistically to meet all expenditure requirements and ensure that unspent balances are avoided,” the CAG report said. The appropriation accounts of the government for 2018-19 cover approved provisions aggregating to Rs 97.58 lakh crore. The total expenditure that fiscal year, however, amounted to Rs 92.91 lakh crore, it said.The finance ministry did not respond to email queries on this matter.The Public Accounts Committee (PAC), a panel of members of Parliament to audit the revenue and the expenditure of the government, had also raised the issue of large savings in the grants of ministries. According to the CAG, the committee had said that savings of Rs 100 crore or above are indicative of “defective budgeting” as well as “shortfall in budget performance” and such savings are a result of “injudicious formulation” of budget, which could be significantly reduced by making realistic budgetary projections.According to the audit report, savings of Rs 1.31 lakh crore in 2018-19 were on account of regulation of expenditure both at revised estimate (RE) stages and thereafter. It included Rs 69,889.71 crore due to withdrawal of food subsidy to Food Corporation of India (FCI), Rs 35,725 crore due to short transfer of Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess to GST Compensation Fund, Rs 5,000 crore due to reversal of expenditure on defence pension, Rs 6,842.64 crore on regulation of capital expenditure for railways and reduction in provisions at RE stage of Rs 4,953.05 crore due to lesser receipts, the report said.There was a saving of Rs 22,039.83 crore on account of less than budgeted transfer of funds to Madhyamik and Uchhattar Shiksha Kosh (MUSK). Savings of Rs 43,104.51 crore occurred due to reasons like finalisation of fewer spending proposals, non-receipt of viable proposals from states, non-receipt of utilisation certificates, schemes not being formulated and delays in grant of approvals.Savings of Rs 1,43,999.12 crore occurred due to factors such as unspent balances not being considered, revision in funding decisions and fund requirements after BE stage, gaps in cash flow forecasting, inaccurate assessment of internal resource generation and budgeting of funds under wrong section of grant. “These indicate gaps with respect to budget formulation and assessment,” the report said.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said some of the savings were because of accounting issues and also due to restraint by some ministries as the year was preceding the general election. “The Department of Agriculture Co-operation and Farmers Welfare has clearly stated the operation of the Model Code of Conduct as one of the reasons for short spending/savings,” he said. He, however, said the focus of the government is often on “fiscal consolidation rather than quality spending”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-realistic-budget-estimates-ministries-told-over-unused-funds-issue/story-OHQMmdxlhoXPFzc37D402I.html
28-09-2020||India||Elephant dies of electrocution in Chhattisgarh, 3rd incident in 6 days||An elephant died due to electrocution after coming in contact with live wire hanging low in the field in Gariaband district on Monday.This is the third elephant death reported in the last six days in the state and eleven in the last four months.“The incident took place in a field in Paragaon village under Dhawalpur forest range when a herd of 22 to 25 elephants was passing. In the early hours, one elephant came in contact with an 11 KV power transmission line, which was hanging at a low height above the field and died,” Arun Pandey, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) (wildlife) told HT. Pandey further said that villagers had earlier complained to power department officials that high tension lines were lying at a low height in the area but nothing was done.Earlier, on Friday night, an elephant died of electrocution after coming in contact with a live wire laid by poachers to trap wild boar in Mahasamund district.Another jumbo died after it came in contact with an electric wire laid illegally at a farm by a cultivator in Raigarh district on September 23.In June, six elephants died in four districts of the state. While the carcasses of two tuskers were recovered from the Pratappur forest range in Surajpur district, another elephant was found dead in neighbouring Balrampur district. Two elephants were electrocuted in Dharamjaigarh under Raigarh district and a calf died after getting stuck in a marshland in Dhamtari district. One elephant died in July in Jashpur district of the state. Following the fatalities, the state forest department in July issued orders to divisional forest officer (DFO) of Dharamjaigarh in Raigarh district, where maximum elephants have been electrocuted in the last ten years, to take necessary steps to contain such incidents.The order said the forest department should ensure that the 11 KV electric lines, which have caused the recent deaths, should be 7.5 meters above the ground-level and insulated electric wires be used in these areas. The department has also directed the forest officers to coordinate with Chhattisgarh state power corporation to find out each and every illegal connection or live wire in these areas frequented by the elephants. In the last decade, the state has recorded an increase in its wildlife population including elephants, whose number rose from 225 to 290, as per the state forest department. North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in plains of the state. Several reports of human-elephant conflicts have surfaced in the last few years in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-dies-of-electrocution-in-chhattisgarh-3rd-incident-in-6-days/story-GXkHrWZgU9envwOtlR5oFJ.html
28-09-2020||India||Chandrababu Naidu told to move out of riverfront Amaravati bungalow, served notice||For the second consecutive year, the residence of Telugu Desam Party president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on the Krishna riverfront at Vundavalli in Amaravati is facing a submergence threat due to heavy inflow into the river from upstream. As a result, the Krishna district administration on Sunday night served a notice to Naidu to move out of the bungalow to a safer place by Monday when the river would receive more water. The authorities pasted the notice on the gates of his residence. Apart from Naidu, 32 others whose residences and properties were located on the banks of the Krishna River were also served notices. According to state relief commissioner Kanna Babu, around six lakh cusecs of flood water is expected to reach Prakasam barrage in Vijayawada, which is likely to inundate all the residences along the flood bank located hardly two kilometres away from the barrage. However, Naidu, along with his family members, had already left for Hyderabad on Friday itself. The bungalow was originally a guest house constructed by prominent realtor Lingamaneni Ramesh who leased it to Naidu in 2015. Since then, Naidu had been using it as his official bungalow. In June 2019, the newly-formed Jagan Mohan Reddy government served eviction and demolition notice to Ramesh, stating that it was an unauthorized construction falling within 100 metres of the riverbank. The building has so far escaped demolition after the owner moved the high court against the government’s notice. YSR Congress party on Monday demanded that the TDP chief vacate his riverfront residence at least now, in view of the flood threat. “Krishna River is in spate due to floods. At least now, you should respect the law of the land and move out of the guest house. In the past, you might have got protection from the courts and tried to stall the government. But floods won’t spare you or protect your house from inundation,” senior YSRC leader and advisor to the chief minister Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-told-to-move-out-of-riverfront-amaravati-bungalow-served-notice/story-JYpH54ZsJb87WbDJl1dStM.html
28-09-2020||India||Clean sweep, almost! UP bags 8 of 11 awards for max community toilets, cleanliness||Uttar Pradesh bagged eight of the total eleven awards instituted by the ministry of water and sanitation for cleanliness and constructing maximum community toilets.Among states, UP won the first prize in ‘Swachh Sundar Samudayaik Shauchalaya (SSSS). Among districts, all three prizes were swept by UP districts - Prayagraj, Hardoi, and Fatehpur. These prizes were bagged under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojna (GKRY). In the ‘Gandagi Mukt Bharat’ category, the state bagged the second prize for maximum shramdaan (public voluntary work) in cleanliness.Kinjal Singh, mission director, Swachh Bharat Mission, Uttar Pradesh, said, last year the centre had selected 116 districts countrywide, including 31 in Uttar Pradesh, for improving the community toilet scenario under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojna (GKRY).Also read: Another virus from China has potential to cause disease in India - ICMRUnder the non-GKRY districts, Bareilly won the first prize, Aligarh stood second and Aligarh won a special prize for saturating all its gram panchayats with community toilets.“It is a big feat on the part of UP to perform so well despite Covid-19 and lockdown,” said a state government official.The department of water and sanitation had launched three campaigns last year. Campaign SSSS was launched from November 1, 2019, and went on till April 30, 2020. The second one was ‘Samudayik Shauchalaya Abhiyan’ (SSA) which started from June 15, 2020, and ended on September 15, 2020. The campaign mobilises districts and villages to construct and maintain community toilets.“The third one was ‘Gandagi Mukt Bharat’ from August 8 to August 15, 2020, to free India of garbage and waste,” said Singh. The awards will be given in a virtual ceremony on October 2 by central and state jal shakti ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clean-sweep-almost-up-bags-8-of-11-awards-for-max-community-toilets-cleanliness/story-2xrx1ePnVzotWHLn2wGViP.html
28-09-2020||India||Jagan writes to Centre, recommends SP Balasubrahmanyam’s name for Bharat Ratna||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday requested the Centre to confer the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award, on renowned playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who passed away in Chennai on Friday due to post-Covid-19 complications. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recommending the name of Balasubrahmanyam, popularly known as SPB, for the highest civilian award of the country. Stating that Andhra Pradesh was fortunate to be the birthplace of the great singer, Jagan said the untimely demise of SPB had caused a lot of distress to millions of fans across the country and also the international music fraternity. “SPB’s immense popularity and the deep impact he had left on the global music industry in his 50 years of legacy can be gauged by the continuous flow of rich tribute from music aficionados all over the world,” Jagan said. The chief minister said SPB’s achievements had gone beyond music and he had lifted compositions to sublime levels. He has sung over 40,000 tracks in his mother tongue Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi and had won innumerable awards including six national film awards, 25 Nandi awards of Andhra Pradesh and numerous other awards. He was a recipient of the Padma Shri (2001) and Padma Bhushan (2011) from the Government of India. He reminded the Centre that in the past, music stalwarts like Lata Mangeshkar, Bhupen Hazarika, M S Subbulakshmi, Bismillah Khan and Bhimsen Joshi, were conferred with the Bharat Ratna award by the Government of India. “As a tribute to the legendary singer for his outstanding contribution in the field of music and art, I request you to confer the Bharat Ratna upon SPB. This will be the highest recognition to his remarkable work which lasted for 5 decades and will stay in our memory forever,” Jagan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-writes-to-centre-recommends-sp-balasubrahmanyam-s-name-for-bharat-ratna/story-hGCJuv5lhHQYaXhXl6WKdK.html
28-09-2020||India||Jagan govt launches scheme to drill borewells free of cost for farmers||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday launched yet another welfare scheme of sinking agriculture borewells for small and marginal farmers belonging to arid and upland areas of the state free of cost.Named as YSR Jala Kala, more than three lakh borewells would be drilled at a cost of Rs 2,340 crore in 144 rural assembly constituencies and 19 semi-urban assembly in a span of four years. “The scheme would benefit around two lakh farmers and bring an additional five lakh acres into cultivation,” chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said, after launching the scheme through video conferencing from his camp office at Tadepalli.He said the drilling of borewells would be on the basis of the feasibility report given after the hydro-geological and geo-physical surveys. The farmers can also avail a second chance, in case of a failure to draw water in the first attempt. “All the eligible farmers can avail of this initiative by applying either online or through the village secretariats and the status of their application can be monitored at every stage,” Jagan said.He said all these borewells would also be provided with motors free of cost. This would cause an additional burden of Rs 1,600 crore on the state exchequer.Referring to the recent decision of the state government of installing meters for all agricultural power connections in the state, the chief minister said the meters would cause no burden on the farmers. “They are meant only for collecting data on the actual consumption of power and measure the load on feeders. It will help the government bring in transparency into the system. The amount billed for the power consumed by the farmers would be transferred into their bank accounts directly and they could, in turn, pay the same to power distribution companies,” he said.Jagan said in order to sustain the free agriculture power supply scheme for at least another 30 years, a 10,000 MW solar energy plan was coming up in the private sector. “The free farm power supply scheme was launched by my father late YS Rajasekhara Reddy and it would be continued forever,” he said.Describing his government as farmer-friendly, Jagan said the government had already introduced Rythu Bharosa Kendras to facilitate farmers with seeds, fertilisers, and also being developed as warehouses and crop procurement centres. The government is also providing Rs 13,500 every year for farmers under Rythu Bharosa, he said.Panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, minister for roads and buildings M Sankara Narayana, district collectors and representatives of farmers took part in the programme.Opposition Telugu Desam Party described YSR Jala Kala scheme as bogus and a fraud being played on the farmers by the Jagan government. “The government is already cheating the farmers in the name of installation of meters to agriculture pump sets which is only a plan to deprive them of free power supply,” senior TDP leader and former minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said.He alleged that the installation of meters for farm power connections would cause an additional burden of over Rs 4,000 crore on tax payers and now, the government wants to spend another Rs 2,340 crore in the name of drilling new borewells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-launches-scheme-to-drill-borewells-free-of-cost-for-farmers/story-mttsQKYgGTaG4IAikJ4YKL.html
28-09-2020||India||Suspected Maoist killed in encounter in Bijapur, combing operation still on: Bastar Police||A suspected Maoist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Bijapur district of Bastar division on Monday. According to the police, the Maoist is yet to be identified and the body has been taken to the district headquarters. Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P, told HT that the team of District Reserve Guard and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were in the jungles of Gangaloor when the incident took place.“We had specific inputs about the gathering of Maoists in the jungle hence a team was sent there. At around 9.30 am the encounter started between Maoists and security forces and continued for about 30 minutes Pedapal and Pidiya villages,” the IG said. After the encounter was over, the body of a Maoist was recovered from the spot. “Combing operations in the forest is still on and more details are awaited,” the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-maoist-killed-in-encounter-in-bijapur-combing-operation-still-on-bastar-police/story-1YEoexSSeEW6fmI7WPKFeN.html
28-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh unveils new Defence Acquisition Procedure||Defence minister Rajnath Singh unveiled on Monday a new Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP) that features steps to turn India into a global manufacturing hub of military platforms, reduce timelines for procurement of defence equipment and allow purchase of essential items by the three services through capital budget under a simplified mechanism.Under the new policy, the offset guidelines have also been revised to give preference to defence majors offering to manufacture products in India instead of meeting the offset obligations through other means, officials said.The DAP also incorporates new chapters on information and communication technologies, post-contract management, acquisition of systems developed by the state-run defence entities like the DRDO and Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs), they said.In what is seen as a significant move, the DAP featured measures to reduce delay in procurement of essential items by the three services as it proposed a new enabling provision to acquire them through capital budget under a simplified procedure in a time-bound manner.Singh said the DAP has also included provisions to encourage foreign direct investment (FDI) to establish manufacturing hubs both for import substitution and exports while protecting the interests of Indian domestic industry.“The offset guidelines have also been revised, wherein preference will be given to manufacture of complete defence products over components and various multipliers have been added to give incentivisation in discharge of offsets,” the defence minister tweeted.He said the DAP has been aligned with the vision of the government’s ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) initiative and to empower Indian domestic industry through ‘Make in India’ projects with the ultimate aim of turning the country into a global manufacturing hub.The policy also provides for single-stage accord of AoN (Acceptance of Necessity) in all cases up to Rs 500 crore to cut delays in approval of acquisition proposals.The DAP also mentioned measures to reform pre-induction testing of defence equipment.“Scope of trials will be restricted to physical evaluation of core operational parameters. Other parameters may be evaluated based on vendor certification, certification by accredited laboratories, computer simulations of parameters etc,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-unveils-new-defence-acquisition-procedure/story-fJuUZXYIP1a80mqglZ1foL.html
28-09-2020||India||Jharkhand HRD minister tests positive for Covid-19, state tally to cross 80k||Jharkhand’s human resource development (HRD) minister Jagarnath Mahto tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. This comes when state Covid-19 tally is all set to cross the 80,000-mark.The minister was moved to Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for treatment after he complained of health complications. Taking to Twitter, Mahto shared that he tested positive for the virus.“My Covid-19 test report returned positive. I got myself admitted at RIMS for treatment. I appeal those who came in my contact in recent times to get themselves tested,” said Mahto.Mahto, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha legislator from Dumri assembly constituency, is the fourth minister in chief minister Hemant Soren’s cabinet to have tested positive for the disease. Earlier, cabinet ministers Mithilesh Thakur, Banna Gupta and Badal Patralekh had contracted the disease and successfully recovered from it.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine portal launched, all data linked to research on itWith Mahto’s addition, over 22 percent of the current 79-member Jharkhand assembly tested positive for the respiratory disease so far. Till now, 18 legislators including four cabinet ministers tested positive. However, a majority of them have recovered from the disease.According to state health department’s bulletin released on Monday morning, Jharkhand reported 974 new Covid-19 cases from across the state in the last 24 hours that pushed the tally close to the 80,000-mark. The state also witnessed the death of nine Covid-19 patients.With the discovery with these cases, the tally climbed to 79,909 cases including 12,433 active cases, 66,797 recoveries and 679 deaths.Since August 25, the state has been reporting more than 1,000 cases with exceptions on September 11 and 27 when 961 and 974 cases were detected.State capital Ranchi, which topped the list of Covid-19 cases, is all set to cross the 18,000-mark on Monday. It had reported 214 cases in the last 24 hours that pushed the district’s tally to 17,985 including 4,015 active cases, 13,865 recoveries and 105 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-hrd-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19-state-tally-to-cross-80k/story-qVS23uyUK6aZW87ovCjsYL.html
28-09-2020||India||What’s your life expectancy? This tool lets you find out||A child born in India could expect to live for nearly 69 years if the current mortality trends in the country were to continue, according to the latest Sample Registration System data released by the government.This is an average, of course, and the actual number of years a person could expect to live for depends on a range of socio-economic factors, health conditions, climate, etc.Because these factors significantly vary across states, the life expectancy is bound to differ across states as well. For example, a child born in states such as Kerala and Delhi could expect to live for nearly 10 years more than a child born in states such as Chhattisgarh or Uttar Pradesh.Whether a person lives in a rural or urban area also has an impact on life expectancy. For example, a child born in an urban area of Assam could expect to live for nearly eight years more than a child born in a rural area of Assam.Life expectancy also varies with gender and current age. Women on average live longer than men. The latest life expectancy data is for the period 2014 to 2018. A person born in this period could live around 10 years longer than a person born about two decades ago.Use the following interactive tool to know a person’s life expectancy. This data is available for only 22 states (including undivided Jammu and Kashmir).If you are reading this on a mobile device and are unable to see the interactive tool below, try opening this page in a normal mobile web browser such as Google Chrome. Women born in urban areas of Himachal Pradesh have the highest life expectancy at birth – 80.6 years. This figure is the lowest at 62.9 years for men born in rural areas of Chhattisgarh. This is a difference of nearly 18 years in life expectancy for two children born in two different parts of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-s-your-life-expectancy-this-tool-lets-you-find-out/story-U4Zlwwv5QOZ6IZU2Hs8wrM.html
28-09-2020||India||BJP’s Uma Bharti, Covid-19 positive, admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh. She gives 3 reasons||Two days after testing positive for Covid-19, senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader Uma Bharti was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh. The BJP leader took to Twitter and informed that she had been shifted to AIIMS on Monday morning from Vande Mataram Kunj in Pauri Garhwal district where she was under home-isolation. Bharti tweeted, “I have been admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh. There are three reasons for this; firstly Harsh Vardhan (Union health minister) was worried about my health condition. Secondly my fever spiked last night and if I get good response from doctors at AIIMS after observation then I want to appear in the CBI court in Lucknow day after tomorrow.” Bharti is supposed to appear in court in connection with the Babri Masjid demolition case. Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh said that Bharti was admitted to the hospital around 11 am on Monday. “She has been admitted to our hospital and has been kept under observation. As per protocol, we have sent her sample for an RT-PCR test. Till then, the doctors are taking care of her and she is being treated. The further course of action will be decided after we get her test results,” Thapliyal said. Bharti tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday night after which she had isolated herself at an ashram in Pauri Garhwal district. She tested positive after visiting the Kedarnath shrine on September 21, where she offered prayers following all safety norms. She had visited the Badrinath shrine in Chamoli district on September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-uma-bharti-covid-19-positive-admitted-to-aiims-rishikesh-she-gives-3-reasons/story-bFb1SxsKVq0Tt9YamB5RML.html
28-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Health ministry says first Covid vaccine to be available in India by early 2021 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.First Covid-19 vaccine to be available in India by early 2021, says health ministryAs the world races to develop a potential vaccine against coronavirus (Covid-19), the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Monday said that the first vaccine in India will most likely be available by early 2021. The health ministry said the research to develop a Covid-19 vaccine is being “done expeditiously”. Read moreIn Karnataka, bandh against farm bills evokes mixed response; protesting farmers detainedThe Karnataka Bandh on Monday called by a clutch of farmers, labour, Left, pro-Kannada and Dalit organizations spearheaded by the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and supported by the main opposition party Congress as well as others like SDPI evoked mixed response in the state. Read moreNavjot Singh Sidhu is an asset for Congress, says party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Harish RawatPunjab Congress legislator and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu was conspicuous by his absence at the dharna led by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh at Khatkar Kalan against the Centre’s farm laws on Monday but the party still considers him an asset. Read moreMike Pompeo pledges US support to ease Greece-Turkey disputeUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Monday the United States will use its diplomatic and military influence in the region to try to ease a volatile dispute between NATO allies Greece and Turkey over energy rights in the eastern Mediterranean. Read moreIPL 2020, RCB vs MI: Rohit Sharma 10 runs away from joining Virat Kohli, Suresh Raina in 5000 clubMumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma is on the cusp of joining Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli and veteran Chennai Super Kings batsman Suresh Raina in the list of players with 5000 or more runs in the Indian Premier League. Read moreMercedes EQC to launch in India on October 8 as EV enters luxury spaceMercedes-Benz on Monday announced EQC, its first-ever all-electric vehicle, will be officially launched in the Indian market on October 8. This will mark the entry of EVs into the luxury car segment with Mercedes looking at seizing the first movers’ advantage with the EQC. Read moreKerala bride misses her wedding, patients at Covid care home make it memorable with special celebrationA Covid-19 care home in Kochi witnessed an unusual wedding celebration on Thursday and a video of the ceremony has gone viral on social media. A day before her wedding, 19-year-old P Faziya tested positive and was shifted to a Covid care centre in Mattancherry. Upset, she was confined to a room at the centre. Read moreMilind Soman balancing his body weight in a complex but ‘simple enough’ manner is flexibility goalsAt 54, Indian model and actor Milind Soman is giving all the fitness professionals a run for their money and his social media has enough pictures and videos of his intense workout sessions to back our claim. Making fans’ jaws drop in awe with his latest video, Milind raised the bar of flexibility goals as he moved his body weight in a complex position but effortlessly. Read moreWatch| ‘NCB forced me to implicate Karan Johar’: Arrested producer Kshitij Prasad||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-health-ministry-says-first-covid-vaccine-to-be-available-in-india-by-early-2021-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5GmyCIzPFcmV4gAVZjvogJ.html
28-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine portal launched, all data linked to research, clinical trial on it, says Harsh Vardhan||The Union health ministry on Monday launched an online portal about Covid-19 with all the latest information on the coronavirus disease.The web portal will have data on research development, clinical trials on potential Covid-19 vaccine in India, its launch date and other information, health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said.“An online portal about Covid-19 vaccine has been launched. Everyone will be able to go online to that portal and look up all contemporary research-development and clinical trials related information. It will also provide information about other vaccinations provided in the country,” Dr Vardhan was quoted by news agency ANI as saying.The health ministry also said that the first vaccine in India will most likely be available by the first quarter of 2021.“Research to develop a vaccine is being done expeditiously. There ar at least 3 viable such vaccine candidates that are in the phase of clinical trials right now in the country. We’re hopeful that within 1st quarter of 2021 it will be available,” Dr Vardhan added.Also read | Amid fight against Covid, another virus from China has potential to cause disease in India: ICMRThe health ministry also released the 100-year timeline history of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) .“Today’s a historic day for ICMR. It’s an honour for me to release the 100-year timeline of the history of ICMR within its premises today. The contribution of scientists associated with it is commemorated and serves as an inspiration to upcoming scientists,” he added.India’s Covid-19 tally on Monday crossed 60-lakh mark after the country reported a spike of 82,170 new virus cases, according to Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry data. India’s case tally now stands at 60,74,703, with 95,542 deaths due to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-portal-about-covid-19-vaccine-launched-all-r-d-clinical-trial-data-on-it-says-health-ministry/story-rJR5EEGavMjkjulRAB4nIP.html
28-09-2020||India||In Karnataka, bandh against farm bills evokes mixed response; protesting farmers detained||The Karnataka Bandh on Monday called by a clutch of farmers, labour, Left, pro-Kannada and Dalit organizations spearheaded by the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and supported by the main opposition party Congress as well as others like SDPI evoked mixed response in the state.Thousands of farmers marched in the state capital Bengaluru and around 300 of them were detained including KRRS leaders Kodihalli Chandrashekar and Kurburu Shanthkumar, Congress leaders including leader of opposition Siddaramaiah, KPCC President DK Shivakumar, national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and other leaders who were protesting near the Congress office in the city.The protesters were asking for the withdrawal of changes in the land reforms act - permitting non-agriculturists to buy farm land - and amendments in the APMC Act which now permits farmers to sell their produce to anybody of their choice. They are also demanding that changes made in the Essential Commodities Amendment Bill be withdrawn.ALSO READ | Karnataka bandh: KSRTC buses ply in Mangaluru despite bandh called by farmersSiddaramaiah speaking at the protest said that the proposed changes were the ‘death knell’ to the farming community. “I challenge the CM to resign and let there be polls on these issues and we will see what the outcome will be,” he said. KPCC president DK Shivakumar demanded that the ‘three black laws’ be withdrawn or repealed. Later, a Congress delegation also submitted a memorandum to the Governor on this issue.Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa addressing a press conference reiterated that the farm bills passed in the just concluded assembly session were in the interests of the farmers. “As a farmer’s son, I will never do anything against their interests. The Opposition is trying to misguide the farmers and it is a conspiracy. Even now anybody buying irrigated agricultural land cannot use it for any other purpose. They cannot buy land of SC/ST or small farmers.”Yediyurappa also said that allowing farmers to sell their produce to anybody of their choice rather than only through APMC’s was an “achievement after a 25-30 year struggle”. Stating that he was open to discussion with farmer leaders he said results of the changes made could be seen in the next six months. The CM also said that he would tour the entire state to explain the benefits of the farm bills.Across various districts too, several farmers, Congress, SDPI and Karnataka Rakshana Vedike activists were detained when they obstructed traffic including in Mysore, Hassan, Kodagu, Gulbarga and a few other places but later let off. The bandh evoked poor response in coastal and northern parts of the state which have been battered by heavy rainfall. Also bus and other essential services, commercial establishments, government and private offices functioned normally in most places across the state. Congress and farmer organisations though have said that they will continue the protests till their demands are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-bandh-against-farm-bills-evokes-mixed-response-protesting-farmers-detained/story-R2GbXay0accNEkkihRH0GL.html
28-09-2020||India||PM Modi holds virtual summit with Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen held a virtual summit on Monday to strengthen the bilateral relations between the two countries.Earlier, the external affairs ministry issued a statement which said that an MoU in the field of intellectual property cooperation between the two countries will be signed on the occasion.As the virtual summit began, Prime Minister Modi firstly thanked Frederiksen for taking out time for this interaction and also congratulated her on her wedding. “I congratulate you on your wedding. I hope that soon after Covid-19 situation improves, we will get a chance to welcome you and your family to India. I am sure your daughter must be eager to visit India again,” Modi said.  I congratulate you on your wedding. I hope that soon after COVID19 situation improves, we will get a chance to welcome you and your family to India. I am sure your daughter must be eager to visit India again: PM Modi to Denmark PM Mette Frederiksen pic.twitter.com/5KVFkxaLGyHe also highlighted that the events of the past several months have made it clear how important it is for like-minded countries like India and Denmark, which share a rules-based, transparent, humanitarian and democratic value-system, to work together. Modi mentioned that the Covid-19 pandemic showed that excessive dependence of global supply chains on a single source can be risky. He said that India is working with Japan and Australia towards diversification and resilience of supply chains adding that several like-minded nations can also be a part of this effort. Meanwhile, Danish Prime Minister Frederiksen began her address by thanking PM Modi for his greetings and added that she and her family would love to visit India once again. Frederiksen further said,“ Today’s summit marks for Denmark a milestone on our bilateral relations, and our forward-looking agreement on green strategic partnership. We are proud that India looks at Denmark when it comes to the climate changes.”(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-virtual-summit-with-danish-counterpart-mette-frederiksen/story-D7mABLyqnaRPTDRDHcBYhP.html
28-09-2020||India||Sterling Biotech Group promoters Sandesara brothers, accused of bank fraud and money laundering, declared fugitive economic offenders||A Delhi court on Monday declared Sandesara brothers, promoters of Gujarat based Sterling group, fugitive economic offenders. The action has been taken on a petition by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The Sandesara brothers - Nitin and Chetan - along with latter’s wife wife Dipti have been declared fugitives under the Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) Act.They left India in 2017 after allegedly swindling several banks of Rs 14,500 crore through bank loans. Their last known location, according to investigating agencies, is Nigeria.Only Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi have been declared fugitive economic offenders before them. The FEO act gives powers to the ED to attach assets of accused anywhere in the world.The ED had registered a criminal case in the alleged bank fraud scam based on a Central Bureau of Investigation FIR and charge sheet.The Sandesaras are being probed by multiple agencies, including the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the income tax department.In June 2019, the ED attached moveable and immovable properties worth Rs 9,778 crores belonging to the Sandesaras including four oil rigs and oil fields in Nigeria and several ships apart from a Gulfstream aircraft and flat in London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sterling-biotech-group-promoters-sandesara-brothers-accused-of-bank-fraud-and-money-laundering-declared-fugitive-economic-offenders/story-nLTR8SsCqdDgKV8sROwWIN.html
28-09-2020||India||UP gangster killed in road accident in police car. It is Vikas Dubey redux||A gangster from Uttar Pradesh being brought back to the state was killed in a road accident when the police car he was travelling in overturned in Guna district, 214 km north of Bhopal, on Sunday night, said the Madhya Pradesh police. The incident had a striking resemblance to the manner in which UP police’s car overturned near Kanpur while bringing back gangster Vikas Dubey. He was subsequently killed in an encounter when he tried to flee. The gangster identified as Feroz Ali, a resident of Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh, was being taken to Lucknow along with his relative in a car from Mumbai by a team of UP police when the car met with an accident on national highway 46 in Guna district, according to police. He was 65.Ali was rushed to a hospital in Biaora town of Rajgrah district where doctors declared him “brought dead”. In the accident, two police personnel - assistant sub-inspector of police (ASI) Jagdish Pandey and a constable Sanjeev Singh from UP police - driver Sulabh Mishra and Feroz Ali’s relative Afzal Khan were also injured and admitted to the hospital in Biaora where their condition is stated to be stable, said Rajesh Kumar Singh, superintendent of police, Guna. Jagdish Pandey informed the Rajgarh police in the hospital that Feroz Ali was wanted in certain cases lodged with Thakurganj Police station of Lucknow under UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, said Pradeep Sharma, Rajgarh SP. “UP Police got information that Feroz was living in Nala Sopara area in Mumbai. A police team from UP arrested Feroz’s brother-in-law Afzal and then Feroz in Mumbai. The police team was taking them to Lucknow from Mumbai when the accident took place,” said Sharma. In a statement given to police from the hospital, the driver Sulabh Mishra said a cow suddenly came on the road, he turned the car sharply to save the animal but lost control in the process and the car overturned. Earlier, UP gangster Vikas Dubey, who was detained from Mahakaal temple in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, was killed in, what the UP police said, an encounter after the car in which he was travelling overturned near Kanpur. Dubey had been handed over to UP police at UP-MP border near Lalitpur after he was detained at Mahakal temple by MP police. After the encounter, UP police said Vikas Dubey made an attempt to flee the spot after snatching the revolver of a police officer when he was killed in the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-gangster-killed-in-road-accident-in-police-car-it-is-vikas-dubey-redux/story-QKRwa0zSKZsGx4KdFCuicM.html
28-09-2020||India||NIA court sentences IS recruit from Kerala to life imprisonment||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi on Monday sentenced a former Islamic State terrorist who had returned from Iraq to life imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 2,10,000.Subahani Haja Moideen (34) was found guilty under Section 125 of the Indian Penal Code for waging war against a friendly country and Section 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by the court on Friday. This is the first time a person has been convicted under Section 125 of the IPC, legal experts said. The court also lauded the investigating team for carrying out a thorough probe. The NIA had arrested Moideen in October 2016 from Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu where he was living discreetly after his return to the country. During investigation the NIA found Moideen, a resident of Thodupuzha in Idukki district, had left for Saudi Arabia in 2015 and later reached Turkey. He was taken to the Syrian border by his handlers and was later shifted to Raqqa (Syria) where he underwent intense arms training before being deployed in Mosul (Iraq) under a team led by a French-speaking leader. During a battle, Moideen saw a fellow IS fighter burn alive and fled the scene but was captured by other IS militants. He told investigators that he was let off only after assuring the IS leadership that he would carry out terror activities in India.The prosecution said when he was arrested he was planning attacks against some judges and senior political leaders. It also found that he had made several trips to Sivakasi, a Tamil Nadu town famous for its crackers, to collect explosives.While in custody he was also questioned by French intelligence agencies in connection with the Paris attacks. He told interrogators that in Iraq he worked with Abdel Hamid Abaaoud, a Belgian-Moroccan terrorist, who was the mastermind behind the November 2015 Paris attacks.During the probe, the NIA found that after leaving IS-ruled areas he came to Turkey and gave a false affidavit in the Indian Embassy saying that his travel papers were stolen during a religious trip.But Moideen was not originally on the NIA’s radar. The agency came to know about him while it was investigating an IS recruit from Maharashtra - Areeb Majeed, who is now under judicial custody.The NIA found that Moideen had recruited 15 people for IS through social media for carrying out terror activities in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-court-sentences-is-recruit-from-kerala-to-life-imprisonment/story-ONT15LC50hUUkiBbxb6T9M.html
28-09-2020||India||First Covid-19 vaccine to be available in India by early 2021, says health ministry||As the world races to develop a potential vaccine against coronavirus (Covid-19), the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Monday said that the first vaccine in India will most likely be available by early 2021.The health ministry said the research to develop a Covid-19 vaccine is being “done expeditiously”. During a media briefing, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said, “Research to develop a vaccine is being done expeditiously. There ar at least 3 viable such vaccine candidates that are in the phase of clinical trials right now in the country. We’re hopeful that within 1st quarter of 2021 it will be available”, as quoted by ANI.Also read | Online portal about Covid-19 vaccine launched, all R&D, clinical trial data on it, says Harsh VardhanWith a spike of 82,170 new coronavirus cases in last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 60-lakh mark on Monday, according to the data provided by health ministry. The health ministry on Monday also released the 100-year timeline history of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) .“Today’s a historic day for ICMR. It’s an honour for me to release the 100-year timeline of the history of ICMR within its premises today. The contribution of scientists associated with it is commemorated and serves as an inspiration to upcoming scientists,” Dr Vardhan told media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-covid-19-vaccine-to-be-available-in-india-by-first-quarter-of-2021-says-health-ministry/story-XhMGOvy9Zp8rqFbsTW44gM.html
28-09-2020||India||Amid fight against Covid, another virus from China has potential to cause disease in India: ICMR||Amid the country’s ongoing fight against Covid-19, scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have discovered another virus called ‘Cat Que Virus’ (CQV) which has the potential to cause disease in the country. Falling under the category of Arthropod-borne viruses and found in pigs and culex mosquitoes, CQV has been largely reported in China and Vietnam.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicScientists at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), ICMR, Pune discovered antibodies for the virus in two out of the 883 human serum samples tested across states. The testing of samples further indicated that these two people were infected with CQV at some point of time. These two samples from Karnataka were found to be positive for presence of anti-CQV IgG antibodies in 2014 and 2017.According to Livemint, ICMR scientists stated that availability of vector, primary mammalian host (swine) and confirmation of CQV from the jungle myna bird signifies the potential of this orthobunyavirus as a public health pathogen in India.The ICMR added that Anti-CQV IgG antibody positivity in human serum samples tested and the replication capability of CQV in mosquitoes indicated a possible disease causing potential of CQV in India.Due to this, scientists developed molecular and serological tests for CQV, screening of host populations and its replication kinetics in mosquitoes.Also read: Study suggests dengue fever may provide immunity against Covid-19The replication kinetics and susceptibility experiments were conducted using three different species of mosquitoes to understand its behavior in Indian mosquitoes.The ICMR study showed that Indian mosquito breeds- Ae. aegypti, Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. Tritaeniorhynchus were vulnerable to CQV.CQV has been isolated and reported from mosquitoes, which is its natural host. The role of birds as a host for CQV transmission and reports of human infection with CQV are not yet documented. Domestic pigs are the primary mammalian host and antibodies against the virus have been found in swine reared locally in China.(With inputs from Livemint)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-fight-against-covid-another-virus-from-china-has-potential-to-cause-disease-in-india-icmr/story-3rDXucfymhluAiT8DFHedJ.html
28-09-2020||India||Govt accountable to people, shocking it said no data was available: Mamata Banerjee||Asserting that every citizen has the right to information, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday hit out at the central government for not providing answers to “most questions” during the recent Parliament session.Taking to Twitter, Banerjee, on the occasion of International Day for Universal Access to Information, said that the government is “answerable and accountable to people”.“Today is International Day for Universal Access to Information. It is shocking how GOI got exposed during the recent Parliament session.“Most answers said ‘no data available’. Every citizen has a right to information. The government is answerable and accountable to the people,” the chief minister tweeted.The Union government, during the monsoon session of Parliament earlier in the month, said many states and Union Territories have not provided details of farmer suicides and hence the national data on the causes of suicide in the farming sector is “untenable”.The Centre also said that it had no data regarding the number of migrants who died or were injured during migration to their native places due to the lockdown.The 74th UN General Assembly, on October 15 last year, proclaimed September 28 as the International Day for Universal Access to Information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-accountable-to-people-shocking-it-said-no-data-was-available-mamata-banerjee/story-xo52E8h6SbuVjxZwwa9xuO.html
28-09-2020||India||Days after Sushant Singh Rajput’s lawyer questioned CBI probe, agency says all aspects are being looked at||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday said that the probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death is still on and the agency is investigating all aspects.Rajput’s lawyer had recently questioned the central agency’s investigation into the actor’s death, saying that the probe was drifting away in a different direction. “All attention is being diverted towards the drugs case. Today, we are helpless as we don’t know which direction the case is going in. Till today, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has not done a press briefing on what they have found out,” Vikas Singh, Rajput’s lawyer was quoted as saying by ANI on Friday.In its reply, the CBI assured that the probe was on and nothing was yet ruled out. “The Central Bureau of Investigation is conducting professional investigation related to death of Shri Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date,” the agency said in a statement.On June 14, the 34-year-old actor was found dead at his residence in Mumbai’s Bandra. Rajput’s father KK Singh on June 25 had lodged a complaint with Patna Police against Rhea Chakraborty, her parents and her brother Showik. The late actor’s family has also named Rajput’s then manager Shruti Modi and his house manager Samuel Miranda in the complaint.The FIR was later transferred to CBI. Apart from CBI, the case is also being investigated by two other central agencies -- Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). While ED is looking into the money laundering allegations, the NCB is probing the drug link into the case. On September 8, the NCB had arrested Rhea Chakraborty for allegedly procuring drugs for Sushant. Chakraborty was arrested along with several others including her brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-sushant-singh-rajput-s-lawyer-questioned-cbi-probe-agency-says-all-aspects-are-being-looked-at/story-PtQEuPwaZtU0t4xydijtpI.html
28-09-2020||India||Assam Police seize 5 kg heroin worth Rs 25 cr in state’s biggest drug bust||In the biggest drug bust in Assam till date, the police have seized 5 kg of smuggled heroin valued at Rs 25 crore. One person has been arrested in connection with the incident. “This is the single biggest seizure of illicit heroin in Assam. The value of the contraband is nearly Rs 25 cr. The recovery is part of our ongoing drive against illegal drugs launched in June this year,” Director General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta told journalists on Monday. The heroin was seized on Sunday night by police in Karbi Anglong district on the Assam-Nagaland border from a truck which was on its way to Guwahati from Imphal in Manipur. One person, Ismail Ali, a resident of Jogighopa in Bongaigaon district of Assam, has been arrested for his involvement in smuggling the contraband. “The seizure shows that our drive against drive is yielding results. The quality of the seized heroin is stated to be of very high grade. I commend the people involved in the seizure,” said Mahanta. This is the fourth seizure of heroin by Karbi Anglong police since August. On August 5, police seized 649 gm of heroin valued at nearly Rs 20 lakh. On September 1, 936 gm of heroin valued at Rs 6.5 cr was seized and on September 15 police seized 1 kilo 40 gm of heroin and arrested three persons||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-seize-5-kg-heroin-worth-rs-25-cr-in-state-s-biggest-drug-bust/story-08N5grtYXOfemf8TsjsQeL.html
28-09-2020||India||Delhi airport’s T2 to resume flight operations from October 1||Flight operations are set to be resume from the Delhi Airport’s Terminal 2, or T2, from October 1 after its six-month closure, the airport operator said on Monday. Only Terminal 3, or T3, of the airport, has been functional given the low frequency of flights since they resumed in May two months after their suspension on March 25 as part of sweeping measures to enforce social distancing to check the Covid-19 pandemic. Terminal 1 is undergoing expansion and remains closed.Also read: Air traffic up at IGI by 21%, says DIAL dataThe Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), the operator, said the resumption of flight operations from T2 will be with 96 air traffic movements--48 departures and 48 arrivals--daily. The movements are expected to increase to 180 by October end.“The terminal [T2] will resume operations with IndiGo’s 2000 series flights and entire operations of GoAir in the initial phase. About 27 counters--11 for GoAir and 16 for IndiGo--have been created to cater to the passengers... The first flight scheduled from T2 after reopening of this terminal would be Srinagar bound Indigo flight, which will depart at 6:25 AM,” the airport operator said in a statement.It said added to start with, IndiGo will cater to 20 destinations from T2. The destinations include Ahmedabad, Amritsar, Bhubaneswar, Bhopal, Bengaluru, Cochin, Guwahati, Indore, Jammu, Lucknow, Chennai, Patna, Srinagar, Thiruvananthapuram, and Visakhapatnam.“In the next phase, from October 8, [flights to] at least 12 more destinations, including Mumbai, Kolkata, Coimbatore, Dehradun, Goa, Hyderabad, Madurai, Jaipur, and Nagpur, will start operating from T2,” the statement said.DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar assured the passengers of a safe and healthy environment. “We have implemented several measures at the airport to ensure passenger safety without compromising their comfort and experience. Our teams have worked round-the-clock to sanitise the vast terminal. DIAL will continue its awareness drive by educating and encouraging passengers to maintain social distance while at the airport.”An airport official said measures like adequate seating arrangements with social distancing markings, sanitisation of high contact surfaces, and contact-less retail outlets have been made to ensure the safety of passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-s-t2-to-resume-flight-operations-from-october-1/story-Y0eCHA07PNsbKiXw9lBpbP.html
28-09-2020||India||IPS officer thrashes wife, pins her down on video. He calls it ‘family matter’||The Madhya Pradesh government on Monday relieved Director General of Police, in charge of Directorate of Public Prosecution, Purushottam Sharma, after a video clip in which the officer is seen beating his wife went viral on social media. According to an order issued by the Home department, the 1986 batch IPS officer Sharma was relieved of his charge at the directorate “with immediate effect”. There is no mention in the order about his new posting. Sharma, however, denied charges of domestic violence against him reportedly made in a letter written to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, home minister Narottam Mishra and director general of police Vivek Johari, by Sharma’s son.In the video clip of less than five minutes that went viral on Sunday, Sharma is seen pushing, hitting and pinning down his wife while two other men, probably from his staff, are seen not interfering at all. Sharma’s wife is seen reacting to her husband’s act and later Sharma is seen showing his hands and complaining that she had injured him. Watch: MP cop’s video thrashing wife goes viral, he says it’s a ‘family matter’ Hindustan Times cannot vouch for the authenticity of the video.After he was relieved from his post, Sharma told reporters that he had not indulged in any violence.“I have not indulged in any violence. This is a matter between my wife and myself. She complained against me earlier too in 2008. We have been married for 32 years. She is living with me and enjoying all the facilities and even travelling abroad on my expense. The point is if she is upset with me, why she is living with me.” The MP State Women’s Commission said it will take suo motu cognizance of the incident.“We are going to take suo motu cognizance of the incident based on the video. The state government should take strict action against the IPS officer,” the Commission’s chairperson Shobha Oza said,Home minister Narottam Mishra said, “I have come to know about this matter through the media only. If there is any complaint, I will look into this.” Despite efforts, Sharma’s wife and son could not be reached for their comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-relieves-top-cop-after-video-of-him-beating-wife-goes-viral/story-Yypm4RCHlbR0lgSVOCGF5I.html
28-09-2020||India||Pakistan should tackle influx of outsiders in PoK, India tells UN rights body||India on Monday rejected Pakistan’s criticism of the human rights situation in the country and called on Islamabad to do more to tackle issues such as the persecution of minorities, enforced disappearances and influx of outsiders in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Also read: Surgical Strike Day: How army soldiers destroyed terror launchpadsExercising its “right of reply” at a discussion in Geneva on situations requiring the attention of the UN Human Rights Council, India also pointed to Pakistan continuing to be a “safe harbour for terrorists” and said more training camps and launch-pads for terrorists had come up in PoK. “None of Pakistan’s vile accusations against India could stifle the voice of the minorities and the people under its subjugation. The fate of religious and ethnic minorities is well known when beheading is the only option in Pakistan in exchange for freedom of religion,” India said in its response delivered by Pawan Badhe, first secretary in the permanent mission in Geneva. “It should be a matter of concern for the Council that Pakistan has been continuously misusing this august forum for malicious propaganda against my country,” he added. Different international organisations had described Pakistan as the “killing field for minorities” and the Ahmadi community continues to be the most persecuted community in Pakistan. “Hundreds of Christians are persecuted every year while maximum of them are subjected to violent deaths in Pakistan,” Badhe said. Pakistan had also “institutionalised enforced disappearance as a tool of subjugation against dissent and criticism” against individuals and the entire society, the Indian response said. “Children as young as 12 years old in Balochistan, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Sindh are normally abducted and trained to be suicide bombers. In a chilling reminder to what Pakistan is capable of, ministers of Pakistan proudly call for another full-scale genocide against [the Baloch people] to resolve the political crisis in Balochistan,” it added. Badhe also said Pakistan’s “deceit and hypocrisy” is reflected in the “orchestrated mass influx” of outsiders to the Pakistan-occupied parts of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh through “discriminatory domicile laws”. “It’s baffling that there are three outsiders for every four [people] in the Pakistan occupied parts of Indian Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. While civil, political and constitutional rights are non-existent in Pakistan occupied parts of Indian Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, deliberate economic policies have also subjugated them to a life of extreme poverty,” he said. At the same time, “full scale training camps and launch pads of terrorists are being escalated in Pakistan occupied parts of Indian Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh at great expense for sustaining cross-border terrorism against India. It’s not without reason that Pakistan remains a safe harbour for terrorists. While the world is busy combating the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan hoodwinks the world to allow delisting more than 4,000 proscribed terrorists to sustain its terror ecosystem,” he added. The Indian response said nothing can change the fact that the “entire territory of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh is an integral part of India”, and Pakistan should see the reality and “stop coveting territories of other countries”. Statistics and data from international organisations have demonstrated that Pakistan is a “minefield for journalists and human rights defenders”, who are often subject to murder, harassment and assault, it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-should-tackle-influx-of-outsiders-in-pok-india-tells-un-rights-body/story-kiGiuch6cktCn4XcC7w7MP.html
28-09-2020||India||Delhi airport to resume flight operations at T2 terminal from October||The Delhi airport will resume flight operations at the T2 terminal from October 1, said its operator DIAL on Monday.The airport has been operating flights from the T3 terminal only since March 23, when flight operations in India were curtailed drastically due to the coronavirus pandemic.“The resumption of operations at T2 will be with 96 air traffic movements (48 departures and 48 arrivals) per day and increase progressively up to 180 by end of October,” said a DIAL press release.Also read: Unlock 5.0: Economic activities, cinema halls and other likely relaxationsFrom October 1, IndiGo will operate all its flights with call signs between 6E2000 and 6E2999 from the T2 terminal. Moreover, entire flight operations of GoAir will be conducted from the T2 from October 1, said the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL).“About 27 counters – 11 for GoAir and 16 for IndiGo - have been created to cater to passengers of respective flights,” the DIAL noted.India suspended scheduled international passenger flights from March 23 and scheduled domestic passenger flights from March 25 due to the pandemic. However, medical evacuation flights and special flights permitted by the aviation regulator DGCA have been allowed to operate.Also read: Mumbai likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases todayIndia resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights from May 25 but in a curtailed manner. Airlines are allowed to operate not more than 60 per cent of pre-Covid domestic flights currently.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country. However, special international passenger flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat mission since May and under the air bubble arrangements formed with various other countries since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-to-resume-flight-operations-at-t2-terminal-from-october/story-QokIlaSp2MZtNKa555dowN.html
28-09-2020||India||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh holds sit-in protest against farm bills at Bhagat Singh’s village||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh held a sit-in protest against the farm laws at Khatkar Kalan in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. He also paid tribute to Bhagat Singh on the latter’s birth anniversary and said we were indebted to his “supreme sacrifice”. Khatkar Kalan is the ancestral village of the freedom fighter. The three farm bills - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have been passed by Parliament and received the assent of President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday.Captain Amarinder Singh said that most farmers in Punjab were marginal and they will be severely impacted by these legislations.“I along with my colleagues from @INCPunjab held a protest against Centre’s Anti-Farmer Laws at Khatkar Kalan in SBS Nagar. Most of our farmers are small & marginal who will be severely impacted by these legislations. We stand by Punjab’s farmers & will do everything to oppose it,” Singh tweeted.In Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country, protests against the three bills have been going on for the past few weeks. In New Delhi, Congress’s youth wing members on Monday set a tractor on fire at Rajpath in protests against the law.“Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers. From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation’s backbone. On [freedom fighter] #BhagatSingh’s birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt’s anti-farmer bills,” the Youth Congress said in a tweet.Meanwhile, according to a Congress leader, former party president Rahul Gandhi is likely to lead a protest in Punjab this week. He is also expected to address a rally. “After Punjab, he may join the protesting farmers in Haryana. But we are not sure if the BJP government in Haryana will allow him to enter the state,” said the leader quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-holds-sit-in-protest-against-farm-bills-at-bhagat-singh-s-village/story-Q21z4mKpcpeq6Dawcjs3gL.html
28-09-2020||India||G20 Leaders’ Summit to be held virtually in November||The G20 Leaders’ Summit, to be held virtually during November 21-22 and chaired by Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, will focus on protecting lives and restoring growth by tackling vulnerabilities uncovered by the Covid-19 pandemic. This will be the second virtual G20 Leaders’ Summit since March, when Saudi Arabia, the current chair of the grouping, had convened a meeting following a suggestion from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss ways to counter the pandemic and its economic impact. India is set to take over as the G20 chair in 2022. The upcoming summit will also build on the outcomes of more than 100 virtual working group and ministerial meetings, said a statement from the G20 secretariat. Also Read: Quad senior officials discuss efforts to ensure open, inclusive Indo-PacificThe G20 has contributed more than $21 billion to support the production, distribution and access to diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines, and injected $11 trillion to safeguard the global economy as part of the fight against the pandemic. It has also launched a debt suspension initiative for least developed countries that will allow beneficiary nations to defer $14 billion in debt payments due in 2020 and to use these amounts for financing their healthcare systems and social programmes. “The upcoming G20 Leaders’ Summit will focus on protecting lives and restoring growth, by addressing vulnerabilities uncovered during the pandemic and by laying down the foundations for a better future,” the statement said. “The summit will also focus on fostering international action to realise opportunities of the 21st century for all, by empowering people and protecting our planet, whilst harnessing the potential of innovation to shape new frontiers,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/g20-leaders-summit-to-be-held-virtually-in-november/story-Is2aFit4q1FfjYKMJkX4jK.html
28-09-2020||India||Brahmos, Akash and Nirbhay: India rolls out its missiles to counter Chinese threat||The 500 km-range Brahmos cruise missile, 800 km-range Nirbhay cruise missiles along with Akash surface-to-air missile (SAM) with a capability to target aerial threats 40 km away are at the core of India’s stand-off weapon deterrence to People’s Liberation Army (PLA) missile deployment in Xinjiang and Tibet regions.While the PLA’s western theatre command has deployed stand-off weapons up to 2,000 km range and long-range SAMs in Tibet and Xinjiang after the Ladakh stand-off started, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times that the supersonic Brahmos, subsonic Nirbhay as well as Akash have been deployed to counter them by India in the worst-case scenario. The Chinese deployment is not limited to occupied Aksai Chin but is located in depth positions from Kashgar, Hotan, Lhasa and Nyingchi along the 3,488 km Line of Actual Control (LAC).India’s main stay in the stand-off weapons is the Brahmos air-to-air and air-to-surface cruise missile with its 300 kilogramme warhead which can take care of airstrips in Tibet and Xinjiang, or a warship in Indian Ocean.The Brahmos missile has been deployed in sufficient numbers in the Ladakh sector with the option to deliver the stand-off weapon from a Su-30 MKI fighter. Besides, the Brahmos can be used to create choke points in the Indian Ocean using the Car Nicobar air base in India’s island territories. The IAF’s Car Nicobar air base is the advanced landing ground for SU-30 MKI’s which can use air-to-air refuellers to protect against any PLA warship threat coming from the Strait of Malacca to Sunda Strait across Indonesia, a senior government official said.While a limited number of Nirbhay subsonic missiles have been produced and deployed, the stand-off weapon system has a range that can reach up to 1,000 km, and has both sea skimming and loitering capability. This means that the missile is capable of flying between 100 metres to four km from ground and pick up the target before engaging it. The Nirbhay missile has only a surface-to-surface version.The third stand-off weapon used by Indian military is the Akash SAM, which has also been deployed in sufficient numbers to counter any PLA aircraft intrusion across the LAC in Ladakh sector. The PLA Air Force fighter activity in occupied Aksai Chin continues albeit at a reduced level. However, there is concern over PLA air activity across the Daulet Beg Oldi sector near Karakoram pass.The Akash missile with its three-dimensional Rajendra, a passive electronically scanned array radar that has the capacity to track 64 targets at a time and simultaneously engage 12 of them. The missile has the capacity to engage all aerial targets including fighter planes, cruise missiles and ballistic missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brahmos-akash-and-nirbhay-india-rolls-out-its-missiles-to-counter-chinese-threat/story-USsylwt4wxOaXzrml07DgJ.html
28-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases todayWith the majority of Covid-19 cases reported in the month of September, Mumbai is likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases on Monday. Over 50, 000 cases were reported in September so far, the highest number of cases recorded in a month. Read more.Farm bills: Protesters from Youth Congress burn tractor at Rajpath, raise slogansThe Congress’s youth wing on Monday said a group of its members set a tractor on fire at Rajpath, which connects the India Gate to the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi, in protest against the new farm laws as the party planned to intensify protests against the legislation. Read more.PM Modi to hold virtual summit with Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi and his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen will hold a virtual summit on Monday to strengthen the bilateral relations between the two countries, the Ministry of External Affairs said. Read more.Irrfan Khan’s son Babil pours his heart out in moving note: ‘I’d give every cell in my presence to remember your skin’Babil Khan, the son of late actor Irrfan Khan, penned an emotional note in his memory. Babil said that he would give everything just to feel Irrfan’s presence: ‘My spinal cord will rotate and my soul can implode, in a search to feel you close’. Read more.IPL 2020: ‘He’s the best of the best when it comes to batting’ - Former England captain backs Virat Kohli to hit form soonFormer England cricketer Kevin Pietersen has backed an under-fire Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli, saying that it will be interesting to see how he comes back after a heavy defeat. Read more.Use your phone in car but only for these reasons: Motor Vehicle rules updatedA blanket ban on using mobile phones in vehicles is a thing of the past as the Union Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MoRTH) has recently issued notifications regarding various amendments in Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989. Read more.Watch: Tractor set on fire at Delhi’s India Gate to protest against farm lawsA tractor was set on fire near Delhi’s India Gate on Monday morning to protest against the farm laws. The protest was being held by Punjab Youth Congress workers. Around 15 to 20 people had gathered at India Gate and set the tractor on fire. Police said that the incident took place at around 7.15-7.30 am. Watch full video here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-likely-to-cross-0-2-million-covid-19-cases-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-K1mrwIAuRMtTKGA41tLIzN.html
28-09-2020||India||Karnataka bandh: KSRTC buses ply in Mangaluru despite bandh called by farmers||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses continue to ply on roads in Mangaluru despite a statewide bandh being observed by various farmers’ organisations on Monday against the amendments to the agricultural produce market committee (APMC), land reforms ordinances and labour laws introduced by the B S Yediyurappa government.Similarly, normal traffic movement was seen in Shivamogga. However, the police force has been deployed in Kalaburagi in the wake of a statewide bandh.While protesters tried to stop a bus in Hubli by blocking road amid a statewide bandh today. However, passengers arrived at Majestic Bus Station, Bengaluru to board a bus. Meanwhile, All India Kisan Sabha and other organisations protest in front of Hemavathi statue in Hassan and held a bike rally.On the other hand, some farmers’ organisations offer flowers to shopkeepers in Hubli, requesting them to support the statewide bandh.The bandh has been called in to protest against Farm Bills that has now become acts, land reform ordinances, amendments to Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and labour laws.The Bills that have now become acts are- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.On September 27, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi warned that acts of damaging public property, if any, will be dealt with strictly and assured the public that there will be no disruption in transport services in the state.As per media reports, on September 22, the state government tabled “The Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020” in the assembly, to replace the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Ordinance, 2030. The new bill will further ease restrictions on buying agricultural land, and ceiling on the extent of land one can hold. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bandh-ksrtc-buses-ply-in-mangaluru-despite-bandh-called-by-farmers/story-DnUGg04QJaN6FukTVa9NfN.html
28-09-2020||India||Marble, granite to adorn Rs 800-cr Kashi Vishwanath Corridor||The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, an expansion and beautification project for the Kashi Vishwanath temple which will ensure visibility of the temple directly from the ghat, will be embellished with Baleshwar stones, Makrana marble, Kota granite and Mandana stones, officials said Monday. The construction of the corridor is underway across an area of 5 lakh sq ft area. A number of facilities for the devotees are coming up.The Public Works Department (PWD) is the executing agency of the Rs 800-crore project.“Construction work of the KV Corridor is in progress. Its structure is being built. Red sandstone of Chunar is being used in making the pillars,” said Sanjay Gore, executive engineer of the PWD. Baleshwar stone will also be used in the Kashi Vishwanath corridor after four or five months, when the wall of the corridor takes shape. Likewise, Makrana marble will be required for the flooring of the corridor while the designing of the corridor would be done with Kota granite. Mandana stone, which looks like the red sandstone of Chunar, would be used on the stairs to be built at the ghat, said officials. Stones of various sorts will add to the grandeur to the corridor that has started taking shape gradually with work on at full pace. “At present, 900 workers are engaged in the central government’s flagship project for Varanasi. The workforce will be increased to 2,500 in October,” said Deepak Agarwal, divisional commissioner. He said officials of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board and PWD would ensure completion of the project by the deadline of October 2021. As many as 290 buildings were acquired and demolished to create space for the project.The Adityanath government had formed the Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board to ensure completion of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marble-granite-to-adorn-rs-800-cr-kashi-vishwanath-corridor/story-Fki2kKeKbIzjpmo8jH6tmI.html
28-09-2020||India||PM Modi to hold virtual summit with Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen will hold a virtual summit on Monday to strengthen the bilateral relations between the two countries, the Ministry of External Affairs said.According to a statement issued by the ministry, an MoU in the field of intellectual property cooperation between the two countries will be signed on the occasion. Another major outcome will be the joining of the International Solar Alliance (ISA) by Denmark.“The virtual bilateral summit will give an opportunity to the two leaders to comprehensively review the broad framework of the bilateral relationship in the context of the time-tested friendly ties between the two countries and give broad political direction for a strengthened and deepened collaborative partnership on key issues of mutual interest,” the statement said.Also read: PM Modi, Rajapaksa meet: India extends $15mn to promote Buddhist ties, discusses bilateral currency swap and tradeIn Denmark, around 25 Indian companies are operating in IT, renewable energy and engineering sectors. Nearly 5,000 Indian professionals are working in major Danish companies, while 20 Indian IT companies are operating in Denmark for decades, according to official data procured by news agency PTI.Denmark has been an important development partner, contributing to India’s ‘White Revolution’ and growth of wind energy, the news agency said. Bilateral trade between the countries has also grown by 30.49 per cent between 2016 and 2019 as the trade volume rose from USD 2.82 billion to USD 3.68 billion, PTI said.Carrying the tradition of bilateral cooperation forward, major Danish companies such as Grundfos, Danfoss, Vestas, LM Wind, Novozymes, Rockwool, Haldor Topsoe, etc. have set up manufacturing facilities in India under the ‘Make in India’ scheme, it added.According to PTI, India and Denmark are also cooperating in fighting climate change by exporting wind turbines. Danish companies like Babcock&Wilcox have set waste-to-energy facilities in Punjab and Haryana to fight air pollution. Meanwhile, Danish companies RAMBOLL & COWI are engaged in engineering and design for the trans-harbour sea-link in Mumbai which will link Mumbai with Navi Mumbai. (with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-virtual-summit-with-danish-counterpart-mette-frederiksen-today/story-8U7Y685N9ABgchLL2cyJgI.html
28-09-2020||India||PM Modi pays tribute to Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary, saying his valour will inspire people for ages.Singh was born on this day in Punjab in 1907. His defiance of the British rule from a very young age, his revolutionary acts to target the empire and his hanging when he was only 23 have made him one of the more notable heroes of the Indian Independence movement.  “Tributes to the immortal martyr Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary. His saga of bravery and valour will inspire the countrymen for ages,” the prime minister tweeted.  He also attached a clip of his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast made on Sunday in which he had paid rich tributes to Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-bhagat-singh-on-his-birth-anniversary/story-Kf1k0ZLmZy4Yr9yQhAUMxN.html
28-09-2020||India||4 Bangladeshi contract killers arrested from Santiniketan in south Bengal||Six people, including four Bangladeshis, were arrested along with firearms and explosives from Santiniketan area in south Bengal on Sunday, police said. After preliminary investigations police said that the four were contract killers who were hired to assassinate a politician in Birbhum district. Further investigation is on. “We have seized some sharp weapons, at least five country made firearms and some explosives from them. The explosives are being sent for forensic analysis. The six would be produced in the court on Monday,” said a senior officer of Birbhum district. The house in which the accused had gathered and were arrested from, is located less than three kilometres from Visva Bharati. “While four of the accused are Bangladeshi, two are from Birbhum district, preliminary investigation has revealed. We are investigating,” said Shyam Singh, superintendent of police of Birbhum district. This comes in less than 10 days after the National Investigation Agency arrested six alleged Al Qaeda operatives from the adjoining district of Murshidabad on September 19. One more was arrested on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-bangladeshi-contract-killers-arrested-from-santiniketan-in-south-bengal/story-9G5gU03cvMWCFbiv25p1KO.html
28-09-2020||India||Unlock 5.0: Economic activities, cinema halls and other likely relaxations||India is nearing the conclusion of the fourth stage of nationwide Unlock, which will come to an end on September 30. Unlock 4, which began on September 1, saw the central government give various significant relaxations like resumption of Metro services for the first time since late March, and partial reopening of schools for classes 9-12.Now, with the fifth stage of Unlock set to begin from October 1, speculations are mounting over new relaxations that the Centre may allow. Last week, in his virtual meet with chief ministers of seven worst-affected states, prime minister Narendra Modi suggested steps be undertaken for implementation of the idea of ‘micro-containment’ zones.With festive season round the corner, there are expectations Centre would open up more activities for Unlock 5. Here’s what to expect:Economic activities: While the Ministry of home affairs (MHA) had allowed public places like malls, salons, restaurants and gyms to open with restrictions, more economic activities are likely to be allowed from October with physical distancing. In his meeting with the chief ministers, PM Modi had stressed on reassessing containments and lockdowns in a way that curbs Covid-19 spread. However, he had further said because of this, economic activities should not face problems.Also Watch l Covid-19: India crosses 6 million mark, last million in just 11 days Cinema Halls: Despite fervent appeals by the Multiplex Association of India, the MHA had given permission only for open-air theatres to resume operations, from September 21.However, in August, Amit Khare, secretary, Information and broadcasting ministry, had given the home ministry a sitting arrangement formula for movie theatres. As per the plan, alternate seats in the first row and the next were to be kept vacant in order to maintain social distancing.Also, on Saturday, West Bengal became the first state to allow theatres and cinema halls to open from October 1.Tourism: The sector, one of the worst-hit due to the Covid-19 lockdown, recently witnessed some recovery with the reopening of tourist destinations, including Taj Mahal. It is likely to see more recovery during Unlock 5 as more tourism centres and tourist places may open their doors for travellers. Recently, the Uttarakhand government gave tourists permission to enter the state without any institutional quarantine.Schools, colleges reopening: Several schools and colleges across the country reopened from September 21 for students from class 9-12, on voluntary basis, and it is expected to continue for the next month. However, according to people aware of developments, primary classes will continue to stay closed for a few more weeks. Universities and colleges, meanwhile, have already started their admission tests and the new academic year may begin via online classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-0-economic-activities-cinema-halls-and-other-likely-relaxations/story-UQvMzxf6GmO1cZvW0SGoUN.html
28-09-2020||India||Environment ministry seeks legal status for elephant reserve, states ask for the draft||The Union environment ministry has proposed an amendment to the Wildlife Protection Act to protect elephant reserves and corridors on the lines of those of the tiger and sought responses of states to a proposed Comprehensive National Elephant Action Plan (NEAP), officials aware of the matter said. State forest departments have been asked to come up with management plans and provide forest staff and strategies to protect elephants, they added.The Wildlife Protection Act bars mining and industrial activity around tiger reserves. It says boundaries of tiger reserves cannot be changed unless the National Board of Wildlife approves them. The law provides statutory status to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). NTCA is the regulatory body for around 50 tiger reserves with around six percent of the country’s total wildlife and also home to around one-third of the protected species.With the amendment, the ministry proposes to have a similar legal framework for 30 elephant reserves across 15 states and statutory status to Project Elephant for the protection of the species. India has about 30,000 elephants, which account for 60% of the Asian elephant population.Also Read: West Bengal proposes to set up rail fences to rein in elephantsDS Srivastava, a former member of Project Elephant’s steering committee, said they have been fighting for legal status to elephant reserves for over a decade but no state was ready for this. “Once the legal right is given, several restrictions would come in place. Then, the states will not be able to allow mining and other activities in these areas, which could cause huge monetary loss to state exchequers.”Prajna Panda, the national coordinator of the ministry’s Elephant Cell, said India has no action plan whereas countries like Bangladesh and Nepal have much smaller elephant populations but have developed their own action plans. Panda added a committee formed in 2019 held its first meeting for NEAP.An amendment to the Wildlife Protection Act to provide elephants legal status similar to tigers is among the committee’s suggestions.Jharkhand’s chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Vishwa Nath Shah, who attended the meeting, said, “We are studying it. Besides, we are also evaluating the status of the elephant reserve in Jharkhand.”Shah said they do not know in which form the legal status would be introduced. “Until a legal framework is [finalised]... it will be too early to say anything.”Also Read: Elephant electrocuted in Chhattisgarh, 9th death in last four monthsWest Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee said they have taken several steps to protect elephants. “We will respond to the proposed changes in the law when the draft is presented.”The rising human-elephant conflicts and loss of habitats and corridors are other key issues discussed with states for the action plan. Officials said they want coordinated efforts to reduce human-animal conflict through mitigation works in elephant corridors.The government told Parliament last week that elephants killed 2,300 people from 2015 to 2019. The number is 10 times the people killed by tigers. Also, 400 elephants have been killed or poisoned as a result of conflict with humans.Raman Sukumar, an elephant expert, backed the proposal for legal status to elephant reserves. He said states need to ensure that the elephants stay within the reserves and do not stray outside in search of food and water to reduce the conflict. “The states also need to remove hurdles from the elephant corridors. If necessary, some elephants can be relocated to reserves having lesser elephant populations.”The first meeting for the action plan was held with forest officials from the south zone on September 15. “Various issues related to mitigating man-elephant conflict are being discussed,” said Panda. Panda added it has been decided that instead of state-specific plans, the national plan would include division or region-specific plans as the country’s elephant population is concentrated in four zones.India’s first elephant reserve was created in Jharkhand in 2001 as part of Project Elephant. Spread over 4,529 square kilometers, it had around 280 elephants, as per a 2017 census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-seeks-legal-status-for-elephant-reserve-states-ask-for-the-draft/story-8Gyio5nDJS8fsDSZDzVh3N.html
28-09-2020||India||Farmers across India protest against farm bills. In photos||Famer organisations across India are up in arms against the farm bills notified by the government on Sunday after President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent.The three bills - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - have now become acts.According to the opposition parties, the bills were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary norms and are anti-farmer and corporate-friendly. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parted ways over the issue of farm bills. SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from the Union Cabinet earlier.The government claims that the bills will ensure a higher profit for the farmers as they would be able to sell their produce to whomever and wherever they want .“They have the power to sell their fruits or vegetables to anyone, and anywhere. It is this power which is the foundation of their growth, now the same power has been given to farmers across the country. They have got the freedom to sell not only fruits and vegetables but grains, sugarcane, mustard and anything that they grow, they can now sell to anyone and anywhere they like,” PM Modi said while addressing the 69th edition of his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme.The farmers fear that the bills would render the current Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement system ineffective, leaving them at the mercy of “big farmers” and they would be forced to make distress sales to private companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-across-india-protest-against-farm-bills-in-photos/story-cQBssQF5wg7Cc5AhgJPxQM.html
28-09-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi likely to join farmers’ protest in Punjab||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is likely to lead a protest in Punjab this week in support of farmers agitating against the government over three farm laws passed by Parliament last week, people familiar with the development said. Gandhi is also expected to address a rally, the date and venue of which is being finalised, a Congress leader said. “After Punjab, he may join the protesting farmers in Haryana. But we are not sure if the BJP government in Haryana will allow him to enter the state,” said the leader quoted above. The protest rally is part of the Congress party’s ongoing two-month-long nationwide agitation programme against the government over the three farm laws. Also Read: PM Modi reaches out to farmers amid angerThe Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 were cleared by both the Houses of Parliament last week, triggering widespread protests, especially in Punjab and Haryana. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave his assent to the three contentious bills, despite the Opposition urging him to return them and only sign once they were passed after proper rules and procedures were followed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has termed the laws a “watershed moment” in the history of Indian agriculture, which will empower millions of farmers. In his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast on Sunday, he said a large number of farmers have benefited since fruits and vegetables were brought out of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) Act in some states a few years ago, and asserted that grain-producing peasants will now have the same freedom. Also Read: ‘Great to see Akali Dal holding flag of farmer’s rights aloft’: Farooq Abdullah on NDA exitHowever, the move saw the exit of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), one of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s oldest allies, from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Its Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal also resigned from the Modi government. Gandhi, after returning on Tuesday from the United States where he had accompanied his mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi for a routine health check-up, did not attend the proceedings or join the Opposition’s protests in Parliament on the last day of the monsoon session on Wednesday in view of the protocols being followed during the Covid-19 pandemic. However, he has been repeatedly raising the issue on the social networking site, Twitter. In a video message as part of the Congress party’s ‘Speak up for Farmers’ campaign on Saturday, Gandhi told farmers that they were being persistently attacked. “First demonetisation, then GST, then you were not given a single rupee at the time of coronavirus, attempt was being made to kill you (farmers), you are being made a slave of corporates, and now these three deadly bills,” he said. “We are standing with you (farmers) and together we will stop these bills. I want to say to the government—you have made a very big mistake. If farmers hit the streets, it will result in tremendous damage. Don’t waste time, withdraw these laws immediately and give guarantee on MSP (minimum support price) to farmers,” Gandhi said. On Thursday, the Congress launched its “mass movement” against the government over “anti-farmer, anti-poor and black laws”. The party has also decided to collect two crore signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed legislations. By announcing nearly two months of protests, the principle Opposition party is seeking to regain some of the political space it has lost over the years by targeting the farmers of the country. India has about 146 million farmer, going by operational land holdings, according to an agriculture census of 2015-16. The Congress is also seeing the issue as a 2015 moment when Sonia Gandhi played a key role in bringing 14 Opposition parties together against the proposed land acquisition bill that forced the BJP-led government to withdraw the controversial ordinance and shelve the idea of bringing a new legislation to replace the 2013 Act. As part of the programme, the Congress will hold several press conferences across the country. On Monday, senior leaders from states will walk to the respective Raj Bhavans and submit a memorandum on the farms bills to governors to be handed over to the President. On October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Congress will observe ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Farm Labourers Day)’. There will be protests and demonstrations in every district across the country demanding the immediate withdrawal of the laws. On October 10, state-level conferences will be held, and from October 2 to October 31, the party will collect signatures from 20 million farmers from all parts of the country. On November 14, the birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, a memorandum, along with signatures of 20 million farmers, will be submitted to the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-likely-to-join-farmers-protest-in-punjab/story-M8hK04yBEJ12o6RjVGl7mK.html
28-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India crosses 60 lakh-mark, latest million added in 11 days||India on Monday recorded 82,170 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (in the last 24 hours), which pushed the nationwide tally to above 60 lakh, according to Union health ministry update on Monday morning.The latest million cases came in just 11 days.Out of the 60,74,703 cases, 9,62,640 are active cases while 50,16,521 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals, the health ministry data showed.At least 1,039 people succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours which pushed the death toll to 95,542.Delhi, meanwhile, recorded 3,292 new cases of the disease which pushed the number of infections in the national capital to 2,71,114. More than 40 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in Delhi for the second consecutive day on Sunday. With this, the number of deaths in the national capital has gone up to 5,235.The health ministry, meanwhile, said on Sunday that India recorded 10 lakh recoveries in the last 11 days.“India’s total recoveries cross the landmark milestone of 50 lakh. The rise from 1 lakh in June ‘20 has been steep. The last 10 lakh recoveries were added in just 11 days,” the health ministry said on Twitter.It added that recovered cases have outpaced active cases by over five times.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the cumulative total samples tested up to September 26 is 7,12,57,836. The number of samples tested on September 26 is 9,87,861.India is the second-worst hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the US, while it is in the third spot in terms of fatalities globally after the US and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-crosses-60-lakh-mark-latest-million-added-in-11-days/story-96r2jlNgJMGLHOFu6wtlQJ.html
28-09-2020||India||Illegal properties of ex-MP Atiq Ahmed’s aides demolished in Prayagraj||Joint teams of Prayagraj Development Authority and Rajkiya Asthan demolished two structures in Beli area of the city on Sunday that belonged to associates of former MP Atiq Ahmad.A heavy force was deployed in the area during the drive following a protest by Samajwadi Party leader Richa Singh and some locals on Saturday. After completing the demolition of the house of Arshad which remained incomplete on Saturday, the teams demolished a two-storeyed lodge of Bhutto which was constructed on state land. Later, the teams evacuated the house of Kammu, a former aide of Atiq Ahmad and demolished it in the evening. PDA Zonal Officer Alok Pandey said the houses and a lodge of Bhutto, Rashid, Arshad and Kammu were illegally constructed on state land and were demolished according to rules and regulations.Kammu and his brother Jabir were once close associates of Atiq Ahmad. However, they distanced themselves from Ahmed after they were implicated in a double murder in September 2015 allegedly at the behest of the former MP. Dhumanganj police later cracked the case in October 2017 and claimed that murders of woman Alkama and her driver Surjeet were carried out by Ahmed’s shooters Abid, Farhan and others. Atiq Ahmed is now in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-properties-of-ex-mp-atiq-ahmed-s-aides-demolished-in-prayagraj/story-vjp3GnSRHysnraWZ9eomkJ.html
28-09-2020||India||India needed labour law reform. Now implement them | Opinion||Nobel laureate Douglass North wrote that institutions are made up of formal rules and informal norms of behaviour, and their enforcement characterise and shape human conduct and create incentives and disincentives for people to behave in a particular manner. The government of the day is supposed to create required institutions , incentives and structures for economic growth. Hence the need for laws, constitution and regulations. The evolution of laws over a period of time are not only essential but mandatory for growth in all spheres of human life. Any law made by the government needs to be implemented in letter and spirit by the system created for that purpose. One may call them inspectors or officials as per one’s own way of looking at the environment around themselves. Success or failure of the law in achieving its objectives depends on the integrity, efficiency and level of commitment of the implementing agency towards performance of duty. No law exists in isolation, its efficacy , utility and success depends upon the prevailing environment in which the implementing agencies operate. This is true for all laws including the plethora of labour laws enacted over a period of several decades. There is another truth: That any law or regulation enacted in the past needs to be revisited and updated with changing times and requirements of the society.The three labour laws passed by Parliament, in the recently-concluded session, have been under discussion for decades. Since labour is in the concurrent list, the central and respective state governments have been enacting laws from time to time. With a plethora of laws in vogue, a need was felt to simplify the labour laws and make them in tune with the current economic environment. The three bills passed by Parliament relate to occupational safety, health and working conditions, industrial relations and social security. Along with the earlier enacted Wage Act, these four codes subsume in the 44-odd central laws enacted during the past several decades.The labour reform bills that replace archaic labour laws with codes have been pending for a long time. The current three bills were presented in Parliament in December 2019 and were referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee for examination. After holding detailed consultation with stakeholders, the committee submitted its report to Parliament making several recommendations. The government accepted 174 of the 233 recommendations of the standing committee on labour and incorporated them in these three codes. These codes not only reduce the multiplicity of labour laws but include several reforms which are supposed to be beneficial to both sides.Also Read: Understanding the new labour codesThe most contentious of all the codes, the Code on Industrial Relations seeks to consolidate and amend laws relating to trade unions, conditions of employment in industrial establishments or undertaking, investigation and settlement of industrial disputes. The Industrial Relations Code has raised the threshold for requirement of a standing order — rules of conduct for workmen employed in industrial establishments — to over 300 workers. Interestingly in the earlier Industrial Disputes Act of 1947, Chapter V-B was introduced by an amendment in 1976, requiring firms employing 300 or more workers to obtain government permission for layoffs, retrenchments and closures. A further amendment in 1982 (which took effect in 1984) expanded its ambit by reducing the threshold to 100 workers. Meanwhile, during the past few years, 16 states have already increased the threshold for closure, lay off and retrenchment in firms with up to 300 workers without the central government permission. The Code on Social Security, 2020, consolidated laws relating to social security and ensures extension of social security to all employees and workers both in the organised and the unorganised sector. The Social Security Code enables the creation of a National Social Security Board which will take on the responsibility of formulating suitable schemes for unorganised workers, gig workers and platform workers. Under the Code on Occupational, Safety, Health and Working Condition code, the government has provided for a full-fledged survey for migrant workers for which the Centre will source data from various agencies and states. It also brings these sections of workers under the ambit of social security schemes that include life and disability insurance, provident funds, health and maternity benefits and skill upgradation. The codes also provide for issue of appointment letters to workers, digitising payment of wages and their free annual medical checkup.In any democracy, people are entitled to have their own opinion and all opinions need to be considered and weighed upon to arrive at the most beneficial piece of legislation to take the country forward. Every law has to aim to maintain the best possible balance between competing interests and should try to give as much comfort to the weaker of the two sides, as much possible in the larger interest of our nation. Ultimately these laws will be as good as their implementation, mere letters of law have no meaning. The government has to ensure that they are implemented with honesty and integrity, then only the country will be able to achieve the desired goal of speeding up economic growth and unleashing the untapped potential of thousands and thousands of our industries, businesses and entrepreneurs to take the nation to new heights.(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needed-labour-law-reform-now-implement-them-opinon/story-mZlT5RM1x90ySCeoZpeiEK.html
28-09-2020||India||Supreme Court to hear today petition seeking postponement of civil services exam||The Supreme Court will on Monday hear a petition filed by aspirants of civil services examination seeking postponement of exam, conducted by Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and floods in the country.The petition will be heard by a bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna.On Thursday last week, the petitioners’ lawyer had told media that notices have been issued to respondents (UPSC and Centre). But in the order which was later uploaded on the court’s website made it clear that the judges only agreed to hear the matter without issuing any notice.The petition has been filed by 20 UPSC aspirants against conducting of the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination on October 4.“Conducting the aforesaid examination across India at such perilous time, is nothing else but putting lives of lakhs of young students (including Petitioners herein) at utmost risk and danger of disease and death,” they have said in the plea.It further said that the civil services exam, being a recruitment examination, is altogether different from an academic examination and in the event of its postponement, there would not be any question of delay or loss of any academic session.The aspirants have pleaded that due to non-availability of exam centres in their hometowns, many of them are facing “unimaginable” hardship due to non-availability of or unsafe health conditions in, the PG accommodation/ hostels/ hotels etc, where they are forced to stay with their family members, once they are travelling to an outstation examination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-today-petition-seeking-postponement-of-civil-services-exam/story-RmogHMfFZsjZIyrHOKF3PO.html
28-09-2020||India||Saarc museum conceptualised in 2005 yet to be operational: CAG||A South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) museum, envisaged by India in 2005 to reflect the living tradition of member nations, is yet to take off, even though the government has already spent over Rs 18 crore on the project, according to a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report tabled in Parliament earlier this week. The CAG has come down heavily on Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) for not being able to complete the project in time. The Saarc Museum of Textiles and Handicrafts was proposed by India during a summit held at Dhaka in November 2005 to preserve various crafts and related traditions, train artisans and crafts persons, foster design skills, hold promotional events and undertake research. Also Read: Cross-border terror among key challenges for Saarc: JaishankarThe museum was to be established on the lines of Saarc Regional Centres where the capital costs are borne by the host country and the operational costs are shared by all the member states. In the first inter-governmental meeting of Saarc in February 2007, it was decided that the museum will be established in India and in the second meeting; Dilli Haat, Pitampura (Delhi) was decided as the venue for the museum. After the approval, MEA leased the space for the museum from Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) in November 2009, for which it paid rent of Rs 15.59 crore for two exhibition halls in January 2010 upfront. India’s share of the maintenance charges was Rs 4.74 crore for the subsequent 13 years and the project cost was Rs 25.18 crore. CAG said the design of museum was circulated to all Saarc member nations—Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Maldives and Nepal. Also Read: How to make Saarc useful in the times of Covid-19 pandemicA public sector unit—Handicrafts and Handlooms Export Corporation of India Limited (HHEC)—was selected as the implementing agency for setting up, developing, managing and maintaining the halls for the museum at a total cost of Rs 4.85 crore, for which an advance of Rs 50 lakh was released in March 2013. According to CAG, the museum was expected to be operational from March 31, 2015. Till September 2019, MEA had already released Rs 18.87 crore for the museum, which included Rs 13.88 core to DTTDC for lease rent and Rs 4.59 crore to HHEC for development of the museum, according to the CAG report. “Though the Museum Project was to be completed by 30 March 2015 and made operational by 31 March 2015, the project is still not complete and operational as of December 2019,” CAG added. “…deficient systemic approach in monitoring of the project by MEA resulted in non-completion of the project of establishment of SAARC Museum which was envisaged as a vibrant centre reflecting the living tradition of the Saarc and to provide a catalyst approach to the SAARC preferential trading agreement process despite incurring an expenditure of Rs 18.47 crore and a delay of over 10 years,” CAG said. The ministry informed the CAG during the audit that the project is stuck as ministry of textiles is contemplating the closure of HHEC. MEA didn’t respond to HT’s query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saarc-museum-conceptualised-in-2005-yet-to-be-operational-cag/story-8YvAOzv44Q3NJaTqPoJhAM.html
28-09-2020||India||‘R value’ in 5 states with high Covid-19 infection rate dips||The states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have seen a dip in the R value or the reproductive number during the last week, according to a recent study.Reproductive number is the number of people getting infected by an already infected person on average.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 millionThis value has gone below 1 in these high-burden states in the week starting September 19, according to the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, and this has helped flatten India’s Covid-19 curve. However, the R value in Maharashtra and Karnataka has begun creeping up again, said Sitabhra Sinha, a researcher at the institute.India’s R value dropped from 1.1 to 0.9 during the same week, the study indicated, adding that the durability of this trend depends on the infection rate in the cities of Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru. “India’s Covid-19 tally is dependent on how Maharashtra is doing as the state accounts for a large number of active cases.Therefore its contribution to the national average is significant. It will also depend on the magnitude of the R value and the state continues to dominate the R value of India,” said Sinha.Also read: Covid-19: India inching closer to 1% death rateCentre needs to come up with a plan to contain spread of infection in states with a high R value, even if they have a low number of infections currently, as they may easily end up replacing those with highest R value currently, he added.Among the states with a high number of Covid-19 cases, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have R value below 1. In Chennai, Bengaluru and Kolkata, the value has gone above 1 after a slight dip earlier, the study added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/r-value-in-5-states-with-high-covid-19-infection-rate-dips/story-gGTOl5S89C8TqAUdkZ3S1I.html
28-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Karnataka bandh against state farm bills today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka Bandh: Farmers to protest against state farm bills todayFarmers’ organisations in Karnataka called for a state-wide bandh on Monday in protest against the amendments to the agricultural produce market committee (APMC) and land reforms acts introduced by the B S Yediyurappa government. Read moreSurgical strike day: How army soldiers destroyed terror launchpadsThe government is celebrating the fourth anniversary of the surgical strikes on Monday. The strikes against the terror groups were carried out in response to the deadly attack on an army camp in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri in September, 2016. Read moreTrump’s ban on TikTok temporarily blocked by federal judgePresident Donald Trump’s ban on TikTok was temporarily blocked by a federal judge, dealing a blow to the government in its showdown with the popular Chinese-owned app it says threatens national security. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘That was the worst first 20 balls that I have ever played’: Rajasthan Royals hero Rahul Tewatia on slow startVillain one moment, hero the next. The phrase ‘two sides of the same coin’ could not be exemplified by anyone other than Rahul Tewatia. On Saturday, chasing a record total, the Rajasthan Royals batsman walked out at No. 4 after the dismissal of Steve Smith with the team still requiring a mountain to climb. Read moreSuchitra Krishnamoorthi on Bollywood drugs investigation: ‘Aghast that no men were named and called for NCB probe’Singer and actor Suchitra Krishnamoorthi talked about the ‘culture of misogyny’ amid the escalating investigation into an alleged drug racket in Bollywood after Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. She questioned why only women were being named and ‘shamed’ in the probe being conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Read moreHonda showcases electric SUV concept in major show of intent for futureHonda has finally shown some intent of taking not just the demand for SUVs in global markets by the horns but also stepping strongly into a world of electric mobility by recently showcasing its electric SUV concept at Beijing Auto Show. Read moreFarmVille, one of the most popular Facebook games, is shutting down this yearIf you’re an early user of Facebook you must have played or still play games such as FarmVille on the platform. After a crazy run of 11 years, Zynga has announced that FarmVille will be shutting down on December 31 this year. Read moreAmid IPL 2020 and ‘crazy heat’ of Dubai, Preity Zinta misses ski trip and this throwback picture is proofCurrently in Dubai to support her team Kings XI Punjab at the Indian Premier League 2020, Preity Zinta set fans relating as she shared a cool throwback picture from her earlier ski trip. Read moreIPL 2020: Rajasthan Royals chase record total to beat KXIP by 4 wicketsRahul Tewatia(51 off 31 balls) hit five sixes in an over after Sanju Samson(85 off 42) and Steve Smith(50 off 27) hit sparkling fifties as Rajasthan Royals chased down the highest ever total of IPL to beat Kings XI Punjab by 4 wickets in Sharjah. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-karnataka-bandh-against-state-farm-bills-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Eqa1TkgNbOh4FqBbcUIkKM.html
28-09-2020||India||Bhim Army chief demands treatment of Hathras rape survivor at Delhi’s AIIMS||Bhim Army Chandrashekhar Azad dodged the Uttar Police police on Sunday and reached JN Medical College in Aligarh to meet the Hathras gang rape survivor.He demanded that she be shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in New Delhi and a compensation of Rs one crore be paid to her family.The girl in Chandapa village of Hathras district had gone to a farm on September 14 where she was molested by a youth from the same village. Later, she named three others and a case of gang rape was registered. All four were arrested and Kotwali in-charge in Hathras was removed and sent to police lines. The Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) was deployed at the house of the survivor.BSP chief Mayawati tweeted about the incident and Azad announced he would meet the victim at JN Medical College of Aligarh and traveled by bus and motorcycle despite elaborate police arrangement to check his entry. He was stopped by the police when he insisted on meeting the victim. Azad was finally allowed to talk through video conferencing. The supporters of Bhim Army had reached Ghabana toll plaza despite barricading by police. However, their leader Chandrashekhar Azad reached JN Medical College at 4 pm on Sunday on a motorcycle. “The victim girl should be shifted to AIIMS in Delhi for better treatment. Nobody is allowed to meet her. We demand a government job to her family member and Rs one crore to her family as compensation,” Azad said. Earlier in the day, BSP chief Mayawati had targeted the state government over the gang rape of the girl from Hathras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhim-army-chief-demands-treatment-of-hathras-rape-survivor-at-delhi-s-aiims/story-7jSFS7c3LwOpk2LVUDdb0H.html
28-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India inching closer to 1% death rate||India’s positivity rate of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may have been hovering around 8% for a while now, but the death rate has been declining gradually, highlighting the fact that India is losing fewer people to the viral disease as compared to most of the developed countries in the world.Also read: Fatality rate lower than 1% over last 10 days, says Delhi health minister Satyendar JainAs on today, India’s case fatality rate (CFR), the proportion of people who have died among the confirmed cases, at 1.5% is nearly half of the global average of 3.2%. The Centre is aiming at bringing down the CFR to 1% or below.Government mortality analysis data shows that men are far more likely to die from Covid-19 in India than women, with the former accounting for 69% of all fatalities, which is in line with the global scenario and based on the evidence currently available. The analysis of mortality data by the Union health ministry also shows that a majority of deaths were among those above 50 years of age. It showed that 1% of those who succumbed to the viral infection were below 17 years; another 1% between 18 and 25 years; 11% deaths among 26- and 44-year-olds; and 36% among people in the 45 and 60 years age group. People with comorbidities and elderly are at high risk, as almost 70% of those who die have one or more comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac, renal or liver disease.The data collated by government’s integrated disease surveillance programme based on the information received from various hospitals across the country shows that about 77% of those hospitalised had some form of underlying medical condition. Many of those who succumbed to disease had been suffering from more than one condition.Hypertension and diabetes are the most common comorbidities found in these patients, with 5.63% and 5.10% hospitalised patients suffering from it respectively. Liver disease is a close third with at least 1.82% of the patients being diagnosed with it.The other common health conditions included heart disease, asthma, chronic renal disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), low immunity, malignancy, bronchitis and chronic neuromuscular disease.India’s cumulative Covid-19 cases as on date stand at 6,073,310, and the number of patients who have died of the viral disease since the first death on March 12, is 95,567.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-inching-closer-to-1-death-rate/story-CXFqVxOIIJaRaqK4WlsbdJ.html
28-09-2020||India||SAD-NDA: Farm bill was final nail in the coffin. Here’s a look at other reasons for split||There is a long history behind the decision by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to sever ties with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, SAD was upset over being ignored by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre. There are close to half a dozen instances where SAD didn't get the expected sport from its long-time ally.The most recent one was the move by the Centre to make Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi the official languages of Jammu and Kashmir. SAD wanted Punjabi to be included in the list, since there is a substantial chunk of Punjabi speaking people in the region. The party’s chief Sukhbir Singh Badal even wrote a letter to Prime Minister Minister Narendra Modi, but the the request was not taken into account, said Hindustan.SAD leader and Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral told Hindustan that it was not a big issue, and logical too, but the party’s request was ignored.Similarly, the Lok Sabha passed the interstate river water dispute (Amendment) bill despite SAD being opposed to it. The bill seeks to resolve river water disputes within a stipulated time period. SAD feels it that the water meant for Punjab can go to other states. However, the bill has to still receive Rajya Sabha nod.Another reason for the split, according to Hindustan, is lone SAD lawmaker in Haryana Balkaur Singh joining the BJP. The party blames the BJP for it, and feels the rules of the alliance were broken.There were differences between the two during last year’s Lok Sabha elections also. SAD wanted to contest on Amritsar and Hoshiarpur seats, but the BJP didn’t agree to it. The SAD has also complained that the Centre never took advice from party patron Parkash Singh Badal, who it says is the tallest farmer leader.The leaders in SAD have also said that though they were the oldest constituent of the NDA, they were never consulted on important issues in the last few years. The SAD also said that NDA parties meet before a Parliament session, but those meetings are strictly about the agenda of the session, according to Hindustan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bill-move-was-final-nail-in-the-coffin-here-are-other-reasons-for-sad-nda-split/story-nbpYO36Ake00xII4Pz7PCP.html
28-09-2020||India||Monsoon to begin withdrawal today||Southwest monsoon is likely to begin withdrawing from west Rajasthan on Monday, according to scientists at India Meteorological Department (IMD), who said that conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from some more parts of Rajasthan and Punjab and some parts of Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in the next two or three days. . Most of northwest India will witness dry weather hereafter. The commencement of monsoon withdrawal is 11 days late, compared to the new normal date set by IMD this year. As per the new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates issued by IMD in April, the normal date for commencement of monsoon withdrawal from northwest India is September 17 and for complete withdrawal from the country is October 15 . Till last year, the normal date for commencement of withdrawal was September 1 and October 15 for complete withdrawal. IMD’s new onset dates were calculated by scientists in IMD Pune based on analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based on data from 1971 to 2019.Also Read: Air quality on the decline in Delhi, expect worse in coming week“For the past five years we have been documenting monsoon withdrawal only after September 15. So the dates have changed, which is why new dates were issued by IMD,” said senior scientist Sunitha Devi, IMD, while presenting the weekly weather report on Friday.Last year monsoon started withdrawing only on October 9 against the normal date of September 1, and the prolonged rain brought a deluge in parts of Maharashtra, Kerala and Bihar in August. Monsoon withdrew completely in only eight days by October 17. There is a cyclonic circulation over east Bihar and adjoining sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim and a trough (area of low pressure) from the cyclonic circulation to west central Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh coast across Gangetic West Bengal and coastal Odisha. There is another cyclonic circulation is over south Andhra Pradesh and its neighbourhood. Under the influence of these systems, widespread and heavy rain is very likely over Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya and coastal Andhra Pradesh during the next 24 hours. Very heavy rain is also likely over parts of Meghalaya in the same period. Dry weather is likely over most parts of northwest India, IMD’s Sunday night bulletin said.Monsoon rain over the country is 9% in excess since June 1, with 30% excess over south peninsula; 16% excess over central India; a 15% deficiency over northwest India and 7% excess over east and northeast India.Three main synoptic features are considered for declaration of monsoon withdrawal from the western parts of northwest India—there should be no rain in the region for at least five days, there should be an anticyclonic wind pattern and a considerable reduction in moisture content as inferred from satellite water vapour imageries.Further withdrawal from the country is declared based on reduction in moisture as seen in the water vapour imageries and prevalence of dry weather for five days, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-begin-withdrawal-today/story-AqZ3faW45cnsHI2QV8sfeI.html
28-09-2020||India||14-year-old boy killed by big cat in UP’s Kheri forest||A big cat, suspected to be a leopard, killed a 14-yar-old boy in Sahabdin Purwa village of Kheri forest division in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. The deceased, Chandan, had gone to fetch fodder from the fields when the animal, hiding in the bushes, attacked him, said villagers. Hearing his screams, villagers in the adjacent fields rushed to the spot, after which the animal fled. Some villagers said the animal was a tiger while others identified it as a leopard. The village is located across Ghaghra river, under Isanagar police limits of Dhaurahra tehsil. Since the movement of a leopard was reported in this area earlier also, the spotted cat is now suspected to have attacked the boy.On September 19, a leopard was captured on cameras installed up by the forest authorities in Chakdaha village area where a big cat had killed a 13-year boy, Brijesh on September 14. Since then, the forest authorities had set up cages to trap the big cat. But it has so far evaded the trap. Anil Kumar Patel, divisional forest officer (DFO), north Kheri. confirmed Sunday’s killing but said it was yet to be confirmed if the animal was a leopard or a tiger. However, indicating possibilities of its being a leopard, Patel said the forest department field staff had been sent to the spot to collect pugmarks and match them with those of the leopard sighted earlier in the area. A 12-year-old girl in the same village had a miraculous escape after she was attacked by a leopard on Saturday. According to villagers, Reena was carrying food for her father in the fields, when a leopard pounced on her. The girl raised an alarm, after which villagers rushed to her rescue and chased the leopard away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-year-old-boy-killed-by-big-cat-in-up-s-kheri-forest/story-LdjJKzsBqWFQqyJMh963eO.html
28-09-2020||India||Surgical strike day: How army soldiers destroyed terror launchpads||The government is celebrating the fourth anniversary of the surgical strikes on Monday. The strikes against the terror groups were carried out in response to the deadly attack on an army camp in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri in September, 2016.During his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reminded the nation about the strikes.“Four years ago, around this time, the world witnessed the courage, bravery and valour of our soldiers during the surgical strike. Our brave soldiers had just one mission and goal - to protect the glory and honour of mother India at any cost. They did not care for their lives, at all. They kept moving on the line of duty and we all witnessed how they returned victoriously. They made mother India proud,” PM Modi had said.The strikes were carried out by Indian Army’s special forces which crossed the Line of Control (LoC) on the night of September 27-28, 2016, and destroyed the terror pads in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). This was in response to the suicide attack carried out by Pakistan based terrorists on an army base in Uri north Kashmir’s Baramulla district o September 18 that year. Nineteen soldiers were killed in the attack.PM Modi had said that the attackers will not go “unpunished” and that they will not be forgiven and the sacrifice of 18 jawans will not go in vain.The army’s build-up for the strikes began on September 24. The special forces squads set out for the mission armed with night-vision devices, Tavor 21 and AK-47 assault rifles, rocket-propelled grenades, shoulder-fired missiles, Heckler and Koch pistols, high explosive grenades and plastic explosives. The teams were 30-strong each and had specific targets.Civilians living close to border in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab were evacuated started at 10 pm on September 27, before Indian soldiers went across.These terror camps were meant to serve as launchpads to send terrorists into the Indian territory. Sentries at these launchpads were neutralised by snipers before the troops went in and finished the nearly five-hour-long operation.The army had said that Indian soldiers razed six launchpads to the ground and gunned down 45 terrorists at various locations. These launchpads were under surveillance for over one week before the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surgical-strike-day-how-army-soldiers-destroyed-terror-launchpads/story-BQvXFBImvr5ODkjIfwnhAJ.html
28-09-2020||India||India far from any kind of herd immunity against Sars-CoV-2: Govt||Early indications from the second nationwide sero surveillance conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) show the Indian population is still far from achieving herd immunity against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday.“Even the soon-to-be-released second sero survey indications are that we are far from having achieved any kind of herd immunity which necessitates that all of us should continue following Covid-appropriate behavior,” the health minister said in response to queries from social media users.  Herd immunity is used to describe the indirect protection conferred to a population in which the majority of people have natural or acquired immunity to an infection. This is possible either through a large proportion of the population getting infected or vaccinated.Taking part in the interaction titled Sunday Samvad (dialogue) with social media users wherein he answers their questions on Twitter, Harsh Vardhan said the results of the second sero survey will soon be made public, but cautioned that people should guard against a sense of complacence.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“ICMR’s sero survey report should not create a sense of complacency in people as usually herd immunity is achieved when about 60-70% of a country’s population has developed antibodies against the virus. Since that is not the case for us yet, we must know that a significantly large population in India is susceptible to getting infected, which is why it is extremely important to observe Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” the minister added.The blood samples for the sero survey are tested for the presence of IgG (Immunoglobulin G) antibodies that determine if a past infection is due to the virus. Close to 24,000 samples that were lifted around the end of August and early September have been tested across the same 70 districts in 21 states, which were covered in the first sero survey.Sero surveys are important also to determine whether the disease has entered the community transmission stage or not.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 million“All the parameters for collecting samples were the same around this time also, including the sample size,” the health minister said.According to ICMR officials, the Phase 2 sero survey is a follow-up of the first, and the process is a repeat of what was done in May, when the movement of people was restricted.“We have to see how much difference has lifting of lockdown made to the disease prevalence in the country. Same areas/clusters will be covered this time also, but samples will be lifted of different people,” said an ICMR official, requesting not to be identified.ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai (Tamil Nadu) is the nodal agency to supervise the survey and is processing the samples and analysing results.Experts in epidemiology also say India has a long way to go in achieving herd immunity.Also read: Why adequate testing is crucial to saving lives“We are way off the mark as far as herd immunity is concerned; however, the goal shouldn’t be to achieve it faster, rather in a graded manner so that our health care system is ready to manage those whose disease progresses to serious levels. Not taking measures to curb transmission, like the way Sweden did, is not an option for us,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, professor, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.The first sero survey that was conducted by ICMR in May 2020 revealed that the nationwide prevalence of the coronavirus infection was about 0.73%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-far-from-any-kind-of-herd-immunity-against-sars-cov-2-govt/story-oqn2kH8LazgJMNtCpO5EdP.html
28-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The number of Covid-19 tests carried out in India continues to fluctuate wildly. On Saturday, only 987,861 tests were carried out in the country, 26% lower than the 1.34 million tests carried out the previous day. A day before, on September 24, India carried out 1.49 million tests; on September 23, the number was 1.15 million; and on September 22, 953,683.As Dispatch 168 pointed out on September 26, this doesn’t help anybody — simply because there has been no pattern in India’s until then highly predictable Covid-19 numbers since September 10. That column added that because of this, the fact that the seven-day average of daily new cases fell by around 7,000 in the week to September 24 meant nothing.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 millionOn Saturday, Kerala’s positivity rate was 11.8%. The positivity rate is the number of people testing positive expressed as a percentage of those being tested. Karnataka’s positivity rate the same day was 12.9%, Madhya Pradesh’s 10.04%, Chandigarh’s 10.22%, Chhattisgarh’s 20.6%, Goa’s 25.3%, Maharashtra’s 21.3%, and Puducherry’s 10.8%. Together, these states and one Union territory accounted for almost one in every two cases of Covid-19 recorded on Saturday. Add Andhra Pradesh, which had a positivity rate of 9.6% on Saturday, to this group, and it emerges that almost 60% of the daily cases in India that day came from states with relatively high positivity rates.This is another indicator that the infection isn’t really slowing in India (as much as I wish it were).Some of these states (which are following the right testing strategy) are on a long plateau of positivity rates (more on this shortly), which means they are unlikely to see a sudden dip in cases, although, eventually, they will see a fall.This is why I used the term relatively high to describe a positivity rate of around 10% — because a rate between 8% and 12% can actually be a good thing in states testing adequately and following the correct testing protocol. For instance, for weeks together, Tamil Nadu’s positivity rate ranged between 8% and 12%. The state was testing heavily and adequately, and its dependence on the highly unreliable rapid antigen tests was low to non-existent, yet its positivity rate didn’t fall. The state’s positivity rate trajectory was on a long plateau that’s typically seen in the case of cities, provinces and countries following the correct testing approach. It is only in recent weeks that the state’s positivity rate has fallen. On Saturday, for instance, it was 6%.Also read: Why adequate testing is crucial to saving livesBut other states (which are not following the right strategy) are not testing adequately. Positivity rates are complex and need to be understood in the correct context — in some cases, a moderately high positivity rate (10%) may be a sign of adequate testing; in other cases, a low rate or a high one may be sign of inadequate testing; and in still others, a low rate may well mean the infection in the region is in control. To resort to one of this writer’s oft-used refrains, it’s important to track the trajectory of positivity rates to understand them. Once again, Tamil Nadu’s trajectory is a text-book pattern — a rise with increased testing, then a plateau, and finally, a fall.But positivity rates can also be skewed by the choice of tests — an inaccurate one, such as the rapid antigen test (it identifies many infected individuals as uninfected) can artificially push down the positivity rate. Dispatch 156, published on September 12, details the math of how this happens.The worrying thing in Saturday’s numbers, from this writer’s perspective, is that Bihar’s positivity rate was less than 1% (actually 0.97%), and Uttar Pradesh’s 2.74%. Both states have high populations, poor public health systems and social indicators, and depend heavily on rapid antigen tests.October and November is when India’s annual festive season peaks. It is a time for celebration (and people tired from months of lockdowns and restrictions are waiting to exhale) and consumption (something the flagging Indian economy badly needs).Simultaneously, with half the school-year over, there is a growing clamour in certain quarters to reopen schools.Decisions on what kind of celebrations can be allowed at this time, and whether schools should reopen need to be made on the basis of data and science — and there are far too many inconsistencies in recent data.India’s apex medical research body ICMR and the Union health ministry need to investigate why data for the past few weeks has been inconsistent — not tout recovery percentages as a sign of success. After all, with a case fatality rate of 1.6%, ultimately 98.4% of people infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus will recover. It’s just math.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-EAxdM2T5lPmPPc0kGeYvZL.html
28-09-2020||India||Farm fires set to continue as subsidy may not encourage shift to tech||The harvest season has already begun in many parts of northwest India, and even as most farmer groups agitate against the farm bills, community leaders said crop stubble burning may continue this year too, saying subsidies on straw management machinery is not enough for small farmers to switch to machines.Satellite images released by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) have shown an increasing number of stubble burning incidents in Punjab over the past five days, especially in Amritsar district. Nasa also warned that with plumes of smoke being seen over Delhi, the city’s air quality may also deteriorate in the coming weeks. Delhi government data shows that stubble burning accounted for 44% of the city’s air pollution last year.Also read: Current approach not helping cut farm fires, says Kejriwal in letter to JavadekarA silver lining, however, is that the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) will in certain farms this year test its microbial consortium, which helps decompose stubble quickly, thereby removing the need for any straw management machinery. But it may not be scaled up to all of northwest India immediately, officials said.“We had been working on the microbial consortium for a couple of years after the happy seeder (for straw management) was introduced. Last year, it was tried in Uttar Pradesh and it had worked. So, after the crop is harvested with a combine harvester, it needs to be chopped so that the straw is short and the microbial consortium can be used. The money for straw management machinery to be subsidised has also been released to Punjab and Haryana so farmers can access that. I think there will be a further reduction in crop stubble burning this year compared to last year,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director, Indian Council for Agricultural Research.But farmers are not aware of the microbial consortium’s effectiveness. “We have heard about the solution. If it works, nothing like it. The only worry is that if straws from paddy don’t decompose , it will delay the sowing for the Rabi season. They should do a trial,” said Dharmendra Kumar, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union. Also read: Air quality on the decline in Delhi, expect worse in coming week“No machine can remove the straw effectively and farmers end up spending on the machines and fuel. So there was talk of giving direct subsidy to farmers of about Rs 100 per quintal. But that has not happened. Instead they have used that money to subsidise straw management machinery,” he added.Harvesting started a week early this time, according to Rattan Singh Mann, chief of the BKU’s Haryana unit. “I have seen small farmers are already setting fire to their farms after harvesting. That’s because it was very warm this month which prepared the crop for early harvest. Small farmers who do not have access to machinery will continue to burn stubble this year. But the Haryana government has made both cooperative societies for renting machines and is also offering subsidies to those who need to buy it,” Mann said.BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said a large number of farmers have not received subsidies to buy straw management machinery this year, so obviously they will burn stubble. “Farmers are extremely disturbed about the farm bills also. It’s a crisis,” said .Besides causing pollution, burning also affects the soil’s fertility. Burning one tonne of straw accounts for loss of 5.5kg nitrogen, 2.3kg phosphorus, 25kg potassium and 1.2kg sulphur. Heat from burning straw penetrate into the soil up to 1 cm. Repeated burning permanently diminishes the bacterial population by more than 50% according to an analysis by Centre for Sustainable Agriculture.Centre under its in-situ management of crop residue scheme has allocated Rs 1,151.80 crore for subsidising straw management machinery from 2018-19 to 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-fires-set-to-continue-as-subsidy-may-not-encourage-shift-to-tech/story-2NjHD8p7eBmURKK5DimsuL.html
28-09-2020||India||Air traffic up at IGI by 21%, says DIAL data||Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport — between May 25 (when domestic flight operations began in the country) and August 25 — handled around 37% of the country’s total air traffic movements, data shared by airport operator DIAL showed. DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) said this number was at least 21% higher than the domestic air traffic the Delhi airport handled during the pre-Covid period.Air traffic movement in the country was suspended on March 25 this year to contain the spread of Covid-19. After two months of complete lockdown, the government resumed flight operations in May. While international flights continue to remain restricted and are being operated on select routes only under the Vande Bharat Mission within an air bubble agreement, movement of all domestic flights on all routes has been allowed.Data from Delhi airport further states that during the first nine weeks of resumption of service, the airport recorded a significant rise in the number of domestic fliers compared to pre-Covid traffic. The airport used to cater to 18% of the country’s domestic air traffic passenger share before the lockdown. The number shot up to 26%, in the nine weeks after the lockdown on air travel was lifted.In terms of footfall, Delhi International Airport Ltd said, while domestic passenger footfall increased from 8,93,000 (per month average during pre-Covid period) to an average footfall of 9,99,000 between May 25 and August 25, the international section saw an increase in passenger footfall from 1,15,000 to 2,15,000 during the same period.Explaining the hike, an official from the airport said the 21% raise in domestic traffic was primarily because Delhi has better domestic connectivity to other parts of the country. Also, when air space was opened, a lot of international passengers flew in to Delhi and then continued on to their onwards domestic journeys from IGI, thereby raising the footfall in Delhi drastically. The official further said, many airports, due to their state policies or other reasons, could not resume flight operations immediately from May 25, shifting their passenger loads to other airports. This also resulted in many passengers booking their departing or arriving flights from or to Delhi airport, he said.Delhi International Airport Ltd added, that Delhi airport also catered to 36% of the country’s total international passengers traffic, under Vande Bharat Mission, raising the IGI airport’s international traffic by 9%. Prior to the Covid-19 lockdown, Delhi airport was handling 27% of India the country’s total international passengers.An official from the Delhi Air Traffic Control said the domestic air traffic has recovered by up to 50-60% in August as compared to the pre-Covid lockdown period. “Earlier, an average of 1,300 flight operations were handled by the ATC at Delhi airport in a day. After May 25, when airspace was reopened, traffic had slowed down and the ATC handled only about 20-30% of the daily pre-Covid flights. But that is changing and the aviation sector is slowly regaining its pace and the per day air traffic is back to almost 50-60% (of pre-Covid times),” the official said.With increasing domestic traffic, the Delhi airport has also decided to reopen Terminal 2. At present, only Terminal 3 is in service. Starting October 1, GoAir will shift all its flight operations back to T2. IndiGo will also partially shift back some of its flights to T2. Terminal 1, that is undergoing expansion, will continue to remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-traffic-up-at-igi-by-21-says-dial-data/story-WLw8GryYEROWBaq7OoFDaO.html
28-09-2020||India||Tourism likely to flourish post-Covid-19||NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant has said that India is uniquely placed to provide experiential tourism, which will be the hallmark of the post-Covid-19 era, considering the wealth of cultural diversity and heritage sites in the country.Describing the crisis in the global tourism sector as temporary, he predicted that it will bounce back with a vengeance and flourish :because of the human desire to explore”. “Post-Covid there will be a massive opportunity for India, once it builds seamless travel experience,” Kant said at the second HT Tourism Conclave. “The world of tourism will move towards experiential and shorter trips. People will focus on unique experiences. India’s wealth of culture, heritage, archaeology and nature uniquely place it to provide such experiences for people to rediscover themselves.” Kant added that tourism will move towards technology, which will be a driver and determinant of the success of many of the stakeholders in the sector. “Technology will become a key player, as even now eight of the companies growing and expanding are technologically driven,” Kant said. “It will also be key dividing factor and a driver of growth. Tour operators and travel agents will have to adapt to a new business model to survive as people will depend more and more on mobile and digital mediums.” The tourism ministry has cited Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) estimates to suggest that the loss of revenue to tourism can range between Rs 72,000 crore and Rs 1.58 lakh crores in 2020-21. The United Nations World Tourism Organization is predicting a fall within the range of $910 billion to $1 trillion in international tourism spending. But Kant said he believes that the impact of the pandemic is temporary. “The pandemic has only altered the progress, and the industry will need a phased recovery,” he said.He added that the sector needs support, but will bounce back. Initially, Kant said, in the short to medium term, the focus has to be inward, and domestic tourism will be the first driver of recovery. “This provides an opportunity to build great infrastructure and an inward-looking Incredible India 2.0 states,” Kant said. “States can create top class products. Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have an incredible tourism potential. As it is, the Udaan scheme offers connectivity to remote locations now, as the travel will shift from far away locales to less urban destinations closer to people’s homes,” he added. According to Kant, the sector will bounce back. “The human spirit will conquer Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-likely-to-flourish-post-covid-19/story-6hh7nIVlkeb1Dv83RRAwkJ.html
28-09-2020||India||BJP may be able to offset the impact of Akali exit||Perception management will be the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) biggest challenge in Punjab and other agrarian states after the Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) decision to end their 24-year-old alliance on the controversial farm sector reforms.The BJP wouldn’t be that badly off without the SAD if it manages to set up a negotiating table with the agitating farmers to limit the bushfires. That’ll set the stage for it to exercise the alliance options it has and the Akalis do not in the sensitive border province.Given the history of the Khalistan Movement of the 1980s, the Centre’s initiative to find a middle ground should come sooner than later. Punjab is the key as much to the country’s food security as to its national security imperatives. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance can achieve the twin objective by reaching out to the restive peasantry without standing on prestige. Also read: President Kovind gives his nod to all 3 farm bills, government notifies themFor its part, the SAD, derided as a fief of the Badal family, has apparently broken free of the NDA in search of its lost glory as a party of struggle and agitation. It had earned the spurs in the post-Independence Punjabi Suba movement and the way it fought Indira Gandhi’s Emergency. Its 1975-77 court arrest campaign ran for 19 months when its top leadership was in jail. That was also the phase when the SAD boasted of such tall leaders as Master Tara Singh, Sant Fateh Singh and Giani Kartar Singh (in the vanguard of the Punjabi Suba stir), Gurcharan Singh Tohra, JS Talwandi, HS Langowal and a much younger Parkash Singh Badal. The parallel Prime Minister Narendra Modi drew a few years ago between Badal and Nelson Mandela was a tribute in fact to his SAD moorings, the years its leadership spent in jails for the causes to which they were committed. Also read: Farm stir set to intensify as Punjab CM plans sit-inAll that is part now of the folklore the SAD inherited but failed to preserve. In its traditional support base of Jat Sikhs, the Dal has today a challenger in SS Dhindsa’s SAD (Democratic). The other breakaway faction that went by the name of the Taksali group has since faded out with many among its prominent faces teaming up with Dhindsa.Having served as a minister under Atal Behari Vajpayee, Dhindsa gained proximity to the BJP at the cost of his mother party. The Padma Bhushan the Modi dispensation conferred on him in 2019 had taken the Badals by surprise.Little wonder then that Dhindsa is widely seen as a substitute for the Badals in the NDA’s scheme in Punjab. A political observer who said it in as many words is former Rajya Sabha MP Tarlochan Singh, who had set up a meeting between Vajpayee and Badal to bring the SAD and the BJP together in 1996. Also read| ‘Their reasons for quitting alliance weren’t sufficient’: Punjab BJP on SAD’s exitThe Akalis then had spurned the Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader HS Surjeet’s efforts to get them to back HD Deve Gowda. The latter became PM when Vajpayee couldn’t show the numbers he needed in Parliament after being in office for 13 days.The other reason why the BJP could be confident of ploughing the furrow without the Badals is the inroads the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) has made in Punjab through its frontal organisation with the same acronym, the Rashtriya Sikh Sangat. Its activities have riled the Sikh clergy but on the ground, it’s believed to be making headway. From its standpoint, the SAD has come to see the BJP’s crisis of perception over the farm laws as an opportunity for the image makeover it direly needs. In the last assembly polls, the Dal lost the principal Opposition slot to the Aam Aadmi Party. That was after the 2014 parliamentary polls that saw it winning as many seats (two seats each) as the BJP.Also read: Farm bills get President’s assent amid protests, SAD’s exitThe ground, therefore, is slipping from under the SAD’s feet. While it fights to recover its lost appeal, the Dal’s historical proclivity to show itself as the sole defender of the Sikh cause could divide on communal lines what’s essentially a farmers’ movement for economic rights. The possibility of such an eventuality in the state bordering Pakistan lends extra urgency to a dialogue between the Centre and the organisations leading the farmers’ stir.A helpful template from the past could be the civil society interface that came about in the aftermath of the events of 1984. The group comprised such men of gravitas as Marshal of the Indian Air Force, Arjan Singh, Lt Gen JS Aurora, Ambassador Gurbachan Singh and Inder Gujral. A panel with matching eminence grise could be the bridge even now between the Centre and the leaders of the farm community. That could help prepare ground for direct talks — and a mutually agreeable accord.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-may-be-able-to-offset-the-impact-of-akali-exit/story-kkg1YZ0KywNJg9MsE9ajgM.html
28-09-2020||India||In Manipur, newly inducted ministers allocated cabinet portfolios||Three days after induction as ministers in the council of ministers of the three-and-half year-old BJP-led coalition government in Manipur, chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Sunday allocated portfolios to the five new ministers in his cabinet.Chief Secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar issued a notification in this regard on Sunday.As per the notification, chief minister N Biren Singh will continue to hold Home, Personnel, Planning, Revenue portfolios and any other department not allocated specifically.On the other hand Sorokhiabam Rajen has been allocated Education, Fisheries Command Area Development Authority; Vungzagin Valte has been assigned Tribal Affairs & Hills, Transport, and General Administrative Department while Oinam Lukhoi has been given the charge of Agriculture, Veterinary & Animal Husbandry, Tourism.Thokchom Satyabarta has been allocated Consumers Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, and Law & Legislative Affairs & Employment while Okram Henry has been given Municipal Administration Housing and Urban Development, Social Welfare, Cooperation. On Thursday, three BJP MLAs Sorokhiabam Rajen Singh (Lamsang), Vungzagin Valte (Thanlon), Thokchom Satyabarta (Yaiskul) and two ex-MLAs Oinam Lukhoi (Wangoi) and Okram Henry (Wangkhei) were sworn in as cabinet ministers after six ministers were dropped. Lukhoi and Henry were Congress MLAs who had resigned and joined BJP.The six minister who were dropped from the council of ministers include V Hangkhalian (Agriculture and Animal Husbandry), Nemcha Kipgen (Social Welfare and Cooperation) and Th Radheshyam (Education, Labour and Employment), L Jayantakumar (Health & Family welfare), N Kayisii (Tribal Affairs & Fisheries) and K Shyam (Consumers Affairs Food & Public Distribution).While Hangkhalian, Nemcha Kipgen and Radheshyam are from the BJP, Jayantakumar and Kayisii are from the National People’s Party. Shyam is from Lok Janshakti Party.On Friday, women folk of Kangpokpi, the native constituency of BJP legislator and former social welfare minister Nemcha Kipgen, staged a sit-in demonstration against dropping her from the council of ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-manipur-newly-inducted-ministers-allocated-cabinet-portfolios/story-UIwcvugGbaMaHYuUVXb5iN.html
28-09-2020||India||Jaswant Singh: Bidding adieu to a political stalwart||Jaswant Singh, a founding member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who served as the external affairs, defence and finance minster at different points of time in the government of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee (1998-2004), passed away on Sunday after a prolonged illness. He was 82.Tributes for Singh, an army officer-turned-politician, poured in from top the brass of the BJP, with whose leadership he had a bitter falling-out in 2014 when he was denied a party ticket to contest the Lok Sabha election from Barmer in Rajasthan. He contested the election, which was his last, as an independent candidate and lost. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote in a post on Twitter that Singh served the nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long innings in public life. “…During Atal Ji’s Government, he handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs. Saddened by his demise,” the PM wrote. Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and former PM Manmohan Singh penned letters to former MP Manvendra Singh expressing grief over the demise of his father Jaswant Singh. A former Major in the Indian Army, Singh’s four-decade-long political journey traversed through highs and the lows. His stature in the party, his scholarship and erudition as a parliamentarian secured him a position in the Vajpayee cabinet despite the reservations the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological fount of the BJP, harboured about him. In 1998, the Sangh put up stiff resistance to two Vajpayee picks -- Brijesh Misra as the National Security Advisor, and Singh as the possible finance minister. Eventually, Singh was given the defence portfolio.A nine-time member of Parliament, elected four times to the Lok Sabha and five times to the Rajya Sabha, he was the minister for external affairs minister when an Indian Airlines flight headed to New Delhi from Kathmandu was hijacked to the Afghan city of Kandahar on December 24, 1999. Singh had to escort Maulana Masood Azhar and two other terrorists to Kandahar to secure the release of the passengers and crew who had been held hostage. After India conducted the nuclear tests in 1998 and the US imposed sanctions on India, Singh was the lead negotiator for talks with the then US deputy secretary of state, Strobe Talbott. The two-year-long negotiations paved the way for the visit in March 2000 of then US President Bill Clinton, which was considered a turning point in India-US relations. He was first expelled from the party in 2009 when the BJP parliamentary board, following an uproar, took a dim view of his book Jinnah - India, Partition, Independence. When he was expelled from the party, he did criticise the BJP for turning sycophantic, but rejoined the party after 10 months of being out in the cold. He faced a second expulsion in 2014 for six years, when he chose to defy party orders and challenged the BJP’s decision to not field him as its candidate from Barmer.The deftness and political acumen he showed as the leader of the party in Rajya Sabha helped him forge connections with the opposition leaders and was counted as the moderate face of the Vajpayee-era BJP. Supporting his candidature for the Vice President’s post, the then AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa with whom he shared a rapport had said there were two reasons for backing Singh. The first being her “personal regard” for Singh and the second being the “association that goes back 28 years”. Singh, who was a leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha and chairman of the Public Accounts Committee of Parliament, which oversees government spending, was upset by the party sidelining him, yet chose not to join the political adversaries of the BJP. In May 2014, when he was constantly asked about his political future outside the BJP, he said the Samajwadi Party “was very kind” and that he had received calls from Mulayam Singh and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, but he was not looking forward to joining any other party.Veteran BJP leader L K Advani described Jaswant Singh as a dear friend, and said he was an “outstanding parliamentarian, astute diplomat,and above all, a patriot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaswant-singh-bidding-adieu-to-a-political-stalwart/story-MMyf96l7TtKRdpbgZ8xw1J.html
28-09-2020||India||3 including 7-year-old killed as van collides head-on with bus in UP’s Kannauj||Three persons, including a seven-year-old boy, were killed while seven others seriously injured on Sunday evening when their van collided head-on with a bus in Uttar Pradesh’s Kannauj district, police said. After colliding with the van, the bus fell in a roadside ditch. Eighteen passengers of the bus received minor injuries, the police said.According to Kotwali police station SHO, Vikas Rai, the accident took place on the GT Road at Jalalpur village of the district. The seven people, who were seriously injured, were in the van, police said.Among the deceased, one was Ayush, the son of a man named Sonu, who was returning with his family members to Kanpur from Farrukhabad after attending the last rites of his brother-in-law.The van’s driver Ajit Kumar (30) and Shakuntala (35) also died in the incident, police said. Three of the seriously injured, whose condition was critical, were referred to the Medical College and Hospital in Tirwa.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the loss of lives, and directed that the injured persons should get adequate treatment, a statement issued by the UP government said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-including-7-year-old-killed-as-van-collides-head-on-with-bus-in-up-s-kannauj/story-EUCwh5HS8zoxbthHp90L1I.html
28-09-2020||India||Unused rural funds hint migrants may be back at work in cities||With just one month left for the plan to wind up, the Narendra Modi government has so far spent just 56% of the funds on a special initiative to provide employment to migrant workers who returned home during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the lockdown enforced to prevent its spread. The Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan was launched on June 20 by Prime Minister Modi from Bihar’s Telihar village. Under the scheme, works worth Rs 50,000 crore were to be provided to the migrant workers for 125 days — a little more than four months. An analysis of government data shows that at the end of 95 days, only Rs 28,138 crore has been spent.Official data also shows that 300.69 million days of work — in other words, just about 10% of the total Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) mandays for this year — have been generated through the special intervention.Also read| Covid-19 to flood: Tracing issues that may impact Bihar pollsAs millions of migrant workers started returning home after the lockdown was enforced on March 25 amid a jobs crunch in the big cities, the government devised the Rozgar Abhiyan to provide jobs to skilled and unskilled workers. The Centre announced that a “focused campaign” will run in mission mode for 125 days across 116 districts in six states. “In 125 days, nearly 25 schemes will be brought together to reach saturation. These will include Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, Gram Sadak Yojna, Jal Jeevan Yojna, PM Gram Sadak Yojna, etc,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said. As the programme enters its last month, Indian Railways emerged as the top employer, generating one in every 3 mandays under the scheme.“The Indian Railways has generated 10,66,246 mandays of work till 25 September 2020 under Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan in 6 States viz. Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh,” the ministry stated on Sunday. Also read| Data on migrant deaths being collected from states: Govt to ParliamentConstruction of rural houses has driven maximum number of projects with 377,000 units, followed by 121,000 water conservation and water harvesting works and 92,158 projects of laying fiber optic cables under Bharat Net. Former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra is not worried about the slow pace of expenditure. “If you see, for the last few months, the demand for jobs under MGNREGS has dipped. Since a large number of programmes under the this rozgar scheme comes under MGNREGS, the demand under this programme must have slowed down.” “But I think the government must continue with the scheme beyond its stipulated 125 days as more people are expected to demand work after the agricultural season is over,” said Mohapatra.The government didn’t earmark any extra funds, but front-loaded 25 existing schemes to back the project that aimed to boost livelihood opportunities in rural India and also “create durable infrastructure along with boosting employment opportunities”. The programme has covered 116 districts across Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. All these districts received more than 25,000 migrant workers each who returned home during the lockdown. “We are pooling resources from these 25 projects. There are some works which may get affected by monsoon such as laying of roads. But we want to front load the money allotted for these for those 116 districts and ensure that all those workers in these districts are given employment,” said Sitharaman.Some experts, however, said the trend did not necessarily mean the workers were back to gainful employment in cities.“If the government is unable to spend its money quickly, its is definitely a problem. It basically means people are seeking jobs but there is a problem the way money is being spent or allocated in projects. I don’t agree with the argument that migrant labourers are returning to cities in large numbers and therefore the demand for this Rozgar Yojna has slumped. Remember, the first quarter GDP [gross domestic product] was minus 23.9%, so where is the revival?” said Himanshu, associate professor with Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unused-rural-funds-hint-migrants-may-be-back-at-work-in-cities/story-TPfglgFsFJQElnzoljVQxK.html
28-09-2020||India||PM Modi reaches out to farmers amid anger||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday came out strongly in defence of the three contentious farm bills enacted by his government, saying the legislation would benefit both farmers by giving them the freedom to choose where they wanted to sell their produce as well as consumers by taking middlemen out of agricultural trading.Amid protests by some farmers groups against the legislation, Modi said in his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, that farmers had benefitted when fruits and vegetables were brought out of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) system in some states a few years ago, allowing them to sell the produce outside of the mandis that once functioned as monopolies. Grain producers will now gain the same freedom, the prime minister said, illustrating the theme with examples from states. The speech came a day after the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost its Punjab ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, which walked out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) after protesting against the new laws. SAD had pulled its lone representative in the Modi government, food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, from the cabinet on September 17. Modi cited the example of a farmer, Kanwar Chauhan, in Haryana’s Sonipat district,who told him about how he could not sell his fruits outside the mandi system at one time. In 2014, fruits and vegetables were excluded from the APMC Act and the farmers benefitted from the move.Farmers like Chauhan produce sweet corn and baby corn and supply the produce directly to Delhi market and earn Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per acre per year. Also read: On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi focuses on storytelling; hails passage of farm bills“What is different that these farmers have? They have the strength to sell their produce where they wish. Now the other farmers of the country have also got this strength. They have got the freedom to sell their produce, not just vegetables and fruits, where they want to,” Modi said.Modi also referred to a group of farmers in Maharashtra who sold their produce directly to consumers. He also alluded to Theni district of Tamil Nadu where farmers had formed a group that would buy vegetables from the members of their community and sell them elsewhere in Tamil Nadu.“This benefitted not just the farmers but also the consumers by excluding the middlemen,” said the prime minister.Modi referred to similar groups in Lucknow, Manipur and Banaskantha. He said a farmer, Ismail Bhai, grew potato in Gujarat which he is selling directly to food companies and earning well.The PM’s monthly radio address came as President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday signed into law the three contentious farm bills, which the government says will widen market access to farmers and which opposition parties say are anti-farmer and corporate-friendly.The three bills — the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 — have become acts of law with the President’s signature .The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price. And the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potato from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits.The government, which has said that these laws will make farmers self-reliant, has notified them. More than a dozen opposition parties had urged President Kovind not to sign the contentious bills, alleging that they were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary norms. Opposition parties and farmers groups have expressed concern that the new laws could pave way for an end of the minimum support price (MSP) regime. The PM recalled landmark events that will be observed in the coming days, including the Bhagat Singh Jayanti on Monday, the birth anniversary of Mahatama Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on October 2. He took a swipe at the Congress party, saying that f the essence of Mahatma Gandhi’s economic philosophy was followed by successive governments, there would not have been any need for the Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India) campaign his government has launched because India would have become self-reliant much earlier.He said the farm sector is playing a major role in efforts to build a self-reliant India. Modi paid a tribute to farmers. “In this difficult time affected by Covid-19, the farm sector has shown its strength,” he said, adding that the stronger it is, the stronger will be the foundation of a self-reliant India.The Congress, meanwhile, likened the laws to cancer and slow poison that will kill farmers and agriculture. At a joint virtual press conference, Congress’s Haryana chief Kumari Selja and Punjab president Sunil Jakhar urged all parties to come together and oppose the farm Bills, which they said will make farmers “slaves of big businessmen”.Selja and Jakhar said NDA allies should support the opposition, the same way they extended support against the Land Acquisition Bill, which the BJP-led Union government was forced to withdraw.On the Shiromani Akali Dal’s exit from the NDA, Jakhar said the party did not quit the ruling coalition on its own. It was forced to do so by farmers, who made it difficult for the Akalis to enter Punjab without doing so, he said.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also termed the Akali Dal’s decision to quit the NDA as a case of “political compulsion” for the Badals, who were left with no other option after the BJP’s public criticism over the farm bills.Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday congratulated the leadership of SAD for its decision to quit the NDA. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the decision to snap ties with the NDA on Saturday night amid farmers protests in Punjab.“Congratulations to Shri Sukhbir Badal, president of Akali Dal and the party MP Harsimrat Badal who under the leadership of Prakash Singh Badal pulled out of the NDA in protest against the farmers Bills. Thanks for firmly standing with the farmers!” Pawar tweeted.With SAD’s exit, the BJP has lost its by far two most dependable and ideologically bound allies within a year. Last year, the BJP lost the support of the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, where the Sena formed a government with the NCP and the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-reaches-out-to-farmers-amid-anger/story-1MHpfr7HzKsR58EBVb00NP.html
28-09-2020||India||To attract tourists and revive economy, Odisha launches road campaign amid Covid-19||In a bid to woo tourists back to Odisha amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Odisha government on Sunday launched ‘Odisha by Road’ campaign through which tourists can explore the state’s tourist circuit through its network of quality roads as people are less likely to travel by air or train during the pandemic.Odisha tourism minister Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi who launched the ‘Odisha By Road’ campaign flagging off a 25 km bike rally consisting of 80 superbikes from 9 super biker groups in Bhubaneswar said the state has opened up its tourism sector for travellers. “We plan to woo tourists to hill-stations, tribal hinterlands, beaches and let them experience the cuisine, heritage, adventure, ethnic encounters, arts and handicrafts, leisure, wildlife and ecotourism. We are encouraging tourists to visit eco-tour nature camps, OTDC properties and spend nights at such places that would help kickstart the economy,” Panigrahi said.The minister also announced a campaign for promotion of Odia cuisine through a chain of authentic Odia cuisine restaurants named “Nimantran”. The restaurants to be run by state-owned OTDC will promote and popularize Odia cuisine.State tourism secretary Vishal Dev said the ‘Odisha by Road’ campaign aims at letting the tourists from neighbouring states go beyond the temples and beaches circuit and allow them to explore several other destinations such as Chilika lagoon, Bhitarkanika National Park and lesser known sea beaches like Chandipur, Udaypur-Talasari and Dagara.“We hope people will travel in small groups so as to remain safe during the pandemic. Tourists from Andhra Pradesh can come to Odisha driving through the valleys and mountains on the Odisha-Andhra border. Similarly, tourists from Chhattisgarh and Bengal too can visit the state to explore several other tourist destinations,” he said.The tourism department has finalised 15 itineraries including hill-stations and tribal hinterlands for the Odisha by Road campaign.Tourism department officials said the tourism activities will get more fillip from October 1 with Eco Retreat camps being planned at 5 places including Konark where it began last year. The tourism department secretary said Eco-retreat camps will be held at Satkosia, Bhitarkanika, Darnigibadi and Hirakud apart from Konark.Last year, Odisha had started eastern India’s first ‘Glamping’ festival or Glamorous Camping at the Marine Drive-Eco Retreat on a kilometre-long stretch of Ramchandi Beach in Konark attracting high-end tourists through a mix of luxurious accommodation coupled with adventure and water sports activities. “We plan to open 42 ecotourism destinations in the state that is managed by more than 600 forest dependent community members. Covid-19 norms will be strictly followed at the tourist places after the reopening,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-attract-tourists-and-revive-economy-odisha-launches-road-campaign-amid-covid-19/story-uTx5zFx5DqV2igMd0ascuL.html
28-09-2020||India||Bhopal railway engineers jailed on gang rape charges, suspended by authorities||Two railway engineers posted in Bhopal railway division were arrested on gang rape charges by police on Saturday night and were sent to jail on Sunday. The engineers were produced before the court while they were placed under suspension by the railway authorities, police and railway officials said. The victim, a 22-year-old woman who hails from a town in Bundelkhand region in Uttar Pradesh, was allegedly gang raped on Saturday in railways’ VIP guest house at Bhopal railway station, according to police. Superintendent of Police (Railways), Bhopal, Hitesh Chaudhary said, “Both the accused, Rajesh Tiwari - who is in his late 40’s and is a junior engineer (carriage and wagon) - and Alok Malviya who is in his early 50’s and is a senior section engineer (electrical), confessed to have committed the crime during interrogation. Both are married. We collected evidence and produced them before the court from where they were sent to jail under a judicial remand.” He said, “So far, there is no information about the two having been involved in any other heinous crime in the past. Tiwari had faced some criminal cases relating to fracas etc.” Also read: Woman gangraped by ex-army personnel, his friend in MeerutAccording to police, the woman - who is class 12 pass - in her FIR said she got acquainted with Rajesh Tiwari through social media. When she wanted help from Tiwari in getting a job given his position, he asked her to come to Bhopal. She reached Bhopal railway station by Bhopal Express on Saturday morning. Later, she was accommodated in room no. 2 of railways’ VIP guest house at Bhopal railway station by Tiwari. She further alleged that Rajesh Tiwari called the other accused Alok Malviya in the room around noon where they both had a drink and offered her a glass of cold drink laced with some drug. When she fell unconscious they gang raped her which she realised on regaining consciousness. They were not in the room when she regained consciousness. She came out of the room and reached the government railway police (GRP) station to lodge the FIR. Meanwhile, divisional railway manager (DRM) of Bhopal division Uday Borwankar suspended the two engineers and ordered shifting of the guest house custodian who had booked the room for the woman in violation of rules. DRM Bhopal in his tweet on Sunday said, “Railway administration suspended both the railway employees on Saturday night after they were booked under sections 376D, 323 and 328 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and has initiated a departmental enquiry (against them).” The DRM also tagged railway minister Piyush Goyal in his tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-engineers-jailed-on-gang-rape-charges-suspended-by-authorities/story-0CJkySkXABOy4bsApihcyH.html
28-09-2020||India||Order in House must, says Rajya Sabha Dy Chair after quick passage of two farm bills||Breaking his silence for the first time after he supervised the quick passage of two farm bills last Sunday amid ruckus in the Upper House, its deputy chairman Harivansh said in order to have a division, order of the House is equally important as the demand for voting. “As per rules and practice, in order to have a division, two things are essential. Firstly there should be a demand for division and its is equally important that there should be order in the house,” he said in a statement. Harivansh’s clarification comes after a section of the media referred to a video footage to show how MPs were in their seats while demanding division or voting on the farm bills but their pleas were ignored. The Rajya Sabha officials also released an official transcript of the minute-by-minute account of the entire ruckus that showed how Opposition leaders such as Derek O’Brien, Tiruchi Siva, Jairam Ramesh repeatedly violated rules and rushed to the chair, came down to the Well, snatched papers and misbehaved with marshals. Also read: Farm stir set to intensify as Punjab CM plans sit-inThe transcript claims Trinamool’s O’Brien tore the rulebook, AAP’s Sanjay Singh invited others to join protest in the well, Congress MP Ripun Bora threw books from secretary general’s bookrack, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva snatched away face shield of a marshal while 3 MPs plucked microphone from chairman’s table. CPIM’s KK Ragesh tampered books, registers and TRS MP K Kesava Rao started recording the incidents in his camera till a marshal stopped him. In his clarification, Harivansh also pointed out that KK Ragesh’s resolution to refer the bill to select committee “was rejected by voice vote by the House at 1.07 pm as Sri Ragesh was in the Well of the House and not on his seat in the gallery at that point of time.” Also read: President Kovind gives his nod to all 3 farm bills, government notifies them“It is true that Tiruchi Shiva demanded a division on his amendment for reference of his bill to select committee from his seat at 1.10 p.m. You will see from the same video that around 1.09 p.m, one member was tearing the rule book and throwing it on me. Besides, I was surrounded by some hostile members, who were trying to snatch papers from me,” Harivansh stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/order-in-house-must-says-rs-dy-chair-after-quick-passage-of-two-farm-bills/story-5qjEp9qlWOpRhA9C2RXSRM.html
28-09-2020||India||Farmers to intensify stir; Punjab CM to stage sit-in protest today||Farmers groups and political parties plan to intensify protests against the three farm bills that were signed into law on Sunday by President Ram Nath Kovind, who ignored demands that he withhold his assent to the legislation that the opposition has described as anti-farmer and corporate-friendly. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will stage a sit-in protest against the contentious laws on Monday at Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of freedom fighter Shaheed Bhagat Singh, on his birth anniversary. Others participating in the protest are state affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, all state Congress MPs and MLAs, said the Congress party’s Punjab unit chief Sunil Jakhar on Sunday.This will be Amarinder Singh’s first protest against the farm bills. Former Uttarakhand chief minister and Congress general secretary Rawat will also be visiting Punjab for the first time since taking charge of state affairs.Punjab cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh visited a Bhagat Singh memorial on Sunday to oversee arrangements for Monday’s sit-in. Channi said the Congress was on the verge of launching a long-term campaign against the Central government over the farm bills from Bhagat Singh’s village, with more plans expected to be announced by the CM to compel the Centre to withdraw the legislation.Also read| ‘Their reasons for quitting alliance weren’t sufficient’: Punjab BJP on SAD’s exitShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said President Kovind’s assent to the three bills marked a “dark day for democracy and farmers.”“Extremely sad that @rashtrapatibhvn refused to heed farmers & Punjabis’ cries & has signed #FarmBills and J&K bill excluding #Punjabi as official language. Hopes that President will act as nation’s conscience & return Bills to Parliament dashed,” Badal tweeted.  SAD had on Saturday snapped ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre to protest against the bills that farmers say put the interests of corporate entities above their own. Farmers groups have also expressed concern that the laws may pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system. Also read: Farm bills get President’s assent amid protests, SAD’s exitThe Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside of the notified Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market yards.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, will give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price.The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, will remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potato from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits.On Sunday, farmers squatted on the Amritsar-Delhi railway track on Sunday, continuing their rail blockade protest against the contentious farm bills. People from nearby villages brought cooked food and other items for the demonstrators. Community kitchens were organised at the protest site by local gurdwaras.Also read: Sharad Pawar lauds SAD’s Badals for their strong pro-farmer stanceWomen wearing saffron dupattas also joined the protest, raising slogans against the Centre, and said they would not allow the implementation of the three legislations.Farmers, under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, have been staging a sit-in on the rail track in Punjab since last Wednesday.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher demanded that all the sitting 13 MPs from Punjab resignation their seats with immediate effect in support of the farmers’ demands. He asserted that BJP leaders would not be allowed to enter the villages of Punjab.The committee has announced an extension of its campaign against the bills till September 29. Trains services have been suspended in the state because of the protests.Farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm reforms would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big companies.The Trinamool Congress came out in support of the Shiromani Akali Dal for quitting the NDA government at the Centre. In a tweet on Sunday, TMC national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’ Brien offered the party’s support to SAD, which received a positive response from the Punjab party’s president Sukhbir Singh Badal.“We support Sukhbir Singh Badal and Akali Dal’s stand with the farmers. Fighting for farmers is part of Trinamool DNA. In 2006, Mamata Banerjee risked her life on a historic 26 day fast for farmers’ rights. We oppose #FarmBills2020 as they endanger States’ role, MSP, PDS and procurement,” O’Brien said on Twitter. “Derek - your stand against the #AgricultureBills in parliament is well known. Appreciate your support,” Badal said on the micro-blogging website in response to the TMC leader’s tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-stir-set-to-intensify-as-punjab-cm-plans-sit-in/story-b7BhYV6WhPanzhQMap9KsM.html
28-09-2020||India||LAC: Army ready for winter endurance test||At a height of 5,800 metres on the Finger Four mountainous spur, an endurance test is set to take place this winter, with Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) poised face-to-face, and the first short snow already falling on the Karakoram and Kailash ranges of Ladakh.While the winter is expected to worsen after Diwali in November, the situation on all the friction points in the sector is a stalemate with the PLA accusing the Indian Army of upping the ante south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30, as a result of which its claimed withdrawal plans were scuttled. The Indian Army troops are geared for the winter with specialized Alaskan winter clothing being imported from the US to handle temperatures 25 degrees below zero celsius at these heights. At present, the day temperatures are around 10 degrees with sunshine, with the night temperatures dropping to minus 10-15 degrees celsius.The situation along the 1,597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh continues to be tense but under control with a small detachment of the Indian Army facing off a PLA detachment on Gogra-Hot Springs or patrolling point 17 A. The situation on the north bank of the Pangong Tso is that a small number of troops on both sides are at the Finger Four height with PLA stationed behind Finger Six and Indian Army on Finger Three. There is no PLA presence on ground level of Finger Four or Finger Five but it is on the dominating height of Finger Four.On the southern bank of Pangong Tso, the Indian Army is dominating the Rezang la-Rechin La ridgeline on Kailash ranges with strong positions to defend the LAC despite PLA’s presence on Black Top and Helmet with the Indian troopers in between the two at the saddle.“The situation is that both sides are defending their positions, but the ridgeline in the area is with the Indian Army,” said a military commander familiar with the postures of the two armies.Although the Indian Army will have a new Ladakh Corps Commander in Lt Gen P G K Menon in place of Lt Gen Harinder Singh in October, the former is a colonel of the Sikh Regiment who dishes out the choicest Punjabi cuss words despite being from Kerala. He has vast experience of the LAC as he was the brigade general staff (operations) of the XIV Corps in Ladakh before commanding a division in Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh.While the PLA has deployed a brigade strength of mechanized infantry around Tien-Wien Dien across the Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) near the LAC, Indian Army troops are patrolling the Depsang bulge area within the patrolling limits despite the Chinese efforts to block them. The PLA air activity in this area is more than in south of the DBO sector due to close proximity of the Hotan air base in Tibet.As another round of Indian and Chinese military-diplomatic dialogue for total Ladakh disengagement will soon take place, the Indian Army commanders are prepared for the long winter ahead. From November onwards, it will be the endurance power of a volunteer army (India) against a conscript (PLA) army that will be on display. Sitting on the glaciated heights of the Saltoro ridge since 1984, the Indian Army will surely give a run for their money to the adversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-army-ready-for-winter-endurance-test/story-4cHfvqJw7cCuL9NaLO0soK.html
28-09-2020||India||Court asks why three former CBI chiefs not questioned in graft case||A Delhi court has questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) why it had not questioned its ex-CBI directors Ranjit Sinha, AP Singh and Alok Verma in connection with a bribery case registered in February 2017 against millionaire meat exporter Moin Qureshi. In the first information report (FIR), the CBI had alleged that Qureshi, apart from his day job of a meat exporter, also worked as a middleman for “certain public servants” and was helped by Singh, who retired as CBI chief in 2012. CBI special court judge Sanjeev Aggarwal posed a set of questions to the agency seeking to know from it as to “why CBI is dragging its feet in a case involving the roles of two of its Ex-Directors”, which may lead to an inference that it is not very keen to pursue investigations with respect to them . “….it is apparent that in fact in this case, role of two of its ex-Directors is under scanner i.e. AP Singh and Ranjit Sinha along with alleged middleman Moin Akhtar Qureshi, which needs upfront i.e. frank and honest investigations,” the judge said on September 26 in an order seen by HT. The image of CBI as a premier investigating agency is redoubtable, said the judge, adding that at the same time, it has to rise to occasion to investigate the allegations against two of its ex-bosses. When any institution or organisation finds itself at a crossroads, it has to take the right path, he said.The court also sought to know from the agency why it did not bring investigations in the case to a logical end by using tried and tested methods of investigation like searches and custodial interrogation of potential suspects.It asked the CBI as to whether the alleged role played by Verma in stalling the investigation had been investigated.The judge asked the agency whether in the absence of a definitive timeline, “investigations will go on for indefinite period of time, so that FIR may die its own death, as reply to all the questions in this regard are most ambivalent and evasive”. The court’s poser came after the agency replied to nine questions posed by the CBI judge on an earlier occasion when he had frowned at the snail’s pace of investigation in the case. It had sought to know about the details of the witnesses questioned and whether an arrest had been proposed with respect to the suspects. In its reply, the CBI told the court on September 26 that so far 544 documents had been collected and 63 (including three named as accused) witnesses had been examined. It said that the previous investigating officer Devinder Kumar, deputy superintendent of police, had submitted a proposal to arrest Moin Akhtar Qureshi, Pradeep Koneru, Aditya Sharma and Sathish Babu Sana. During the pendency of the arrest proposal, a case was registered against former CBI special director Rakesh Asthana and the proposal could not be processed. On the final timeline for the completion of investigation in the case, the agency said the documents collected were voluminous and a number of prospective witnesses are yet to be examined.The case against Asthana was part of a feud he was engaged in with Alok Verma, which led to the exit of the two top officers of the CBI from the agency. “The investigation of the case may, therefore, take substantial time. Hence, at this stage, proposing of a definitive timeline would neither be feasible not conducive for thorough and impartial investigation in the present case. However, all efforts shall be made to conclude the investigation of the case at the earliest,” the agency said. The matter would be now heard on October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-asks-why-three-former-cbi-chiefs-not-questioned-in-graft-case/story-ip9IfRsLOFXxSC4PUxtBcN.html
28-09-2020||India||Govt looks to develop Great Nicobar island using PPP model||The government’s apex planning body, Niti Aayog, is in the process of hiring consultants to prepare a master plan for the “holistic development” of Great Nicobar Island in the Union territory of Andaman & Nicobar, through the public-private partnership model.Great Nicobar, with an area of around 1,000 square kilometres, is one of the largest islands of the archipelago.The Niti Aayog’s island tourism plans have had few takers since it sought investment from private bidders three years ago. It floated a request for proposal (RfP) on September 7 to conduct a study on the technical feasibility and financial viability of the project, and has sought proposals by October 6.“India has a total of nearly 1,382 off-shore identified islands consisting of 1,093 shapes (islands) and 289 points (rocks/rocky islets). They are an integral part of our rich unexplored resources with a rich biodiversity. The potential of these islands is still largely unexplored and untapped. The Government of India intends to set a model in place for holistic development of a few identified islands while preserving and maintaining the natural ecosystem and rich biodiversity that each of them possess,” stated the RfP, which was reviewed by HT.Potential bidders had, due to the ongoing pandemic, sought a two-week extension of the deadline to submit the proposal and exemption from visiting the site. The RfP states applicants will have to make site visits for “due-diligence” before submitting their proposals.The Niti Aayog, in response to the two requests, said, “No change is contemplated.”Home minister Amit Shah had chaired the sixth meeting of the Island Development Agency (IDA), an apex body constituted in June 2017, in January to review the progress in the programme. Development plans, with focus on the creation of jobs for the islanders through tourism promotion, as well as export of seafood and coconut-based products made in the islands, have been prepared, according to the home ministry.“The terms of reference with the RfP gives out a clear message that the NITI Ayog is is looking to convert the islands into a shipping, transport infrastructure and tourism hub. There is little foresight based on ecological assessments, climate change uncertainties or social sensitivity, which are particularly important for A&N group of Islands. There is still an opportunity to review the feasibility of such large scale proposals for intervention based on lessons of recent cyclones, floods and other unfortunate events. Without foreclosing any outcomes, master plans should ask basic questions around feasibility, impacts and vulnerabilities that are beyond structural and financial outlays,” said Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-looks-to-develop-great-nicobar-island-using-ppp-model/story-Z8OPQFqzwReWwOjsQboLQK.html
28-09-2020||India||Bihar assembly election 2020: Ruling, Opposition alliances locked in tough seat-sharing parleys||The ruling and Opposition alliances in Bihar are locked in hard negotiations on seat sharing for the October-November assembly elections, the first major election in India during the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), and its partner, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), are in seat-to-seat talks to decide which partner will contest how many seats and which in the 243-member assembly.Voting will be conducted in three phases beginning on October 28. The results will be declared on November 10.“Discussion on seat-to-seat basis is taking place. Announcements would be made by the end of this month,” said a senior leader of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Also read: JDU appoints Ashok Choudhary as working president, inducts former DGPTheir main rival, the Grand Alliance comprising the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and smaller parties, are yet to finalise their deal as well. A senior Congress leader said on condition of anonymity that the party was unwilling to accept anything less than 70 seats.The Congress is driving a hard bargain with state screening committee chairman Avinash Pande saying on Sunday that the party might be forced to tie up with other parties if its demand was not met -- a statement other party leaders described as a pressure tactic to convince the RJD to part with more seats. NDA NEGOTIATIONS  In the NDA, Bihar BJP in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP Bhupendra Yadav has had talks on seat-sharing with JD (U) MPs Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh and RCP Singh. One of the key reasons for a delay in stitching up the seat-sharing agreement, people familiar with the development said, is the division of 51 seats between the BJP and the JD (U) which both parties contested against each other in the 2015 assembly polls when the JD (U) was part of the grand alliance with the RJD and Congress.“The JD (U) had won 28 seats and the BJP 23. Both are staking claims by virtue of vote share, traditional seats and other logic,” said the NDA leader cited above. Having fought the 2015 elections with the RJD and the Congress in 2015, Nitish Kumar returned to the NDA fold in 2017 after differences with his former partners. Also read| Bihar assembly election 2020: Too many glitches and hitches in NDA’s seat-sharingAnother reason why seat-sharing has become complicated or the ruling dispensation is that seven RJD legislators joined the JD (U) recently. All seven had won seats contested by the BJP or the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in 2015. The constituencies they represent are Patepur, Gaighat, Parsa, Keoti, Sasaram, Teghra and Paliganj. “Under these circumstances, the 2010 results are most likely to become the basis of contesting the 2020 polls. Some of these seats will go to JD (U) and JD (U) will forgo some,” said a NDA leader. With the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) led by.Jitan Ram Manjhi joining the ruling alliance and amid speculation that former union minister Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) may also join it, the partners have a challenge on their hands in trying to accommodate so many interests.“There is no confusion in NDA with regards to seat sharing. As far as RLSP is concerned, there have been no talks with them so far,” clarified BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal on Sunday. People in the BJP familiar with the developments said party leaders have been put under pressure by MPs from the state who have urged it to negotiate an equal number of seats as are allotted to the the JD(U). Of the 40 Lok Sabha in Bihar, both JD (U) and the BJP had contested on 17 seats each, leaving six for the LJP. The BJP and the LJP won all its seat while the JD (U) lost one. “The BJP was gracious enough to part with 13 of the seats it had contested in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections to accommodate the JD(U) in the 2019 elections. Now it is the turn of the JD (U) to reciprocate the gesture,” said a senior BJP leader, requesting anonymity. The JD (U) contested 101 assembly seats in 2015 and won 71 when it was part of the alliance with the RJD and Congres. The BJP won t 53 seats and the Chirag Paswan-led LJP two seats. In the 2010 assembly polls, the JD (U) contested on 141 seats and won 115; the BJP contested 102 and won 91.GRAND ALLIANCE TALKSNegotiations between the RJD and Congress have deadlocked over the past couple of days with the latter refusing to budge from its demand of 70 seats, said the senior Congress leader quoted above. “The RJD is unwilling to give more than 60 out of 243 seats, which is not anyway a reasonable share in keeping with a national status of the party,” he said, asking for anonymity. Pande -- who is not involved in seat sharing negotiations and was in Patna to receive applications for tickets from party workers -- said on Saturday and Sunday that the party was ready for any eventuality if the RJD refused to offer a “reasonable and honourable” share of seats. His statement followed a two-day marathon meeting with senior leaders of the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) at the party office on Sunday on candidate selection.A second Congress leader said Pande’s statement was aimed at giving a strong message to the RJD and added that both parties needed each other to unseat the ruling coalition. “In 2015 assembly polls, Congress won 27 out 41 seats allotted under the GA with 66% success rate. The RJD had won 80 out of 101 and won 79% seats,” added the leader. Congress general secretary and former Union minister Tariq Anwar on Friday clarified that the party wanted 101 seats -- the same number contested by the JD (U) in 2015 as an erstwhile partner of the Grand Alliance. “Being a big partner, RJD has every right to claim the chief ministerial candidate. But the Congress expect a respectable that seat sharing deal with the RJD,” said Anwar, adding that the party might compromise on some seats to accommodate allies. Bihar Congress spokesman Harkhu Jha said Pande was given the mandate to identify potential seats and candidates. “So far as the alliance is concerned, only the party high command and in-charge [Shaktisinh Gohil ] are authorised to decide on it,” said Jha, adding that the seat-sharing exercise would be complete in the next few days.People aware of developments said the RJD is keen to allot 20-25 seats to Left parties comprising including the Communist Party of India-Marxist-Leninish (Liberation), the Communist Party of India, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist); the Vikassheel Insaan Party ( VIP) led by Mukesh Sahni would be allotted eight to ten seats.“ Once the screening committee submits its report on eligible candidates after holding discussions with state leaders to the Congress top leadership, a final decision on seat sharing would be taken by the party president Sonia Gandhi,’ said a third senior Congress leader, wishing not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruling-oppn-alliances-locked-in-tough-seat-sharing-parleys/story-os3H6gkI50OTel9XmW9XOO.html
28-09-2020||India||Jaswant Singh’s life encapsulated evolution of India||From his birth in rural Jasol in 1938, the six years he served as minister of all portfolios with the first Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government and his eventual seperation from his own party, Jaswant Singh’s life encapsulated the evolution of today’s India. However, Singh strode through these years with a gentlemanly demeanour that disarmed even his worst adversaries.Singh served as foreign, defence and finance minister during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. They were among the most tumultuous periods in India’s recent history, encompassing the Pokhran II nuclear tests, the Lahore peace process and Kargil, 9/11 and the war on terror. Singh’s most lasting legacy was to use the shock of the nuclear tests to force Washington to hold a dialogue with New Delhi, and then use those talks to turn around decades of contentious relations between the two countries.It helped that the Americans were impressed with him. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, who cold shouldered Singh over Pokhran II, told him later, “A masterly handling of the Kargil crisis, You did not put a foot wrong.”Singh saw the Vajpayee regime’s purpose as ending Nehruvian stagnation, being prepared to take bold and risky steps. His transformation of the US relationship has proved to be an overwhelming success – a generation of Indians barely remember how estranged the two capitals once were. However, his repeated attempts at finding some common ground with Pakistan left little impact, though this can be blamed more on Islamabad’s flawed nature.Those who worked with Singh say he was a minister with a genuine sense of the strategic, who sought to derive first principles from long studies of history and the experience of power. He would say that for every problem -- military, diplomatic or domestic – there was a “core” that had to be identified and addressed. Singh felt independent India’s lack of a territorial consciousness, an easy willingness to accept undemarcated and undefended borders, was an invitation for trouble with neighbours like China.Singh’s personal study of history, independent of the sangh parivar, led him to conclude it was the common Indian’s faith that had allowed Indic society to survive for so many millennia. The BJP had to be a proponent of a self-confident Indian nationalism, though one with “pronounced emphasis on the civilizational and cultural identity of India as being Hindu”. But his view of Hindutva was civilizational more than religious, one that encompassed everyone who claimed Indian origin.Some of this derived from his early life on the Rajasthan border, a place where Muslims were, “just as much our kin as any other.” A sense further strengthened by his nine years in the Indian army and his enormous appetite for reading, a habit he took up in earnest while at Mayo to bolster his English but was to be lifelong passion. The Babri Masjid demolition and “the loss of state control” in Godhra were, for him, two black marks on the BJP’s record. He found it difficult to reconcile all this with Narendra Modi’s rise and precipitated his break with the BJP.Another set of experiences, including the humiliation of watching India being defeated by China in 1962 even as his tank regiment was stranded south of the Brahmaputra, led him to sour of Congress rule. Ironically, for a man whose first government job was deputy chairman of the planning commission, he despised five-year plans and their ilk. As finance minister, he sought to “free the productive capacities and the creative genius of India from quibbling bureaucratic tangles”. He told the then Reserve Bank of India governor, YK Reddy, that he wanted to “start the process of a reverse economic imperialism” and the central bank needed to support Indian businessmen “conquer the world”.Singh could not avoid responsibility for a number of the Vajpayee government’s worst moments, including the failed Agra summit and the freeing of terrorists to rescue the passengers of the hijacked Indian Airlines Flight 814. He permanently kept a small field binocular from Kandahar on his mantel to remind himself of the humiliation. In his post-political life, Jaswant Singh often wrote and spoke about the need to redress what he saw as the weakest point of India’s national security: the decision going back to 1947 to “reject the centrality of strategic culture”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaswant-singh-s-life-encapsulated-evolution-of-india/story-P3qBClnbEzm40nvqOOUaoM.html
28-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 million||Cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed six million on Sunday, with the latest million infections coming in 11 days and the number of deaths from the disease approached 100,000, even as the number of those who have so far recovered surpassed the five-million mark.Even though India’s case fatality rate (CFR), the proportion of people who have died among the confirmed cases, of 1.6% remains nearly half of the global average of 3.1%, the number of deaths reported in the country per million population has seen a jump of 42% in September alone — from 50 deaths per million to 71.On September 1, a total of 50 people had died for every million residents in the country. This number increased to 62 by September 15, and, as on September 27, this stands at 71 deaths per million residents, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The seven-day average of daily deaths (commonly known as the death trajectory) has increased from 984 deaths per day for the week ending September 1 to 1,096 for the week ending September 27.As on Sunday, India’s Covid tally was 6,073,310 cases and 95,567 deaths, with 82,824 new cases and 1,028 new deaths being reported in the last 24 hours. India has had the worst Covid outbreak in the world since August first week, accounting for more than a quarter of all recorded infections since then. In the past week, nearly one in every three (29.9%) new infections reported in the world and one in every five deaths (20.9%) have come from India.Epidemiologists, however, said the rise in deaths was not unexpected keeping in mind the rise in overall cases in the country. “As the number of cases keep on increasing there will also be increase in the number of deaths; it is directly linked. Also, it is linked to efficient reporting of cases and deaths in the long run as some states that were lagging earlier in terms of case reporting are now catching up,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, professor, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.Also read: Why adequate testing is crucial to saving livesGlobally, India is among the countries that have fared relatively better in terms of saving lives. The worldwide average for deaths per million population is 129. Russia reports around 139; South Africa is at 275; France has an average of 485; the United States is at 631; United Kingdom at 618; and Brazil reports 665 Covid-19 deaths per million of its population. All figures are from worldometers.info.Meanwhile, government data shows that men are far more likely to die from Covid-19 in India than women, with the former accounting for 69% of all fatalities.The analysis of mortality data by the Union health ministry shows that a majority of deaths were among those above 50 years of age. It showed that 1% of those who succumbed to the viral infection were below 17 years; another 1% between 18 and 25 years; 11% deaths among 26- and 44-year-olds; and 36% among people in the 45 and 60 years age group.People with comorbidities and elderly are at high risk, as almost 70% of those who die have one or more comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac, renal or liver disease, the data shows.“Deaths are being reported in the age group of 60 and above because this age category generally suffers from some form of underlying medical conditions that hamper the recovery process. It is important, therefore, for this age group to take extra precautions and also keep their disease under control,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, consultant, department of medicine, Moolchand Hospital.Overall, there is a good chance of recovery among Covid-19 patients, with the country’s recovery rate being about 82% currently. The number of active patients has been below one million for several days. The active caseload is 15.96% of the total positive cases.“This high rate of daily recoveries has sustained India’s leading global position as the country with maximum number of recovered cases. As India records more recoveries than the new cases, the gap between percentage of recovered cases and the percentage of active cases is continuously increasing. The gap currently is nearly 4 million,” the health ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-tally-crosses-6mn/story-cY2wlOzpbM1UoDTGJOwgAN.html
28-09-2020||India||Why adequate testing is crucial to saving lives||A higher proportion of the population is dying from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in states and union territories that test poorly despite a widespread outbreak, and thus have a higher positivity rate, according to data analysed by HT.This would mean that adequate testing, especially when the positivity rate in a region starts rising, forms a very crucial aspect of saving lives from the virus.States with high positivity rates, also have high deaths !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Most of the country’s worst-hit areas in terms of deaths all have high positivity rates. In Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in the country, 20.7% of all tests done have come back positive for Covid-19 — the highest in India. In terms of people who have lost their lives, the state again ranks among the worst with 288 deaths per million residents — only Puducherry (332 deaths per million and positivity rate of 15.2%) has seen a larger proportion of its population die.On average, 71 people have died across the country for every million residents and 8.4% of tests have come back positive.Other badly hit states, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, also have overall high positivity rates – 12.3% and 12.1% respectively. Both again have seen a high number of deaths — 129 deaths per million in Karnataka and 108 in Andhra Pradesh. Tamil Nadu has seen 122 deaths per million residents, but it has fared relatively better on testing and has a positivity rate of 8.2%.In Delhi, 9.3% of all samples tested had come back positive till Saturday — again higher than the national average. The state has seen 262 people die for every million residents —the third highest of all states and UTs in the country.Some states do fare better. Bihar has a positivity rate of 2.6% (more on this later), in Jharkhand this is 3.9%, in Rajasthan it is 4.2% and in Assam it is 5.4%. Only seven people per million residents have died of Covid-19 in Bihar. Only 18 have died in Jharkhand and Rajasthan and 19 in Assam.The relation between positivity rate and deathsThe statistical measure to understand the strength of the relationship between two variables is a concept called ‘correlation coefficient’. It is measured in values between -1.0 and 1.0. A correlation coefficient of 1.0 shows a perfect positive correlation, which means that every time one variable increases, there is also a proportionate increase in the other. A correlation of -1.0 shows a perfect negative correlation, where increase in one variable means a proportionate drop in the other. A zero means changes in the variables do not affect the other — they just aren’t related.For the above analysis of deaths per million and positivity rate, the correlation coefficient comes to 0.77, which can be considered a strong positive correlation. This means that increase in positivity rate has a strong influence on the deaths in a state.Why are testing (and positivity rate) crucial? !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Positivity rate — the fraction of tests that return positive — shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and over time it gives us an idea of whether a region’s testing strategy is adequate. The World Health Organisation recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();This means that any region that is seeing a rising positivity rate over a period of time (say a week), needs to improve its testing in order to track and isolate people with infections. Once this number drops under 5% and remains there, we can assume testing in the area is sufficient. In India, the positivity rate on average remains fairly high (mostly due to some major states still reporting high positivity rates). Unless this number drops to under 5%, the threat of rising deaths remains high.But can this metric be skewed?In simple words: yes. A Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (or RT-PCR) test is the gold standard in Covid-19 testing because it has a very low chance of missing cases and thus tends to result in a higher positivity rate. A rapid antigen test, meanwhile, may throw up false negatives for people who are infected with a low viral load. A greater share of rapid antigen tests in a region may lead to a lower positivity rate there. This is why there must be a caveat when we look at the positivity rates from states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, all of which have recently boosted their testing numbers and rely largely on antigen tests – around 70% of all tests in these three states have been antigen over the past 2-3 weeks.What experts sayExperts said it “makes sense” that if the positivity rate is high then it will mean a larger number of deaths in a state, but added that the true picture may be hidden by variables like unreported cases and deaths. “The true fraction of reported-to-unreported deaths and reported-to-unreported cases are the lurking variables here. It could also be that where you have a smaller number of cases you indeed have a smaller infection fatality rate because the healthcare system is not overstretched, it is easier to test, contact trace and isolate so it could be that the fatality rate is truly different” said Bhramar Mukherjee, the head of biostatistics at University of Michigan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-adequate-testing-is-crucial-to-saving-lives/story-yDm0fYlg9K8wy7GH9jT4xO.html
28-09-2020||India||Govt to celebrate fourth Surgical Strike Day on Monday||The central government will celebrate the fourth anniversary of 2016’s surgical strikes against terrorist camps in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir by the Indian army on September 28.The strike on the night of September 27-28 in 2016 was in response to an attack by Pakistan-based terrorists on an army base in Kashmir’s Uri on September 18 in which 19 soldiers were killed.Here is all you need to know about Surgical Strike Day:• The terrorists from Pakistan launched a deadly attack on a military base in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri, killing 19 Indian soldiers on September 18, 2016.• The army responded by conducting surgical strikes against terror pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.• The attack was carried out under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Manohar Parrikar and National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval. “India will neither forgive nor forget,” PM Modi had declared less than a week after the Uri attack.• The army’s build-up for the strikes began on September 24. The special forces squads set out for the mission armed with night-vision devices, Tavor 21 and AK-47 assault rifles, rocket-propelled grenades, shoulder-fired missiles, Heckler and Koch pistols, high explosive grenades and plastic explosives. The teams were 30-strong each and had specific targets.• The plan was such that teams with distant targets left early on September 27 evening so that all strikes would be coordinated. The instructions were that all teams would engage the terrorists simultaneously so that none could rescue another.• Civilians living close to border in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab were evacuated started at 10 pm on September 27, before Indian soldiers went across.• Sentries at the launchpads were neutralised by snipers before the troops went in and finished the job.• All teams returned to their bases by 9 am on September 28. One Indian army soldier lost his life in the operation.• Army said Indian soldiers razed six launchpads to the ground and gunned down 45 terrorists at various locations.• In 2018, two years after the attack, the government decided to celebrate September 28 as ‘Surgical Strike Day’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-celebrate-fourth-surgical-strike-day-on-monday/story-eTjSKqkK4cEYX4xTonHYSJ.html
