29-09-2020||India||China reiterates it does not recognise ‘illegal’ Ladakh UT||Beijing China on Tuesday said it does not recognise the “illegally” constituted Ladakh Union territory, adding that it was opposed to India building military infrastructure in the border areas.The Chinese foreign ministry said neither India nor China should engage in activities in the border region that could complicate the situation, brushing aside its own infrastructure-building by saying it was on its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Beijing also denied reports that said it had “built new military bases on or facilities along the LAC are completely false descriptions driven by ulterior motivesword/s missing”.Responding to a question on India building a high-altitude road network in Ladakh, foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said: “China has not recognised Ladakh union territory illegally set up by the Indian side. We are opposed to conducting infrastructure development for military purposes in the border area.”India’s strengthening of its infrastructure in the region comes amid the worst border tension with China in decades in eastern Ladakh, where border troops from the two countries have been locked in a faceoff since May.“Based on the two sides’ consensus, no side should engage in the border areas in any activities that might complicate the situation to avoid undermining two sides’ efforts to ease the situation,” Wang added.In August 2019, India divested the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir of the special status it was granted under Article 370 of the Constitution, and decided to bifurcate it into Union territories -- J &K and Ladakh. China had responded strongly then.India has strongly maintained that Ladakh is an internal matter and rejected China’s comments. “China has always opposed India’s inclusion of Chinese territory in India’s administrative jurisdiction in the western part of the Sino-Indian border. This position is firm, consistent and has never changed,” the foreign ministry had said in a statement.“In recent days, the Indian side has continued to undermine China’s territorial sovereignty by unilaterally amending its domestic laws. This practice is unacceptable and will not produce any effect,” the 2019 statement added.When Wang was asked on Tuesday to comment on China’s advanced infrastructure in the region, he first denied that Beijing was building new military facilities in the region.“First some institutions once released the so-called information on new military bases or facilities China has built on its side. Such reports are completely false. They are driven by ulterior motives,” Wang said.Then he went on to add that Beijing follows all border agreements signed with India.“Second, China consistently and strictly abide by the agreements signed with the Indian side. We are committed to maintaining peace and stability along the border with India; at the same time, we firmly safeguard our sovereignty, territorial integrity and security”.“For a long time, (the) Chinese side have been conducting activities on the Chinese side of the LAC and they have always complied with relevant agreements.”The spokesperson added: “We hope the Indian side to work for the same purpose, together with China to achieve the cooling of temperature on the ground and to prevent adding complex factors to the two sides’ concerted efforts to ease the situation.”Wang was also asked to comment on the meeting of foreign ministers from India, Australia, and the US in Japan next week under the informal Quad security forum .Wang warned that no “exclusive clique” should be formed, indicating that Beijing was closely following the development and progress of the Quad.“Peace, development and global cooperation is the overriding trend of today’s world. Multilateral and plurilateral cooperation should all be open, inclusive and transparent. No one should seek an exclusive clique,” he said.“Efforts should be made to enhance regional countries’ mutual understanding and trust, instead of targeting a third party or harming a third party’s interests.”“We hope the relevant country will proceed from the interests of regional countries and do more things conducive to regional peace, stability and development instead of the contrary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-reiterates-it-does-not-recognise-illegal-ladakh-ut/story-OV33KBjX2AyJrxLE1mEt2O.html
29-09-2020||India||‘Male victimisation’: IPS officer seen beating wife on suspension order||Madhya Pradesh government on Tuesday suspended senior IPS officer Purushottam Sharma whose video beating his wife went viral on social media on Sunday, following which he was shifted from the post of director of Public Prosecution, Madhya Pradesh on Monday, as per a government’s order. The suspension order came from the home department after the 1986 batch IPS officer, having a special director general rank in police department, submitted his reply to a show-cause notice served on him on Monday evening by the department of Home. Home department’s suspension order stated, “Purushottam Sharma (1986), the then director, Public Prosecution directorate, is hereby suspended with immediate effect prima facie in view of his conduct found in violation of All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968 and his reply to a show cause notice issued in regard with viral videos in social media on September 27, being found unsatisfactory and inadequate. During the period of suspension his headquarters will be police headquarters, Bhopal.” However, Sharma termed the suspension order as unfortunate and one-sided. He said, “The state government took the decision (to suspend me) without looking into my reply. I submitted the reply at 5.30 pm today to additional chief secretary, Home Rajesh Rajora and just within one hour the decision was taken to suspend me. In fact, my case is not a case of woman victimisation but a male victimisation. I will fight it out.” The show cause notice served on the police officer by department of Home on Monday stated, “Two video clips went viral in social media on September 27 and 28 in which prima facie there appears to be unethical conduct and domestic violence with your wife by you. Hence, your act makes you liable for disciplinary action under rule 10 of All India Service (Discipline and Appeal) Rules- 1969. Hence, please present your clarification. Why disciplinary action be not taken against you for the misconduct as reflected in the viral videos.” The police officer was asked by the department to submit his clarification within stipulated time to avoid facing a one-sided action. In a less than five-minute video clip, Sharma is purportedly seen pushing, hitting and pinning down his wife. In another video, he is seen in the house of a woman and is soon followed by his wife, leading to a heated exchange of words between the couple and Sharma leaving the house in a huff. The woman in the second video, who is a TV news anchor, lodged a complaint with Shahpura police station in Bhopal on Monday night against the police officer’s wife and son for allegedly defaming her by shooting the video, making it viral on social media and levelling baseless allegations. The woman said that Sharma was like her father and he visited her just for a cup of tea. On Tuesday, a police team of Mahila police station in Bhopal visited the police officer’s wife but the latter refused to lodge an FIR in connection with the alleged domestic violence, said a police officer who didn’t want to be named. Meanwhile, a letter appeared on social media purportedly written by the police officer’s daughter who stood by her father and blamed her mother for causing troubles to him. Despite efforts, Sharma’s wife and son couldn’t be reached for their comments. They didn’t respond to phone calls and text messages. Earlier, on Monday, the police officer’s son wrote to home minister Narottam Mishra, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and director general of police Vivek Johri demanding action against his father based on the videos, as per government officials. The home minister Narottam Mishra said, “I am yet to receive a letter. I will look into it once I get it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/male-victimisation-ips-officer-seen-beating-wife-after-suspension-order/story-M8PaQ5TNsDSSgnuogWhZzI.html
29-09-2020||India||Foreign ministers of India, Bangladesh meet; review bilateral ties||India and Bangladesh on Tuesday created a high-level mechanism to monitor development projects funded by New Delhi even as Dhaka sought removal of non-tariff barriers and greater trade facilitation to enhance the export of its products. Bangladesh’s long-standing demand for early resolution of the sharing of waters of the Teesta river and agreements on sharing of all common rivers also figured in the virtual meeting of the Joint Consultative Commission (JCC) co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Bangladeshi counterpart AK Abdul Momen. Momen also expressed the hope that India, as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council during 2021-22, would play a “more meaningful role for a lasting solution to the Rohingya crisis, including their early repatriation to Myanmar in a safe and sustainable manner”, according to a statement from Bangladesh’s foreign ministry. The two sides decided to form a “high level monitoring committee” headed by the secretary of Bangladesh’s Economic Relations Division and the Indian envoy in Dhaka to regularly review the implementation of projects under three lines of credit (LoC) agreements, a joint statement said. Momen raised non-tariff barriers and lack of trade facilitation that he said were impeding the flow of Bangladeshi goods to India, particularly the northeastern states. The Bangladeshi side asked India to address issues related to accreditation, certification, standardisation, port restrictions and developing port infrastructure to enable further exports. Momen also requested Jaishankar to look into export of essential commodities, such as onions, by India since it impacts the domestic market of Bangladesh. India’s recent ban on onion exports had a huge impact on prices in Bangladesh, and New Delhi subsequently allowed the movement of onion supplies already contracted for by Bangladeshi importers. Tuesday’s JCC meeting was part of efforts by the two sides to set ties, hit by a string of irritants since last year, on an even keel. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had visited Dhaka in August, when he delivered a message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina. The two ministers also agreed more steps can be taken to enhance trade and investment between India and Bangladesh, the top two economies in South Asia, such as removal of all types of barriers. The Bangladeshi side appreciated India’s decision for duty-free access of Bangladeshi products to the Indian market under the South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA) pact, due to which Bangladeshi exports crossed the $1-billion mark in 2018-19 though the balance of trade remains in India’s favour. However, the sharing of waters of the Teesta river, held up by objections from the West Bengal government, continues to be an issue that Dhaka wants New Delhi to address speedily. Jaishankar noted the two sides share 54 rivers and said: “We remain committed to Teesta water-sharing and, in the meanwhile, are equally committed to move forward on other seven rivers on which data has been already shared with [the Bangladeshi] side”. The two sides agreed to consider convening the ministerial-level meeting of the Joint Rivers Commission (JRC), which has not met since 2010. Jaishankar thanked Bangladesh for supporting India in its election to the UN Security Council, and the joint statement said the two ministers “reiterated the importance of the safe, speedy and sustainable return to Myanmar of the forcibly displaced persons from the Rakhine state of Myanmar, currently being sheltered by Bangladesh”. Momen emphasised that “unless the problem is resolved quickly, there are possibilities of pockets of radicalism disrupting economic growth, peace and stability in the region and requested India’s leverage to address the crisis”, the joint statement added. Both sides also agreed to expedite work on energy projects such as the Friendship Pipeline and Maitree Super Thermal Power Project and Momen said tripartite power and energy cooperation with Nepal and Bhutan was also discussed. The two sides also discussed defence cooperation, including training and exchanges, and called for the early implementation of a defence line of credit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-ministers-of-india-bangladesh-meet-review-bilateral-ties/story-JUFsyvJyt677jloiIuciKK.html
29-09-2020||India||BJD to launch month-long coronavirus awareness drive from October 2||Amid rising cases in several parts of Odisha, including the capital city of Bhubaneswar, the Biju Janata Dal will launch a month-long Covid-19 awareness drive from October 2, asking each party MLA to distribute masks at panchayat level and sensitise people about guidelines and testing.In a letter to state-level office bearers and organisational heads, party president and chief minister Naveen Patnaik noted that the pandemic has brought the state to a peculiar situation but urged party members to work to battle the pandemic in their constituencies.“Each life is precious and has to be saved. We have saved over 2 lakh lives in the state through several Covid hospitals and tested around 30 lakh people. Each BJD member has to work as a dedicated worker in their constituencies to battle the pandemic,” he wrote, praising the work of party members for arranging plasma for the Covid-19 patients and helping families in cremating the loved ones who fell to the disease.Patnaik’s missive to the partymen came even as the Covid cases continue to surge in the state, taking the tally to 2.15 lakh. Despite the government imposing heavy penalties on those not wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, there have been numerous violations across the state. The surge of cases have stressed the state’s health infrastructure.While Khurda, Cuttack and Puri continue to be hot spots accounting for more than 30 per cent of total daily count, the infection is spreading fast in coastal, central and western Odisha districts of Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Angul and Kendrapara.With more than 33,000 active cases, Odisha now has more active cases than Delhi, Bengal and Gujarat that has triggered allegations over shortage of ICU beds and ventilator beds in Covid hospitals.BJD MLA Umakanta Samantray, who recently tested positive, too complained that hospitals in the State don’t have sufficient ICU beds compared to the number of patients.“We need to increase the number of ICU beds in both government and private hospitals. The number of Covid hospitals is also not enough and need to be increased,” he said.Meanwhile, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary on Tuesday claimed that the Covid-19 graph in Bhubaneswar will remain flat in October and a number of new cases is likely to come down by October-end.“Bhubaneswar is presently witnessing over 300 new Covid-19 cases against the daily load of 500 cases per day earlier. We had projected the active cases to be at 5,000 by September 15 in Bhubaneswar. At present, the Covid-19 graph is plateauing in Bhubaneswar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-to-launch-month-long-coronavirus-awareness-drive-from-october-2/story-Wnyacvba2TYqbddcR7afNK.html
29-09-2020||India||Andhra CM’s 3-capital plan creates troubles for Vijayawada airport expansion||The decision of the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh to create three capitals for the state with the administrative capital being shifted from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam has created hurdles for expansion of the Gannavaram airport near Vijayawada.Hundreds of farmers, who had given away around 1229 acres of land to the state government in 2016 under land pooling scheme (LPS) for the expansion of the airport by the Airport Authority of India, are now refusing to move out unless the government pays them a huge compensation.During the Telugu Desam Party’s reign, these farmers, belonging to Ajjampudi, Allapuram, Atkuru, Buddhavaram, Chinavutapalli, Kesrapalli and Gannavaram were allotted residential and commercial plots of the size 1,000 square yards and 200 sq yards respectively in the capital region of Amaravati in lieu of the lands they had surrendered to the government for the airport expansion. They signed an agreement with the then AP Capital Region Development Authority to that effect and were allotted plots in different localities of Amaravati in 2018, as per the master plan.However, with the Jagan Mohan Reddy government dumping the Amaravati capital city project and deciding to go in for the three- capital plan, the farmers of Gannavaram airport region are left in the lurch. A farmer from Buddhavaram village, who did not want to be named, said the farmers were allotted plots in Amaravati only on paper, but had not been given possession of the sites, as the development of Amaravati was still in progress.“Now that the present government has abandoned the capital plan at Amaravati, our plots have no value there. We want our lands back or be paid compensation as per the law,” he said.Those who surrendered lands to the state government also include high profile people like former Union minister and senior BJP leader U V Krishnam Raju and popular Telugu film producer C Ashwini Dutt, who had bought agriculture lands and developed farm houses and orchards.On Monday, Ashwini Dutt filed a petition in the state high court seeking a direction to the state government to pay compensation of Rs 210 crore towards 39.15 acres of land he had surrendered to the government at Kesrapalli village for the Gannavaram airport expansion.He said his land was located in a prime commercial area around the airport and the registration value of the land is around Rs 1.25 crore to Rs 1.50 crore per acre. He demanded that the government pay four times the value of the land as compensation before taking possession of the land for the airport.“As per the clause in the agreement signed with the APCRDA, we have the right to claim compensation and damages if the APCRDA breaches the agreement. Now that APCRDA has been abolished and construction of the capital city is abandoned, there is no hope for development of Amaravati, where we were allotted plots. So, we are constrained to invoke the clause and seek damages,” Dutt said in his petition.Meanwhile, Krishnam Raju also filed a similar petition in the high court seeking adequate monetary compensation for his 31 acres of land at Kesrapalli, which he had surrendered to the government for airport expansion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-s-3-capital-plan-creates-troubles-for-vijayawada-airport-expansion/story-8ovFC0UqbCHGs0mavkTstJ.html
29-09-2020||India||Covid-19 infection rate rising in India but scope for more, ICMR survey shows||Coronavirus infection rates among adults in India have risen sharply, a survey showed on Tuesday, although a large percentage of the population has not yet been exposed, suggesting there is scope for cases to rise much further.In the serological survey conducted in August and September, blood samples were tested for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. If a person tests positive for the antibodies, it means they were infected with the virus at some point. Blood samples collected from more than 29,000 adults between Aug. 17 and Sept. 22 showed that the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies increased to 7.1% compared to 0.73% in a previous survey between May 11 and June 4, the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, Balram Bhargava, told a press briefing.“However, a large percentage of the population is still unexposed and the susceptibility of a considerable section of people getting infected exists,” he added.The second survey was conducted in the same 700 villages and wards from 70 districts in 21 states as the first. Results from the second survey also showed urban slum and non-slum areas had a higher infection prevalence than rural areas.“The new (survey) shows lockdown and containment measures as well as behaviour change at population level checked spread of SARS-CoV-2,” Bhargava said.India on Tuesday reported 70,589 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking its total to 6.15 million cases. The country leads the world in the daily average number of new infections reported. The vice-president of India, M. Venkaiah Naidu, said in a tweet late on Tuesday that he had tested positive and has been advised to home quarantine as he remains asymptomatic. In the past, several other federal ministers have also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-infection-rate-rising-in-india-but-scope-for-more-icmr-survey-shows/story-6zjFTt2aBcI6ooMIrjUuyJ.html
29-09-2020||India||No lockdown in Kerala but curbs to be enforced: CM Pinarayi Vijayan amid Covid-19 spike||The all-party meet in Kerala on Tuesday decided to take immediate steps to contain the spread of the Covid-19 virus and defer all agitation in view of rising cases but there is no plan to impose lockdown again, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Once lauded for its effective pandemic control measures, the state is facing a huge challenge after cases spiked in September-- the state’s test positivity rate is 13.94 per cent while the national average is below 8 per cent. Though cases surged and recovery thinned, the mortality rate is low in the state when compared to other states. “The situation is serious. All parties pledged their support to the government. All strikes and protests have been deferred and there will be a strict ban on big gatherings,” the CM said adding if the present trend continued cases may peak by the middle of October. He said a new guideline will be issued in a couple of days and another lockdown was not feasible. Now, in terms of active cases, the state is in the fifth spot and the strain is visible on the harried health machinery and ICU facilities are almost full in major hospitals. Covid-19 cases peaked in the state when neighbouring states showed a downward trend. The Indian Medical Association’s Kerala chapter has asked the state government to declare a medical emergency as the situation has turned serious. “The crisis in the state will deteriorate if stringent steps are not taken. With high population density and a large number of elderly people, the situation will be really alarming. A health emergency must be declared to create awareness among the people,” the IMA said in its letter to the chief minister. The IMA also said the state has a relatively low-testing rate and it should be increased considerably. Many medical experts said the state will have to increase RT-PCR tests instead of antigen tests. But the CM said there is no plan to impose a medical emergency. In view of the rising cases, opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front had stopped its ongoing stir against Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel who was interrogated by the National Investigation Agency and Enforcement Directorate in connection with the gold smuggling case. Earlier, state health minister K K Shailaja had blamed opposition parties for the recent surge in cases. The state had witnessed violent protests in the last two weeks. But the BJP said it will go ahead with its symbolic protests. “Left trade unions are leading farmers’ agitation against the Union government in various parts of the country and in Kerala they want all to keep away from a stir. It is a double standard,” said party state president K Surendran. On Tuesday, the state has reported 7354 new cases taking the total to 1,87,276 cases. 1,24,688 people have recovered and active cases currently stand at 61,791. With 22 deaths, the toll has gone up to 720.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-in-kerala-but-curbs-to-be-enforced-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-amid-covid-19-spike/story-35mjxwobAYu7qa99DC1uTL.html
29-09-2020||India||Khadi Commission seeks payment for Rs 39 crore linen after railways cancels||The Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) has written to the railway ministry seeking payment for orders worth Rs 39.25 crore for the supply of linen after the national carrier cancelled the orders. The Khadi body said non-payment for the linen orders, which were designed especially with Indian Railways’ logo, would lead to an “irreparable loss”.This comes in the backdrop of the national carrier’s decision to end supply of linen, including bedsheets and pillow covers, to passengers travelling in air-conditioned coaches in a bid to prevent the spread of Covid disease.KVIC chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena, in a letter written to Railway Board CEO VK Yadav on September 15, said that Khadi India had received orders worth Rs 39.25 crore from the Railways to provide linen to railways across several zones for production of polyvastra bedsheet, pillow covers, towels and other textile products printed with the name of respective railway zones with their logo and manufacturing date that are ready for delivery. HT has reviewed the letter.“It was brought to my notice that in a few cases, material was delivered to the consignee but R-Note was not issued. In some cases, the material is ready for delivery but the Railways have extended the delivery period to the next financial year. Surprisingly, in some cases, material is ready for delivery but Railways have cancelled the order as these Khadi items have been manufactured especially for the Railways with their logo and manufacturing date. KVIC is left with no other option of marketing the same to any other party. If such huge orders worth Rs 39.25 crore are cancelled or refused to honor, our Khadi artisans and institutions will suffer irreparable loss,” the letter said.The KVIC urged the national carrier to consider the “efforts and struggles of spinners, weavers and other artisans associated with the work... you are requested to issue necessary directions to honour all previous orders and accept the supplies.”As per current norms, the Indian Railways procures various khadi items like bedsheets, pillow covers and hand towels for passengers from the KVIC on a single tender basis. Railways ministry officials say the requirement of linen dipped since only a limited number of special passenger trains are plying and their stock was already available with the national carrier and hence railways was advised not to procure these items.“Indian Railways has always been on the forefront on supporting the cause of Khadi and artisans. Covid global pandemic has thrown up hitherto unexpected and unforeseen challenges to all of us especially for national life lines like Railways. Stopping of distribution of linen in trains is one of the means to prevent the spread of virus during train journeys. A decision in this regard was taken in public health interest only. Railways respects the Institution of KVIC and artisans and best possible solution would be worked out in mutual consultation with KVIC only,” a railway ministry spokesperson said in response to HT’s query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khadi-commission-seeks-payment-for-rs-39-crore-linen-after-railways-cancels/story-skd1ZPNbssmjUKNVLdBtSI.html
29-09-2020||India||BSF recovers huge cache of arms from Mizoram-Bangladesh border; 3 held||In one of the biggest seizures in the Northeast in recent years, Border Security Force (BSF) personnel recovered a large cache of arms and ammunition from the Mizoram-Bangladesh border in the early hours of Tuesday. According to a BSF release, the recovered arms include 28 AK series assault rifles, a 5.56 mm AK 74 rifle, one carbine, 28 magazines, 7894 ammunition and two ‘khukhri’ daggers. “Reliable information was received by the BSF about an attempt being made by anti-national elements to smuggle arms and ammunition into Indian territory through Mizoram,” said the release. “The source who brought this information was questioned in detail and it was found that the information seemed reliable. It was learnt that they were bringing in AK series rifles along with lot of ammunition for some insurgent group,” it added. Accordingly an operation was planned under the supervision of Kuldeep Singh, DIG-BSF based at Aizawl and second in command SK Pillai with a team of personnel from the 90th battalion of BSF based in Mamit district. “It was seen in the late hours that two pickup vehicles were approaching from West Phaileng, on the Mizoram side, which was stopped and the BSF personnel took control of the vehicles and disarmed its 3 occupants,” the release said. The occupants were identified as Lalhuapzuapa (56), Liansanga (46) and Vanlalruata (25), all residents of Aizawl. On checking the vehicles, it was found that they had cavities in which the arms and ammunition were being carried. Besides the arms and ammunition, the BSF team also recovered Rs 39,020 from the 3 people, who were later handed over to the Mamit district police. “This is one of the biggest seizures of arms and ammunition in northeast in the past many years. The alert BSF troops were able to foil the designs of anti-national elements to supply arms and ammunition and create disturbance in Mizoram,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-recovers-huge-cache-of-arms-from-mizoram-bangladesh-border-3-held/story-lChq8ASK2MR4fIC91X8bBN.html
29-09-2020||India||Vice Prez Venkaiah Naidu tests positive for Covid-19, goes in home quarantine||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19 and has gone in home quarantine. The vice president is asymptomatic and in good health, the VP’s official Twitter account said. Naidu’s wife, Usha, has tested negative and is in self-isolation. Naidu underwent a Covid-19 test on Tuesday morning and was found to be infected. “The Vice President of India who underwent a routine Covid-19 test today morning has been tested positive. He is however, asymptomatic and in good health. He has been advised home quarantine. His wife Smt. Usha Naidu has been tested negative and is in self-isolation,” the VP Secretariat tweeted. Naidu, who is also the chairperson of the Rajya Sabha, was actively involved during the monsoon session of Parliament which was later cut short due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-prez-m-venkaiah-naidu-tests-positive-for-covid-19-goes-in-home-quarantine/story-oos2PmUU2vVN5SvyHbVS6H.html
29-09-2020||India||Lufthansa cancels India-Germany flights till Oct 20 after dispute with Centre||Lufthansa airlines on Tuesday said that it will not be operating any flights between India and Germany scheduled from September 30th till October 20th as the dispute with Centre deepens. The German carrier cited “unexpected rejection” of its flight schedule by the Indian government.“Due to the Indian government’s rejection, Lufthansa will now have to cancel all planned flights between Germany and India between 30 September and 20 October. An updated Lufthansa flight schedule is available for customers,” the airlines said in a statement.On March 23, India suspended all scheduled international passenger flights due to the lockdown imposed to curb Covid-19 spread. However, under an “air bubble” arrangement with 13 countries including Germany, Centre has permitted special flights to function.“There are restrictions in place for Indian nationals desiring to travel to Germany which was putting Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa,” Aviation regulator DGCA said in a statement on Tuesday.India and Germany had formalised an air bubble in July this year.“As against Indian carriers operating 3-4 flights a week, Lufthansa operated 20 flights a week. In spite of this disparity we offered to clear 7 flights a week for Lufthansa which was not accepted by them. Negotiations continue,” DGCA added.Stating that India has not yet accepted Germany’s invitation to talk, Lufthansa urged Centre to work together with the German government in order to “establish a temporary travel agreement between both countries”. “Such an agreement is necessary to address the urgent need of tens of thousands of Indians and foreign nationals for travel to and from India and would also help balance the interests of both countries’ airlines,” it said.“This appeal follows the unexpected rejection of Lufthansa’s planned flight schedule for October by Indian authorities. Lufthansa had applied for the continuation of special flights it was granted to operate until the end of September,” the statement further read. “October flight schedule would essentially have been an extension of the already limited number of flights between India and Germany that Lufthansa has been reintroducing to the Indian market since June,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lufthansa-cancels-all-planned-flights-to-india-from-germany-till-october-20/story-caOpDsidNpAACHts4tlV1I.html
29-09-2020||India||China on their radar, India, Japan, US, Australia to hold Quad meet on Oct 6||Foreign ministers of the Quad, the informal security forum comprising India, the US, Japan and Australia, are expected to hold a much-awaited meeting in Tokyo on October 6 with the objective of tightening strategic cooperation and advance the goal of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. The meeting is expected to be followed by consultations at senior officials’ level in November.The meeting will discuss collaboration among Quad countries in counter-terrorism, cyber and maritime security, development finance, humanitarian assistance and disaster response, according to South Block officials. The ministers are also expected to discuss practical collaborations in developing advanced technologies including 5G and 5G-plus telecom standards as well as securing the sea lanes of communications in the Indo-Pacific.While Beijing is expected to take aim at the four partners for seeking to target China at the meeting, there has been a sea change since the ministers met informally on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly on September 26, 2019. Quad is expected to take steps towards an institutionalized dialogue at the meeting, where Chinese actions since the rise of global pandemic from Wuhan will come under a magnifying glass.The Quad ministerial comes at a time when the Donald Trump administration has made a U-turn on US policy towards China, which was guided by the rapprochement policy tailored by Henry Kissinger 50 years ago under the Republican administration of Richard Nixon. The tough, new US policy towards Communist China was defined by US secretary of state Mike Pompeo in his Nixon Library address on July 24.The Indian relationship with China has taken a 180-degree turn since the Chennai summit on October 11-12, 2019, after the People’s Liberation Army’s aggression in eastern Ladakh in May. The armies of the two countries are still locked in a staring match in Ladakh with both sides losing soldiers in the June 15 Galwan Valley flare-up and firing in the air in the first week of September after the Indian Army pre-empted the PLA south of Pangong Tso. This is not all.Australia’s relationship with China, its largest trading partner, has nosedived with Beijing imposing an 80% tariff on barley, launching an anti-dumping investigation of Australian wine, blocking Australian beef, arresting an Australian journalist and banning two academics from visiting China.The situation with Japan is no different, with Chinese warmongering over the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea forcing Tokyo to increase its defence budget to a record. Tokyo is also upset over new security laws in Hong Kong and pressure put on democratic Taiwan by Beijing.In short, all the four Quad partners have their own reasons for being upset with China’s aggressive posture under paramount leader Xi Jinping under the mask of the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The Chinese posture in the Indo-Pacific and the threat it poses to the democratic world will be discussed at the Tokyo ministerial, with all Quadl partners sharing their experiences.Given that all the Quad partners have a military supply and logistics sharing agreement with each other, the foreign ministers will also take a decision on a four-nation naval exercise under the rubric of Malabar in the Arabian Sea to signal their commitment for free and open navigation in the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-us-australia-to-hold-quad-meet-on-oct-6-china-on-their-radar/story-LhL2r3vuaTl3ndBQ0vT6LP.html
29-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IAF chief says ‘No war, No peace in Ladakh’ amid tensions with China and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘No war, no peace in Ladakh,’ says IAF chief RKS BhadauriaIndian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Tuesday said the security scenario along the country’s northern borders was at “an uneasy, no war-no peace status” and the Indian military was prepared for any eventuality, amid heightened military tensions with China in the sensitive Ladakh sector where both armies have made arrangements for a long haul. Read moreOn Amnesty row, minister quotes ex-PM Manmohan Singh to defend CentreThe Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday refuted allegations by Amnesty International that it had to wind up its operations in India because of a witch hunt by the government and said the organisation was receiving funds from abroad in contravention of the Indian laws. Read moreCovid-19: Key highlights of second sero-survey findingsThe Indian Medical Research Council released the findings of the second nationwide sero-survey on Tuesday. During the briefing, ICMR’s Director General Balram Bhargava said that the objective of the survey was to estimate the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection among individuals aged 10 years and above. Read moreIndia among worst performing economies in world; stimulus inadequate: Abhijit BanerjeeNobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee on Tuesday said India is among the worst performing economies in the world and the government’s economic stimulus was inadequate to tackle the problem. He, however, said that the country will see a revival in growth in the July-September quarter of the current fiscal. Read moreIPL 2020, RCB vs MI: ‘Batting for 2 minutes is nothing,’ Pietersen and Gavaskar not happy with Mumbai’s tactics in Super OverThe Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) vs Mumbai Indians (MI) clash held on Monday was one of the most fiercely fought battles in the history of the Indian Premier League (IPL). The contest was tied after 40 overs and led to the second Super Over of the season which Virat Kohli & Co won on the last ball. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput was the only consumer of drugs, had been doing so prior to meeting Rhea Chakraborty: lawyerRhea Chakraborty’s lawyer, Satish Manishinde, during her bail hearing before the Bombay High Court on Tuesday has said that Sushant Singh Rajput had been consuming drugs since before he met her. Sushant died on June 14, and Rhea has been accused by his father of abetting his suicide. Read moreFascinating story reveals where Google got its iconic name fromIt’s been 22 years for Google. The search engine was created in 1998 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin and to mark two decades and two years of existence, the company shared an interesting doodle on its homepage. Read more‘Last year Republicans blasted me for a $250 haircut’: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez calls out Donald Trump for writing off $70,000 hairstyling bill as business expenseThere are many things that are controversial when it comes to the present President of the United States: Donald Trump, and everything he does, says or tweets makes instant headlines. Trump’s physical appearance, other than his questionable policies, has also been the subject of scrutiny. Read morePassenger left his bag in a taxi, what happened next was very sweetSmall acts of kindness can go a long way. Being at the giving or receiving end of a friendly deed can be quite a pleasurable experience. Similarly, hearing or reading about such instances can also fill one up with a sense of hope and joy. Read moreWatch: To keep eye on China ships, India gives Dornier surveillance plane to Maldives||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-iaf-chief-says-no-war-no-peace-in-ladakh-amid-tensions-with-china-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SxQRQrl1xGuDRVcmHWEAeN.html
29-09-2020||India||‘No war, no peace in Ladakh,’ says IAF chief RKS Bhadauria||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Tuesday said the security scenario along the country’s northern borders was at “an uneasy, no war-no peace status” and the Indian military was prepared for any eventuality, amid heightened military tensions with China in the sensitive Ladakh sector where both armies have made arrangements for a long haul. Speaking at a conference on ‘Energising Indian Aerospace Industry: Challenges in the New Environment’, the IAF chief said, “Air power will be a crucial enabler for our victory in any future conflict. It is really critical for any future conflict. It is imperative that the IAF obtains and maintains technological edge over our adversaries.” He said the air force had swiftly responded to the developments in eastern Ladakh and was prepared to counter any misadventure by the adversary. The conference was organised by the Centre for Air Power Studies along with the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Key military talks on September 21 over the dispute at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China remained inconclusive, with Indian negotiators firmly demanding comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante as the only approach towards de-escalation, and China asking India to withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction. The two sides, however, made some headway. According to a joint statement issued on September 22 in New Delhi and Beijing, they agreed to stop sending more troops to the front line, and to hold a seventh round of commander-level talks “as soon as possible, take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border area”. The IAF is operating its newly-inducted Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on its highest state of alert. Bhadauria said the recent induction of several platforms including the Rafales, C-17s, Chinooks and Apaches had provided the IAF with “substantial tactical and strategic capability enhancement.” The IAF’s current fleet of five Rafale fighters is fully operational and ready to undertake any mission. India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016. The air force formally inducted the planes at the Ambala air base on September 10 though they landed at their home base on July 29. At the induction, Bhadauria made it clear that the warplanes were mission-ready and the ceremony marked their “full operational induction” into the air force. The Rafale jets are part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, which is also known as the “Golden Arrows.” “The IAF is always mission-ready and can strike its place of choosing when it so desires anywhere, anytime,” said military affairs expert Air Marshal PS Ahluwalia (retd). The IAF has been projecting its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in the Ladakh sector, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers getting airborne for demanding night-time missions from forward airbases.The IAF chief said the raising of two squadrons of the Tejas light combat aircraft and the integration of indigenous weapons on the Su-30 in reduced time frame were the most promising developments on the indigenisation front and the march towards self-reliance in the defence sector. Talking about providing impetus to the Make in India initiative, he said the new Defence Acquisition Procedure-2020, released on Monday, addressed a number of issues “with bold and far reaching reforms”. He said to provide stimulus to the aerospace industry, IAF had committed to the purchase of 83 LCA Mk1 fighter jets and 106 HTT-40 trainer aircraft. “We strongly support the indigenous development of the fifth-generation fighter aircraft --- the advanced multirole combat aircraft (AMCA) --- and have a demand of at least six squadrons, and Avro replacement is planned under Make in India. This in itself amounts to more than 350 aircraft in next two decades. There cannot be a better time to indigenise,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-war-no-peace-in-ladakh-says-iaf-chief-rks-bhadauria/story-zvetDKIXdWGKGXkPEoyk3I.html
29-09-2020||India||Will add value, says minister on Shekhar Kapur’s appointment as FTII president||Celebrated filmmaker Shekhar Kapur, 74, has been appointed president of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) Society which runs the prestigious film school in Pune, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.Kapur, who is known for movies from the Indian superhero film ‘Mr India’ to ‘Bandit Queen’ based on the incidents in the life of Phoolan Devi and an acclaimed biopic on Queen Elizabeth, will hold the post till March 3, 2023.According to a person aware of the developments, the ministry of information and broadcasting has also appointed Kapur as the chairperson of the FTII governing council.The tenure of the earlier members of the society had ended in March 2020. The other members of the governing council will be appointed soon, the person cited above said.Kapur will head the premier film school at a time when, like many other colleges and universities, it is also grappling with the challenges posed by Covid-19.The FTII had earlier declared the results of the entrance test and is planning the future course. Online classes and training courses have been continuing.“Wherever it is difficult for students to attend classes, the institute has been putting up the material on the website,” said the person cited above.Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said “Kapur, who has a vast experience, will add more value to the Institute. I am sure everybody will welcome his appointment”.“Shekhar Kapur, as a reputed film maker of international stature, is without doubt an excellent choice. FTII welcomes him as its Chairman. It’s come a full circle from Dev Anand who started his career working at Prabhat Studio within the campus of FTII today, to his nephew Shekhar Kapur as Chairman of FTII,” said Bhupendra Kainthola, Director, FTII.The previous FTII chief was BP Singh known for his role as the lead actor in tele-serial CID. Singh was recently appointed by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) to its general assembly.The Film and Television Institute of India was set up by the Centre in 1960 in the premises of the erstwhile Prabhat Studios in Pune. It conducts various film related courses including on acting, direction, sound recording, editing and cinematography.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shekhar-kapur-is-president-of-pune-s-ftii-will-head-governing-council-too/story-3tiUpKNZbDsKJzxDGlFqQM.html
29-09-2020||India||On Amnesty row, BJP leader quotes ex-PM Manmohan Singh to defend govt||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday refuted allegations by Amnesty International that it had to wind up its operations in India because of a witch hunt by the government and said the organisation was receiving funds from abroad in contravention of the Indian laws.Amnesty International, in a statement, said that the freezing of its bank accounts by the Indian government, which it is learnt was done earlier this month, has brought its work to a juddering halt. BJP’s national spokesperson Rajyavardhan Rathore said Amnesty International had set up four companies, and showed money received in their account as FDI.The Enforcement Directorate started investigation after it learnt that money was being funnelled into the company’s accounts without any information or permission.“The Reserve Bank of India told all banks that Amnesty should be put in the category for prior reference. Before receiving money from outside India they would need to be in the prior permission category. There has been shifty money transfer to the companies and there is suspected flow of money into the trust of the amnesty international,” Rathore said.He said Amnesty International, which has alleged that it was targeted by the government for working on issues of human rights, has not clarified why money was coming into the bank accounts from abroad. The BJP spokesperson also said that the organisation’s credentials were also questioned by the UPA government. He said questions about the organisation were raised thrice in Parliament during the UPA regime and each time the then ministers referred to their “questionable” working style. “In 2009 during the UPA regime their licence was rejected for receiving foreign funds and the operation was suspended,” Rathore said. He said any organisation can work in India, but they cannot be allowed to circumvent the laws.“On July 31, 2004, the then MoS Home Shiprakash Jaiswal said accusations (about suppression of human rights) are made periodically by Amnesty international based in London. On 22 October 2008, in reply to a question about concerns on suppression of human rights, Shakeel Ahmed, MoS, Home, said the methods used by such organisations to gather information have been questioned. It is not the policy of India to react to such reports. On December 16, 2007, Ahmed again said methods used by such organisations to gather information have been often questioned, particularly as they are not free from bias,” Rathore said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-amnesty-row-minister-quotes-ex-pm-manmohan-singh-to-defend-centre/story-cmU6dQGGzs3JumxZf7vDML.html
29-09-2020||India||Security scenario in eastern Ladakh at ‘uneasy no war no peace’ status: IAF chief||The present security scenario along India’s northern frontier is at an “uneasy no war no peace” status, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Tuesday, referring to the festering border row with China in eastern Ladakh.Addressing a conference, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria also said the Indian Air Force has responded to the situation with rapidity and is fully resolved to counter any “misadventure” in the region.“The present security scenario along our northern frontiers is at an uneasy no war no peace status. Our defence forces are prepared for any eventuality as you are aware,” the Chief of Air Staff said.The IAF is looking at inducting around 450 aircraft and helicopters in the next two decades, besides upgrading at least 200-300 planes during this period, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said.He also said the recent induction of Rafale fighter jets along with previous acquisitions of C-17 Globemaster aircraft as well as Chinook and Apache helicopters have provided the IAF with substantial tactical and strategic capability enhancement.Also read | ‘Indian forces prepared for any eventuality’: IAF chief on Ladakh standoff“Air power will be a crucial enabler in our victory in any future conflict. It is therefore imperative that IAF obtains and maintains technological edge over our adversaries,” he said at the conference on energising the Indian aerospace industry.Five French-made multirole Rafale fighter jets were inducted into the IAF on September 10. The fleet has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh in the last couple of weeks.The IAF has already deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control.The IAF has also been carrying out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in an apparent message to China that it was ready to deal with any eventualities in the mountainous region. The IAF Chief said the raising of two squadrons of light combat aircraft Tejas and integration of some indigenous weapons on the Su-30 MKI combat jets in a very reduced time frame have been the “most promising” development, reflecting the country’s capabilities to develop indigenous military hardware.The Chief of Air Staff also strongly backed indigenous development of a fifth generation aircraft.“We strongly support indigenous development of a fifth generation aircraft. We need to have a single point agenda to have a fifth generation aircraft with sixth generation technology,” said Bhadauria, while congratulating all the stakeholders in development of the light combat aircraft Tejas.He also complimented the Defence Research and Development Organisation for its airborne early warning and control system Netra, calling it a pathbreaking achievement.Bhadauria also asked the DRDOs and defence public sector undertakings to include the private sector in key projects and treat them as their own.“Overall, we are looking at 450 aircraft orders. It will include the helicopter fleet,” Bhadauria said.“There cannot be a better time to energise the aerospace sector and there cannot be a better opportunity...IAF is ready to be an engine of growth for the aerospace industry, you have to be ready to provide the requirement and get on board with confidence and determination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-scenario-in-eastern-ladakh-at-uneasy-no-war-no-peace-status-iaf-chief/story-lmbKoHIUKFgurnF9MDz1gP.html
29-09-2020||India||Sitharaman slams Sonia Gandhi’s advice to party-ruled states on farm bills, cites Congress manifesto||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday targeted Congress over party chief Sonia Gandhi’s advice to party-rules states to bypass farm laws brought by Centre through legislative measures and said the opposition party in its 2019 Lok Sabha manifesto had promised repeal of Agricultural Produce Market Committees Act.Sitharaman said in tweets that Congress had promised to make trade in agricultural produce--including exports and inter-state trade--free from all restrictions.She asked if Congress had made false promise during the Lok Sabha 2019 elections or is “provoking people now” by asking states to bypass the central legislation.“From Section 7 page 9 of the INCIndia Lok Sabha 2019 manifesto: ‘Congress will repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committees Act and make trade in agricultural produce--including exports and inter-state trade--free from all restrictions’,” Sitharaman said.“Did INCIndia give a false promise during the Lok Sabha 2019 elections or are they provoking people now by asking states to bypass the central legislation? Wonder who advises their President?” she asked.Sonia Gandhi on Monday advised the Congress-ruled states to explore the possibilities to pass laws in their respective states under Article 254(2) of the constitution, which allows the state legislatures to pass a law, “to negate the anti-agriculture central laws encroaching upon state’s jurisdiction under the constitution”.“This would enable the states to bypass the unacceptable anti-farmers’ provisions in the three draconian agricultural laws including the abolition of MSP and disruption of APMCs in Congress-ruled states. This would also alleviate the farmers from the grave injustice done by the Modi Government and BJP,” a Congress statement had said.Article 254(2) of the constitution provides that where a law made by a state legislature with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the concurrent list “contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter”, then, the law so made by the legislature “shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that state”.The parliament passed three farm bills - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - during the monsoon session of parliament.Congress and several other opposition parties have opposed the provisions of the bills.President Ram Nath Kovind has given his assent to the three farm bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharaman-slams-sonia-gandhi-s-advice-to-party-ruled-states-on-farm-bills-cites-congress-manifesto/story-fD1zKdCr2KII4E6JSOBxVL.html
29-09-2020||India||Deputy CM Sisodia leaves hospital after recovering from Covid-19, dengue||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, 48, has been discharged from Max hospital, Saket where he was under treatment for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and dengue for the last five days. He was moved to the private hospital on September 24, a day after testing positive for the mosquito-borne dengue infection along with Covid-19. At Max hospital, the minister was administered plasma therapy. Sisodia, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14, had mild symptoms and was in home isolation. He was moved to the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital on the evening of September 23 with high fever and breathlessness. He had been admitted to the hospital intensive care unit and was put on low oxygen support. A battery of tests was done and when the doctors saw that his platelet count had dipped, he was tested for dengue and found positive. The next morning he was feeling better and was moved to a ward on low oxygen support and was moved to Max hospital the same evening. Sisodia had taken over as the city’s health minister when Satyendar Jain had tested positive for Covid-19 in June. Jain had also been moved to Max hospital, Saket from the Delhi-government run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital to receive plasma therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deputy-cm-sisodia-leaves-hospital-after-recovering-from-covid-19-dengue/story-xkHktZiKUpnJUTL6hTovnK.html
29-09-2020||India||Shekhar Kapur appointed chief of FTII society, chairman of FTII governing council||An official on Tuesday said that prominent filmmaker Shekhar Kapur has been appointed as the president of the Pune-based Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) society and chairman of the institute’s governing council. The ministry of information and broadcasting announced Kapur as the new President of FTII Society and Chairman of FTII Governing Council, FTII director Bhupendra Kainthola said. The 74-year-old filmmaker’s tenure will be till March 3, 2023, he added.Born on December 6, 1945 at Lahore in Pakistan, Kapur is known for his work in both Hindi and international cinema. He has directed films such as Elizabeth (1998), Bandit Queen (1994) and The Four Feathers (2002).He has received numerous awards for his work in the field of cinema including Padma Shri in 2000 and the Golden Globe Award in 1998. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shekhar-kapur-appointed-as-the-new-president-of-ftii-society-and-chairman-of-ftii-governing-council/story-uHKEY7smyVmTr6gxSgaF5K.html
29-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Key highlights of second sero-survey findings||The Indian Medical Research Council released the findings of the second nationwide sero-survey on Tuesday. During the briefing, ICMR’s Director General Balram Bhargava said that the objective of the survey was to estimate the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection among individuals aged 10 years and above.As per the findings, a considerable population still vulnerable to Covid-19 which has killed over 96,300 people across the country.Also read | Covid-19 cases higher, but deaths a third compared to June: Delhi health ministerSero survey is done by analysing blood samples of selected individuals for antibodies against Covid-19. It determines if a person has already been infected and recovered, considering a majority of patients do not exhibit symptoms and not everyone is getting tested for the viral infection.Here are the key findings of the second sero-survey:- Among the 29,082 people (aged 10 and above) surveyed from August 17 to September 22, 6.6% (aged 10 and above) showed evidence of past exposure to Covid-19 . While 7.1 per cent of the adult population (aged 18 and above) also showed evidence of past exposure to it.- One in 15 individuals aged 10 years and above were estimated to be exposed to Covid-19 by August 2020, showing that a considerable population is still susceptible to Covid-19.- It was found that urban slum (15.6 per cent) and non-slum (8.2 per cent) areas had higher Covid-19 infection prevalence than that of rural areas (4.4 per cent).- The survey also revealed that lower infection to case ratio in August compared to May reflects a substantial increase in testing and detection across India.- The ICMR Director-General said that lockdown and containment and behaviour change at the population level has effectively checked the potential spread of the deadly virus.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-key-highlights-of-second-sero-survey-findings/story-bhlxPEQfAGtbL5ftziARYI.html
29-09-2020||India||Should have shown grace, ignored Kangana’s PoK comment, HC to Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut should have shown grace and restraint when he responded to tweets from actor Kangana Ranaut, the Bombay High Court observed on Tuesday. The actor had compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and made objectionable comments against the Mumbai Police.In his affidavit, Raut, admitting that the expletives in the interview to the TV channel were directed at the petitioner (Kangana Ranaut), said that it was not due to any malice towards her but were prompted after she cast aspersions about the state not being safe. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla while hearing the response of Bhagyawant Late, designated officer of the BMC who was impleaded in the case after the petition of the actor was amended, was informed by senior counsel Anil Sakhare that the actor’s allegations of malice against him were baseless. While responding to the allegations made by the actor against him, Sakhare submitted that Late’s subordinates had visited the Pali Hill bungalow at around 1 pm much before her tweet which was made at around 5 pm. Hence, the allegation that the detection was prompted due to her tweet was not valid. Sakhare further submitted that as per previous judgments making allegations of malice were easy but proving them was the responsibility of the accuser. However, at no place in the petition or affidavits submitted by the actor had she proved the malice on his part. In light of the submissions, Sakhare sought dismissal of the petition. “In the said interview I have only referred to the petitioner as “dishonest” because the petitioner had made a statement saying that Mumbai is like ‘Pak Occupied Kashmir’,” stated Raut in his affidavit. “I responded because the petitioner had insulted Mumbai and Maharashtra,” said Raut. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “You are a leader, a parliamentarian. You should have been cautious while making statements. Even we don’t agree with what the petitioner has said. Is this the way to address?” When Raut’s advocate submitted that his outburst was due to the provocation by the actor, the court said, “We are all Maharashtrians and we are all proud to be Maharashtrians. We have to show grace. You have to ignore such things. Is this an example you set for others by asking ‘Kanoon kya hai’?” Thereafter, senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf, who along with advocate Rizwan Siddiquee for the actor, responded saying that the case was very much in the jurisdiction of the court even though senior advocate Aspi Chinoy for the BMC on Monday had said that the actor had a remedy in a suit for claims and the court should not entertain the petition. After hearing all submissions, the court directed all parties to submit their written notes within a week and posted the matter for further hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-to-show-grace-court-to-sanjay-raut-on-kangana-ranaut-remark/story-gap7Dj4oB11fuJ4EohRsLN.html
29-09-2020||India||Tripura HC seeks report from state govt on central team’s Covid suggestions||The Tripura High Court on Monday asked the Biplab Kumar Deb-led state government to submit ‘action taken report’ on the basis of suggestions provided by a central team of doctors on tackling the coronavirus (Covid-19) situation. The division bench of the high court comprising chief justice Akil Kureshi and justice Shubhashish Talapatra asked the Tripura government to submit the report before the next hearing which would take place on October 5. The central team which consisted of senior doctors visited various parts of the state over a period of ten days till September 18. On September 11, the court directed the state government to submit an affidavit within a week’s time providing information with regards to the infrastructure available in the state-run G B Pant Hospital situated in Agartala. This step was taken after a series of allegations regarding the health services provided to Covid-19 infected patients were doing the rounds. Taking suo-motu cognisance of media reports on the condition of infected patients and their relatives in the hospital, the division bench observed that time has come when court needs to make inquiries from the government on matters related to the handling of Covid-19 crisis and health care facilities in Tripura. Advocate general Arun Kanti Bhowmik informed the court that the state government would submit an affidavit on ‘action taken’ before the stipulated time.Meanwhile, Tripura on Tuesday reported 432 Covid-19 cases and three more related-deaths which pushed the overall tally to 25,353, a health department official said. The total cases include 5,877 active cases, 19,180 recoveries and 273 deaths, the official added. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-hc-seeks-report-from-state-govt-on-central-team-s-covid-suggestions/story-6l05Ns26hrzIoJYeiqgj0I.html
29-09-2020||India||Earthquake of magnitude 4.1 strikes Gujarat’s Rajkot||An earthquake of 4.1 magnitude was experienced in Rajkot district in Gujarat on Tuesday afternoon, the Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said.There were no reports of casualties or damage to property.As per the ISR, which is located in Gandhinagar, the epicentre of the tremor, which was recorded at 3:49 pm, was located 25 kms east-northeast from Upleta town in the district, which is at a distance of 215 kms from here, and it was recorded 14.5 kms deep in the earth’s crust.“No police station in the area has received any report of damage or injury due to the quake,” an official of Rajkot rural police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-4-1-strikes-gujarat-s-rajkot/story-QapzYzasNAoeM53COO9HAJ.html
29-09-2020||India||Maharashtra govt will last full term, no mid-term polls: Sanjay Raut||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete its five-year term, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday while ruling out possibility of mid-term elections in the state.Raut told reporters that people of the state do not want polls now.His comment came a day after Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil said that “there will be no option if no combination works out”, while replying to a query on possibility of mid-term polls in the state.“Nobody wants mid-term polls. But one also cannot figure out a solution to instability. Hence, something may happen one fine morning. All will try to see nothing happens But if no combination works out, then there will be no option,” Patil had told reporters, adding that no party wanted polls now.Addressing media persons here, Raut sarcastically said the Election Commission, which announces poll schedule, might have given Patil “some responsibility” and the latter might be having more information in this regard.“But I take Chandrakant Patil’s comments positively.He said people of Maharashtra don’t want polls. I am also saying there should be no elections. Hence, the Thackeray government will run for five years and there will be no elections,” Raut said.To a question about former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey joining the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) after taking voluntary retirement last week, Raut said one has the right to join politics after resigning from service.“We had no personal enmity with Pandey saheb, who was Bihar DGP. We were against the statements made against Mumbai Police while he was on the post. You don’t insult the Mumbai Police,” Raut said.Pandey came under attack from leaders of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadai government after he sought a CBI probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death at a time when the Mumbai Police was investigating the matter.“Now, the CBI is here (investing the matter). The entire country is waiting to see what the CBI does in this case. I think Pandey too should wait for some time,” the Sena chief spokesperson said.He also asked news channels “which raised questions over Mumbai Polices probe” to now ask questions to the CBI.The central agency has been probing the actors death for over a month now.“Channels questioned us. They should now ask questions to the CBI, Pandey, Nitish Kumar,” he said, alleging the charges were part of a conspiracy to defame the Shiv Sena.The CBI on Monday said it had not reached any conclusion in the death of Rajput and that all aspects are under investigation.Asked whether the MVA government will not implement new farm laws, Raut said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is holding discussions on the issue with the NCP and Congress.“It is being discussed at the government’s level. Let the government talk about it,” the Rajya Sabha member said and added the Sena had opposed the bills in Parliament during the monsoon session.Raut, whose meeting with BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis caused flutter last Saturday, said he will again meet the former chief minister to finalise the schedule for the latter’s interview (to Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’).He also said no discussion was held between himself and Fadnavis on upcoming Bihar Assembly elections during that meeting.“However, I expressed joy that a Maharashtra leader got charge of Bihar polls,” Raut recalled.He said Sena workers from Bihar wanted to contest the Assembly polls in the eastern state and added he will hold discussions with CM Thackeray, who heads the party, on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-will-last-full-term-no-mid-term-polls-sanjay-raut/story-LJ5rhc9dH7uHDYT0lML76I.html
29-09-2020||India||Drug probe not connected to Rajput’s death: NCB opposes Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea in HC||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday opposed the bail applications filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik in the Bombay High Court following their arrest in a drug case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.The anti-drug agency told the court on Tuesday that the investigation has nothing to do with Rajput’s death and it’s a case of ‘drug syndication’. “All throughout arguments, applicants state that this is connected to Sushant Singh Rajput death case but this investigation has nothing to do with it,” ASG Anil Singh, lawyer for NCB, told the court, as quoted by ANI.The court is hearing the bail pleas filed by Rhea and her brother. On September 8, the NCB had arrested Rhea Chakraborty for allegedly procuring drugs for Sushant. Chakraborty was arrested along with several others.The anti-drug agency further said that all the people arrested in the case are interlinked to each other and there were regular links and purchasing of drugs.“Want to point out that this is a drug syndicate and that they are all interlinked. All persons arrested till now, are connected with each other and it is a syndicate. There were regular links and purchasing,” NCB said in the court.Drug deal is not restricted to Sushant, the NCB told Bombay High Court. “This is not a case related to Sushant Singh Rajput. He may have been one of the consumers but the entire transaction and deal is not restricted to him,” the NCB further said. The NCB has so far also questioned actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh in the drugs probe.On June 14, the 34-year-old actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his residence in Mumbai’s Bandra. Apart from NCB, the case is also being investigated by two other central agencies -- Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drug-probe-not-connected-to-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-arrested-persons-interlinked-to-each-other-ncb-tells-bombay-high-court-during-rhea-showik-s-bail-plea-hearing/story-eVpIPOzbtrI2SMY0gGYQtL.html
29-09-2020||India||7.1% of adult population showed evidence of exposure to Covid-19: ICMR||The Indian Medical Council of India released the findings of the second national sero-survey on Tuesday. As per the latest findings, 7.1% of the adult population showed evidence of past exposure to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the ICMR said on Tuesday.The survey also showed that urban slum and urban non-slum areas have a higher prevalence of Covid-19 as against to the rural areas of the country. The risk in urban slums was twice than that in non-slum areas and four times the risk in rural settings, According to the findings.“One in 15 individuals aged more than 10 years were estimated to be exposed” to the viral disease till August month, Balram Bhargava, Director General of ICMR said in a briefing.Click here for full Coverage of Covid-19Sero survey is done by analysing blood samples of selected individuals for antibodies against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It determines if a person has already been infected and recovered, considering a majority of patients do not exhibit symptoms and not everyone is getting tested for the viral infection.The sero survey also aims to determine how the disease prevalence has changed since the first sero survey in May, when the nationwide lockdown was in force, to now, post-lockdown with fewer restrictions on public movement.Like the previous survey, this survey was also designed as a cross-sectional survey of adults aged 18 years or above from 21 states, wherein the districts were categorised into four strata according to the reported Covid-19 cases per million population (zero, low: 0.1-4.7, medium: 4.8-10 and high: >10).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-1-of-adult-population-showed-evidence-of-past-exposure-to-covid-19-icmr/story-b933dyE1gQNsbcdqgQQuPO.html
29-09-2020||India||Bypolls to 7 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh on November 3||Bypolls to the seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh will be held on November 3, said Election Commission officials on Tuesday while announcing the schedule for it. The counting of votes will be held on November 10. Bypolls will be held in seven assembly seats - Naugawan Sadat, Bulandshahr, Tundla, Bangermau, Ghatampur, Deoria and Malhani. The Election Commission decided not to hold a bypoll on the Suar assembly seat in Rampur district that fell vacant after Allahabad High Court on December 16, 2019, set aside the election of Samajwadi Party MLA Abdullah Azam on charge of submitting wrong documents to contest election. An Election Commission officer said the matter related to the Suar assembly seat was pending in court. The commission decided to announce the bypoll on Suar seat later. Principal secretary, state assembly, Pradeep Dubey also referred to the law department opinion for debarring Abdullah Azam from contesting the assembly election for submitting a fake birth certificate. Senior principal secretary, Election Commission of India, Sumit Mukherjee, in a press statement, said taking into consideration various factors like local festivals, weather conditions, movement of forces and pandemic, the commission has announced the schedule for the bypoll. In view of the spread of Covid-19, the commission on August 21 issued broad guidelines, which will be followed strictly during the conduct of the election, he said. The model code of conduct shall come into force with immediate effect in the districts in which the election is scheduled. The electoral roll for the bypoll with qualifying date January 1, 2020 had been published while adequate EVMs and VVPATs were made available for polling, said Mukherjee. Among the seven seats going to bypolls, six seats - Naugawan Sadat, Bulandshahr, Tundla, Bangarmau, Ghatampur and Deoria - were held by the BJP while the SP secured victory on Malhani seat in the 2017 assembly election. The five seats - Naugawan Sadat, Ghatampur, Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani - fell vacant with the death of the sitting MLAs - Chetan Chauhan, Kamal Rani Varun, Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejai Singh and Prasanath Yadav, respectively. Bangarmau assembly seat in Unnao district fell vacant after the disqualification of membership of sitting MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar following conviction in a rape case on December 20 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-to-7-assembly-seats-in-uttar-pradesh-on-november-3/story-8wjihV3NJurA76YC7gwIAI.html
29-09-2020||India||Fact-check, don’t leak letters in media: Andhra top cop to Chandrababu Naidu||Andhra Pradesh director general of police Gautam Sawang on Tuesday kicked up a controversy by writing a letter to Telugu Desam Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu asking him to refrain from writing open letters without verifying facts.Sawang was reacting to a letter written to him by the TDP chief in connection with the attack on S Ramachandra, brother of judge S Ramakrishna at B Kothakota town in Chittoor district on Sunday evening. Naidu had alleged that the attack was planned and sponsored by the ruling YSR Congress Party in order to stifle the dissenting voice of Ramakrishna.The DGP said investigations had proved that the allegations levelled by Naidu against YSRCP were far from the truth.“It is unfortunate that such allegations are levelled without verifying the facts and further going on to generalise and attribute the same to ‘deteriorating law and order situation’ in the state,” he said.“I request you to kindly refrain from posting letters addressed to me in the media since the contents might have unverified and wrong information, which may needlessly arouse suspicion in the minds of the people at large and cast aspersions on the innocent,” Sawang said.He said if the TDP chief had any grounds or reason for suspicion about the involvement of any individual, he could write to the police department in a sealed cover and help the police in discharging their lawful duties in maintaining and enforcing the rule of law.On the Chittoor incident, the DGP said Ramachandra suffered minor injuries on his nose during a clash with Prathap Reddy over a petty issue. “Investigations revealed that Prathap Reddy is a staunch follower of the TDP. So, the allegation levelled by Naidu that it was a sponsored attack by YSRCP leaders is false,” he said.TDP official spokesman Kommareddy Pattabhiram found fault with the DGP for writing back to Naidu making counter-allegations against the latter, instead of taking action against the accused in the Chittoor incident.He said Naidu had written to the DGP only to say that this attack was made just a day after the judge addressed a Dalita Mahasabha in Vijayawada, raising doubts over the political intentions of the attackers. “So, it is the responsibility of the DGP to verify the charges made by the TDP chief, instead, he chose to write back to him giving a clean chit to the YSRCP and asking Naidu not to write such letters,” Pattabhiram said.The TDP leader appealed to the DGP not to mortgage the self-respect of the police force before the YSRCP, led-by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fact-check-don-t-leak-letters-in-media-andhra-top-cop-to-chandrababu-naidu/story-ajt4WtFXiS3LR2G3rnZkDO.html
29-09-2020||India||Monsoon session of Odisha Legislative Assembly begins today amid Covid crisis||The monsoon session of the Odisha Legislative Assembly began on Tuesday amid the coronavirus pandemic.All the Members of Legislative Assembly (MLA), personal security officers (PSO) and assembly staff were wearing face masks and some were wearing face shields as well. They also maintained social distancing norm inside the hall. The assembly session will be discussing on as many as 16 Bills in the list.Prior to the commencement of sessions, all the MLAs, PSOs and assembly staff underwent the Covid-19 test at the Odisha Assembly in Bhubaneswar.While preparing for the monsoon session, Odisha Assembly Speaker Surya Narayan Patro had said for the first time, glasses have been used inside the assembly premises between seats of legislators and the visitors’ gallery will have provision to accommodate 52 MLAs.Meanwhile, Chief Whip of BJP Mohan Majhi had said the party is going to raise the issue of mismanagement in Covid-19 treatment in the state during the assembly session.“During this short session of the state assembly, we are going to raise mismanagement in the Covid-19 treatment in the state and hike in the electricity tariff along with some Ordinances bring by the Government like Odisha University (Amendment) Bill 2020 and others,” he said.Congress MLA and senior leader Tara Bahinipati had stated that his party wanted the discussion on some of the important issues related to Farmers and Agriculture, revised electricity rates and “mismanagement” in Covid-19 by the government.The monsoon session of Odisha Legislative Assembly is scheduled to be concluded on October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-of-odisha-legislative-assembly-begins-today-amid-covid-crisis/story-g8O7qrBlzs09EPmpIHDkCI.html
29-09-2020||India||Manish Sisodia tests negative for Covid-19, discharged from hospital||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia was discharged a Delhi hospital after testing negative for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The doctors have still advised him to take rest for a week, his office said in a statement.Along with Covid-19 , Sisodia was also suffering from Dengue. He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit at a private Max hospital in Delhi on September 25. Sisodia was later administered convalescent plasma therapy after which there was an improvement in his health condition. The 48-year-old Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14. He was moved to the state-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital on September 23 after his condition deteriorated in home isolation.Sisodia is the second minister in the Arvind Kejriwal-led cabinet to have tested positive for Covid-19.In June, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain was hospitalised after he tested positive for Covid-19. He was discharged from the hospital on June 26 after being treated for 12 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-sisodia-tests-negative-for-covid-19-discharged-from-hospital/story-DPSzi72Tc3U6hjK2DdwoyL.html
29-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India provides Dornier to Maldives, will help monitor movement of Chinese vessels and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India provides Dornier to Maldives, will help monitor movement of Chinese vesselsIndia on Tuesday provided a Dornier maritime surveillance aircraft to the Maldives National Defence Force (MDNF) that is expected to boost efforts to keep a closer eye on the movement of Chinese vessels in regional waters, people familiar with developments said. Read more‘Source of black money blocked’: PM shreds Opposition on farm law protestsThey are insulting farmers by setting fire to the very equipment he worships, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, launching a full-blooded defence of the farm laws and hitting out at the opposition a day after members of the Punjab unit of Youth Congress set a tractor on fire at Rajpath near the India Gate lawns in the heart of Delhi. Read moreEC announces dates for 56 assembly and one parliamentary by-pollThe Election Commission on Tuesday announced that 54 assembly constituencies and one parliamentary constituency across 10 states would go to polls on November 3 and 7, respectively. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘If given opportunities, he would have won World Cups’ - Sreesanth’s huge statement on 25-year-old batsmanSanju Samson has got off to a fantastic start in this year’s Indian Premier League in the UAE. The Kerala wicketkeeper-batsman smashed 74 runs in 32 balls for Rajasthan Royals in their first game of the season against Chennai Super Kings. Read moreAfter Priyanka Chopra and Ranbir Kapoor, Ananya Panday channels Saara Zamaana’s Amitabh Bachchan for Khaali Peeli songAnanya Panday is super excited for her her upcoming film Khaali Peeli alongside Ishaan Khatter on October 2, and the actor has been promoting the film on her social media as well, often sharing new looks. Read moreHusqvarna Svartpilen 250, Vitpilen 250 road test review: The Swedish duoThe KTM owned Swedish motorcycle making brand – Husqvarna - announced its India entry with the Svartpilen 250 and Vitpilen 250.  Read moreTweeple are not happy about this ‘Chai Latte’ recipe with maple syrup, coconut milkIf you’re a fan of chai, especially your particular version with the exact amount of milk and other ingredients, fair warning - this video shared on Twitter may irk you. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-provides-dornier-to-maldives-will-help-monitor-movement-of-chinese-vessels-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HnJj7B8M9K8zaV3aL3moSI.html
29-09-2020||India||Never accepted the unilaterally defined 1959 LAC: India reacts to China’s stand||India on Tuesday said it had never accepted the unilaterally defined 1959 Line of Actual Control (LAC) and pointed out that various agreements with China committed both countries to a common understanding of the alignment of the boundary. The external affairs ministry was reacting to a report in Hindustan Times, which cited China’s foreign ministry as saying that Beijing abides by the LAC proposed by premier Zhou Enlai to prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru in a letter dated November 7, 1959 – the first time in decades the Chinese clearly outlined its position on the notional boundary by reiterating a position that India has consistently rejected since it was first made 61 years ago. “India has never accepted the so-called unilaterally defined 1959 Line of Actual Control (LAC). This position has been consistent and well known, including to the Chinese side,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. Also Read: ‘Indian forces prepared for any eventuality’: IAF chief on Ladakh standoffSrivastava pointed out that under several bilateral agreements – including the 1993 Agreement on Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC, the 1996 Agreement on Confidence Building Measures (CBMs) in the military field, the 2005 Protocol on Implementation of CBMs, and the 2005 Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles for Settlement of the India-China Boundary Question – India and China have “committed to clarification and confirmation of the LAC to reach a common understanding of the alignment of the LAC”. He added, “Therefore, the insistence now of the Chinese side that there is only one LAC is contrary to the solemn commitments made by China in these agreements.” The external affairs ministry also blamed the Chinese side for lack of progress in the process for clarifying and confirming the boundary for almost two decades. “In fact, the two sides had engaged in an exercise to clarify and confirm the LAC up to 2003, but this process could not proceed further as the Chinese side did not show a willingness to pursue it,” Srivastava said. Also Read: Post Ladakh, PLA no longer a bogey for Indian Army | AnalysisThe Indian side also pointed to an apparent dichotomy in the position adopted by the Chinese side – insisting on abiding by the LAC of 1959 while stating in recent discussions on the ongoing border standoff that the issue should be resolved on the basis of the existing agreements. “In the last few months, the Chinese side has repeatedly affirmed that the current situation in the border areas should be resolved in accordance with the agreements signed between the two countries,” Srivastava said. He pointed out that even in the agreement reached between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during their talks on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow on September 10, the Chinese side “has reiterated its commitment to abide by all the existing agreements”. The external affairs ministry said the Indian side has “always respected and abided by the LAC”, and defence minister Rajnath Singh had stated in Parliament recently that “it is the Chinese side which by its attempts to transgress the LAC in various parts of the Western Sector, has tried to unilaterally alter the status quo”. Srivastava said: “We therefore expect that the Chinese side will sincerely and faithfully abide by all agreements and understandings in their entirety and refrain from advancing an untenable unilateral interpretation of the LAC.” Since early May, India and China have been engaged in a standoff in Ladakh sector of the LAC that has taken bilateral ties to an all-time low. Both sides have mobilised more than 50,000 troops each in the region and are now preparing to dig in for the harsh winter. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 in a brutal clash in Galwan Valley, which also resulted in unspecified Chinese casualties. Troops of both sides have also fired warning shots on several occasions since late August, the first time arms have been used along the LAC since 1975. Several rounds of talks between the corps commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs have been unable to end the impasse in the disengagement process, though the military commanders agreed at their last meeting that both sides wouldn’t deploy any more troops to the frontline. The WMCC is set to hold another meeting soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-accepted-the-unilaterally-defined-1959-lac-india-reacts-to-china-s-stand/story-CtCw1j5j42fZCkFkrxSkEP.html
29-09-2020||India||Stubble burning: Environment ministers of Delhi, 4 other states to meet on Oct 1||The Environment Ministers of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will meet on October 1 to discuss and tackle the problem of stubble-burning which causes pollution every year, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday.The virtual meeting will also be attended by the environment secretaries of Delhi and the four neighbouring states along with the members of the pollution control boards and corporations like the NDMC and the DDA, he said. The Union environment minister told a press conference here that meeting will review the work done by the states in the last two years to handle the issue of crop residue burning. “At the onset of winter in Delhi, which is October 15 onwards, stubble burning commences and causes pollution throughout the winter season,” he said. “This is not just confined to Delhi, but an air shade which extends to the NCR cities, places in Haryana, UP, Punjab and Rajasthan. Everyone bears the brunt of this air shade. So with the cooperation of all these five states we started tackling this issue in 2016,” he added.“For this cause, a virtual meeting of the environment ministers of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will be held on October 1. Besides the environment ministers, the meeting will be attended by state environment secretaries, pollution control board members and municipal corporations, DDA and NDMC,” Javadekar told the media. ““In 2016, the PM launched the National Air Quality Index (NAQI). We believe that acceptance of a problem is the beginning of its solution. So, this is a significant meeting. I am confident everyone will participate in the meeting,” he said. Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and parts of Rajasthan attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15.Farmers set their crop residue on fire to quickly clear off their fields after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution levels in Delhi-NCR during the winter season.Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes paddy residue and the farmers there burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it. The farmers in Haryana burnt 1.23 million tonnes out of the 7 million tonnes of paddy residue.Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between harvesting of paddy and sowing of wheat.The minister also told the press conference that the meeting will review the action taken by states in the last two years. “First, we will review the short term plan, medium and long term plans made in 2016. CPCB’s 50 teams visit spots and assess the situations October 15 onwards every year. The meeting will review their work in the last two years. A review of the work done by the states will also be done,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubble-burning-environment-ministers-of-delhi-4-other-states-to-meet-on-oct-1/story-udjxNiz7UYHfX71ACVUlpN.html
29-09-2020||India||‘Source of black money blocked’: PM shreds Opposition on farm law protests||They are insulting farmers by setting fire to the very equipment he worships, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, launching a full-blooded defence of the farm laws and hitting out at the opposition a day after members of the Punjab unit of Youth Congress set a tractor on fire at Rajpath near the India Gate lawns in the heart of Delhi. Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, are continuing to protest the new laws, fearing deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful corporate agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. The reforms have cost the Bharatiya Janata Party one of its oldest allies, the Shiromani Akali Dal, which has quit the ruling alliance.PM Modi accused the opposition of being against the independence of farmers, noting that it has become a habit of these people to oppose everything that is happening for the country. It is the only way they can practise their politics, said the PM.Also Watch l ‘They are not with farmers, youth or jawans’: PM Modi’s attack at opposition “A few days ago with the new laws, the country has freed its farmers from many shackles. Now the farmer can sell his produce to anyone, anywhere. But today, even when the central government is giving the farmers their rights, these people have come down to protest and are opposing the independence of the farmer. These people are now humiliating the farmers by setting fire to the goods and equipment that the farmer worships,” said the PM while launching six mega projects in Uttarakhand through video conferencing. The government’s new farm laws have become contentious for two reasons: one, they do not guarantee acquisition of farm produce at the minimum support price (at least, not in letter); and two, the manner in which they were pushed through, by a dubious voice vote, ignoring calls for parliamentary oversight, even voting.The Opposition parties are protesting, the PM said, as “another means for earning black money has been blocked”, by implementing the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission - with farmers getting the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops and doing away with middlemen. “A party whose four generations of a family ruled the country, today wants to prove their selfishness by climbing on the shoulders of others, opposing all initiatives related to the national interest,” he said. PM Modi said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, the country has seen a boom in Digital India campaign, “with even the poor using Jan Dhan bank accounts, using RuPay card and making digital transactions”. “When our government started this work, these people were opposing it and have always opposed the opening of the bank account of the poor of the country,” he said Spotlighting another instance, the PM raised the issue of protests by Opposition parties against Good and Services Tax and against the central government’s initiatives like One Rank One Pension scheme. “Since the implementation of One Rank-One Pension, the government has given about Rs 11,000 crore as arrears to ex-servicemen. Here in Uttarakhand, more than one lakh ex-servicemen have benefited from this. But these people (opposition parties) were always against the introduction of One Rank One Pension,” said Modi. The PM said that the Opposition parties even protested against introduction of Rafale Jets into the Indian Air Force, which has been done to strengthen the security forces. “Four years ago, our jawans carried out the surgical strikes and destroyed the bases of terror. But instead of praising the courage of our security personnel, the Opposition was asking for evidence of surgical strikes. It has become a habit of these people to oppose everything that is happening for the country. The only way of politics they know now is opposition,” added the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/source-of-black-money-blocked-pm-shreds-opposition-on-farm-law-protests/story-GvM4TEmGVAsgAnsrGhYKnN.html
29-09-2020||India||Hathras woman who was gang-raped 2 weeks ago dies at Delhi hospital||A 19-year-old woman died at New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday over two weeks after four men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras allegedly raped and brutalised her when she tried to fight back, leaving her legs fully and arms partially paralysed.The death triggered outrage with Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hitting out at the state government over “no semblance of security” for women and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal calling it a matter of shame for the country. Dalit leader and Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad led a protest at the Safdarjung Hospital demanding death sentence for the accused. “I appeal to all members of the Dalit community to take to the streets and demand the death penalty for the guilty. The government should not test our patience. We would not rest until the culprits are hanged.” He said the state government “is equally responsible for the death of our sister”.Hathras police superintendent Vikrant Vir said the woman’s family informed them that she died around 3 am. “The [woman] was referred to the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi but could not be saved. [She] breathed her last on Tuesday morning... [Her] post mortem is to be conducted in Delhi before her body will be brought back to Hathras maybe later in the day [Tuesday] for cremation,” said Vir. He said the woman suffered spinal injuries, but denied reports that her tongue was slit.Also Read: Caste-related crimes on the rise in UP: AAPVir said the in-charge of Hathras’s Kotwali police station has been removed for alleged inaction in the case. He added that the four accused had been arrested and will also be booked for murder.Vir said they first arrested 20-year-old Sandip the day the woman was raped. He added that three more men, Ramu, Lavkush, and Ravi, were later arrested when the woman named them in her statement before a magistrate on September 22. Vir said the men tried to strangulate her when she tried to resist their attempts to rape her.Vir said the 19-year-old was found badly injured after she went missing on September 14.Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar said the accused have also been booked under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the woman’s family has been given Rs 10 lakh compensation.He added a fast-track court would be set up to hear the case to punish the culprits at the earliest.The case has drawn parallels with the gang rape of a 23-year-old student in Delhi, who was attacked on a moving bus and left to die on a roadside in 2012. Anger over the Delhi case triggered countrywide protests and prompted the government to pass a tougher law against sexual violence with a provision for the death penalty for rape. Four men convicted of the 23-year-old’s rape and murder were hanged in March.The Hathras woman was shifted to the Delhi hospital from Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital on Monday when her condition showed no signs of improvement. She was admitted to the Aligarh hospital in a critical condition on September 14 and was on ventilator support.Priyanka Gandhi said law and order in Uttar Pradesh has deteriorated to a great extent and no semblance of safety exists for women. “The criminals are committing crimes openly,” she tweeted, calling for severe punishment for the rapist-killers. “@myogiadityanath [chief minister Yogi Adityanath] you are accountable for the safety of women in UP [Uttar Pradesh],” she tweeted....यूपी में कानून व्यवस्था हद से ज्यादा बिगड़ चुकी है। महिलाओं की सुरक्षा का नाम-ओ-निशान नहीं है।अपराधी खुले आम अपराध कर रहे हैं। इस बच्ची के क़ातिलों को कड़ी से कड़ी सजा मिलनी चाहिए। @myogiadityanath उप्र की महिलाओं की सुरक्षा के प्रति आप जवाबदेह हैं। 2/2“A Dalit girl who was a victim of demoniac behaviour in Hathras has passed away at Safdarjung Hospital. For two weeks, she kept struggling between life and death in hospitals.” Priyanka Gandhi said incidents of rape in Hathras, Shahjahanpur, and Gorakhpur had shaken the state.Kejriwal demanded that the guilty be tried and hanged at the earliest. “The death of Hathras victim is shameful for the entire society, country as well as for all the governments. It is highly sad that so many daughters are being sexually assaulted and we have not been able to protect them...” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati demanded stringent punishment for the accused and said they should be tried in a fast-track court. “The news of the death of Dalit victim after gangrape in Hathras...is very saddening. The government should provide all possible help to the victim’s family and ensure fast punishment to the culprits by prosecuting them in a fast track court....”Bhim Army chief and Dalit leader Chandrashekar Azad on Sunday night evaded the police to visit the woman’s family at the Aligarh hospital to express “solidarity” with them. He said the rape highlighted the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.“Policemen who have been negligent in this case should be duly punished and the woman’s family members should be immediately provided security as they are feeling insecure and should be shifted to a safe spot,” he said. Azad demanded financial assistance of Rs. 1 crore for the woman’s family.Vir said a police force was deployed at the woman’s house when she was admitted to the Aligarh hospital where her condition deteriorated.In a video message, National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma said the commission had sought an action taken report from Uttar Pradesh Police on the matter and was told the four accused had been arrested. She said the commission has promised the woman’s family all possible assistance. “An NCW member is going to meet the brother of the victim and we will help the family in whatever way we can.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-woman-who-was-gang-raped-2-weeks-ago-dies-at-delhi-hospital/story-xKm0OZB7Yrx4eZHoCNi2oK.html
29-09-2020||India||India provides Dornier to Maldives, will help monitor movement of Chinese vessels||India on Tuesday provided a Dornier maritime surveillance aircraft to the Maldives National Defence Force (MDNF) that is expected to boost efforts to keep a closer eye on the movement of Chinese vessels in regional waters, people familiar with developments said. The Dornier aircraft will operate under the command and control of MNDF while running csosts will be borne by India. It will assist in ongoing joint surveillance activities by India and the Maldives of the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of the Indian Ocean archipelago. Seven MDNF personnel, including pilots, air observers and engineers are being trained to operate the Dornier by the Indian Navy. The people cited above said on condition of anonymity that the aircraft was provided by the Indian Navy in line with and inter-governmental agreement. Also Read: India, Maldives launch cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin and Cochin with Male“The aircraft will also help in monitoring the activities of Chinese vessels in regional waters. The surveillance of the EEZ includes the tracking of all adversarial movements, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and drug and human trafficking,” said one of the people cited above. “In light of the Mahibadhoo and Laamu attacks by suspected terrorists, the Dornier aircraft will also be useful in the counter-terrorism sphere. The isolated and dispersed nature of islands and resorts can be safeguarded only by a technologically capable fixed wing aircraft,” the person said. The person was referring to attacks at the harbour of Mahibadhoo Island in the central Maldives on April 15 in which four speedboats, a sea ambulance and two dinghies were set on fire. Also Read: India provides soft loan of $250 mn to the MaldivesThe Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attacks but Maldivian police described the incident as arson and said it could have been the work of extremists or drug traffickers retaliating against special operations conducted since September 2019. The Indian high commission in Male tweeted: “As per Govt-to-Govt Agreement & discussions started in 2016, the Dornier arrives! It will engage in humanitarian relief efforts & joint-EEZ surveillance under command & control of #MNDF; It proudly dons #MNDF colours & crest, and will involve Maldivian pilots in its operations”. As per Govt-to-Govt Agreement & discussions started in 2016,the Dornier arrives! It will engage in humanitarian relief efforts & joint-EEZ surveillance under command & control of #MNDF; It proudly dons #MNDF colours & crest,and will involve Maldivian pilots in its operations. pic.twitter.com/VKjP7phjxtThe people noted that previous Maldivian governments too had wanted a Dornier aircraft to be positioned in the Maldives to enhance security and joint surveillance of the EEZ and search and rescue and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR) operations, particularly in the northern atolls. The requirement of the aircraft was first raised during previous Maldivian president Abdulla Yameen’s visit to India in 2016. “While it could not get implemented earlier, the present government of President Ibrahim Solih has been able to implement it. Maldivian pilots, observers and technical personnel are being trained to operate the Dornier aircraft since June 2017,” said an official who declined to be named. The current government of the Maldives has been successful in getting more such training programmes organised by India, the official said. During a recent EEZ surveillance operation, multiple large fishing trawlers were found illegally fishing in Maldivian waters, the official added. The India government has been regularly sharing information with the government of the Maldives on the movement of drug traffickers headed for the archipelago based on reconnaissance flights by Dornier aircraft. The Dornier will also complement medical evacuation operations currently being conducted by MNDF helicopters. More than 250 Maldivian lives have been saved during such medical evacuation flights. The Maldives is an archipelago of nearly 1,200 islands grouped into 19 dispersed atolls that cover an area of nearly 90,000 km. The country’s EEZ covers nearly one million kilometres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-provides-dornier-to-maldives-will-help-monitor-movement-of-chinese-vessels/story-SN6oSVtpZENvJ6pmxYlMXO.html
29-09-2020||India||Year after tragedy, Goa govt pledges to seal open cast stone quarries||One year after four students drowned in an open stone quarry pit, the Goa government has pledged before the National Green Tribunal that it will ensure that the quarries are filled up with fly ash and remediated inert waste to prevent a recurrence. The decision comes after a meeting of a special committee set up by the National Green Tribunal, tasked with finding a solution to the recurring problem of open stone quarries posing a threat to wandering children as well as wildlife which get trapped. “There are induction furnace units as well as sponge iron units in the State of Goa which generates slag and fly ash. It is proposed to utilize the slag, fly ash, inert, compost and tree and garden cuttings for restoration of the quarries to its original state. The last one meter will comprise of soil/compost followed by plantation through Goa State Biodiversity Board or Forest Department,” the Goa government said in its submissions before the NGT. The Goa government is hoping to solve two problems at once as state and local bodies also face issues in trying to dispose of remediated as well as organic waste and fly ash from factories. An earlier proposal by the Goa government to fill the pits with municipal solid waste earned the ire of the National Green Tribunal. “A preposterous suggestion has been made for filling up the mined out pits with solid waste in consultation with a Norwegian company. We therefore,have no hesitation in rejecting the report as unacceptable. If the proposal is to be accepted, it would amount to giving license for commission of a criminal offence apart from it being in violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016,” the NGT had noted. “The report clearly demonstrates insensitivity on the part of the State of Goa in dealing with such a serious question where lives have reportedly been lost,” the NGT further observed.On September 18 last year, four students went for a swim in the quarry that was filled with rainwater and drowned. The four were part of a group of 40 boarders from a hostel who were taken for a trek at Tuem village in North Goa. Laterite quarries used to cut out stone used to build houses are large pits that are filled with water during the rains and end up being traps not just unsuspecting humans but also animals who fall into the pits.Even before the deaths, the NGT had asked the Goa government “to take further remedial actions including framing of appropriate guidelines and manual of Standard Operating Procedure for the quarries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/year-after-tragedy-govt-govt-pledges-to-seal-open-cast-stone-quarries/story-d2BSNbmBsljDfSA6Bud2rI.html
29-09-2020||India||Protest against farm laws continues in Amritsar, Punjab||Members of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee wore black clothes as their ‘rail roko’ protest on railway tracks in Devidaspura village of Amritsar against Farm Laws entered the sixth day on Tuesday.Speaking to ANI, Committee Office Secretary, Gurbachan Singh said, “Today our protest has entered into the sixth day and we have worn black clothes to express our anger against the Modi government and corporates.”“We request everyone to boycott all the products by big corporates as this government only provided benefit to these,” Singh added.Protests by farmers against the new laws have been ongoing since the past few days in Punjab.The three laws are - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-against-farm-laws-continues-in-amritsar-punjab/story-HtaSjX67BfL394Koa4LwGO.html
29-09-2020||India||Banerjee wants Governor to be post office, a rubber stamp: Jagdeep Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar launched an attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday over the situation in the state and the lack of response from her side despite him seeking information about the law and order situation in the state.“The Chief Minister wants the Governor to be a post office, a rubber stamp, to fiddle in Raj Bhawan. I, therefore, wish to remind the CM what does the Constitution says,” Dhankhar said and went on to quote Article 167, which deals with the duties of the Chief Minister with respect to the furnishing of information to the Governor.“I have asked for number of information in writing, including various subjects, but no response has been received yet,” he added.The Governor said his multiple requests had been ignored “against public interest, ignored to hide, ignored so that people will not know the real picture.”Dhankhar said he had earlier written to the Director-General of Police (DGP) too over the alarming decline in law and order situation in state, it is becoming a “safe haven” for crime, illegal bomb-making and corruption.He further raised the issue of police department being used against the Opposition in the state.He also raised the issue of Abdul Mannan, Leader of Opposition (LoP) writing to Banerjee after he was intimidated and threatened by a “junior police officer with consequences”.“The CM did not reply to that letter, therefore, he then wrote to me. Then I invited him, if this could happen by a junior police officer to the LoP. I wrote to the CM about this too but we got no response,” Dhankhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banerjee-wants-governor-to-be-post-office-a-rubber-stamp-jagdeep-dhankhar/story-zPSPlvGt61C68iMRMoaBbJ.html
29-09-2020||India||Election Commission announces bypoll dates: All you need to know||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced dates for byelections to one Lok Sabha seat and 56 Assembly constituencies. While bypolls to 54 Assembly constituencies will take place on November 3, those for the Lok Sabha seat and two Assembly constituencies will be conducted on November 7.Here is all you need to know:* The Lok Sabha seat for which bypolls will take place is Bihar’s Valmiki Nagar. Two Assembly constituencies in Manipur will go to polls on the same day as Valmiki Nagar.* The Valmiki Nagar seat fell vacant in February after the death of incumbent Lok Sabha MP Baidyanath Prasad Mahato of the JD(U).* Madhya Pradesh has the highest number of seats--28--among the 54 Assembly constituencies for which polling will be held on November 3. Next is Gujarat (eight), Uttar Pradesh (seven); Jharkhand, Karnataka, Nagaland, Odisha (two each) and one each from Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Haryana.* The bypolls in Madhya Pradesh were necessitated after at least two dozen Congress MLAs followed their leader Jyotiraditya Scindia in joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in March. This led to the collapse of the state’s Congress government and paved way for the BJP to return to power.* Bypoll schedule for 54 Assembly constituencies--Date of notification: October 9, Last date of nominations: October 16, Scrutiny of nominations: October 17, Last date of candidature withdrawal: October 19, Polling day: November 3, Date of counting: November 10* Bypoll  schedule for Lok Sabha seat and two Assembly constituencies--Date of notification: October 13, Last date of nominations: October 20, Scrutiny of nominations: October 21, Last date of candidature withdrawal: October 23, Polling day: November 7, Date of counting: November 10* Initially, bypolls were required for seven other Assembly constituencies. However, these have been deferred as the term of the House in states in which these constituencies fall is due to lapse in either May or June next year. * These Assembly constituencies are Rangapara and Sibsagar (Assam), Kuttanad and Chavara (Kerala), Tiruvottiyur and Gudiyattam (Tamil Nadu) and Falakata (West Bengal).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-announces-bypoll-dates-all-you-need-to-know/story-N4SeaeHvDbwEheAauBhOCL.html
29-09-2020||India||In UP’s last budget before polls, funds for development will be a major challenge||As the Uttar Pradesh government begins the process of preparing the budget for 2021-2022, a major challenge of providing funds for development schemes and other important public works stares the authorities in the face. Adding to the challenge will be the new schemes and populist announcements that chief minister Adityanath may like to make in his government’s last annual budget before the state goes to polls early in 2022. “Yes, the state’s budget for 2021-2022 will be a major challenge. The UP government will have to be realistic about the size of the budget this time in view of resource constraints. It should also mark its priorities as this will be the last budget before the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor of economics, Lucknow University. Adityanath may also opt for presenting a supplementary budget or a mini-poll budget later to make populist announcements as was done by his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav a few months before the 2017 polls. Yadav presented a second supplementary demands for 2016-2017 along with a vote on account for the first five months of 2017-2018 in the state legislature on December 21, 2016. As working on proposals of nearly 90-odd departments is bound to take time, the state finance department has asked the administrative departments to send their proposals by November 30 while issuing broad guidelines well in advance for preparation of the state’s budget. “Administrative departments should send their proposals to the finance department latest by November 30, 2020,” said additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjiv Mittal in his letter dated September 25, to all the ACSs/principal secretaries/secretaries and heads of department while reminding the departments about the procedure and responsibilities for preparation of the annual budget. Will the state government decide to convene a winter session of the state legislature later in 2020 or hold budget session early next year to get the budget for 2021-2022 passed? This is the million dollar question doing the rounds in the corridors of power here as the state government has not presented any supplementary budget this year, obviously in view of adverse impact the Covid-19 has had on the state’s economy. The state legislature’s brief monsoon session ended here on August 22. So, the state legislature will have to meet before February 22, 2021 in view of constitutional provisions that require that there is no gap of more than six months between its two sittings. Besides asking the departments for estimates about salaries, dearness allowance and other allowances based on total filled up posts, instead of sanctioned posts, the finance department has said no proposals should be included in the state budget directly for buying new vehicles. If needed, vehicles may be hired on contract basis with prior approval of the state government and all the schemes not useful now should be scrapped, said the finance department’s letter. It further said wasteful expenditure should be curtailed and priority should be given to work out budget estimates for externally-aided projects, centrally-sponsored schemes and resource-linked projects. As a separate booklet is prepared to list new items of expenditure included in the budget document, the finance department has said instead of proposing creation of new posts, the departments should send proposals about available alternatives. It further said no proposals should be sent about construction of housing buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-up-s-last-budget-before-polls-funds-for-development-will-be-a-major-challenge/story-73sz17gh5cGnXxhqQbg64J.html
29-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Serum Institute to produce additional 100 million vaccine doses||Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, a public–private global health partnership that aims to increase access to immunisation in poor countries, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation would accelerate the manufacture and delivery of up to 100 million doses of safe and effective coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for India and other low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) as part of the Gavi COVAX AMC, a mechanism within the COVAX Facility, the Pune-based firm announced on Tuesday. COVAX Facility seeks to pool in resources to accelerate the development of the most promising of the Coviod-19 candidates and plans to make it equitably accessible to all the participating countries, irrespective of their financial muscle.The initiative brings the total number of vaccine doses to be covered by the partnership to an aggregate of up to 200 million doses, following the initial agreement for up to 100 million doses, which were announced in August.Also read: India’s daily Covid-19 case count drops to 70,589; recoveries increase to over 82%Besides other tie-ups, SII also has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. Preparations are in progress to conduct phase 3 trials of the candidate vaccine in India.The collaboration will provide upfront capital to SII to help increase manufacturing capacity. Once a vaccine gains regulatory approval and the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) prequalification, doses can be distributed to LMICs as early as by the first half of next year.“The collaboration further bolsters our fight against Covid-19! Through the avid support of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, we will manufacture and deliver up to an additional 100 million doses of immunogenic and safe-proven future Covid-19 vaccines to India and low-and middle-income countries in 2021,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer (CEO), SII, in a statement.“At this stage, it is important for governments, global health and financial institutions in the public and private sector to come together in ensuring that no one is left behind in the road to recovery. This association is in line with our efforts to see that the future vaccines reach the remotest part of the world providing full immunisation coverage in a bid to contain the spread of the pandemic,” he added. The funding will help accelerate the manufacturing by SII for candidate vaccines licenced from AstraZeneca and Novavax, which will be available for procurement if they are successful in attaining full licensure and the WHO’s prequalification.The vaccines will have a ceiling price of $3 per dose. The price point is enabled by investments made by partners such as the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), the Gates Foundation and SII. “This is vaccine manufacturing for the Global South, by the Global South, helping us to ensure no country is left behind when it comes to access to a Covid-19 vaccine,” said Dr Seth Berkley, CEO, f Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. “The momentum behind our effort to ensure global, equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines is really building…” he added.The Gavi COVAX AMC, which is seeking at least $2 billion in initial seed funding, will meet at least part of the cost of procurement for the vaccine doses. The Gavi board has agreed upon the final list of 92 countries that will be supported by the Gavi COVAX AMC.Under the new collaboration, AstraZeneca’s candidate vaccine, if successful, will be available to 61 Gavi-eligible countries. Novavax’s candidate, if successful, will be available to all 92 countries supported by the Gavi COVAX AMC. These countries align with SII’s licencing agreements with its two partners. Gavi, SII, and the Gates Foundation’s collaboration supports the efforts of the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator’s vaccines pillar, also known as COVAX, co-led by Gavi, CEPI and the WHO, to accelerate the development of vaccines for the viral outbreak and ensure rapid, global access to them.Decisions around investment in manufacturing are taken in close collaboration among these three lead organisations of the COVAX pillar. So far, 73 higher-income economies have committed to join the programme, in addition to the 92 low-and middle-income economies that are eligible for the support.“The Gates foundation will provide at-risk funding of a further $150 million to Gavi, bringing the total funding provided through this collaboration to $300 million. This will be used to support the SII to manufacture potential vaccine candidates, and for future procurement of vaccines for India and low- and middle-income countries via Gavi’s COVAX AMC,” according to a statement issued by SII. “The deal is additional to a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between AstraZeneca and Gavi, which was announced in June that will commit an additional 300 million doses of AstraZeneca’s candidate vaccine to the wider COVAX Facility, to be supplied upon licensure or the WHO’s prequalification. These two deals can help assure access to early doses for the most vulnerable on a truly global scale,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-serum-institute-to-produce-additional-100-million-vaccine-doses/story-L9R2zw4Nf08ENQj2gzLbSI.html
29-09-2020||India||Voting on 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh bypolls on November 3: EC||Voting on 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh bypolls will take place on November 3 and the results will be declared on November 10, announced the Election Commission of India on Tuesday.Out of the 28 seats, 27 were won by the Congress in the 2018 state elections. The last date for filing the nomination papers is October 16. Scrutiny of nomination papers will take place the next day, while nomination papers can be withdrawn by October 19, according to the bypoll schedule. The Congress has announced names of its candidates for 24 of the seats while Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is yet to declare its list of candidates. The bypolls were necessitated on three of the seats - Joura, Agar and Biora - due to death of the MLAs - two from the Congress and one from BJP, and on the remaining seats due to resignation of the then Congress MLAs. Out of the 25 Congress MLAs, 22 resigned in March this year in an act of rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath. The remaining three resigned later. All of these leaders who resigned from the state assembly subsequently joined the BJP. In the 230-member assembly, the BJP has 107 MLAs and the Congress 88. There are 4 independent MLAs, 2 from BSP and a lone Samajwadi Party MLA. The majority mark in the assembly post the bypolls will be 116.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-on-28-assembly-seats-in-madhya-pradesh-bypolls-on-november-3-ec/story-WtncDBtAHGejD4NYOCsP8O.html
29-09-2020||India||Rajasthan spends 605 cr from DMFT to fight Covid-19||The Rajasthan Government has spent Rs 605 crore from District Mineral Foundation Trust (DMFT) in management of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said mines minister Pramod Jain on Monday. The money was spent on life-saving equipment such as testing equipment, PPE kits, hospital beds, and ventilators, he added. He said the state government decided to spend 30% of the fund on Covid-19.The minister said that the amount available in DMFT fund has been made available for development works. In view of the COvid-19 pandemic, the district collectors have been authorized to use 30% of the amount available for the expansion of health facilities and work to prevent spread of the disease. He said that the district collectors will hold a meeting of the District Level Governing Council of DMFT under the chairmanship of the Minister-in-charge. As per the available amount, and districts demand, money can be sanctioned. Additional Chief Secretary of Mines and Petroleum department Subodh Aggarwal said that in various districts of the state, a sum of Rs 2018.59 crore is available in the DMFT funds. He said that in view of the pandemic, special provisions have been made to spend 30% of the amount of Rs 605.58 crore for the prevention of Covid-19.Aggarwal said that the district wise funds have been fixed on the basis of available funds in the districts. The amount available in the district can be used in the same district, keeping in mind district-wise targets have been fixed. Aggarwal said that the district collectors have been directed to get the requirements assessed as per the available funds, and call a meeting of the council and get the resolution passed at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-spends-605-cr-from-dmft-to-fight-covid-19/story-jdFjDqoUDbmBgoL4lKz0bK.html
29-09-2020||India||EC announces dates for 56 assembly and one parliamentary by-poll, voting on Nov 3 and 7||The Election Commission on Tuesday announced that 54 assembly constituencies and one parliamentary constituency across 10 states would go to polls on November 3 and 7, respectively. Two assembly constituencies in Manipur will also go to polls along with the parliamentary constituency of Valmiki Nagar in Bihar on November 3. The results of the elections will be declared by November 12 at the latest, with counting taking place on November 10. The Commission’s schedule follows the announcement of the three-phase Bihar assembly elections, which also goes to polls from October 28 to November 7. Also Read: Election Commission decides not to announce by-polls in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu after receiving inputs from chief secretaries and electoral officersElections to seven assembly constituencies across Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, however, have been deferred as the term of the House in the above-mentioned states is due to lapse in either May or June next year. People familiar with the matter had earlier told Hindustan Times that it did not make sense to hold the elections in Kerala, where there are only two vacancies, as the assembly in the state is due to be re-elected before June 2021. “In the midst of this pandemic and considering the devastation caused due to the floods, it would be unnecessarily expensive to hold the by-polls,” one person familiar with the matter had said, adding that a representation to defer the polls had been sent to the Commission in August. The Commission will now hold polls for Chhattisgarh (1), Gujarat (8), Haryana (1), Jharkhand (2), Karnataka (2) , Manipur (2), Nagaland (2), Odisha (2), Madhya Pradesh (28) Telangana (1) and Uttar Pradesh (7) assembly constituencies. Also Read: Bihar election gets a new political constituency - over 16 lakh migrant workersThe 28 constituencies in Madhya Pradesh were vacated in March after Jyotiraditya Scindia quit the Congress to join the BJP along with his loyalists. The shift led to the fall of the Congress government in the state, with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Shivraj Chouhan returning as chief minister. The by-polls are crucial to the BJP government’s survival in the state as it enjoys a wafer-thin majority in the 230-member state assembly. The BJP needs to win nine out of the 28 seats. It currently has 107 seats. The Congress, which lost power in March when its 21 lawmakers resigned and paved the way for BJP’s return to power, has 88 members in the House with an effective strength of 202.The EC will also hold polls for the Valmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency, which fell vacant upon the death of JD(U)’S Lok Sabha minister Baidyanath Prasad Mahato in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-announces-dates-for-56-assembly-and-one-parliamentary-by-poll/story-ODGs2iMHNJohnZMfH0zzJN.html
29-09-2020||India||Man allegedly kills son for abusing mother in Jharkhand’s Palamu||A man who abused his mother was beaten to death by his 55-year-old father in Jharkhand’s Palamu district late on Sunday night, police said. Maheshwar Singh also tried to burn the body of his son Sakendra Singh Kherwar (30) at an isolated place.The incident happened at Gaura village in Baghmanwa panchayat under Bishrampur police station in Palamu district.However, someone informed the local police station and a team rushed to the village and retrieved the half-burnt body and arrested Maheshwar Singh.The Bishrampur police station officer-in-charge Ghuma Kisku said, “The old man has confessed to killing his son by thrashing him with a stick when Sakendra was beating his physically challenged mother Draupdi Devi. We forwarded him to jail on Monday.”“My son was abusing my wife in a highly inebriated state of mind. I tried to persuade him not to do so but he did not listen. Then, I hit him with a stick to frighten him. It struck him on the head and he fell on the ground and died on the spot,” Maheshwar told the police,According to villagers, the deceased regularly used to beat up family members after getting drunk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-allegedly-kills-son-for-abusing-mother-in-jharkhand-s-palamu/story-9su3NdA4CJV29WeBFyZ61L.html
29-09-2020||India||On PM Modi’s ‘insulting farmers’ remark over farm law protest, Kapil Sibal responds with ‘SAD dumped you’ jibe||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused the Opposition parties of insulting farmers through protests over farm laws, Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Friday took a jibe at him by talking about Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) quitting the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). “Even your oldest 24-year-old ally SAD has dumped you. Modiji is the SAD insulting farmers?” Sibal asked on Twitter.“Agitating farmers feel otherwise. You seem least concerned for their survival!” Sibal also said in reference to the PM’s “those opposing farm laws insulting farmers“ remarks.PM Modi launched six mega projects in Uttarakhand om Tuesday. During the event, PM Modi launched a sharp attack at the Opposition parties as he said that they are protesting “just for the sake of it.”The comments were related to the farmers’ protests led by Opposition parties across the country. On Monday, a group of Congress’s youth wing members set a tractor on fire at Delhi’s Rajpath in protest against the new farm laws.While commenting on the incident, PM Modi said these parties are “insulting the farmers.”“For years, they said that they will implement MSP (Minimum Support Price) but they never did. This was done by our government as per the recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission,” he said.“These reforms will strengthen labourers, youth, women, and farmers of the nation,” he also said.“Farmers can now sell their produce to anyone, anywhere. They do not want farmers to sell their produce in an open market, they want middlemen to earn the profit,” PM Modi also said, adding “They’re opposing the freedom of farmers”.Also read | ‘They are insulting farmers’: PM Modi on protesters burning tractors at India Gate over farm lawsFarmers from Punjab and Haryana are agitating against the farm reforms, passed in the Parliament in the recently concluded monsoon session. The three bills have now become law as President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent on Monday, despite opposition parties’ requests against signing.The parties have claimed that the bills were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary norms and they are “anti-farmer”.The three bills are Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-pm-modi-s-insulting-farmers-remark-over-farm-law-protest-kapil-sibal-responds-with-sad-dumped-you-jibe/story-H7xWr4Khd6RSbjNOwU9LVP.html
29-09-2020||India||Victims of terror attacks yet to get justice due to Pak’s ‘non-cooperative attitude’: India||India has said the victims of the 2008 Mumbai attacks and the 2016 terror attack on Pathankot airbase are yet to get justice because of the “unwillingness and non-cooperative attitude” of Pakistan. Addressing a ministerial meeting of the Group of Friends of Victims of Terrorism on Monday, Vijay Thakur Singh, secretary (East) in the external affairs ministry, said the world community shouldn’t lose sight of the right of the victims of terrorism to get justice for crimes committed against them. The virtual meeting was organised by the foreign ministers of Afghanistan and Spain, co-chairs of the group, and the UN Office of Counter-Terrorism (UNOCT). Also Read: India opposes Pakistan’s move to hold election in Gilgit-Baltistan“I would like to highlight that, for example, the victims of 2008 Mumbai terror attack and 2016 Pathankot terror attack are yet to get justice. This is due to the unwillingness and non-cooperative attitude of a particular country,” she said. Though Singh didn’t name the country whose stance was hampering efforts to bring the perpetrators of the two attacks to justice, it was clear she was referring to Pakistan. Indian authorities have blamed Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed for the two attacks. “It is important that we must work towards redressing deficiencies in the international efforts to ensure that perpetrators of terrorism are brought to justice,” Singh said. She further said: “While terrorists can never succeed in achieving their nefarious objectives, they leave behind a trail of death and destruction. Even amidst the ongoing pandemic, terrorism continues to pose a critical threat to international peace and security.” Also Read: At UNHRC, India takes on Pak over rights’ violationsTerrorists, she pointed out, have stepped up the use of ICT for propaganda and issuing threats, further exacerbating the stress on victims of terror. The world community needs to discuss collective ways to address the critical needs of the victims of terrorism, she added. The adoption of two UN General Assembly resolutions—one establishing August 21 as the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism, and another on Enhancement of International Cooperation to Assist Victims of Terrorism—and the first UN Global Congress of Victims of Terrorism in 2021 will help address the problem of terrorism and helping its victims, Singh noted. “A dedicated voluntary fund to support victims of terrorism would strengthen United Nation’s capacity building and technical assistance to requesting member states, in assisting and supporting victims of terrorism,” she said. Terrorism not only violates the rights of victims but also deeply affects a range of rights of the families of victims and society, and women and children are particularly vulnerable to human rights abuses by terrorists, she said. Measures to address the needs of victims of terrorism should factor in the sensitivities of these vulnerable sections, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victims-of-terror-attacks-yet-to-get-justice-due-to-pakistan-s-non-cooperative-attitude-india/story-rZPcWDyC1JFh0h8G1WtzgI.html
29-09-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh unveils elephant adoption scheme in Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve||The Madhya Pradesh forest department has launched a scheme for wildlife lovers to adopt old and retired elephants which gave joyrides for at least five decades in Bandhavgarh Tiger reserve.The elephants can be adopted for a day, week, month or a year. In a first of its kind initiative by the state’s forest department, 74-year-old Gautam and 69-year-old Toofan- two elephants in Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve - are being given for adoption to wildlife lovers with 13 other ‘domesticated’ elephants, said a forest official on Tuesday. The initiative has been taken to reconnect tourists and wildlife lovers with the elephants, which are popular among people for joy rides during sightseeing, while generating funds for their maintenance which has been hit hard due to the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic in the state, said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF), wildlife. Kumar said the wildlife conservators can adopt an elephant for Rs 500 for a day to Rs 1.50 lakh for a year to bear medical and food expenses on them. “The wildlife lovers, who opt for monthly and yearly adoption plans, will get a chance to participate in elephant rejuvenation programme camp held annually in September at Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve. In the camp, which is a kind of holiday for elephants, people can feed the animals and spend time with them for better understanding about the elephants,” he said. Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve field director Vincet Raheem said, “Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve is the worst affected due to the intrusion of at least 35 wild elephants from Chhattisgarh. The visitors are concerned about the presence of wild elephants for more than a year but this adoption programme will enhance the connection with 15 special elephants and reduce their concern. This is more of public awareness for the animals especially in view of the presence of wild elephants in the area.” Special training programmes are also being conducted in the reserve area for forest guards, guides and villagers on how to deal with wild elephants and how to pacify the animals without hurting them, said the official. “The training programme will conclude in presence of experts before opening of the tiger reserve for tourists on October 1,” said Raheem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-unveils-elephant-adoption-scheme-in-bandhavgarh-tiger-reserve/story-9cgUVxypuhjHBwuHj3W18I.html
29-09-2020||India||India protests Pak’s move to hold elections in Gilgit-Pakistan. Read full statement||India on Tuesday lodged strong protest against the Pakistan government, stating that Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of India. Pakistan, India said, has ‘no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied it’. India issued a statement responding to the announcement of elections ‘Gilgit-Baltistan’ legislative assembly scheduled for November 15. Here is the full text of Ministry of External Affairs on India’s reaction:We have seen reports regarding announcement of elections to the so-called “Gilgit-Baltistan” Legislative Assembly to be held on November 15, 2020. The Government of India has conveyed its strong protest to the Government of Pakistan and reiterated that the entire Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of so-called Gilgit and Baltistan are an integral part of India by virtue of its accession in 1947. The Government of Pakistan has no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it.The Government of India has also completely rejected the recent actions such as the so-called “Gilgit-Baltistan (Elections and Caretaker Government) Amendment Order 2020” and continued attempts by the Pakistan establishment to bring material changes in areas under its illegal and forcible occupation. Action such as these can neither hide the illegal occupation of parts of Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh by Pakistan nor the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom to the people residing in Pakistan occupied territories for the past seven decades. These are cosmetic exercises intended to camouflage its illegal occupation. We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-protests-pak-s-move-to-hold-elections-in-gilgit-pakistan-read-full-statement/story-AQ2orvZN8if2ZCqQn3kzgI.html
29-09-2020||India||Farm bills, black money, MSP: Here’s what PM Modi said at Namami Gange Mission project launch||Inaugurating six mega projects in Uttarakhand under the Namami Gange Mission, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that some people are opposing the recently legalised farm reform bills as yet another source of earning black money has been closed for them.While inaugurating the project, PM Modi said, “Ganga brings prosperity to almost half of the country’s population. Therefore, non-stop flow and clean water in the river is very much needed. If the old steps were repeated then the condition would have stayed the same.” PM Modi said the government went ahead with new thinking and new approach. “We did not restrict it to just cleaning up Ganga, but made it the country’s largest river conservation project,” he added.The Prime Minister said that currently under Namami Gange Mission, projects worth Rs 30,000 crores are either completed or are underway.Here is what PM Modi said in his address:- Jal Jeevan Mission has given an opportunity to the people of the village. Opportunity - to free our village from water problems.Opportunity - to make our village full of water.- Major reforms have been made related to the farmers, workers and health of the country. With these reforms, the workers of the country will be empowered, the youth of the country will be empowered, the women of the country will be empowered, the farmers of the country will be empowered. But today the country is seeing how some people are protesting only for protest.- Today, even when the central government is giving the farmers their rights, these people came down on protest. These people want that the farmers of the country could not sell their produce in the open market. These people are now insulting the farmers by setting fire to the goods and equipment that the farmer worships. - In this period, the country has seen how the Digital India campaign, Jan Dhan bank accounts have helped people. When our government started this work, these people were opposing them. These people have always opposed this, if the bank account of the poor of the country is opened, they should also do digital transactions.- For years these people kept saying that they would implement MSP, but did not. Our own government did the work of implementing MSP as per the wish of Swaminathan Commission.- Today these people are also spreading confusion over MSP. There will also be MSP in the country and the farmer will also have the freedom to sell crops anywhere in the country. But some people are unable to tolerate this freedom.- These people are neither with the farmer nor with the youth nor with the brave soldiers. Our government gave the benefit of One Rank One Pension to the soldiers, then they also opposed it. - At the initiative of India, when the whole world was celebrating International Yoga Day, these people sitting in India were opposing it. Even when the tallest statue of Sardar Patel was being unveiled, these people were opposing it. Till date, no major leader has gone to the Statue of Unity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-black-money-msp-here-s-what-pm-modi-said-at-namami-gange-mission-project-launch/story-Q21wJc2Q4qd6020sud0q2I.html
29-09-2020||India||Election Commission decides not to announce by-polls in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu after receiving inputs from chief secretaries and electoral officers||The Election Commission on Tuesday decided not to announce by-polls in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu after receiving inputs from chief secretaries and electoral officers. According to the commission, chief secretaries and chief electoral officers from these four states have expressed to the EC about difficulties in conduct of elections and issues related to it. The polls were to be held in Assam’s Rangapara and Sibsagar, Kerala’s Kuttanad and Chavara, Tamil Nadu’s Tiruvottiyur and Gudiyattam, and West Bengal’s Falakata. “The Commission has decided not to announce the conduct of elections at this stage in the above seven vacancies in legislative assemblies of the state of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.” EC’s statement said. As for vacancies in other states, the statement stated that “the commission will decide after taking necessary inputs from the states concerned”. People familiar with the matter had earlier told Hindustan Times that it does not make sense to hold the elections in Kerala, where there are only two vacancies, as the assembly in the state is due to be re-elected before June 2021.One assembly seat each in Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Karnataka and West Bengal; five assembly seats in Manipur and eight each in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh are also vacant.In July, the EC had deferred the by-elections to one Lok Sabha and seven assembly seats beyond the six month period due to the onset of monsoon and possibilities of floods and the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-decides-not-to-announce-by-polls-in-assam-west-bengal-kerala-and-tamil-nadu-after-receiving-inputs-from-chief-secretaries-and-electoral-officers/story-A48VJdP9Bn0r7uSKcoZqfJ.html
29-09-2020||India||Election Commission likely to announce bypoll dates today||The Election Commission of India (ECI) will on Tuesday take a call on byelections to one Lok Sabha and 64 assembly constituencies. On Friday, while announcing the schedule of the Bihar Assembly polls, chief election commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora had said the poll body would hold a meeting on September 29 regarding the bypolls and make an announcement in the evening.Earlier this month, the ECI, in a statement, had said the Bihar Assembly polls and the 65 bypolls would be conducted around the same time. However, on Friday, Arora said the ECI had received representations from some states, especially southern states, to defer the polling exercise in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. The Lok Sabha seat to which bypoll is to be held is Valmiki Nagar in Bihar. The 64 Assembly seats, meanwhile, include 27 from Madhya Pradesh which were vacated after Congress MLAs followed their leader Jyotiraditya Scindia in joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), resulting in the collapse of the state’s Congress government and return to power of the BJP.The Bihar Assembly polls will take place in three phases--October 28, November 3 and November 7 with counting of votes on November 10--as announced by the commission on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-likely-to-announce-bypoll-dates-today/story-9QIH1gT0LmWBxJmeaZ7DMK.html
29-09-2020||India||Prosecutors must file own report for more seeking time to file charge sheet: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court has said that prosecutors are not postmen and must apply their mind and submit an independent report whenever investigation officers seek extension of time for filing a charge sheet to deprive the accused of default bail.“He (the prosecutor) is not a mere postman or a forwarding agency,” said the bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice BU Debadwar. The bench added that if the prosecutor agrees with reasons cited by the investigation agency, he would prepare his own independent report to assist the special court to decide whether the time period needs to be extended beyond 90 days and to a maximum of 180 days.“If he is not convinced, he has the freedom to disagree with the reasons cited by the investigation agency and it is within his power even to refuse to submit a report,” said the bench. The essence is that the prosecutor must be convinced that the investigation is progressing and the investigation officer is unable to complete it within the prescribed time for justifiable reasons, the bench added.The bench was hearing a petition filed by one Shaikh Moin Shaikh Mehmood, who was booked by Ramtirth police in Handed district for robbery. Subsequently, provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), 1999 were added in the case. Shaikh was arrested on June 2, 2020.On August 31, 2020, the 90-day period for filing the charge sheet was over. On September 2, the investigating officers filed an application for extension of the period by another 90 days, as provided for in section 21(2)(b) of the MCOCA. Eight days later, the accused filed for default bail on the ground of failure of the investigation agency to file charge sheet in time stipulated under Section 167(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code.Shaikh had moved HC after the special MCOCA court rejected his bail plea and granted extension for filing charge sheet, as prayed by the investigation officer.The HC allowed his petition after noticing that the prosecutor had merely countersigned the investigation officer’s application for extension.The court reiterated that the right to default bail accrues to the accused the moment the period prescribed under section 167(2) lapses and the court cannot extinguish the right. “The law has to prevail and the prosecution cannot avail of such subterfuges to frustrate or destroy the legal right of the accused,” said the bench granting bail to Shaikh.It added that the report of the prosecutor seeking extension must record his satisfaction about progress in investigation and valid reasons because of which the investigation could not be completed in time. But it noticed that prosecutors are unaware of these legal requirements and therefore directed that a copy of the judgment be sent for perusal of the chief secretary, director general of police and the director of prosecution, so that the prosecutors can be enlightened on the settled legal position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prosecutors-must-file-own-report-for-more-seeking-time-to-file-charge-sheet-bombay-hc/story-D1fuNHDnYtTU4ydQjKyTyN.html
29-09-2020||India||State environment ministers to meet on Oct 1 to review air pollution management plan||Environment ministers of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will meet on October 1 to review the progress on air pollution management plans which were decided on in 2016, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday.State pollution control boards, municipal corporations and various urban bodies, like Delhi Development Authority and New Delhi Municipal Council, will also attend the virtual meeting. “We came up with short term, medium term and long-term plans in 2016. We plan to review implementation of those plans and assess preparedness for this winter,” Javadekar said.Also read: Two students move Supreme Court against crop residue burningHe added that two meetings with northwestern states were also held in the past month—one headed by the cabinet secretary; another headed by principal secretary to the prime minister. Javadekar said that the Centre had accepted the air pollution problem and brought out policies to deal with it in the past four years. “The PM brought out the national air quality index (NAQI) so that people can easily understand pollution levels. Badarpur power plant was shut down, the Sonepat thermal power plant was also phased out, we built the peripheral expressway which was pending for 15 years. The expressway ensured that 60,000 trucks which passed through Delhi polluting it to reach other states could bypass Delhi; BS VI emission standards have been introduced and BS VI fuel is also available. We introduced waste management rules 2016 which includes rules for construction and demolition waste, 3000 industries in the national capital region (NCR) have got piped gas supply. So we are working on all fronts,” said Javadekar, adding that Indian Council for Agricultural Research will conduct various trials this year to curb crop stubble burning.HT had reported on Monday that the harvest season has already begun in many parts of northwest India even as most farmer groups are agitating against the farm bills, farmer leaders said farm fires may continue this year too in the absence of adequate monetary support to small farmers to use straw management machinery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-environment-ministers-to-meet-on-oct-1-to-review-air-pollution-management-plan/story-v3BK0pf0c60OFlxcBPcZcI.html
29-09-2020||India||India opposes Pakistan’s move to hold election in Gilgit-Baltistan||India on Tuesday opposed Pakistan’s plans to hold an election in the disputed Gilgit-Baltistan region and to make it the neighbouring country’s fifth province, saying Islamabad could not make material changes in areas under its illegal occupation. The two countries have sparred several times in recent weeks on the status of Gilgit-Baltistan, part of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, and raised the issue at international bodies such as the UN. The Pakistan government plans to hold an election for the legislative assembly of Gilgit-Baltistan on November 15, following which it will move towards making the region a full-fledged province. Also Read: At UNHRC, India takes on Pak over rights’ violations“We have seen reports regarding announcement of elections to the so-called ‘Gilgit-Baltistan’ legislative assembly to be held on November 15, 2020. The government of India has conveyed its strong protest to the government of Pakistan and reiterated that the entire union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of so-called Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of India by virtue of its accession in 1947,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. The Pakistan government has “no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it”, the statement said. The Indian government has “completely rejected the recent actions such as the so-called ‘Gilgit-Baltistan (Elections and Caretaker Government) Amendment Order 2020’ and continued attempts by the Pakistan establishment to bring material changes in areas under its illegal and forcible occupation”, the statement further said. Also Read: Top Afghan negotiator in Taliban peace process holds talks in PakistanActions such as these can “neither hide the illegal occupation of parts of union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh by Pakistan nor the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom to the people residing in Pakistan occupied territories for the past seven decades”, it added. “These are cosmetic exercises intended to camouflage its illegal occupation. We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation,” the statement said. The holding of an election in Gilgit-Baltistan reportedly has the backing of Pakistan’s powerful military establishment. Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party is backing the move to boost its chances in the upcoming election. The election and the prospect of giving Gilgit-Baltistan the status of a province figured in a recent meeting between Pakistan’s opposition leaders and the army chief, Gen Qamar Bajwa, and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-opposes-pakistan-s-move-to-hold-election-in-gilgit-baltistan/story-NcG3ALJqKqUsMtf5h1dQJJ.html
29-09-2020||India||‘They are insulting farmers’: PM Modi on protesters burning tractors at India Gate over farm laws||A day after the Congress’s youth wing members set a tractor on fire in Delhi in protest against the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that these parties are insulting the farmers. Launching a sharp attack on Opposition parties leading the protests against the farm laws, PM Modi said, “For years, they said that they will implement MSP (Minimum Support Price) but they never did. This was done by our government as per the recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission.”He also said that the Opposition parties are protesting “just for the sake of it”.“These reforms will strengthen labourers, youth, women, farmers of the nation,” PM Modi said during the launch of six mega projects in Uttarakhand under the Namami Gange project.“Farmers can now sell their produce to anyone, anywhere. They do not want farmers to sell their produce in an open market, they want middlemen to earn the profit,” PM Modi also said, adding “They’re opposing the freedom of farmers”.“Their (opposition) one more medium to earn black income is finished,” he added.In assurance to farmers, PM Modi said. “There will not only be MSP in the country but also the freedom for farmers to sell their produce anywhere.”“For years these people (opposition) didn’t do anything to empower our security forces. Air Force kept asking for Rafale but they never listened to them. When our government signed a contract with France government for Rafale aircraft they started having a proble,” PM Modi said, sharpening the attack on Opposition parties.“When world was celebrating International Yoga Day, under India’s initiative, they were opposing Yoga in India. When Statue of Unity was being unveiled, they were opposing it,” he also said.President Ram Nath Kovind signed three contentious farm bills into law on Sunday even as over a dozen Opposition parties urged him not to sign them, saying they were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary norms.The farm bills are Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020.Some farmer organisations protested against the passage of the billls, blocking the Amritsar-Delhi railway track even as the government has insisted that they will make them self-reliant. They say the new laws could lead to an end of the MSP for their produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-are-insulting-farmers-pm-modi-on-protesters-burning-tractors-at-india-gate-over-farm-laws/story-P7LgPfQBTQSaAe7oZkFQEL.html
29-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bombay High Court to hear Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bombay high court to hear Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea todayThe Bombay high court will take up the bail applications filed by Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty on Tuesday. Both of them have been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Read more‘How long do you propose to continue?’ SC asks J&K administration on Mehbooba Mufti’s detentionThe Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the central government whether it proposes to continue the preventive detention of former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti. A bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul asked the Centre to inform the top court about its proposal with regard to Mufti. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘I wish I was AB de Villiers’ - Virat Kohli lauds RCB star after winWhile Virat Kohli has struggled to get going in this IPL, the same cannot be said about his RCB teammate AB de Villiers. The former South Africa captain on Monday played a handsome knock of 55 off 24 balls, including four fours and sixes. Read morePriyanka Chopra, husband Nick Jonas wish his kid brother Franklin on his birthday: ‘Miss you tons’. See picsActor Priyanka Chopra and her singer husband Nick Jonas have wished his younger brother, Franklin on his birthday. Both took to their respective Instagram handles to wish the youngest of Jonas siblings. Read moreXiaomi launches Mi Watch Revolve for ₹10,999Xiaomi has announced its first smartwatch in the country - the Mi Watch Revolve. The new smartwatch was unveiled today at Xiaomi’s Smart Living 2020 event that was streamed online. The Mi Watch Revolve comes with an AMOLED display which comes with capacitative touch screen support. The smartwatch comes in two colours - Midnight Black and Chrome Silver. Read moreDiesel demand in doldrums in India, BPCL to up petrol importsIndian refiner Bharat Petroleum Corp will continue to import gasoline for the next few months as its crude processing is hit due to lower demand for diesel that accounts for 40%-45% of its product slate, its head of marketing A. K. Singh said. Read moreBallerina skips rope while balancing on her toes. Video is captivatingThe Internet has no shortage of clips that showcase individuals achieving incredible athletic feats. Whether it be skipping rope whilst wearing skates or performing bike stunts, the list is long and quite varied. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amnesty-international-halts-india-operations-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZEf7yQn9gigbODqwNSxUdK.html
29-09-2020||India||Journalist shot at, two contractors gunned down in Bihar||A journalist associated with Hindi daily was shot at by assailants in Gopalganj while two contractors were gunned down in Samastipur and Vaishali districts in separate incidents on Tuesday, the Bihar police said. Rajan Pandey was shot at by three men in Manjagadh police station area of Gopalganj district, in what police suspect to be a case of personal enmity. Police said the incident took place when Pandey was on his way to a coaching institute. Three motorcycle borne miscreants intercepted him and fired at him from point blank range. Pandey has been referred to Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh) from the Gopalganj district hospital in a critical condition. Gopalganj’s Superintendent of Police (SP) Manoj Tiwary said thatPandey revealed the names of three assailants - Rajendra Yadav, Rajkumar Singh and Nanhe Singh - who attacked him. According to the police, Rajan is attached with a coaching institute and is also a teacher. The SP said raids are on to nab the accused. “Personal enmity was the reason behind the attack,” the SP told HT. Five journalists have been killed in separate incidents in Bihar in the last couple of years. In May 2016, Siwan bureau chief of Hindi daily Hindustan, Rajdeo Ranjan, was killed in a busy market place. In November, the same year, two journalists - Dharmendra Singh of Dainik Bhaskar in Sasaram and Ramchandra Yadav, who worked with the Dainik Jagran in Darbhanga, were killed on the same day. In January 2017, Brajesh Kumar, a journalist working with a Hindi daily, was shot dead in Samastipur while Pradeep Mandal, of a national Hindi daily was gunned down in Madhubani in July 2019. In Vaishali on Tuesday, two criminals on a motorcycle gunned down a contractor Bijendra Rai at Mathurapur under Bidupur police station area. The reason behind the incident is said to be a land dispute with a close relative. SDPO Raghav Dayal said Rai was attacked when he was returning to his home in Terasiya village from Haipur market. He succumbed to his injury on the way to Sadar hospital from Bidupur primary health centre. In Samastipur, another contractor identified as Rinku Choudhary was gunned down near Kashipur Girl’s high school falling under Town police station. Station House Officer Sitaram Prasad said Choudhary was sitting outside his house when four men on two motorcycles came and sprayed him with bullets. The victim suffered at least 16 bullet injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-shot-at-two-contractors-gunned-down-in-bihar/story-1W5hrmHmY1QvPq77ZpnkiJ.html
29-09-2020||India||EAM Jaishankar to visit Japan during Oct 6-7 for Quad meeting||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will visit Japan during October 6-7 to participate in the second ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad and to hold a series of bilateral meetings against the backdrop of the border standoff with China. Jaishankar is visiting Tokyo for bilateral consultations with his Japanese counterpart Toshimitsu Motegi and the two ministers are expected to discuss bilateral and regional issues of mutual interest, the external affairs ministry said. “During the visit, the external affairs minister will also participate in the second India-Australia-Japan-USA ministerial meeting on 6 October, 2020, in which the foreign ministers of the respective countries will participate,” the ministry said in a statement. Also Read: PM Modi holds virtual bilateral summit with Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda RajapaksaThe foreign ministers of the Quad, which was upgraded to the ministerial level in September last year, will discuss the “post-Covid-19 international order and the need for a coordinated response to the various challenges emerging from the pandemic”, according to the statement. The ministers will also discuss regional issues and “collectively affirm the importance of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific”. Jaishankar will also hold bilateral consultations with Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and US secretary of state Mike Pompeo during the visit. The Quad meet comes against the backdrop of China’s aggressive actions across the Indo-Pacific. Also Read: ‘Fist bump’: Senior Afghan leader Dostum meets EAM Jaishankar to discuss peace processAll four members of the grouping have serious differences with China—India is engaged in a border standoff in Ladakh, the Australian government has pledged to halt projects under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), Japan is worried about Chinese intrusions near the Senkaku Islands, and the US is engaged in a trade war. The members of the Quad, especially India, Japan and Australia, have also stepped up work on forging partnerships with like-minded countries in the region, or those with interests in the Indian Ocean, with an eye on China’s increasing assertiveness and aggressiveness. Jaishankar recently said India and Japan were looking at cooperating on projects in Bangladesh and Myanmar as part of their efforts to work together in third countries. India, Australia and France held their inaugural senior officials’ trilateral dialogue, with the focus on building convergences in the Indo-Pacific, on September 9, the same day that India and Japan signed the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA), a pact for reciprocal provision of supplies and services between their defence forces. Ahead of the second ministerial meeting of the Quad, senior officials of the four countries held consultations on September 25 on collective efforts to advance a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. The officials also exchanged views on ongoing and proposed practical cooperation in connectivity and infrastructure development and security matters, including counter-terrorism, cyber and maritime security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eam-jaishankar-to-visit-japan-during-oct-6-7-for-quad-meeting/story-zZJ6Sj7yEx4FEz6ymdEmPP.html
29-09-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates 6 mega projects in Uttarakhand, says all-round work of govt making Ganga clean||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated six mega projects in Uttarakhand under the Namami Gange Mission. He also launched the logo of Jal Jeevan Mission, via video conferencing.The projects include construction of a 68 MLD sewage treatment plant (STP), up-gradation of the existing 27 MLD plant at Jagjeetpur in Haridwar and construction of an 18 MLD STP at Sarai in Haridwar. The inauguration of 68 MLD Jagjeetpur project also marks the completion of the first sewerage project taken up on hybrid annuity mode of public-private partnership (PPP) mode.“In the past decades, huge initiatives were taken up to clean river Ganga but those initiatives had neither public participation nor farsightedness. As a result, water of river Ganga was never cleaned,” PM Modi said.PM Modi said in Prayagraj Kumbh, the serenity of Ganga was experienced by devotees from all over the world and now during Haridwar Kumbh, the whole world is going to experience the bathing of the pure Ganga. “Today, we are all seeing the results of this all-round work of the government. Today, work on projects worth 30 thousand crores under Namami Gange project is going on or has been completed. The government moved forward in four directions simultaneously. First, started laying a trap of sewage treatment plants to prevent the dirty water falling into the Ganges. Second, building sewage treatment plants that can meet the needs of the next 10-15 years. Third, working towards making 100 big cities and 5,000 villages situated on the banks of river Ganga open defecation free. Fourth, to put pollution in the river Ganga and its tributaries,” he said.The PM said had the old methods been adopted, the situation would have been equally bad today. “We have not limited the Namami Ganga Mission to the cleanliness of Ganga, but have made it the largest and comprehensive river conservation program in the country,” he said.PM Modi said from its origins in Uttarakhand to confluence point in West Bengal, Ganga has enriched the lives of nearly half of the country’s population, adding that the cleanliness of the river is necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-6-mega-projects-in-uttarakhand-says-all-round-work-of-govt-making-ganga-clean/story-rxZdTFmn68Rkt2nP7zJL0H.html
29-09-2020||India||On new farm laws, Rahul Gandhi holds ‘Kisaan Ki Baat’ with farmers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday interacted with farmers from across the country on Centre’s three contentious farm laws. The farmers told Gandhi that the laws were ‘black laws’, saying they were being ‘exploited.’The interaction, which took place virtually, was called ‘Kisaan Ki Baat.’ Ten farmers from states like Punjab, Haryana, Bihar, Maharashtra and Delhi participated in it.Gandhi’s first question to farmers was how will the laws harm them. Replying to this, Dhirendra Kumar from Bihar said, “These laws are totally black laws. Poor and farmers are being exploited, Farmers are being forced to commit suicide.”The former Congress president then asked why farmers were apprehensive Minimum Support Price (MSP) will be withdrawn. Calling it nothing but ‘jumlebaji,’ Sunil Singh from Punjab said the government was cheating farmers.What’s worst thing about these laws, Gandhi next questioned farmers to which Rakesh Jakhar from Haryana said the laws have been framed to finish off the farmers.“I’m more scared of these laws than coronavirus. I’m scared my land will not be in the name of my next generation,” Gajanan Kashinath from Maharashtra said.“The first big fight I fought was on land acquisition,” Gandhi said, referring to his arrest in Bhatta Parsaul in Uttar Pradesh’s Noida in 2011. He further said the media attacked him but he was able to face it.Gandhi ended the interaction by saying there was no difference between the three farm laws and demonetisation and Goods and Service Tax (GST). The bills, he said, were like a ‘stab in the heart.’ He further said he was absolutely clear that protests against farm laws were needed, adding that once again, farmers’ voice will take India to a new freedom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-new-farm-laws-rahul-gandhi-holds-kisaan-ki-baat-with-farmers/story-HRKdvEJEXUK6YBzjHSMw7J.html
29-09-2020||India||‘Attempt to smuggle arms into India’: BSF intercepts 2 vehicles in Mizoram||The Border Security Force (BSF) personnel on Monday caught three people trying to infiltrate into India from Mizoram. The force said in a statement that this was an “attempt by anti-national elements to smuggle arms and ammunition into the Indian territory”.The BSF said that they got the tip-off about the infiltration attempt from a source and accordingly launched an operation.“DIG BSF Aizwal Kuldeep Singh and SK Pillai, 2I/C alongwith team of personnel from 90 Bn BSF based in Mamit district laid ambush on the route that was being taken by the anti-national elements. It was learnt that they were bringing in AK series rifles along with a lot of ammunition for some insurgent group,” the BSF statement said.Late on Monday night, the BSF troops intercepted two vehicles trying to cross into the Indian territory. The vehicles were spotted in West Phaileng in Mamit district which borders Bangladesh.It further said that there were three people in these vehicles who were disarmed and apprehended. The BSF said that it recovered 28 AK series rifles, one Insas rifle and one 0.3 inch carbine.These arms and ammunition were hidden in the cavities in the vehicles, it added.The three apprehended people were also carrying cash worth Rs 39,020, the BSF said. They were later handed over to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attempt-to-smuggle-arms-into-india-bsf-intercepts-2-vehicles-in-mizoram/story-WjuWngqXKPNt49UtgFTDgN.html
29-09-2020||India||‘How long do you propose to continue?’ Supreme Court asks Jammu and Kashmir administration on Iltija Mufti’s plea challenging her mother’s detention||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the central government whether it proposes to continue the preventive detention of former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti.A bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul asked the Centre to inform the top court about its proposal with regard to Mufti.“You should address us on two issues ; One, what is the maximum period for which a person can be detained and two, what is your proposal and how long do you propose to continue the detention,” justice Kaul told Centre’s second senior-most law officer, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.The court was hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by Mufti’s daughter, Iltija challenging her mother’s detention under Jammu & Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA).Mufti has been under detention since August 5, 2019, when the Centre nullified Article 370 and placed the Kashmir valley in a state of lockdown. Her detention in 2019 was under Section 107 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which empowers an executive magistrate to order a person to execute bonds “for keeping the peace”.She had been in custody for six months and her detention was set to expire in February 2020 when a new detention order was issued on February 5 under the PSA which allows the administration to detain a person without trial for a maximum period of 1 year in case of persons acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and for two years in case of persons acting prejudicially to the security of the country. Iltija alleged that the continued detention was because of the refusal by Mufti to sign a general bond affirming that in case of release, she will not make any comment, deliver any speech or attend any public assembly related to the recent events in Jammu and Kashmir.The case had first come up for hearing on February 26 when the top court had issued notice to the Centre and union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. When the case came up for hearing today, Tushar Mehta told the court that Mufti has been detained on the ground that her conduct could lead to public order issues. He also informed the court that the Centre has filed a counter affidavit in the matter. The court adjourned the matter for October 15 after Iltija sought permission to file an amended petition. The Centre was given liberty to file its response to the amended plea.Iltija has submitted that the detention of Mufti is a based upon dossier prepared by the Superintendent of Police, Srinagar which itself was replete personal remarks against Mufti and in bad taste. The dossier, she alleged, was abound with vulgar descriptions about Mufti like “Daddy’s girl” and “Kota Rani”, the latter a medieval queen who rose to power through scheming and poisoning of opponents. It contained unwarranted remarks about the marital status of Mufti and described her as “hard headed” and possessing a “scheming mind”.It was Iltija’s case that the detention of Mufti was based only on the grounds contained in the dossier and those grounds have no tendency to disturb public order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-long-do-you-propose-to-continue-supreme-court-asks-jammu-and-kashmir-administration-on-iltija-mufti-s-plea-challenging-her-mother-s-detention/story-3TF434wdWCgtP6pcDtozRL.html
29-09-2020||India||Suspected thief dies of bullet injury in police custody in MP, two cops booked||Two policemen were suspended and booked for culpable homicide while the district superintendent of police (SP) was shifted on Monday after a protest by residents of Narayanpur village in Satna district of Madhya Pradesh over the death in custody of a 38-year-old man on Sunday night. Villagers alleged that the deceased - a suspect in a theft case - received bullet injuries from the service revolver of a police inspector that caused his death.However, police claimed that Rajpati Kushwaha, the deceased who was a resident of Narayanpur village and detained for interrogation in a theft case, shot himself with a police officer’s service revolver. The suspended cops include Singhpur police station in-charge Vikram Pathak and constable Ashish Kumar, said Rewa zone inspector general of police (IGP) Umesh Joga. The transfer of the SP of Satna district Riyaz Iqbal was announced by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in Bhopal. He also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh to next to the kin of the deceased.“Superintendent of police of Satna district Riyaz Iqbal has been shifted from Satna. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered. If any police personnel is found guilty in the inquiry the state government will not spare him and take strict action against him,” Chouhan told reporters. Later, an FIR was lodged against the two cops for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. “An FIR has been registered against the police station in-charge Vikram Pathak and constable Ashish Kumar under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 348 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Singhpur police station,” Joga said.Earlier, a large number of residents of Narayanpur village in Satna district, 486 kilometres north east of Bhopal, led by local MLA Siddharth Kushwaha of the Congress staged a protest at the police station demanding criminal case for murder against the police personnel and their arrest. They also demanded transfer of the SP. Police caned the protesters to control the situation. The deceased’s daughter Shivani Kushwaha, 18, said, “My father was being harassed by police for a long time. He can’t kill himself because he was a brave person and told us that he would come back from the police station as he didn’t commit any crime.” “Police are lying. He was killed by police,” Kushwaha said. “The agitated mob tried to gherao the police station and also pelted stones on the police station. Police used tear gas and resorted to use of force to control the mob,” said the IG. Joga said Rajpati was interrogated over the theft of a rifle and jewelry.“A few days ago, someone stole jewelry and a licensed rifle from the house of the former sarpanch of Narayapur village. The former sarpanch in his written complaint expressed his doubt about involvement of Rajpati and two others in the crime. Police had interrogated Rajpati once last week. On Sunday, he was called again for interrogation to the police station.” “SP Riyaz Iqbal informed me that during interrogation, Rajpati snatched the revolver of police station in-charge Vikram Pathak and shot himself in the middle of his forehead. He was taken to a private hospital from where he was referred to Sanjay Gandhi Medical College, Rewa where he succumbed to bullet injury,” said Joga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-thief-dies-of-bullet-injury-in-police-custody-in-mp-two-cops-booked/story-pqkKSxgVjDb11w4bRKEb7M.html
29-09-2020||India||India’s Feluda Covid-19 test cheaper, faster alternative to RT-PCR, say scientists||More accurate than a rapid antigen test and almost as quick, India’s CRISPR ‘Feluda’ Covid-19 test that changes colour on detection of the SARS-CoV-2 virus could be a cheaper, faster and simpler alternative to an RT-PCR diagnosis, say scientists.Named after Satyajit Ray’s famed detective, the Feluda test, which is priced at Rs 500 and can deliver a result in 45 minutes, is able to differentiate SARS-CoV-2 from other coronaviruses even if genetic variations between them are minute.The Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) Feluda test, developed by the New Delhi-based CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and the TATA Group, received regulatory approvals last week from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for commercial launch.It meets high quality benchmarks with 96 per cent sensitivity and 98 per cent specificity for detecting the novel coronavirus, Debojyoti Chakraborty, a senior scientist at CSIR-IGIB and part of the team that developed the test, told PTI.Sensitivity is defined as the ability of a test to correctly identify individuals with the disease, while specificity is the ability of the assay to accurately identify those without the disease.Similar to a pregnancy strip test, Feluda changes colour if the virus is detected and doesn’t need expensive machines for detection. “The CRISPR technology uses a highly specific CAS9 protein to find and bind to the target Covid signature. This is then coupled with paper-strip chemistry to elicit a visual readout on a paper strip,” Chakraborty explained.The test can help the country, with the world’s second highest cases of Covid-19 at 61.45 lakh cases, ramp up testing of the disease quickly and economically, the researchers behind the test said in a statement.Virologist Upasana Ray noted that the CRISPR based Covid-19 detection system is a cheaper option to RT-PCR tests, which cost over Rs 1,600. RAT and Feluda are in the same price bracket. FELUDA, an acronym for the FNCAS9 Editor-Limited Uniform Detection Assay, uses an indigenously developed, cutting-edge CRISPR technology for detection of the genomic sequence of SARS-CoV-2 virus, the scientists said.CRISPR is a gene editing technology and is used in correcting genetic defects and treating and preventing the spread of diseases.The technology can detect specific sequences of DNA within a gene, and uses an enzyme functioning as molecular scissors to snip it.According to Ray, Feluda is capable of detecting even low quantities of the genetic material of the novel coronavirus, based on very minute differences in their RNA – the genetic material of a virus “Feluda is an alternative to the quantitative RT-PCR tests and is highly specific. It is capable of detecting low copy number nucleic acids (less viral RNA quantity) as well as single nucleotide variations,” Ray, a senior scientist at CSIR-IICB, Kolkata, told PTI.She explained that the tests are so specific that they can distinguish SARS-CoV-2 infections from other coronaviruses such as the one that caused the 2002-03 SARS pandemic.“It can distinguish between SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV sequences which differ by a single nucleotide. Unlike RT-PCR which requires expensive machines, Feluda is simple and can be used in laboratories as well as outside with a quicker turnaround time,” she added. In May, the US granted emergency-use approval for the world’s first CRISPR-based test for Covid-19, developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Harvard University.The CRISPR Feluda test is the world’s first diagnostic test to deploy a specially adapted Cas9 protein, derived from Francisella novicida bacteria, to successfully detect the virus that causes COVID-19, the researchers said. Other CRISPR tests, like the one developed in the US, use CAS12 and CAS13 proteins to detect SARS-CoV-2. Compared with a rapid antigen test, which interprets results in 30 minutes, Ray said the Feluda test would take slightly longer, up to 45 minutes, but is more accurate and specific.Rapid antigen tests detect the viral proteins or parts thereof whereas CRISPR detects nucleic acids, or RNA in case of Covid-19, Ray said.Chakaraborty noted that RT-PCR takes about 1.5 hours, trained manpower and a dedicated and expensive RT-PCR machine which is not widely available.“Feluda gives similar sensitivity and specificity as RT-PCR but is inexpensive, requires a basic widely available PCR machine and doesn’t require extensive trained manpower. The chemistry and biology is of course different,” Chakraborty added.“This marks a significant achievement for the Indian scientific community, moving from R&D to a high-accuracy, scalable and reliable test in less than 100 days. The Tata CRISPR test achieves accuracy levels of traditional RT-PCR tests, with quicker turnaround time, less expensive equipment, and better ease of use,” the researchers said in their statement. They described CRISPR as a futuristic technology that can also be configured for the detection of other pathogens.“Current R&D is towards making Feluda more point of care, simpler and more deployable to meet the testing needs of the country and enable return to workplaces, schools, etc,” Chakraborty added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-feluda-covid-19-test-cheaper-faster-alternative-to-rt-pcr-say-scientists/story-j1NF1WY5hMu9AZbAWqvMyN.html
29-09-2020||India||Bombay high court to hear Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea today; NCB opposes saying she is ‘prominent member of drug syndicate’||The Bombay high court will take up the bail applications filed by Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty on Tuesday. Both of them have been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Chakraborty’s earlier application for bail was rejected by a special court and she was remanded to 14-day judicial custody. That custody was later extended till October 6.While arguing in the court, Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde said that the investigation of offence lodged under the NDPS ought to have transferred to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as the as per Supreme Court’s order.He said that the central government has empowered CBI to investigate Rajput’s death so the NCB has no jurisdiction.Replying to the bail application, the NCB said that it has the jurisdiction to investigate the case against her and several others, including her brother Showik.The agency further said that the Supreme Court has directed the CBI to take over investigation, if any new case was registered “on the death of Sushant Singh Rajput and the surrounding circumstances of his unnatural death” and the direction “was not with respect to the present case” registered under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.NCB reiterated it’s stand that Rhea was “an active member of the drug syndicate connected with high society personalities and drug suppliers.” In this regard the reply to her bail plea states that the “Applicant (Rhea) has in her statement (recorded by NCB) revealed about her involvement in procurement of drugs and financing of illicit drug dealings.”“The present applicant is prominent member of supply chain of drugs and majorly she is handling finance also,” states that affidavit. “The present applicant used to manage, finance for drug procurement along with Sushant Singh Rajput,” NCB has said while opposing Rhea’s bail plea.Chakraborty, 28, was arrested by the federal agency on September 9. According to the NCB, Rhea and Showik financed and arranged drugs for Rajput at his instructions.The NCB started its investigation after receiving official communication from Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.Chakraborty has said that she is innocent, falsely implicated in the case, and was coerced into making “self-incriminatory” confessions by the NCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-to-hear-rhea-chakraborty-s-bail-plea-today-ncb-opposes-saying-she-is-prominent-member-of-drug-syndicate/story-XRMGUrsQxeANzDUhBvTmyO.html
29-09-2020||India||Covid hospitals in Bengal to conduct rapid antigen tests on all patients in SARI wards||The West Bengal government has directed Covid hospitals in the state to conduct Rapid Antigen Tests on all patients who show up with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). This would help in the early detection of Covid-19 positive cases and start the treatment, which in turn would help to bring down the death rate further, officials said. “Rapid Antigen Testing to be arranged at SARI wards so that Covid positive patients can be identified immediately and treated for Covid-19 without delay,” said an order issued by the Bengal government to all Covid hospitals on Monday. The state government in a door-to-door survey has identified around 8,700 SARI cases and around 4.5 lakh cases of Influenza-like Illness.In mid-June there were 4,337 cases of SARI and 1.9 lakh cases of Influenza-like Illness. SARI involves the history of a fever higher than 38 degrees Celsius (100.4 F) and cough for over 10 days. Severe forms of SARI – including severe pneumonia, Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), sepsis and septic shock – can lead to death in Covid-19 patients. Even though the Mamata Banerjee administration has been able to bring down the death rate from more than 13% in May which was the highest among all states, to around 1.9% on September 28, it is still higher than the national average. At present India’s case fatality rate or death rate is around 1.5%. The Centre is working towards bringing the national death rate down to 1% or below. “In a meeting held in August, the state government was advised by the Centre to ensure that at least in 80% of the fresh Covid-19 cases and all close contacts need to be traced and tested within three days,” said a health department official. A few states, including West Bengal, were also asked by the Centre to conduct at least 140 tests per million per day in all districts while targeting a positivity rate of less than 5%. At present Bengal has a positivity rate of 7.9%. West Bengal has so far reported 2,50,580 Covid-19 cases and 4,837 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-hospitals-in-bengal-to-conduct-rapid-antigen-tests-on-all-patients-in-sari-wards/story-ksxA39Bxbdrqf8ffSutuNP.html
29-09-2020||India||Amnesty International says work in India halted after govt freezes bank accounts||Human rights watchdog Amnesty International on Tuesday said that its work in India has been halted after the government froze several of the organisation’s bank accounts.“The complete freezing of Amnesty International India’s bank accounts by the Government of India which it came to know on 10 September 2020, brings all the work being done by the organization to a grinding halt,” the organisation said in a statement on its website.Amnesty further claimed that it has been compelled to let go of staff in India and pause all ongoing campaign and research work.“For a movement that has done nothing but raise its voices against injustice, this latest attack is akin to freezing dissent,” said Avinash Kumar, Executive Director of Amnesty International India.The statement also claimed that Amnesty India stands in full compliance with all applicable Indian and international laws.Its offices in Bengaluru were raided by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in November last year in connection with accusations that the non-profit had received foreign funds in violation of the law.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) too had carried out investigations into charges that the rights group had attempted to bypass the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act by floating a commercial entity, Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd.The government had declined permission to receive foreign funds to Amnesty International India Foundation Trust that has been critical of security agencies in several cases including the arrest of activists such as Sudha Bharadwaj, Rona Wilson and Varavara Rao, who was accused of being a Maoist ideologue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amnesty-international-halts-work-in-india-after-govt-freezes-bank-accounts/story-caiIF3azmTqhNS9TIoiIGI.html
29-09-2020||India||Sardar Sarovar Dam’s sudden water release flooded parts of Gujarat, suggests analysis||An analysis by the South Asia Network of Rivers, Dams and People (SANDRP) has suggested that severe flooding in Gujarat’s Bharuch, Narmada and Vadodara districts from August 29 to September 2 had occurred because of sudden release of massive quantities of water from the Sardar Sarovar Dam (SSD).This has led critics and supporters of the dam writing counter arguments on online portals on the role of SSD in causing floods in Gujarat in early September.SANDRP, which has analysed the SSD’s water release data, said that no water was released from the dam spillway until August 28, despite information from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) that there has been exceptionally heavy rainfall in the Narmada basin’s upstream since August 25 and earlier. Also read: One more dies in Assam floods, over 3 lakh people affected in 13 districts“What we saw this time is a worrying trend. SSD couldn’t ration its water release based on information of extreme rainfall in the Narmada catchment area. There was large scale devastation primarily because of sudden water release by the dam. Hundreds of people had to be shifted from Bharuch and Vadodara districts during the flooding.I fear that more such dam generated floods will affect the region in the future,” said Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator, SANDRP, and an engineer, who was earlier associated with the Narmada Bachao Andolan (NBA). The analysis suggests that though no water was released by the dam after extremely heavy rains started in the Narmada valley districts, the dam started releasing up to 10 lakh cusecs from the night of August 29.“Three days later, on September 1, they closed most of the spillway gates, which reduced releases from spillway to less than a tenth of the earlier figure. From August 29 to September 1, massive quantities were released, up to 30, 000 cumecs through spillways, and almost nothing before or after. It created massive flood disasters all along the downstream from Gaudeshwar to Chandod to Bharuch,” Thakkar said. SANDRP, in its analysis published on their website, said the SSD authorities might have ignored both Central Water Commission’s (CWC) warnings and IMD’s rainfall forecast.The first heavy spell of rainfall in the Narmada basin had occurred between August 16 and 18, followed by more precipitation on August 21 and 22.However, an exceptionally heavy spell of rainfall was recorded from August 26 onwards. On August 27, Madhya Pradesh’s (MP) Narsinghpur had recorded 152.6 millimetres (mm); Raisen (110.5 mm); Hoshangabad (81.8 mm); and the following day Betul recorded (142.4 mm); Harda ( 111.1 mm); and Hoshangabad (191.1 mm).On August 28, the CWC in its flood forecast had also warned that the SSD was expected to receive increased flows due to very heavy rainfall in the past three days leading to a rise in the water level of Narmada, Mahi, Sabarmati and rivers flowing in the westward direction in Gujarat. CWC had tweeted on September 1 that “heavy inflows are still continuing at Indirasagar, Omkareshwar and SSD. Releases from SSD gave rise to severe flooding situation at Garudeshwar in Narmada and Bharuch districts.”SSD is one of the largest water resources projects in the country that covers four major states such as Maharashtra, MP, Gujarat and Rajasthan.“At the outset, let me make it clear that SANDRP is quite known for its anti-dam stand in general and anti-SSD in particular,” said MB Joshi, chief general manager (technical & coordination), Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited.The 1,163-kilometre (km) stretch of river Narmada -- from its source at Amarkantak to SSD – had recorded heavy rainfall from August 20 to September 1. Around 14,660 million cubic metres of water were received at Indira Sagar as against its live storage capacity of 9,745 million cubic metres. Indira Sagar is the largest dam in the Narmada river basin, according to SSD authorities. SSD had to negotiate huge releases of water from the upstream major dams such as Omkareshwar and Indira Sagar because of heavy rainfall. “Keeping in view the safety of the dam as well as the people in Bharuch city and about 30 villages on the banks of Narmada, the reservoir was operated in a scientific way following the established principles of flood routing in major dams,” the SSD said. The SSD authorities cited that SANDRP’s report is factually incorrect because no water was released by the barrage until August 29. The River Bed Power House (RBPH) operation was started from midnight on August 25 and it gradually gained momentum. “Efficacy of SSD in flood control is evident from the fact that despite continuous heavy inflow of over 10 lakh cusecs of water received for about 62 hours -- between 6 pm on August 30 to 11 pm on September 1 -- spillway release of more than 10 lakh cusecs could be restricted after 21 hours,” and “inflow at Sardar Sarovar went up to as high as 12.06 lakh cusec on August 31. However, the maximum spillway discharge released was 10.74 lakh cusec after considering the fact that any release from the dam further gets added due to flow from tributaries joining in the downstream,” the SSD authorities said.Four retired Gujarat government officials, including two chief engineers and a secretary of the Gujarat government, responded to SANDRP’s analysis in the Counterview portal. “Some well-known activists, who are anti-dam in general and anti-Sardar Sarovar in particular, have been still attempting to curse the SSD and its project authorities by making false allegations of having created ‘avoidable flood disaster’. Instead of allowing the public in the downstream areas to share their experience of having a great sigh of relief this year amid very heavy rainfall in the Narmada basin, factually incorrect information is being deliberately disseminated,” they argued against SANDRP’s assertions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sardar-sarovar-dam-s-sudden-water-release-flooded-parts-of-gujarat-suggests-analysis/story-2jenBfEwRF2Kvlkc835VjJ.html
29-09-2020||India||Hathras woman, battling for life after being gang-raped, dies||The 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, died on Tuesday morning, news agency ANI reported.The woman was allegedly raped by four men in her village on September 14 when she went to a farm.She was taken to a hospital in Aligarh the next day, and moved to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi for better medical facilities. The woman was in critical condition, and on ventilator.According to the police, the woman had gone to the fields with her mother on the fateful day and had gone missing soon after. She was later found brutally injured. The accused also attempted to strangulate her.The police had later arrested the four accused. The Kotwali in-charge in Hathras was removed and sent to police lines. The Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) was deployed at the house of the woman.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati had condemned the incident, saying no woman from any community is safe in Uttar Pradesh and asked the state government to pay attention to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-woman-battling-for-life-after-being-gang-raped-dies/story-9keJlLyX8xPez1c8f9tdOI.html
29-09-2020||India||Where does India stand in global tally? Here’s a look at the 5 most-affected countries with highest number of Covid-19 cases||With more than 61 lakh (or 6.1 million) coronavirus cases, India is now the second worst-affected country by Covid-19 after United States. The overall number of global coronavirus cases has surpassed the 33 million-mark, while the deaths have increased to 1,006,379, according to Worldometers.The global death toll from Covid-19 rose past one million on Tuesday, according to a Reuters tally, a bleak milestone in a pandemic that has devastated the global economy, overloaded health systems and changed the way people live.These are the 5 most-affected countries with the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world:The United States on top with 7 million coronavirus casesThe United States has registered 7,361,611 novel coronavirus cases, according to latest data in Worldometers. The pandemic has so far claimed the lives of at least 2,09,808 people in the United States, which leads the world in the number of confirmed infections.India is now second worst-affected country by Covid-19India’s novel coronavirus tally has crossed 61-lakh mark with a spike of 70,589 new cases and 776 deaths. According to Union health ministry update on Tuesday, there are 9,47,576 active cases, while 51,01,398 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals.Brazil has more than four million Covid-19 casesThird in the list of worst-affected countries is Brazil which has more than four million confirmed coronavirus cases, according to Worldometers. The country has so far reported 4,748,327 total cases and 142,161 deaths due to coronavirus.RussiaRussia reported 1,159,573 cases of coronavirus infections so far and 20,385 deaths. The country has the fourth-highest number of infections behind the United States, India and Brazil, but the number of new cases has seen a stellar rise everyday in the past month.Columbia: 818,203 coronavirus casesColumbia’s novel coronavirus tally has crossed the eight lakh-mark with the death toll rising to 25,641, according to Worldometers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-does-india-stand-in-global-tally-here-s-a-look-at-the-5-most-affected-countries-with-highest-number-of-covid-19-cases/story-9wof1meX7Sy5tHMrXA4nLK.html
29-09-2020||India||In farm bill protest, Cong finds a new inspiration: Arun Jaitley||On the farm bill issue—their biggest protest in the second term of the Narendra Modi government—the Congress party has discovered an unusual inspiration: Arun Jaitley. The late union minister has been mentioned twice by the Congress at two crucial junctures of their protests: when it asked its state governments to explore legislative options against the farm bills and after the Opposition’s demand for a division (voting) was rejected in the Rajya Sabha. Also read: After CWC, key Congress poll panel set for rejigA day before the monsoon session ended on September 23, Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad invoked Jaitley’s remarks on division to attack the government. Azad’s attack came two days after the Opposition’s fervid appeal for a division on the farm bills in the Rajya Sabha was not approved by Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh. “I want to quote what Arun Jaitley had said in 2016. He said, ‘That the Government becomes illegitimate if the Speaker refuses the division of vote.’ He termed it as illegitimate,” said Azad. He was referring to the government’s plea in the Supreme Court against a Uttarakhand High Court order. Azad reminded the House that there too, the core issue was denial of division in the floor despite the Opposition asking for it. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu, a close friend of Jaitley, was in the chair. He quickly reminded Azad that Jaitley had also spoken about tyranny of minority when Opposition parties regularly halted government business in the Upper House. “Arun Jaitleyji is no more. He has also said that it is the tyranny of minority,” said Naidu. On Monday, when the Congress upped its ante against the farm bill and sought legal actions, they again referred to Jaitley. They asked the states to take cue of what Jaitley had said in the context of the controversial land acquisition law that the NDA government tried to amend to make it more farmer-friendly as well as beneficial to the industries. As the UPA-era law made it extremely difficult for industries to acquire land, Jaitley had pointed out that the Indian Constitution has a provision under which states can make their own laws on Concurrent List of Business to override any union law. Party insiders said that during a brainstorming meeting on the farm bills, Congress’ top legal brain Abhishek Singhvi had referred to Jaitley’s argument to advise the Congress-ruled states to make their own farm laws. Both Singhvi and Jaitley had referred to Article 254(2) in The Constitution Of India that said, “Where a law made by the Legislature of a State with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the Legislature of such State shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that State: Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature of the State.” Singhvi, however, also cautioned his party colleagues that the President of India might not give his assent to the state laws on this issue as the farm bill has taken a political turn and led to massive protests both by NDA’s political opponents as well as farmer bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-farm-bill-protest-cong-finds-a-new-inspiration-arun-jaitley/story-sQNm1sP5uqOiA0muMtQluN.html
29-09-2020||India||Post Ladakh, PLA no longer a bogey for Indian Army | Analysis||On the eve of the 2004 general elections, a meeting of China Study Group (CSG) was held to review the status of border roads along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with the then Vice Chief of Army Staff briefing the apex group on strategic roads. At this meeting the then Home Secretary asked the Army general why we were not building strategic north-to-south roads and questioned the delays in doing so. The answer was that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) could use these roads to come into India. The Home Secretary shot back that at this rate India should also stop building roads in Delhi.Sixteen years later, the Indian Army has finally shrugged off the bogey of the PLA and is staring down at the Chinese at Ladakh with the sole objective of restoring status quo ante at all friction points along the line of actual control. The change in the mindset of the Indian Army came after the June 15 Galwan flare-up where Col Santosh Babu and his men engaged in hand to hand combat with their adversaries, who are projected as Shaolin Temple warriors by the Chinese state media.Serving Indian Army officers say that once the Prime Minister of India went to Ladakh to boost the morale and the Indian public gathered to honour the fallen — in contrast to the PLA’s hush-hush burial of its dead— the mood changed. Despite the raging pandemic that has origins in Wuhan, the honour bestowed on fallen Indian troops including a brave Junior Commissioned Officer of the elite special frontier force in August 29-30 operation on south Pangong Tso has boosted the morale of Indian forces.ALSO WATCH | Ladakh | Tanks, combat vehicles: Indian Army ready to counter China amid tension While both armies are now stocking up for the polar winter on Ladakh heights, the PLA with its troops largely made of conscripts who were sent to Aksai Chin as part of an annual exercise must be asking questions of their military commanders. The conscripts are sole children of their parents in China, who join the army for a limited period to ensure State funding of their college education. The idea of spending their winters in Ladakh’s rarefied heights will surely test not only their endurance but also their commitment to PLA as the exercise has the potential to take the turn for the worse at any given moment.Although the situation is tense on the border, India’s national security planners say that the grossly mis-calculated aggression ordered by Commander in Chief Xi Jinping in Ladakh has finally removed the Chinese bogey from Indian backs. In the past two decades, China had become Lord Voldemort or he whose name shall not be taken in Indian diplomatic, military and intelligence circles. Former Indian defence minister George Fernandes had to face the brunt for merely telling the truth that China was a threat. This has now changed with the Modi government not mincing words on China and seriously examining the penetration of Beijing into the Indian system. India is using software mining to identify parent companies and their country of origin from the details of front companies investing in India. This is a sea change from the 2000s when Chinese workers were given business visas in thousands to come to India. And when mandarins in the Ministry of External Affairs believed that the Tibet issue was like “flogging a dead horse” and had lost its relevance.While predicting the military or diplomatic outcome of the LAC exercise is more difficult than reading tea leaves, the PLA aggression this summer in Ladakh, South China Sea, Taiwan and Senkaku Islands has revealed China’s true colours to the world. It has revealed the weakness of European powers and the pusillanimity of the so called Tiger powers of South East Asia in taking on China due to their economic dependency on that country. It has shown that if you have money to throw around then not even a single Muslim power will question you on concentration camps for Sunni Uighurs in Xinjiang even as they rant over the treatment of Rohingyas by Myanmar. It has shown while the world will happily chant “om mani padme hum”, it will maintain dead silence over the overt and planned Sinicization of Tibet.In the run up to the 100th year of founding of Chinese Communist Party (CCP), its paramount leader Xi Jinping has bared China’s strategic ambitions to become the sole global power under the mask of coronavirus pandemic. The world has taken note of this. How it reacts is not difficult to predict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-ladakh-pla-no-longer-a-bogey-for-indian-army/story-2NVkdELLl9pbkoUOryJvyL.html
29-09-2020||India||Purohit Mahasabha condemns suit in Mathura court on Krishna Janambhoomi issue||The Akhil Bhartiya Teerth Purohit Mahasabha (ABTPM) on Monday condemned the filing of a suit in Mathura court raising the Sri Krishna Janambhoomi issue. The petitioners, from other districts, have filed the case seeking removal of the mosque from there, claiming it was built after razing a temple by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. “Residents of Braj area (with Mathura as epicenter) are living in peace with no issue being raised related to Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and adjoining Shahi Eidgah mosque. Few outsiders have come and filed a court case, damaging the fabric of harmony here,” said Mahesh Pathak, president of ABTPM which has its headquarters in Haridwar and is the apex body of priests. “Things in Mathura are different from Ayodhya, where Lord Rama was living in a makeshift arrangement in the open. We have an elaborate arrangement here in Mathura, where a grand temple is constructed at Sri Krishna Janambhoomi,” said Pathak. He also said there had been an agreement in 1968 paving the way both for the temple and the mosque. Pathak questioned the timing of filing the court case “after the matter related to the Ram temple in Ayodhya got settled.” The plaintiffs are from Delhi, Lucknow, Basti and Siddharth Nagar and the next date fixed by the court is September 30. However, Gopeshwar Chaturvedi of Sri Krishna Janm Sewa Sansthan finds no wrong with the filing of the suit in the court. The sansthan has been impleaded in the case as defendant number 4 in the suit filed on behalf of Bhagwan Sri Krishna Virajman through next friend Ranjana Agnihotri from Lucknow. “The Shahi Eidgah Mosque is a symbol of atrocities that Hindus faced. It was built after razing a temple. The Muslim brothers should willingly hand over the land to Sri Krishna Janambhoomi. Mosques and temples can be many but ‘janmabhoomi’ cannot be more than one,” said Chaturvedi. “We will place our version in court,” he said. The case has been filed in court of civil judge (senior division), Mathura for cancellation of the judgment and decree dated July 20, 1973 and judgment and decree dated November 7, 1974 passed in civil suit no. 43 of 1967 by the civil judge of Mathura. The plaintiffs have also sought a declaration that the land measuring 13.37 acres be vested in deity Lord Sri Krishna Virajman.The suit also claims that UP Central Waqf Board, committee of management and trust of Shahi Masjid Idgah be directed to remove encroachment upon the land and hand over “vacant” possession to Sri Krishna Janambhoomi Trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/purohit-mahasabha-condemns-suit-in-mathura-court-on-krishna-janambhoomi-issue/story-CpeTjJJ2K0FT7p1W3JyR4O.html
29-09-2020||India||BSP trying tested caste formula for UP bypolls||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is working on the tested caste formula to grab the seats from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and arch-rival Samajwadi Party in the bypolls for eight assembly seats. The Election Commission of India will announce the dates for the bypolls on Tuesday after a review meeting. BSP has decided to field Muslim candidates on the three seats in the Rohilkhand region- Suar (Rampur) Naugawan Sadat (Amroha) and Bulandshahar where the vote of the Muslim electors is crucial in deciding the fate of the candidates. It has decided to field Dalit candidates on the two reserved seats - Ghatampur and Tundla. The party will field candidates belonging to upper caste Brahmin, Rajput and Backward community on the remaining three seats.BSP chief Mayawati has given a green signal to the bye-election campaign strategy in a meeting with the senior leaders in Delhi. She screened the candidates whose names were forwarded by the sector in-charges on various seats. After her approval the sector in-charges have started announcing the name of the candidates in the meeting with the party workers for the respective seats. BSP national general secretary, Satish Chandra Mishra has launched the party election campaign with addressing public meetings. He addressed a public meeting in Tundla on Sunday. To woo the upper castes, particularly the Brahmin community voters, Mishra is organising the meetings of the Brahmin community across the state.The BSP has mobilized its resources for the bypolls that is considered to give an indication of the voters’ mood before the 2022 assembly election. Mayawati is regularly collecting feedback from the party office bearers. The BSP is keen to give a comeback message to the voters by opening its account in the bypolls. Among the eight seats going to bypolls, six seats were held by BJP and two by SP. “If BSP wins one or two seats it will rejuvenate the party cadre before the assembly election,” said a BSP leader. BSP sector in-charges have announced names of Kuldeep Sankhwar on Ghatampur seat, Abhay Nath Tripathi on Deoria seat, Mahesh Pal on Bangarmau seat, Sanjiv Kumar on Tundal seat, Shafiq Ansari on Suar, Haji Yunus on Bulandshahar and Furqan Ahmed on Naugawan Sadat seat.Meanwhile, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has announced that it will field candidates in all the eight assembly seats.AIMIM, state convenor Shaukat Ali said in a meeting on Sunday that the central leadership of the party has given its approval to contest the bypolls. Dilshad Ahmed will contest from Bulandshahr seat, the candidates on the remaining seven seats will be finalized soon, he said.“The decision of the AIMIM to contest the by-poll is likely to upset the strategy of the SP, Congress and BSP. The AIMIM enjoys support among the Muslim voters in West and East UP,” said, Ashok Kumar Sinha, a political observer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-trying-tested-caste-formula-for-up-bypolls/story-YguG8W5vHGSDuqxenK6l8H.html
29-09-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 case count drops to 70,589; recoveries increase to over 82%||India registered a drop in the number of new coronavirus disease cases on Tuesday. According to Union health ministry, the number of new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours is 70,589 - the country has been recording over 80,000 cases over the last few days.The nationwide tally has crossed 61-lakh mark.According to Union health ministry update on Tuesday, there are 9,47,576 active cases, while 51,01,398 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals.The country recorded 776 fatalities in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to 96,318, according to health ministry.But the health ministry has shared positive statistics amid the grim picture. It said that close to 100 per cent increase in recoveries has been witnessed in India in the past month.The ministry also informed that over 82 per cent of the total patients have been recovered and discharged.“India has witnessed close to 100 per cent increase in recoveries in the past month. More than 82 per cent of total cases (exceeding 50 lakhs) recovered and discharged. Active cases (lower than 10 lakhs) a small proportion (less than 1/5th) of total cases,” the ministry tweeted on Tuesday.Yesterday, it had said that recovered cases have outpaced active cases by over five times.“The commendable feat has been achieved through enhanced medical infrastructure, implementation of the standard treatment protocol, full dedication, and commitment of doctors, paramedics, and frontline workers,” the ministry had said in a series of tweets.It has also launched a web portal that will provide all important information on Covid-19, vaccine development, ongoing clinical trials and progress made in this area locally and globally.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also launched the National Clinical Registry for Covid-19 that will collect systematic data on clinical signs and symptoms, laboratory investigations, management protocols, the clinical course of the coronavirud disease, its spectrum and outcomes of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-case-count-drops-to-70-589-recoveries-increase-to-over-82/story-5Cavf84QXA2HyheKrPXsyJ.html
29-09-2020||India||India closer to recording 0.1 million Covid-19 deaths||For at least a past couple of months, the country has been reporting at least a 1,000 deaths everyday due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the total number of people succumbing to the viral disease to closer to 0.1 million.The first person to die due to Covid-19 in India on March 12 was a man from south India with an international travel history.On Monday, 787 new deaths were reported, taking the cumulative death toll due to Covid-19 to 96,586 so far in India.Experts in the field of epidemiology, however, say the rise in the death toll is on expected lines with the rise in the overall number of cases in the country. “As the number of cases keep on increasing, there will also be increase in the number of deaths; it is directly linked. Also, it is linked to efficient reporting of cases and deaths in the long run, as some states that were lagging earlier in terms of reporting cases are now catching up,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, professor of epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India. Also Read: Nearly 100% increase in India’s Covid-19 recoveries in past month, says health ministryHowever, globally, India has one of the lowest case fatality rates (CFR), the proportion of people who die from a disease among all individuals diagnosed.India’s CFR or death rate is around 1.5% currently, and the government is working towards bringing the national death rate down to 1% or below.People with comorbidities and the elderly are at high risk; almost 70% of those who die have one or more comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac, renal or liver disease. Also, more men are at risk than women, with 69% men having succumbed to the viral disease as compared to 31% women.However, there is also a good chance of overall recovery among Covid-19 patients, with the country’s current recovery rate being about 82%. The number of active patients has stayed below 1 million for several successive days. The active caseload is about 15.5% of the total positive cases, and is consistently declining, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-closer-to-recording-0-1-million-covid-19-deaths/story-Y6P6H9lv7X8Vc8Czvrsg2L.html
29-09-2020||India||MHA sanctions 3 additional branches of NIA at Imphal, Chennai and Ranchi||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has sanctioned three additional branches of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to be located at Imphal, Chennai and Ranchi.A press release from the NIA said, “This decision of GoI will help in ensuring quick response to any emergent situation in the concerned states by the premier anti-terror investigation agency of the country. It will strengthen NIA’s capability in the investigation of terrorism-related cases and other national security-related matters. It will also facilitate the timely collection of crucial information and evidence related to such offences.“Presently, NIA has nine branches located at Guwahati, Mumbai, Jammu, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Kochi, Lucknow, Raipur and Chandigarh, besides specialised units at HQRs, New Delhi. Government of India’s decision to open three new branches will help in accomplishing its main vision i.e. to effectively fight against the scourge of terrorism and would strengthen the anti-terror response framework of the country,” the press release added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-sanctions-3-additional-branches-of-nia-at-imphal-chennai-and-ranchi/story-FYer4RxdLspC051jUcIpMP.html
29-09-2020||India||SC to hear plea against detention of Mehbooba Mufti 7 months after it was last heard||The Supreme Court will hear on Tuesday a Habeas Corpus plea challenging the detention of former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti under the Jammu & Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA).The plea filed by Mufti’s daughter Iltija will be heard by a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy more than 7 months after it was last heard on February 26 when the top court had issued notice to the central government and union territory of Jammu & Kashmir. The court had, on February 26, ordered the case to be posted for further hearing on March 18 but it was never listed after Covid-19 pandemic broke out and the apex court started functioning through video conference.Iltija submitted that the detention of Mufti is based on vague and slanderous ground demonstrating personal and political bias against her. It was contended that the detention order of February 5 against Mufti was founded upon a dossier prepared by the Superintendent of Police, Srinagar which itself was replete personal remarks against Mufti and in bad taste. “The detention order is wholly based on the dossier which is slanderous, libelous and clearly demonstrative of the political and personal bias against the detenu (Mehbooba Mufti)”, the Habeas Corpus petition stated.The term Habeas Corpus literally translates to “produce the body” and it is a plea seeking directions to be issued to the government to produce a detained person before the court and to release such person if the detention is found to be illegal. Mufti has been under detention since August 5, 2019 when the Central government nullified Article 370 and placed the Kashmir valley in a state of lockdown. Her detention in 2019 was under Section 107 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which empowers an executive magistrate to order a person to execute bonds “for keeping the peace”.She had been in custody for six months and her detention was set to expire in February 2020 when a new detention order was issued on February 5 under the PSA which allows the administration to detain a personwithout trial for a maximum period of two years.The continued detention it was alleged by Iltija was because of the refusal by Mufti to sign a general bond affirming that in case of release, she will not make any comment, deliver any speech or attend any public assembly related to the recent events in Jammu & Kashmir. Iltija stated that the dossier, which was the basis for Mufti’s detention, was abound with vulgar descriptions about Mufti like “Daddy’s girl” and “Kota Rani”, the latter a medieval queen who rose to power through scheming and poisoning of opponents.The dossier, it was claimed, also contained unwarranted remarks about the marital status of Mufti and described her as “hard headed” and possessing a “scheming mind”.It was Iltija’s case that the detention of Mufti was based only on the grounds contained in the dossier and those grounds have no tendency to disturb public order.The detention order referred to opinions expressed by Mufti in the past as the basis for detention though there is not even the minutest suggestion that Mufti involved in any violent activity ever, the plea stated.Further, the detention order mentioned 12 statements made by Mufti though it did not mention any adverse impact of such statements on law and order.“Moreover the utterances were not even considered worthy of registering an FIR”, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-plea-against-detention-of-mehbooba-mufti-7-months-after-it-was-last-heard/story-qhO0CW06hMJcVYIYOCQueL.html
29-09-2020||India||After CWC, key Congress poll panel set for rejig||Congress president Sonia Gandhi is expected to revamp a panel that finalises party candidates for assembly and Lok Sabha elections, days after carrying out a major organisational reshuffle that saw the exit of many veteran general secretaries, people familiar with the development said. The central election committee (CEC), an important panel that selects party candidates for an election after being shortlisted at various levels, is currently headed by Sonia Gandhi. Its members are former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, senior leaders AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik, KC Venugopal, Mohsina Kidwai, Girija Vyas, Janaradan Dwivedi, M Veerappa Moily and Oscar Fernandes. Also Read: Bihar polls: Congress on road to revival or destined to suffer?A Congress leader aware of the proposed changes said the revamp will see the exit of some members and the induction of former Union minister Jitendra Singh, former party general secretary Mohan Prakash and ex-deputy chief minister of Karnataka G Parameshwara in the panel. Singh and Prakash are both considered close to Rahul Gandhi. He further said Fernandes and Vyas have been unwell for some time and their exit appeared certain. The leader added that the chances of the CEC being reconstituted before the Bihar elections are bright, given that the panel will select the party candidates for the assembly polls. Sonia Gandhi had, on September 11, reconstituted the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and her team of office bearers, and formed a special panel to help her in day-to-day functioning. Also Read: Congress states look to bypass new farm lawsShe also set up a new central election authority (CEA) that will conduct the organisational polls to elect a new party president and the CWC, the party’s highest decision-making body. The changes came days after 23 leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan and Jitin Prasada, wrote to her seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation and internal elections from top to bottom. The Congress president had accommodated some of the dissenters to send a message that there won’t be any reprisal or consequences for writing the letter that she had described as “hurtful”. The changes were also in line with a resolution passed in the August 24 CWC meeting that had requested Sonia Gandhi to continue as the interim Congress president till a new full-time chief is elected and also authorised her to carry out the necessary organisational changes to deal with the challenges faced by the party. Among the general secretaries dropped were Ghulam Nabi Azad (Haryana), also one of the key dissenters, Motillal Vora (Administration), Ambika Soni (Jammu and Kashmir), Mallikarjun Kharge (Maharashtra) and Luizinho Falerio (Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and Meghalaya). In-charges Asha Kumari (Punjab and Chandigarh), Gaurav Gogoi (West Bengal, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Sikkim and Manipur), Ram Chandra Khuntia (Telangana) and Anugrah Narayan Singh (Uttarakhand) were also axed. The new general secretaries included Tariq Anwar (Kerala and Lakshadweep), Randeep Singh Surjewala (Karnataka) and Jitendra Singh (Assam). The new in-charges are Pawan Kumar Bansal (Administration), Rajeev Shukla (Himachal Pradesh), Dinesh Gundu Rao (Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa), Manickam Tagore (Telangana), HK Patil (Maharashtra), Devendra Yadav (Uttarakhand), Vivek Bansal (Haryana), Manish Chatrath (Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya), Bhakta Charan Das (Mizoram and Manipur), Kuljit Singh Nagra (Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura) and Jitin Prasada (West Bengal, Andaman and Nicobar Islands). Sonia Gandhi had asked for a special committee to help her in organisational and operational matters till the next session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), to be held within six months. The committee comprises AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala. The five-member CEA will be headed by Madhusudan Mistry and the members are Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely, another letter writer. After restructuring the party at the national level, Sonia Gandhi will now shift her focus to states, especially those going to polls in next two years. While several state unit chiefs have overstayed their tenure, many are on the radar for their non-performance. Sonia Gandhi had earlier named Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury as the party chief in West Bengal, which will be going to polls in April-May next year. Along with West Bengal, assembly elections will be held in Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. In 2022, state elections are due in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. Apart from various committees, departments and cells at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) level, the mega team of 56 secretaries will also see a major restructuring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-cwc-key-congress-poll-panel-set-for-rejig/story-A8qovolsuElX2EqmIPRBcJ.html
29-09-2020||India||AIIMS panel submits report in Sushant case, CBI to decide next course of action||The forensic team of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which was re-examining the circumstances that led to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, has submitted its report to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, the CBI is examining the report before arriving at any conclusion.The forensic medical board was formed under the chairmanship of Dr Sudhir Gupta on the request of CBI to which wanted to analyse the post-mortem and viscera reports in detail. The board submitted its report to the CBI on Monday after an extensive meeting.The team led by Dr Gupta had on September 7 conducted viscera test to check for poisoning in Rajput’s death.The CBI also took the special three-member team to Rajput’s Mumbai house for forensic examination and further investigation.Dr Gupta’s forensic team has earlier handled high-profile cases like Sheena Bora murder case and the death of Sunanda Pushkar. It has offered its medico-legal advice in these cases.Speaking on the current probe, Dr Gupta there is a need to look into some legal aspects for a logical conclusion in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.“AIIMS and CBI are in agreement on the Sushant Singh Rajput death case but more deliberations are needed. There is a need to look into some legal aspects for a logical legal conclusion in due course of time. It will be totally conclusive,” Gupta was qupted as saying by new agency ANI.The agency had registered an FIR against actor Rhea Chakraborty and others in connection with the Rajput’s death after the Centre accepted Bihar government’s recommendation to transfer the probe in the matter from Patna.Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-panel-submits-report-in-sushant-death-case-cbi-to-decide-next-course-of-action/story-JCeLV1hLVy3PFXYWrBKWKL.html
29-09-2020||India||Join NDA, may get ‘big’ post: Union minister Athawale appeals to Sharad Pawar||Union Minister Ramdas Athawale on Monday said that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar may get a “big post” in the future if he joins the NDA and said there is “no advantage” in staying with Shiv Sena.“Shiv Sena should again join hands with BJP. If Shiv Sena doesn’t come with us, I appeal to (NCP chief) Sharad Pawar to join NDA for development for the state. He may get a big post in the future. There is no advantage in staying with Shiv Sena,” Athawale said at a press conference here.In 2019 Assembly polls, the BJP had emerged as the single largest party by winning 105 seats in the last Maharashtra Assembly polls while the Shiv Sena got 56 seats in the 288-member state Assembly.However, Shiv Sena later went ahead with Congress and the NCP to form the government in the state. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/join-nda-may-get-big-post-union-minister-athawale-appeals-to-sharad-pawar/story-LRJPQUN5hcrO9fbKarUZGO.html
29-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: BJP plans farm outreach to counter opposition’s campaign and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP plans farm outreach to counter Oppn’s driveTo counter the opposition’s campaign against farm laws enacted by the central government, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is planning an outreach to farmers that will include door-to-door Atmanirbhar Kisan (Self-Reliance Farmers) campaigns in rural India, public rallies, press conferences and social media broadcasts. Read moreLatest Covid-19 vaccine development: Covishield undergoes phase 3 trial, BMC selects 43 volunteersAs the world races to develop a potential vaccine against coronavirus (Covid-19), the Union health ministry has launched an online portal about Covid-19 with all the latest information on the coronavirus disease. Read moreIPL 2020, RCB vs MI: Rohit Sharma explains why he didn’t send Ishan Kishan to bat in Super OverThe Indian Premier League 2020 continued to live up to the moniker of possibly being the best T20 league in the World with another nail-biting thriller on Monday. Match 10 of the season, between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Mumbai Indians ended in a tie, (already the second of the season) with Virat Kohli’s RCB eventually pipping Rohit Sharma’s Mumbai Indians in a Super Over. Read moreAnushka Sharma cheers as Virat Kohli-led RCB win against MI: ‘Too exciting a game for a pregnant lady’Despite the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2020 is turning out to be quite thrilling. The Virat Kohli-led Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) and Rohit Sharma-led Mumbai Indians (MI) had a face-off on Monday night in a nail-biting match that extended till the Super Over. Read moreMicrosoft 365 suffers major outage, multiple services like Outlook, Teams stops working for usersRoughly about four hours ago, Microsoft announced on Twitter that a recent change it had introduced lead to a major outage that affected users’ access to multiple Microsoft 365 services, including Outlook.com and Microsoft Teams. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-bjp-plans-farm-outreach-to-counter-opposition-s-campaign-and-all-the-latest-news/story-RQbFsfSBDseFK7PPxRcKYM.html
29-09-2020||India||Aviation regulator ropes in QCI for drone certification||Taking a step towards the commercial manufacturing of drones in the country, aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has tied up with Quality Control of India (QCI) for a certification scheme. Under a Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU) signed between the two, the QCI has been mandated to develop and operate a certification scheme, Remotely Piloted Aircraft System (RPAS). DGCA has already come out with the minimum standards for manufacturing RPAS under a civil aviation requirement.In June, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) had issued draft rules for making and using drones in the country, which stated that an authorised manufacturer or importer can sell its devices only to an individual or entity approved by DGCA. Also Read: Eye on China, India goes for Heron tech upgrade, missile-firing Guardian dronesThe draft had said DGCA will have the powers to inspect an Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) manufacturing or maintenance facility before granting authorisation under these rules. DGCA mentioned that only Nano class drones, which weigh less than 250 grams, will be allowed to operate in India, adding that only a “qualified remote pilot” will be permitted to operate heavier drones.The document on the certification of the scheme was made public by DGCA on September 24. It read, “All manufacturers, whose various RPAS models have been provisionally accepted by DGCA are also advised to approach Quality Council of India for certification of their respective provisionally accepted RPAS models. No new application for provisional acceptance of RPAS model will be accepted by DGCA henceforth.”Set up in 1997, QCI is a joint body of the government and Indian industry, represented by Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aviation-regulator-ropes-in-qci-for-drone-certification/story-ij1stIROZE6yda8MwWClZO.html
29-09-2020||India||Kolkata Metro to resume operations on Sundays ahead of Durga Puja||With the festive season going on and the Durga Puja -- the biggest festival in West Bengal - less than a month away, the Kolkata Metro has decided to restart its operations on Sundays too, authorities said on Monday. The Kolkata Metro, which is the city’s lifeline, restarted it operations from September 14, more than five months after its services were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Special trains were operated on September 13 for NEET candidates and guardians only. The services were, however, available only from Monday to Saturday. “Metro Railway is going to resume its services on Sunday from October 4. On Sundays the services would be available from 10:10 am to 7:30 pm,” a Kolkata Metro spokesperson said. As the puja season nears and the shopping spree has started metro services would be available only on the north-south section and not on the east-west corridor. The north-south corridor connects or passes close by some of the major shopping destinations of the city. While the festive season has already started from September 17 with the Viswakarma Puja and Mahalayala, the Durga Puja is scheduled from October 22. Major shopping centres in the city remain open on Sundays starting from one month before the Puja. The north south section is considered to be the city’s lifeline. After resuming its services, the north south corridor is carrying around 50,000 passengers every day. On Monday while the north-south metro carried 55,228 passengers, the east-west corridor carried only around 163 passengers. With passenger count increasing, the Kolkata Metro had already increased the number of trains from September 28 taking the total number of trains from 110 to 116 that runs every day in the north-south corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-metro-to-resume-operations-on-sundays-ahead-of-durga-puja/story-c41ufNtpSaB0nBlwzws3BJ.html
29-09-2020||India||Nearly 100% increase in India’s Covid-19 recoveries in past month, says health ministry||The Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday said India had witnessed close to 100% increase in novel coronavirus (Covid-19) recoveries in the past month.The ministry further said more than 82% of India’s coronavirus patients had recovered from the disease and were discharged.“India has witnessed close to 100% increase in recoveries in the past month. More than 82% of total cases (exceeding 50 lakhs) recovered and discharged. Active cases (lower than ten lakhs) a small proportion (less than 1/5th) of total cases,” the ministry said. India has witnessed close to 100% increase in recoveries in the past month. More than 82% of total cases (exceeding 50 lakhs) recovered and discharged. Active cases (lower than 10 lakhs) a small proportion (less than 1/5th) of total cases: Ministry of Health & Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/RLmuDR4zb7According to the health ministry’s dashboard, India’s Covid-19 count currently stands at 6,074,702, only behind that of the United States and ahead of Brazil. However, of these, 5,016,520 are recovered cases, giving India a recovery rate of 82.58%.India’s recovered cases are also the highest in the world, contributing more than 20% of total global recoveries. Globally, more than 24 million have recovered from the disease, in a caseload of over 33 million, as per worldometers.The United States and Brazil have the second and third-highest recovered cases in the world, followed by Russia and Colombia.India’s active cases and deaths, meanwhile, contribute 15.85% and 1.57% respectively to its total number of Covid-19 cases. While the number of active cases is 962,640, the death toll stands at 95,542.The country is currently in the fourth stage of nationwide unlock, which began on September 1 and will end on September 30. It started unlocking from June 1 after four phases of strict nationwide lockdown from March 25 to May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-100-increase-in-india-s-covid-19-recoveries-in-past-month-says-health-ministry/story-9QS8Hhj1rScwupsFdaBBCM.html
29-09-2020||India||Parts of east and west coast in India likely to record above normal rains in 3 months||The north-east monsoon, which is approaching the southern states, including Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and parts of Andhra Pradesh (AP) and Telangana, is likely to be below normal this year.However, there is likely to be above normal rainfall all along the eastern coast, including West Bengal, Odisha, and even parts of the western coast, including the entire Konkan region over the next three months, according to a statement by several meteorological organisations.South Asian Climate Outlook Forum in its statement released on Monday said below-normal rainfall is likely between the October and December monsoon season over the southern parts of the south Asia, including some parts of extreme south-eastern India, most parts of Sri Lanka and the Maldives, which receive good amount of rainfall during their period.Below-normal rainfall is also likely during the next three months over the north-western and northern parts of South Asia, including some areas along the Himalayan foothills, the statement said. Also Read: High wind speed improves Delhi’s air quality marginallyThe consensus statement of various meteorological organisations, including World Meteorological Organisation (WMO), UK Met Office, India Meteorological Department (IMD), has cautioned that above normal rainfall is likely over the land areas around northern and central Bay of Bengal and most parts of north peninsular India.Cool El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO) neutral conditions, which were prevailing over the equatorial Pacific Ocean in the beginning of the year, have turned into weak La Niña conditions by the end of August. Latest forecasts indicate that weak La Niña conditions are likely to continue during the October to December season. La Nina is associated with normal to above-normal monsoon rainfall but below-normal precipitation during south India between October and December.“Impact of La Nina during the post monsoon season is just the opposite of what it is during monsoon season. La Nina during the monsoon season is associated with above average rainfall. But during the post monsoon season if a cyclone develops over the Bay of Bengal, the impact can be very different and severe due to La Nina. So, we have to wait and watch,” DS Pai, a senior scientist at IMD in Pune, had said in August when WMO had announced that there is a 60% chance of a weak La Niña event developing between September and November.Also Read: Monsoon to begin withdrawal todayThe south-west monsoon is expected to withdraw from Rajasthan and Punjab and some parts of Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Madhya Pradesh (MP) during the next two-three days. Dry weather will continue over most parts of northwest India. “All conditions of monsoon withdrawal from western parts of northwest India are now met. There has been no rainfall in Amritsar and Jaisalmer. Rainfall is reducing in other parts of Rajasthan as well. Anticyclone wind pattern is properly established and wind direction has changed to north-westerly. Temperatures in north-west India are likely to begin reducing from next week. There is a significant reduction in moisture as well,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.The monsoon season will officially end on Wednesday (September 30) with an excess of around 9% of rainfall. Rainfall was 30%, 16% and 7% excess over southern peninsula, central India, eastern and north-eastern India, respectively, until September 27.There was a 15% deficiency of rainfall over north-western parts of the country during the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-east-and-west-coast-in-india-likely-to-record-above-normal-rains-in-3-months/story-s4HPe1Inak14ppB9h95NUI.html
29-09-2020||India||Indian Railways rolls out user depot module across Western Railway||Indian Railways has rolled out User Depot Module (UDM) developed by Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS) digitally across all user depots of Western Railway.“User Depot Module (UDM) developed by CRIS (Centre for Railway Information Systems) was rolled out digitally across all User Depots of Western Railway by PC Sharma, Member (T&RS) on 28.09.2020,” read a release by the Ministry of Railways.The ministry said that the system will be implemented shortly across all Zones of Indian Railways.“Railway’s supply chain up to Stores Depots has already been digitized, however activities at user end are being done manually. Implementation of this system will bring in transformational changes from manual working to digital working with real-time transactions and online information exchange among all stakeholders. This will ensure digitization of complete supply chain, including user depots,” it said.The system will also facilitate economy, efficiency and transparency besides improved asset management.It will ensure improved service level and satisfaction to customers, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-rolls-out-user-depot-module-across-western-railway/story-9cEuBRCuHod1OyloytNDrK.html
29-09-2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||The Indian Army is responding to firing from across the border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Tuesday. The firing is a result of Pakistan violating the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC), said the army.“Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Mankote sector in Poonch, Jammu and Kashmir. Indian Army retaliated befittingly,” army officials said.The firing started in the Mankote sector in Poonch around 4:30 am on Tuesday, they added.In September alone this year, the Pakistan army has violated the ceasefire 44 times this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch/story-FqLxsYWq7XlqkSh1y4cR2O.html
29-09-2020||India||Indore allows reopening of religious places with Covid-19 guidelines||Indore administration allowed reopening of religious places for devotees by issuing guidelines in view of Covid-19 pandemic on Monday.Collector Manish Singh has issued orders stating that religious places can be opened for the public while following social distancing norms and wearing face masks.Entry to the sanctum sanctorum will be restricted to all major religious sites and darshan can be done from outside.The district administration has given permission to the vendors of night chowpati in Sarafa on the condition of take-away.On Monday, Indore reported 449 new Covid-19 cases, taking the district count to 23,524.With seven new deaths, 558 people here have succumbed to the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-allows-reopening-of-religious-places-with-covid-19-guidelines/story-bhjATqiI2bR7LjCa17AtWI.html
29-09-2020||India||As protests by farmers grow, BJD to form panel to study new farm laws||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik said Monday that the Biju Janata Dal would form a committee of MLAs, MPs and leading farmer leaders to study the provisions of the new farm laws. Addressing party MLAs, Patnaik said apart from studying the provisions of the Bill, his party will be fighting for implementation of MS Swaminathan committee recommendation on Minimum Support Price of foodgrains.“The party will form a Committee of MLAs, MPs and leading farmer’s leaders to study the provisions. I would like to assure the farmers that their welfare will be paramount in any of our interventions,” Patnaik said in his speech via video conference.The Bills have now been notified after the President gave his assent.The National Commission on Farmers, chaired by Prof. M. S. Swaminathan between December 2004 and October 2006 had suggested the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) to fix MSP at least 50 per cent more than the weighted average cost of production.Though it has supported many Bills including the controversial Citizenship Amendment Bill last year, Biju Janata Dal surprised many when it opposed the two farm bills -- the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Felicitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 -- in the Upper House of Parliament.The party demanded that the Bills be sent to Select committee as the concerns of the small and marginal farmers on MSP have not been addressed properly. BJD MP Amar Patnaik said at a time when the small and marginal farmers are not getting MSP, the twin Bills seems to be a move towards dilution of the MSP.Incidentally, the Naveen Patnaik government is bringing in two Bills in the monsoon session of theh assembly that are replica of the two Farm Bills brought in by the Centre barring minor differences.The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 aims at registration of farmers with contract farming companies for improving production and productivity by way of land, soil management, seeds, saplings, fingerlings, inputs, feed and fodder, technology and other such services. The Bill would cover sale and purchase of 50 varieties of plant produce and 5 of animal produce.BJD leaders said the party’s latest move on the Farm Bills came as nationwide protests seem to be growing against the new legislations. “The farmers are our biggest support base and the 2019 election proved that majority of them stood by us. It would electrorally detrimental to support the Bill that has nothing concrete on MSP,” said a BJD leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-protests-by-farmers-grow-bjd-to-form-panel-to-study-new-farm-laws/story-845sl4isj7dDBkGQNrhQDN.html
29-09-2020||India||Latest Covid-19 vaccine development: Covishield undergoes phase 3 trial, BMC selects 43 volunteers||As the world races to develop a potential vaccine against coronavirus (Covid-19), the Union health ministry has launched an online portal about Covid-19 with all the latest information on the coronavirus disease.Health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday said the web portal will have data on research development, clinical trials on potential Covid-19 vaccine in India, its launch date and other information. He also said that the first vaccine in India will most likely be available by early 2021.Dr Vardhan also said that there are at least three vaccine candidates that are under different phases of clinical trials.With a spike of 82,170 new coronavirus cases in last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 60-lakh mark on Monday, according to the data provided by health ministry.Here are all the latest updates on Covid-19 vaccine:• India is currently witnessing different phases of clinical trials of three Covid-19 vaccines. Covishield, the vaccine being developed by Oxford University, is undergoing phase 3 clinical trials. The trials began on Monday at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital in Pune. The vaccine will be manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII). India’s indigenous vaccine developers Bharat Biotech International is at the second-phase human trial stage and Zydus Cadila is in the process to receive approvals for conducting third-phase clinical trials.• The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has selected 43 volunteers so far for the clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine produced by the Oxford University. Of these, 12 have already received the first dosage of the drug.• Monoclonal antibodies that stop the coronavirus from spreading in the body are among promising strategies for averting severe illness from Covid-19 before vaccines arrive, said Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.• China is injecting thousands of its people with Covid-19 vaccine shots, which are still under trial and hence their efficacy unproven, reports said. Those who are getting these vaccine shots are also made to sign a “nondisclosure agreement”, according to which they can’t talk about it to the news media.• In anticipation of a possible vaccine for Covid-19, Gurugram health department will be conducting a thorough assessment of the available ‘cold chain’ infrastructure in the coming weeks, officials confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/latest-covid-19-vaccine-development-covishield-undergoes-phase-3-trial-bmc-selects-43-volunteers/story-BwrHE8vFiqVLcH7X1xZ9GI.html
29-09-2020||India||Shimla-Chandigarh National Highway blocked after landslide in Solan||The Shimla-Chandigarh National Highway number 22 was blocked after a major landslide occurred in Himachal Pradesh’s Solan district on Monday, police said.  Major cracks developed on the road after the landslide at Waknaghat, they said, adding that there was no possibility of opening the road till Tuesday morning.The police advised people to use alternate routes of Kufri-Kandaghat, Mehli-Kandaghat via Junga and Tutu to Kunihar to avoid inconvenience.Similarly, people coming from Rampur, Rohru, Kotkhai and Chopal may use Chhaila to Solan route via Neripul and Giripul, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shimla-chandigarh-national-highway-blocked-after-landslide-in-solan/story-fp49znVzurhY2crMlsLcPL.html
29-09-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate 6 mega projects in Uttarakhand under ‘Namami Gange Mission’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate six mega projects in Uttarakhand under the ‘Namami Gange Mission’ on Tuesday through a video conference.The Prime Minister’s Office said on Monday that the projects include construction of a 68 million litres per day (MLD) sewage treatment plant (STP), upgradation of the existing 27 MLD STP at Jagjeetpur in Haridwar and construction of an 18 MLD STP at Sarai in Haridwar. He will also inaugurate ‘Ganga Avalokan’, the first museum on Ganga aimed at showcasing the culture, biodiversity and rejuvenation activities done in the river. The museum is located at Chandi Ghat, Haridwar.A book, ‘Rowing down the Ganges’, co-published by National Mission for Clean Ganga and Wildlife Institute of India will also be launched at the event, the PMO said. The inauguration of 68 MLD Jagjeetpur project also marks completion of the first sewerage project taken up on hybrid annuity mode of purchasing power parity. In Rishikesh, a 26 MLD STP at Lakkadghat will be inaugurated, the PMO said. The Haridwar-Rishikesh zone contributes about 80% waste water load into Ganga, and the inauguration of these STPs will play a significant role in keeping the holy river clean, it said.In Muni ki Reti town, the 7.5 MLD STP in Chandreshwar Nagar will be the first four-storied sewage treatment plant in the country where the limitation of land availability was converted into an opportunity, with the STP constructed in less than 900 square metre area which is about 30% of the usual area requirement for STPs of such capacity, the PMO noted.PM Modi will also inaugurate a 5 MLD STP at Chorpani and two STPs with capacities of 1 MLD and 0.01 MLD at Badrinath.In all 30 projects are now fully complete in Uttarakhand for taking care of pollution from 17 towns near Ganga, which is a landmark achievement, the PMO said. The logo of ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ and ‘Margdarshika’ for village panchayats and ‘Paani Samitis’ under the mission will also be unveiled by PM Modi, it said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-6-mega-projects-in-uttarakhand-under-namami-gange-mission/story-98C9xBjfU2kIctze0SKYVK.html
29-09-2020||India||Supreme Court to hear plea on Mehbooba Mufti’s detention||The Supreme Court will hear on Tuesday a plea seeking the release of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, who has been under detention since August 5 last year, when the Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state, reported news agency ANI. The habeas corpus petition, filed by Mufti’s daughter Iltija, earlier this month challenges her mother’s detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA). The former CM is currently lodged in her Gupkar home, which has been turned into a sub-jail, where she was shifted on April 27.Iltija submitted that the detention of Mufti is based on vague and slanderous ground demonstrating personal and political bias against her. It was contended that the detention order of February 5 against Mufti was founded upon a dossier prepared by the Superintendent of Police, Srinagar which itself was replete personal remarks against Mufti and in bad taste. “The detention order is wholly based on the dossier which is slanderous, libelous and clearly demonstrative of the political and personal bias against the detenu (Mehbooba Mufti)”, the Habeas Corpus petition stated.The term Habeas Corpus literally translates to “produce the body” and it is a plea seeking directions to be issued to the government to produce a detained person before the court and to release such person if the detention is found to be illegal. Mufti has been under detention since August 5, 2019 when the Central government nullified Article 370 and placed the Kashmir valley in a state of lockdown.She had been in custody for six months and her detention was set to expire in February 2020 when a new detention order was issued on February 5 under the PSA which allows the administration to detain a person without trial for a maximum period of two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-on-mehbooba-mufti-s-detention/story-8ymIfWp6MoYUN8v4NnpjiK.html
29-09-2020||India||China takes 1959 line on perception of LAC||China has said it abides by the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as proposed by Premier Zhou Enlai to Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in a letter dated November 7, 1959 — the first time in decades that it has clearly spelled out its stand on the notional Sino-India boundary by reiterating a position that New Delhi has consistently rejected since it was first made 61 years ago.Beijing’s position, in an exclusive statement to HT amid the ongoing border friction in eastern Ladakh, is a reiteration of the long-existing differences on the boundary question and a sign that the ongoing military standoff is unlikely to be resolved soon.Also read: Eye on China, India goes for Heron tech upgrade, missile-firing Guardian dronesIn the statement in Mandarin, the Chinese foreign ministry, while blaming the Indian Army for the ongoing tension since May and for the June 15 clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley, said the clash was an “unfortunate” event.“Firstly, China-India border LAC is very clear, that is the LAC on November 7, 1959. China announced it in the 1950s, and the international community including India are also clear about it,” the ministry said on Friday.  “However, ever since this year, the Indian Army has continued to arrive and illegally cross the border, unilaterally expanding the scope of actual control. This is the source of tension on the border issues. The key to disengagement between the two armies is India’s withdrawal of all illegal cross-border personnel and equipment,” it added.It’s the first time in recent years that Beijing has said in unequivocal terms that it still goes by the 1959 LAC. It did, however, make a passing reference during the 2017 Doklam crisis, when the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying spoke of the “1959 LAC” while blaming Indian troops for a scuffle with Chinese soldiers near Pangong lake in Ladakh in August that year.Also read| Brahmos, Akash and Nirbhay: India rolls out its missiles to counter Chinese threatIndia has repeatedly and consistently rejected China’s allegations that Indian troops crossed over to the Chinese side of the LAC in eastern Ladakh, asserting that New Delhi has always taken a responsible approach towards border management and maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border areas. The Indian ministry of external affairs did not respond to requests for a comment on the fresh Chinese statement. The November 7, 1959 date mentioned in the Beijing statement was in reference to a letter written by Zhou to Nehru – the two leaders under whom the two countries experienced the best and the worst of bilateral diplomatic ties. “In order to maintain effectively the status quo of the border between the two countries, to ensure the tranquillity of the border regions and to create a favourable atmosphere for a friendly settlement of the boundary question, the Chinese government proposes that the armed forces of China and India each withdraw 20km at once from the so-called McMahon Line in the east, and from the line up to which each side exercises actual control in the west,” Zhou wrote. Also read: How Chinese propaganda is using the 1962 war to shape public opinionA year later, during his high-profile visit to New Delhi in 1960, Zhou had used the phrase “LAC” during a press conference. “There exists between the two counties a line of actual control up to which each side exercises administrative jurisdiction,” he said as part of a six-point proposal to maintain peace at the border. Zhou went on to say that both sides should keep to the “…line of actual control and should not put forward territorial claims as pre-conditions, but individual adjustments may be made”.In 1962, when India and China fought a war between October and November, Nehru rejected the definition. “There is no sense or meaning in the Chinese offer to withdraw twenty kilometers from what they call ‘line of actual control,” he said. The Chinese Premier responded to Nehru, defining the LAC – again as per November 7, 1959.The LAC was “basically still the line of actual control as existed between the Chinese and Indian sides on 7 November 1959: To put it concretely, in the eastern sector it coincides in the main with the so- called McMahon Line, and in the western and middle sectors it coincides in the main with the traditional customary line which has consistently been pointed out by China”, Zhou said in reply to Nehru.The phrase LAC was used in the 1993 Sino-India “Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the India-China Border Areas.” At New Delhi’s insistence the expression wasn’t qualified in terms of whether it was the 1959 one.Former Indian ambassador to China, Gautam Bambawale said the “…significance (of the statement) is that they are telling India that the LAC is the line of November 7, 1959, as explained by Zhou Enlai to Nehru in his letter. That’s it. They are going by that.” Bambawale added: “We have never accepted it. There were several pockets of disagreements and the largest number of pockets (of disagreements) were in Ladakh. Obviously, we did not accept the offer.” He added that New Delhi has conveyed this to Beijing in “no uncertain terms”.A leading China-hand, Bambawale had also served as ambassador in Bhutan, the only other country, other than India, with which Beijing has a land-territorial dispute. Bambawale said following the Chinese understanding of the LAC, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is attempting to hold on to the ground positions right up to it as per the 1959 LAC.It is clear that the current aggression at the border shown by the Chinese since May is to attempt to control territories up to where Beijing defines its LAC.Officials in diplomatic circles, who asked not to be named, told HT that India had pointed out its disagreements with the 1959 LAC even during meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China Border Affairs established in 2012 as a mechanism to consult and coordinate the management of India-China border areas.Little is known about the differences in perceptions on the LAC in the western sector, the most troublesome. Maps have only been exchanged for the middle sector until now.One of the officials above told HT that the LAC clarification process for the western sector broke down “an hour into the meeting” in 2002. Since then, the entire process – which was then an Expert Group headed by a director general in MEA and deputy director general in the Chinese foreign ministry -- has been stalled. “The western section was drawn by Indian surveyor (WH) Johnson, who privately assigned more than 30,000 square kilometres of land in the Aksai Chin region of China to British India. This is the historical origin of the territorial dispute between China and India in the western section,” Wang Dehua, a South Asia expert at Shanghai Municipal Centre for International Studies, said.“China hopes India will give more concessions in the western sector while Beijing could give more concessions (to India) in the eastern sector,” Wang added.The Chinese foreign ministry statement blamed New Delhi for the tension, saying: “…the right and wrong of the Galwan Valley conflict is very clear. We didn’t want to see what had happened. We hope the media doesn’t hype this unfortunate event”. The ministry did not respond to the question on the number casualties that PLA suffered during the brutal hand-to-hand clash with Indian army soldiers on June 15.The ministry’s statement referred to the recent foreign ministers’ and military talks held between India and China.“Since the bilateral meeting between the foreign ministers of China and India in Moscow on September 10, the two sides have actively engaged in dialogue and consultation based on the five-point declaration,” it said.Referring to commander-level talks, it said “constructive measures to stabilise the border situation were taken. We hope the two sides walk in the same direction and push the frontline troops to disengage as soon as possible”. Asked to comment on reports arguing Beijing is escalating tension with neighbours to divert attention from a badly hit economy, the ministry said though hit by the pandemic, the economy is reviving.“Due to Covid-19, China’s economy has been affected but it has regained growth and has contributed to the recovery of the global economy, the statement added.On relations with neighbours, the ministry said: “The relationship between China and its neighbouring countries is generally good. China has always insisted on resolving differences between neighbouring countries through friendly consultations.”Sameer Patil, a fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the statement indicated that China was clearly adopting a maximalist position that disregarded all the developments that have taken place since 1959, including the bilateral boundary talks, mechanisms and agreements on peace and tranquillity on the LAC. “When the Special Representatives mechanism was set up, this wasn’t their position. Even though this matter [China’s stance on the LAC of 1959] may have been known, it was not reiterated when important bilateral mechanisms and arrangements for handling the border dispute were set up,” he said. “This reflects China’s obdurate attitude towards the border dispute. Reiterating this maximalist position amid the five-month-long standoff shows China has no intention of going in for an early solution to the problem,” Patil added.(With inputs from Rezaul H Laskar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-takes-1959-line-on-perception-of-lac/story-ciMDJjOeTLuvyvsNy7gJXI.html
29-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Protesters set tractor on fire near India Gate, five arrested||In a security breach, a group of men claiming to be members of the Punjab unit of Youth Congress set a tractor on fire at Rajpath near the India Gate lawns on Monday morning in support of the farmers’ agitation against laws enacted by the central government that they claim will undermine the agricultural sector.The police arrested five people and a search is underway for others. No one was injured in the incident.Police said the incident took place around 7.30am when a group of 20-25 men arrived at Rajpath in different vehicles and a truck, on which the tractor was laden.Also read: Punjab set to move SC on farm laws as stir intensifiesWitnesses and passersby told the police that the men pushed the tractor out of the truck and set it on fire as it turned over.“According to people who were present there, the men chanted slogans like Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Bhagat Singh Amar Rahein in support of the farmers’ agitation and were also carrying effigies, which they hung onto the street light poles. They then went live on social media and clicked group pictures with the burning tractor,” said a police officer.Soon after, a police patrol vehicle arrived at the scene. “Seeing the police, the men who had set the tractor on fire fled. Backup was called and other police vehicles in the area were alerted. Later, the fire was doused and five of the men arrested. The charred remains of the tractor was removed from the road,” said the police officer.A video of the group setting the tractor on fire was widely circulated on social media. Some policemen who had reached the spot were also seen standing near the tractor that was on fire.Police said all arrested men are from Punjab. They were identified as Manjot Singh, 36, Sahib, 28, and Sumit Pal, 28, from Mohali, Raman Deep Singh Sindhu, 28, from Mansa and Rahul Kumar, 28, from Ludhiana. “We had pooled in money to get the tractor. This was a symbolic protest to send a loud and clear message to the government at the Centre that they should talk to farmers,” said Brinder Singh Dhillon, president of the Punjab Youth Congress. “They (Centre) have not just trampled upon the federal structure, but these three legislations will also destroy the farmers of my state,” he added Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said his men had reached the spot in time and the fire was contained before the tractor was completely gutted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-protesters-set-tractor-on-fire-near-india-gate-five-arrested/story-aNokwhcVPBdCpCegZCfaEI.html
29-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Probing all angles, says CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday said that it has not ruled out any angles in its probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and all aspects are still being investigated. “The Central Bureau of Investigation is conducting professional investigation related to death of Shri Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date,” CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said, days after Rajput’s family expressed displeasure over the pace of the probe. Last week, Rajput’s lawyer said that the central agency’s investigation was drifting in a different direction, with more focus on drug-related offences rather than the actor’s death, suspected to be a suicide onset of the police probe. “All attention is being diverted towards the drugs case. Today, we are helpless as we don’t know which direction the case is going in. Till today, CBI has not done a press briefing on what they have found out,” Vikas Singh, Rajput’s lawyer said. The 34-year-old actor was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Rajput’s father, KK Singh, lodged a complaint with Patna police against Rhea Chakraborty, her parents and her brother, Showik, on June 25. The case was later transferred to CBI. The case is also being investigated by two other central agencies -- Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). While ED is looking into allegations of money laundering, NCB is probing a drug link in the case. NCB arrested Rhea Chakraborty on September 8 for allegedly procuring drugs for Rajput. Earlier this month, CBI issued another statement saying that the reports regarding the probe, attributed to its officers, were speculative.“Certain media reports attributed to CBI investigation are speculative and not based on facts. It is reiterated that as a matter of policy, CBI does not share details of ongoing investigation,” the agency had said on September 3. “CBI spokesperson or any team member has not shared any details of investigation with media. The details being reported and attributed to CBI are not credible,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-probing-all-angles-says-cbi/story-oy9fUPeUuOUIAH08I7PucI.html
29-09-2020||India||Want to take up projects where I get to play diverse characters: Supriya Karnik||Actor Supriya Karnik believes that hard work matters most but its luck that makes all the difference. “As far as the industry is concerned you need 99% luck and 1% of hard work, but then that much of hard work is no less than streak of good luck. And both have to connect and so on — it’s like ‘sabhi grahon ka milna’ (matching of stars),” she said during her recent visit to Lucknow. Known for films like ‘Taal’, ‘Mujhse Shaadi Karogi’ and ‘Welcome,’ Supriya wishes to do more versatile roles in coming years. “My negative characters were well accepted by the audience also when I shifted to comedy that too went down well with my fans. This made me believe that I can fit in different roles and now I just want take up projects where I get to play diverse characters to prove my versatility as an actor,” she said. Supriya will be next seen playing Indira Gandhi in the film ‘Main Mulayam’. “I don’t follow politics but I have been mesmerised by two female politicians — Indira Gandhi and Margaret Thatcher. When director Suvendu Raj Ghosh asked me to play Indiraji I was like…really…are you sure? I doubt that I had any resemblance with her but he was confident. So, I read about her and watched videos to study her mannerisms.” The actor candidly accepts that currently there is much shortage of work. “The fact is that there is hardly any work. In fact, there is no work at all! My two Marathi films are stuck. In 25 years, I have done 170 projects including TV, films and South Indian film. And, as actor, I’m open for TV, films, theatre and OTT as well.” The digital boom she says won’t hurt cinema. “First it was radio, then TV, video players, CD, DVD and now OTT. Currently, OTT is the new buzz and but cinema will surely make a comeback and that to in a bigger and better avatar,” she said. Supriya was on her first visit to Lucknow. “My scenes were shot in Mumbai. Though the film is set in Uttar Pradesh, unfortunately I couldn’t come here earlier and now when I’m it’s coronakaal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/want-to-take-up-projects-where-i-get-to-play-diverse-characters-supriya-karnik/story-Ea1TGKAkrnR2C5wnpzGC8O.html
29-09-2020||India||I also plan to shoot a project in Lucknow soon: Mohd Chand||Lucknowite Mohammad Chand, who started his film production career with the film ‘Acid’, has already shot for his new joint-venture ‘Vebbie’ in Manali and is set to shoot his first solo production soon. “We have signed veteran actor Shakti Kapoor’s son Siddhant Kapoor, Adha Sharma and I’m in process to sign in Shweta Rohira. The film includes five different horror stories and each story will have well-known face. We are in pre-production stage and plan to go on floor in October. This is a web-film and we are in talks with various OTT platforms,” he says. Mohd. Chand ventured into film production last year. “Basically I’m into a real-estate and food-related business. But like many Indians I love Hindi films since childhood. It was due to my food business I was associated with shootings happening in Uttar Pradesh. Then I met film maker and actor Man Singh while he was shooting ‘Acid’ in Lucknow. I joined the project as one of the producers. The film was based on an acid survivor and released in January.” With the same team he was about to start a joint-production ‘Vebbie’ when the lockdown happened. “We finally shot the film in the unlock phase in Manali and Mohali-Chandigarh. The entire team was first quarantined for 14 days then we shot for nearly a month and currently the film is in post-production. Being a suspense thriller, the film explores the dark side of the web world.” It stars Man Singh, Pradeep Nagar, Eiden Rose, Sahil Brown and Qadir Khan. Talking about his solo project, Mohd Chand said, “The film will be shot in Mumbai but I also plan to shoot a project in Lucknow soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-also-plan-to-shoot-a-project-in-lucknow-soon-mohd-chand/story-skD5m4OgIoLNdSq2WpidjJ.html
29-09-2020||India||Sterling Biotech promoters ‘fugitive economic offenders’||A Delhi court on Monday declared the Sandesara brothers, Nitin and Chetan Sandesara, the latter’s wife Dipti and close associate Hitesh Kumar Patel fugitive economic offenders, allowing government agencies to confiscate their properties in India and abroad to recover the money they are alleged to have swindled. The Sandesara brothers, promoters of the Gujarat-based pharmaceutical company Sterling Biotech Ltd, who fled India sometime in 2017, are accused of swindling several banks to the tune of Rs14,500 crore by taking loans and laundering the money in other countries. The fraud is considered to be one of the biggest banking scams in recent times; it involves an amount larger than that owed by former liquor baron Vijay Mallya and diamond trader Nirav Modi. Before the Sandesaras and Patel, only Mallya and Modi, both of whom are in the UK, had been declared fugitive economic offenders.People familiar with the location of the Sandesaras said that they were last seen in Nigeria, but intelligence agencies have suggested that they could be in the United States, the United Kingdom or the United Arab Emirates. Additional sessions judge at the Patiala House Courts Dharmender Rana, while declaring Sandesaras and HItesh Patel fugitives under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act 2018, said: “I have no hesitation in observing that this court is satisfied that the ED {Enforcement Directorate} has successfully pleaded and proved that the respondents herein are fugitive economic offenders”. “The conduct of the respondents (Sandesaras), unambiguously, establishes on record that they have left India to avoid criminal prosecution and they are deliberately avoiding to return back to India to face the instant prosecution,” the judge said in the order. Appearing for the ED, additional solicitor general S V Raju and special public prosecutor Nitesh Rana argued that the Sandesaras had fled India and were evading criminal prosecution. They said they had chosen deliberately not to return to India to face trial and were shifting their base from one country to another to escape the law. Rana informed the court that “provisional arrest requests were sent to the UAE but the same has also failed to yield any results. Based on intelligence inputs, Sandesaras are presumably in Nigeria, the UK, USA or UAE”. The brothers are being probed by multiple agencies, including the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Income Tax Department. In June 2019, the ED attached moveable and immovable properties worth Rs9,778 crores belonging to the Sandesaras, including four oil rigs and oil fields in Nigeria, and several ships apart from a Gulfstream aircraft and flat in London. Reacting to the order, the Sandesaras’s lawyer Hemant Shah said: “We are perusing the order. We will avail the remedies available in the law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sterling-biotech-promoters-fugitive-economic-offenders/story-ijXXsr6IXTdxQU6bo9m4XI.html
29-09-2020||India||Online learning leaves poor, young women in India behind | Opinion||Kiran, a 17-year-old girl, who lives in a slum in Delhi, has heard of Google but knows little else. “Yes, Yes… I think I have heard of Google once. But I have never used it. I don’t know more about it. I don’t know how to use it,” she said. Through the pandemic, schools and colleges have been holding online classes. This has formalised the digital divide, which also exacerbates the knowledge divide in India. The dearth of electronic devices among low-income families in India is an important and a binding constraint, a fact that has been pointed out in several reports. Providing electronic devices can help, in part, breach the classed barriers to online education. But what it cannot do, and what has received almost no attention, is overcome the gendered barriers to electronic education.Young women’s use of electronic devices in India is prevented not just by financial constraints but also by barriers of social norms and technological illiteracy. A recent Harvard study on women’s barriers to mobile phone usage in India found that India’s gender gaps in technology access is exceptional and much larger than countries with similar levels of development. Mobile phones are important as most people in India, especially those in low-income groups, access the internet through these devices. During fieldwork for a PhD at Cambridge, I interviewed young women who live in slums and low-income neighbourhoods in Delhi. I found that their access to electronic devices such as mobile phones was curtailed even when their brothers and the households owned such devices. According to a Harvard study, 71% of men in India own mobile phones. Only 38% of women, however, have access to the device.First, young women are not allowed to use mobiles because of the fear that they may interact with boys. Like Kirti who isn’t allowed to use the phone at home. “I’m not allowed [to use the phone]. You know, there are some girls who speak on the phone with boys, so that’s not okay with my parents,” she said.A study on Bengaluru slums assessed the acceptability of mobile text messages for promoting mental health amongst women in India. They found that male family members of nearly half the participants “called back to check who was sending messages, even though the consent of the parents had been sought earlier.” Other ethnographic studies in India have shown how people associate women’s use of mobile phones with a rise in divorce rate; elopement; and making women “sluts”.Second, the interviews revealed that not having computer classes at school and not having experience with computers or mobile phones at home, young women faced a severe technological literacy barrier to accessing the internet. Fatima did not own a phone but had used her friend’s phone to watch YouTube videos during a training they took together. Yet, she seemed unfamiliar with other aspects of internet use. I asked her if she had created a Facebook account, using her friend’s phone as she did to watch YouTube videos. She said she couldn’t as she did not have a phone of her own. She believed that only one Facebook account could be created on one phone. Shamta had even undergone training in computers. But in spite of the training, she did not know how to use the internet. “No, I wasn’t allowed to create any email or Facebook account. I don’t know how to use the internet. I’ve learnt computer hardware and software. I know how to work on Excel, Word etc but not the internet,” she explained.The Harvard study also showed that women are more likely to cite technical illiteracy and lack of confidence than men in using electronic devices. They found that “women lag behind men with relative gaps growing with task sophistication: while the relative gap is between 15–20% for making and receiving calls, the gender gap jumps to 51% for a feature as simple as SMS and remains above 60% for other more complex activities such as social media”.Education is a crucial pathway for empowerment of young women. Poor, young women have been left behind by the digital revolution, but with education moving online, they are now being further disempowered. If the gendered nature of access to online learning is not paid attention soon, poor girls will be doubly disadvantaged, both because of their class and their gender. India closed the gap in gender equality in education recently. If India is to not undermine over months what it so painstakingly achieved through targeted efforts over decades, it has to act now. (The author is at the University of Cambridge where her doctoral dissertation was on young women, from low-income families, in non-traditionally female jobs in India.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-learning-leaves-poor-young-women-in-india-behind-opinion/story-KBqPXnE0lFpk1fia7XkNtJ.html
29-09-2020||India||Can’t defer exams, says UPSC||With just days remaining for the October 4 Civil Services Preliminary Examination to be taken by nearly 600,000 candidates across India, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) told the Supreme Court on Monday that delaying the test further was “impossible”. The Commission, the top government recruitment body, was responding to a plea by 20 civil services aspirants who want a postponement of the examination because of the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in some states.“I have gone through the petition filed before the Court and I find that it is completely impossible to consider shifting the examination,” UPSC counsel Naresh Kaushik told a three-judge bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar. “The examination was to be conducted on May 31, but could not be conducted due to the pandemic. Any further deferment will scuttle the appointment process.”The UPSC came out with a revised examination schedule on June 5, fixing the date for the preliminary examination on October 4. “Four months time was given to all states to prepare for the offline examination to be conducted across many cities. By now, all machinery has been put in place,” Kaushik said.The bench, also comprising justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, said, “You file an affidavit putting out all logistical arrangements that have been made. We will hear the matter on Wednesday.”The 20 petitioners before the Court belonged to different parts of the country and claim that participating in an examination in the prevailing circumstances poses a risk to their safety and health. Their petition stated that unlike engineering or medical entrance examination where non-conduct of examination will disturb the entire academic year’s curriculum, the Civil Services Preliminary Examination was simply a recruitment test. The petitioners claimed that in some states, active Covid-19 cases were large and in some states, cases were few. Holding an exam in such a scenario would be discriminatory against students facing curbs. Along with the petitioners, an application was moved by the father of a serving assistant commandant with one of the central paramilitary forces who is performing duty at a Covid-19 quarantine centre while at the same time preparing for the exam. The application urged the court to defer the exam as the petitioner’s son was faced with “a peculiar position of difficulty” owing to his special and increased workload because of the pandemic. “It is purely a recruitment examination and weighing the pros and cons of conducting the exam in the backdrop of the pandemic situation...appears that such a massive movement in these times is beyond all logic and respect for human lives,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-defer-exams-says-upsc/story-QyXVQ2wWCb5O3A7r2eVt5I.html
29-09-2020||India||Rlys may charge up to Rs 35 user fees as part of train fares for station redevelopment||The Indian railways may levy up to Rs 35 user fee as part of train fares seeking to raise funds for redeveloping railway stations as part of its proposal being finalised for seeking Union Cabinet’s nod, said officials familiar with the development.As per the current proposal, the fee would range from Rs 10 to Rs 35 with a higher fee for AC first class passengers, said the officials. To be sure, the railway ministry has clarified that no final decision has been taken on the amount of the user fee to be levied and added that it will be a “minimal” amount. “User charges are a small token amount which when collected, will be ploughed back into the improvement of conveniences and facilities at the railway station. The amount of this fee is expected to very reasonable so that there is no burden on anyone especially common people,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-may-levy-up-to-rs-35-user-fee-in-its-fares/story-I2daykbuVlGPv30pnNS6NI.html
29-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh lays foundation for 2 underpasses at Indian Military Academy in Dehradun||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday virtually laid the foundation for the construction of two underpasses at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun. The ceremony was witnessed by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane and other senior army officials through virtual platforms while chief minister of Uttarakhand Trivendra Singh Rawat, IMA Commandant Lt Gen JS Negi and other officials were present in person at IMA, stated a release issued by IMA. “The underpasses would be constructed by the PWD at an estimated cost of Rs 45 crore in two years. Once built the two underpasses would integrate the north, central and south campuses of the academy and the Gentleman Cadets (GC)s and the IMA staff will then not have to cross the NH-72 passing near the establishment to access various facilities of IMA,” the release read. The project for the two underpasses was first conceived in 1978 to facilitate easy movement of the GCs and the staff in the Academy. At present with the NH-72 passing through the academy, they have to cross it to go to other facilities across the road. Also, the flow of traffic is interrupted during their crossing. The underpasses will allow the uninterrupted flow of traffic on NH-72.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-lays-foundation-for-2-underpasses-at-indian-military-academy-in-dehradun/story-vvpi5pMfAgR7ht894VXk9H.html
29-09-2020||India||19 held in Assam police job scam; cash award for absconding retd IPS officer, BJP leader||The police in Assam have arrested 19 people in connection with a scam in recruitment of sub-inspectors in the police department and are planning to announce a cash reward for information on a retired IPS officer and a ruling BJP leader-both accused of involvement and who are on the run. “We have decided to announce a cash award for anyone providing information on the duo. We can assure that no one responsible will be spared,” DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta told journalists on Monday. The examination to recruit 587 SIs was cancelled in 154 exam centres across the state on September 20 after the question paper got leaked and was found circulating on Whatsapp. Nearly 64,000 applicants were scheduled to appear for the examination. Investigation during the past week has revealed that several people including IPS officer PK Dutta and Dibon Deka, a BJP leader, were involved in the scam to leak the paper as well as conduct a mock test for some of the applicants at a hotel in Guwahati a day ahead of the examination. “We have issued a lookout warrant for PK Dutta to ensure that he doesn’t leave the country. Assessment of the former IPS officer’s property is also being done. He has 4 hotels in Guwahati, 1600 bighas of land in Cachar district, an apartment complex in Dibrugarh and two flats in Mumbai among other properties,” said GP Singh, ADGP (law and order). “Based on this we will lodge a case with the anti-corruption department to know how he acquired these properties. We have also intimated the income tax department, enforcement directorate and department of revenue intelligence about this and asked them to probe,” he added. Singh, who is overseeing the entire investigation, informed that efforts are underway to nab both Dutta and Dibon Deka and assured that they would be arrested within the next few days. “We will be able to unearth the entire conspiracy only after both are arrested. Till now we know that Deka had arranged for the question paper for the mock test conducted at a Guwahati hotel. We need to establish the link between Deka and Dutta,” he said. As per investigation, police have been able to establish that the leaked question paper which was circulating on Whatsapp and based on which the exam was cancelled had originated from PK Dutta’s mobile phone Following cancellation of the examination, the criminal investigation department (CID) had lodged a case under sections of 409 and 120B of IPC for criminal breach of trust by public servant and criminal conspiracy and 66B of IT Act and started investigations. “We lodged a case on September 20 based on a complaint by Pradeep Kumar, chairman of state level police recruitment board (who has now voluntarily resigned),” said Surender Kumar, IGP, criminal investigation department (CID). The CID conducted raids in Guwahati-based residences hotels and of a retired IPS officer Duttta, who is stated to have played a key role in the scam and is absconding for over a week now. “We have recovered incriminating evidence related to the crime from those places including receipts of money taken from candidates, blank admission forms, Rs 5.5 lakh, a pistol and over 1 kg gold ornaments etc.,” said Kumar. Simultaneously, crime branch of Guwahati police registered another case on September 20 based on information that some people were trying to take money from candidates for the post in lieu of giving them jobs. Based on investigation till now, 9 persons have been arrested till date. Six more persons have also been arrested in Nalbari district in connection with the case. Several separate investigations are underway in some other districts as well. Meanwhile, Congress MLA and leader of opposition in Assam assembly Debabrata Saikia has demanded an inquiry by a sitting judge of Gauhati High Court to probe all aspects of the scam and find out if there was any conspiracy to allow accused Dutta and Deka to abscond. “Deka has not been convicted yet. If he is guilty, the law will take it own course and the party will also take action against him. The paper leak of the exam is not a scam but an anomaly,” BJP chief spokesperson for Assam Rupam Goswami told journalists on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-held-in-assam-police-job-scam-cash-award-for-absconding-retd-ips-officer-bjp-leader/story-jl5jXI1dOUP22C0ojlFaUN.html
29-09-2020||India||Not being risk-averse in face of Covid-19 crisis: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said she is not being “risk averse” in her response to coping with the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the 68-day lockdown imposed to slow its spread, which saw India’s economy come to a near-complete halt for part of the first quarter of 2020-21.She added that she has no option but to increase government spending. “After all, among the four engines that support the economy, three have come to a complete standstill. It is public expenditure which has to do the heavy lifting.” The government’s borrowing calendar that has already been announced indicates as much, Sitharaman said. The government has already raised its gross market borrowing target for the year to Rs12 lakh crore from the Rs7.8 lakh crore announced in the Union Budget in February. Debt market analysts expect a further increase in this to Rs13 lakh crore.Also read: Open to one more stimulus if necessary, says Nirmala SitharamanThe government’s relief package announced in May has been criticised for not having an adequate direct fiscal stimulus component and not doing enough to spur demand, but in an interview to HT, the finance minister said that she believes it does enough for both supply and demand. Still, she admitted, she has been receiving feedback from industry on the need for one more stimulus. “One more may be needed is what we are hearing from the people who interact with us, and we are trying to see what it is that we can do.” Sitharaman said, like she has several times in the past, that she is open to providing more support but declined to get into details of when this might be forthcoming. “There’s no point in me hurriedly getting something out.”She also refused to get into a guessing game on this year’s GDP. Sitharaman said that while the decline in GDP in the first quarter of 2020-21, at 23.9%, has been substantial, she does not want to conclude anything about the entire year’s number just yet. She added that she expects the second and third quarter of the financial year to be better. Most analysts expect the country’s GDP to shrink by at least 5% and as much as 10% in 2020-21. But things are getting better, the minister insisted, referring to conversations she has been having, with some industry representatives who are telling her that their sectors have reached pre-pandemic levels of production. Numbers bear out some of that. The latest value of the Nomura India Business Resumption Index was 82.3 on September 20, where 100 is the pre-pandemic level of business. The index has been steadily inching upward. “The revival is also happening in many labour intensive areas. This is also corroborated by the fact that migrant workers from many states have started going back (to their places of work),” Sitharaman said.HT reported on Monday that demand for jobs under the schemes has dipped, and surmised that this could be because some migrant workers have returned to their places of work in the cities. The minister singled out the agricultural sector (which grew 3.4% in the first quarter) as a symbol of resilience and talked up the farm reform laws passed by the government last week, even as she criticised the Opposition, and especially the Congress party, for opposing them. Responding to a question on the future of the economy, she said she is “ hopeful — that the coronavirus will recede, and the Indian entrepreneur, small big, medium, will succeed” but added that Ladakh, where the Indian and Chinese armies are in a face-off following transgressions by the latter “ is one imponderable”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-being-risk-averse-in-face-of-covid-crisis-fm/story-WjeDXKW1Oz4sS6zgqRrfJJ.html
29-09-2020||India||After 400 priests of Jagannath temple test Covid-19+, Odisha says no to opening religious places||With more than 400 servitors and officials of the Jagannath temple in Puri testing positive for Covid-19, the Odisha government has told the High Court that it is not yet ready to open religious places in the state which have been shut for devotees since March.Replying to a notice issued by the Orissa High Court over a PIL, the state government said as the sanctum sanctorum of the Jagannath Temple in Puri does not have enough space, there are chances of spread of infection if the temple is allowed to open for devotees. The state government in its affidavit said 351 temple servitors and 53 officials of the Jagannath temple administration have tested positive for Covid-19. Several servitors including Premananda Dasmohapatra, member of the temple management committee recently succumbed to the disease.As more and more servitors are testing positive for Covid-19, it has led to a shortage of servitors to perform various rituals of the Lord. “A number of Suar, Mahasuar, Daitapatis and Pujapandas have been infected. Though the rituals of the temple are being done regularly, the situation may worsen if the temple is allowed to open for the public,” said a servitor. So far, a total of 9,704 people in Puri district have tested positive for Covid-19.Officials said a dedicated ambulance equipped with a ventilator will be provided for the servitors while two teams will ensure that servitors who have been infected follow the home isolation guidelines effectively. The Puri district administration will strictly enforce the Covid-19 guidelines by making masks compulsory for anyone seen within the vicinity of the temple.Temple officials said the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to cast its shadow on the Nagarjuna Besha of Lord Jagannath scheduled to be held in November this year. The Nagarjuna Besha of Lord Jagannath will happen after a gap of 26 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-nearly-400-priests-of-jagannath-temple-test-covid-19-odisha-says-no-to-opening-religious-places/story-1gCvZuNz3CANRPLyFzqzxI.html
29-09-2020||India||Eye on China, India goes for Heron tech upgrade, missile-firing Guardian drones||India has decided in favour of the weaponised MQ-9B Sky Guardian drone from the US and to upgrade its existing Israeli Heron fleet with satellite communication capability in an attempt to enhance its range as well as surveillance capabilities in the midst of the Ladakh military standoff with China.At the same time, the face-off between the Indian Army and People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has spurred the Indian private sector and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to start manufacturing short-range tactical drones as well as anti-drone systems to boost border defences.The three services have come to a conclusion that India should opt for a weaponised drone rather than the 22 reconnaissance and surveillance Sea Guardian drones approved in 2017 by the US administration for supply to India, according to authoritative government officials with knowledge of the matter. The MQ-9B, manufactured by General Atomics, has a 40-hour endurance with a maximum altitude of 40,000 feet and payload or weapon carrying capacity of over 2.5 tonne, including air-to-surface missiles and laser-guided bombs. “We are in negotiations with the Trump administration, which is willing to provide India with the latest armed drone technology. In this, it is the prohibitive cost of the system that is a hurdle, not the Trump administration,” said a South Block official who requested anonymity.Also read| Brahmos, Akash and Nirbhay: India rolls out its missiles to counter Chinese threatBesides, India has asked Israel to upgrade its existing Heron medium-altitude, long-endurance surveillance drone by upgrading its communication links. Presently, due to lack of a satellite link in the Heron, two such unmanned aerial drones have to be flown in tandem with a time gap so that information is relayed back to base through the second drone in case of long-range surveillance. The upgrade involves fitting the Heron drone with a satellite package so that the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) links with the satellite above and information is sent on a real-time basis. The upgrade will allow the Heron to conduct long-range surveillance without the fear of losing contact with the base or go into no contact zone. The Heron upgrade program was approved by the defence ministry last month.Also read: Indian Army ready for winter endurance test at 5,800 metres on Finger 4 of Pangong Tso against PLAThe drone revolution in the Indian military has come after it was felt that India had no answer to Chinese armed drone and surveillance drone capabilities, with the PLA deploying the unmanned devices in significant capacities in the Ladakh theatre apart from sensors and surveillance cameras that provide advance warning on moves by the adversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drone-tech-upgrades-to-boost-lac-defence/story-witXKwQMZca1zkhkkYQGAO.html
29-09-2020||India||Avoid routine use of plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients: Govt to hospitals||The Centre has directed private hospitals not to use experimental therapies such as convalescent plasma or drug remdesivir routinely for treating Covid-19 patients after receiving complaints of its rampant use, particularly in tier 2 and 3 cities.An expert team in the Union ministry of health and family has looked into these complaints. “Government has held consultations with big corporate hospitals on this matter. The director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, has also been a part of these consultations. Private hospitals have been given clear instructions to not use these investigational therapies routinely,” said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “All states have also been instructed to keep a check to avoid routine use of these therapies, and give only to those Covid-19 patients for whom it is intended. AllMS, Delhi, through its webinars that are meant to handhold peripheral hospitals in providing critical care have also been emphasizing on it,” he said.Currently, no effective treatment is available for Covid-19, but there are certain drugs and therapies that have been approved by country’s drug regulator under investigational therapy or emergency use authorization based on the limited evidence available from research taking place globally and in India.Because of the limited data availability, investigational therapies are meant to be used only in a defined subgroup of patients.Also read: India gets a national Covid-19 registry for real-time hospital dataUnder health ministry’s clinical management protocol for Covid-19, off-label use of plasma therapy has been included to be used in patients with moderate disease who are not improving (oxygen requirement is progressively increasing) despite use of steroids.Antiviral drug remdesivir has been approved for use under emergency use authorization in patients with moderate disease (those on oxygen). “Scientists and researchers are working on many aspects of treatment options for the development of vaccination and medication to combat this life-threatening problem. Convalescent plasma from recovered COVID-19 patients contains antibodies against COVID-19 which may be beneficial to severely sick COVID-19 infected patients, and was included as an experimental therapy in the clinical management protocol for Covid-19. Same goes for the drug remdesivir, as it had also shown promise in stopping virus replication,” said an official in the health ministry, in the know of things.“It is to be given only in patients that fall into the given category, and not open for all Covid-19 patients. There are contraindications mentioned in the protocol that must strictly considered before putting any patient on these drugs or therapies,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-routine-use-of-plasma-therapy-govt-to-hospitals/story-KfvViXrxWiaPBQ1YqWtJBO.html
29-09-2020||India||Open to one more stimulus if necessary: Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman expects the economy to take a turn for the better in the second and third quarters of the financial year after contracting by a record 23.9% in April-June following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease pandemic and subsequent lockdown. In an interview to R Sukumar, she said the government may offer a second stimulus package, adding: “...we are trying to see what it is that we can do.” Asked how she would describe the economy now, Sitharaman said: “My sense is people are doing their best against all odds to stand up and be ready to run.” She added a caveat in the context of the ongoing India-China military standoff in the Ladakh sector: “Of course, Ladakh is one imponderable; we will have to keep everything in that context ready.”First-quarter GDP declined 23.9%. Half the year will be over soon. Have you done any assessment on what’s likely to happen to the annual GDP?We are doing an assessment but I don’t think we have arrived at any number. Logically, Q1 and its number was influenced by the total lockdown. Post-Q1, gradually the unlocking has happened. Possibly, even by July, you had levels of capacity utilisation rising in certain industries, and today, roughly, many industries tell me they have reached pre-Covid levels. If in the second quarter, at least 50% levels have been reached, then it can’t be as bad as Q1. The revival is also happening in many labour-intensive areas. This is also corroborated by the fact that migrant workers from many states have started going back (to their places of work); on their own volition, and some industries, I am told, have also arranged to pick them up. Labour is returning.Also read: Not being risk-averse in face of Covid crisis, says FM Nirmala Sitharaman Some industries are telling me that domestic demand is increasing, no doubt, but that they are also seeing export orders increasing faster than their expectations. I’ve heard this from the steel industry, for instance. I guess, the second quarter, the third quarter, will be better.But will it still be a recessionary year?I don’t know if I should conclude that about the whole year even now. There is no denying the first quarter’s decline is substantialWhat about revenue receipts? Do you see them picking up?Yes, and the signs of it picking up are already being seen in GST (Goods and Services Tax) collections, in some other state-level revenue, but the assessment about the direct taxation is a bit mixed because it has to be taken on board that last September we announced a drastic reduction in corporate tax. The impact of that will be seen in corporate tax collections — one of the main components of our direct tax revenue. Income tax will suffer on account of the Covid lockdownThe corporate tax cut last year and many of the measures announced as part of the government’s relief package have longer gestation periods — they are not going to kick in immediately. What are your immediate plans to boost sentiment, growth, and employment?The ‘vocal for local’ campaign is, together with Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) campaign is one of the biggest ways to improve sentiment. When you direct the government’s focus towards promoting local products, ensuring policy support exists for them, ensuring incentivisation will happen for them, and create the necessary ecosystem for them.... Even if you think the result will be long-term, there will be an immediate change in sentiment, production priorities, investment priorities. There have been repeated demands for a second stimulus. You have always said you were keeping your options open. Is there any thinking as to when this might happen? When will industry need it the most?We are hearing everyone out, we are analysing every area of the economy. I am open to one more support if necessary. We are constantly exchanging a lot of thoughts with industry...They must be asking you for one immediately...One more may be needed is what we are hearing from the people who interact with us, and we are trying to see what it is that we can do. There’s no point in me hurriedly getting something out. What we have announced till now, it is not as if it has benefited one at the cost of another.One area where people have consistently asked for some kind of intervention is on the demand side. One way is to simply put more money in the hands of people through some mechanism. Have you been thinking of a demand-side intervention?My argument has always been that whatever we have done till now hasn’t segregated supply from demand. I’ve also argued that this distinction is purely for the textbooks and isn’t all that watertight. Any spend on one does have the effect of overflowing to the other. Whatever we have done so far, however people may see it as only supply side, I can see it flowing to also stimulate demand.To elaborate, in the UK, businesses were given cash to retain workers, or in the US, many Americans got a cash payment... The expectation here is that at some point of time there will be a direct cash, fiscal stimulus for businesses and individuals to boost demand.I can’t really say I’m tailor-making something now whilst I have also not closed the option of giving where necessary. The inputs are continuously coming from various sectors and also segments of society. Let’s see how it works out.One of the things India has also tried to do is to wean away businesses from China. The logic being that if we have the right kind of tax structure, the right kind of policies, the right kind of labour laws, companies would be happy to do business here...That’s actually working out. Between November and March, we met a lot of companies likely to move. We also worked out the Productivity Linked Incentive Schemes (PLIs), which has been a good success, particularly in the telecom sector — the first PLI was launched for IT and electronics. Other departments are seeing the ministry of electronics and IT being successful in getting companies to come and start businesses here. Departments are building their case up for this.Do you have a bias towards hi-tech, or strategically important sectors for PLIs?It is going to be a blend of that which will create greater employment; that which will bring in technology; that which will be good for futuristic things, renewable energy, chip manufacturing; but also things we want to focus on like API {active pharmaceutical ingredient} manufacturing (for pharmaceuticals). We have set up in six different states, specialized zones in which everything is going to be provided in terms of common infrastructure and any unit that wants to come in to manufacture APIs will be given a lot of incentives.Where do things stand with the states on GST?We will wait for the GST Council to meet. The options given were explained; detailed notes were sent; the finance and expenditure secretary sat together...How many states have reverted?Twenty; all want option 1 (of borrowing Rs.97,000 crore without the obligation of paying interest and principal) . We will go to the Council on October 5 and take it from there.Have you looked at how much fiscal headroom the states have to spend? From the point of view of coping with the pandemic, the revival...We do keep monitoring their borrowing limits. Even as we speak, not even one state has exceeded the 3% of GSDP limit available to them in a normal year. Of course, we have another six months to go for the end of the year. Over and above, we have allowed them to borrow another half a percent more unconditionally; another 1% with conditions; and another half percent contingent on certain reforms. So they can take it up to 5%. Even during the last GST Council meeting, we suggested that the last half percent could be given unconditionally if the situation warrants. So up to 4% is unconditional. Of course, this is yet to be finalized.If states haven’t exhausted the basic limit, why is there a refrain of a financial crunch from the states?They are facing challenges; there is no denying that. They are the ones fighting Covid at the ground level. And they expect the Centre to be more supportive, which is understandableAre you looking at some relaxation of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act?I am not sure I have a choice (of not doing so). The borrowing calendar which we have issued is far more than what I announced in the Budget. That should send out the message that I am not really being risk-averse because I do not want to exceed my fiscal deficit. However, there is an FRBM law and I am conscious of it, but if I don’t support, don’t spend... After all, among the four engines that support the economy, three have come to a complete standstill. It is public expenditure which has to do the heavy lifting.You are not worried about the fiscal deficit...Well, if I have already issued a borrowing calendar that is far in excess of my Budget announcements...Are you looking at radical or unconventional solutions such as helicopter money, or monetising the deficit like Indonesia has?Specifically, we are not, but I am also looking at various ways in which I have to be ready to meet the challenges.You have been defence minister. Especially in the context of what’s happening in Ladakh, on the budgetary or spending side, do you see any constraints?Not at all. I have been there , albeit not for a long tenure. I do understand the needs of the defence ministry. Now that I am here and you have a PM who is conscious of India’s defence requirements, we will not let it suffer. When there is a need, we will definitely meet it.Which sectors give you the most hope?What great encouragement it is to see the agricultural and rural economy have so much life. Covid, floods, landslides, nothing could put them down. Given that even today more than 50% of the population depends on either agriculture or allied activities, that is the big spark plug for Indian revival. I think that’s where the life of the revival is. That’s where I give complete credit to the Prime Minister for pushing through the farm reforms. In the post-Covid era, with liberated farm producers you will have a bigger multiplier effect — it will immediately have a bearing on rural labour; it will immediately have a bearing on agri-processing units; it will immediately have a bearing on inflation.One demand that farmer groups and the opposition have raised in the past few days is some kind of legal standing, a guarantee for the minimum support price; writing it into the law, for instance.Government procurement will still happen. Where it has happened through an APMC (Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee), it will still happen through them.MSP has been given in this country for decades. The list of items has increased to about 23. However, during the Congress rule, the emphasis has always been on rice and wheat — resulting in distortion in acreage under crop, at the cost of coarse grain, pulses, and oil seeds. Pulses, at least till 2014, we grew far less than we need — ending up importing it. After crude oil and gold, edible oil is a significant import.Between 2014 and 2016, the PM gave attention to ensuring India became self-sufficient in pulses. We were able to give MSP and bonus for pulse growers.The Congress was myopic with MSPs; we have given priority to other crops too. If MSP has been used smartly by us... MSP and its versatile use has been far more established under the government. The quantum procured through government procurement has been higher since 2014.So who are you (the Congress) asking to hard wire MSPs into the law? Did your manifesto say that?Why do you think there is so much opposition to the laws?I suspect that the Congress saw that in the Rajya Sabha we had the numbers and the laws would be passed, to the credit of the government. So even as they asked for division, they knew we had the numbers. Nothing else can justify the disruption.On a personal note, there’s been six months of Covid; it’s been a highly stressful time; there’s been a lot of economic pain. How has it been for you? Have you felt overwhelmed? Are you under pressure?Every day, there is a challenge, and Covid is not over yet. The economy’s revival is topmost in the mind of the PM. We’ve all gone through this together — not just me, all Indians are going through this.If you were to objectively look at the economy now, how would you describe it?My sense is people are doing their best against all odds to stand up and be ready to run. Very clearly, there’s a sense that “we will come out of it.” Everyone is very descriptive about the kind of struggle they are going through and I can understand that, yet they are full of hope. I’m hopeful too — that the coronavirus will recede, and the Indian entrepreneur, small, big, medium, will succeed. Of course, Ladakh is one imponderable; we will have to keep everything in that context ready.How much time do you think we have lost as an economy on account of the crisis?That’s a question I can answer if the Covid crisis has passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/open-to-one-more-stimulus-if-necessary-nirmala-sitharaman/story-WRPPfp3NwwkdkgTxraYR3H.html
29-09-2020||India||Babri demolition case: Accused may seek exemption from appearance in court||Some senior political leaders, who are among the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case, may seek exemption from personal appearance when a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court announces its verdict on Wednesday.The law says all accused persons have to be physically present in the court on the day of verdict.But some of the 32 accused – including senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi -- may ask the court to allow them to appear via video conference, citing their advanced age and the coronavirus pandemic, their lawyer KK Mishra said.“I will inform the court about the status of my clients on Wednesday. I have informed Advani, Joshi and my other clients about the judgment day. Whether they will appear before the court or not will be clear on that day itself,” said lawyer KK Mishra. Mishra is representing 25 of 32 accused in the case, including Advani, Joshi and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh. During the hearing of the case, the court had permitted Advani, Joshi and several others to record their statements through video conference.Two other accused -- Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopal Das and Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan -- have also expressed their inability to appear before the court on Wednesday. Former union minister Uma Bharti, another accused, announced on Monday that she was admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh after she tested positive for Covid-19. “If I get a positive nod from the AIIMS after tests, then I would like to appear in the CBI court of Lucknow the day after tomorrow,” she tweeted on Monday.Former chief minister Singh is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-accused-may-seek-exemption-from-appearance-in-court/story-UAHz7mMZqvKy84YtVx12UI.html
29-09-2020||India||Oppn creating row over issues not in the laws: Gajendra Shekhawat||The Congress and a clutch of other opposition parties are misleading the people about the three farm laws just as they created misgivings about the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, by obfuscating the facts, Union minister of water resources Gajendra Shekhawat said in response to the criticism of the new legislation. The minister also questioned why the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chose to remain silent about the provisions of the laws when the ordinances were brought six months ago. The government says the legislation is designed to boost the interests of the farming community by widening their market access; the opposition alleges that they will instead leave farmers at the mercy of corporate entities. Edited excerpts: Why this reluctance to include minimum support price (MSP) in the laws. If this is good legislation, then why not allow the opposition to scrutinise it more?  To create a controversy about issues that are not part of the bill has become the modus operandi of the Congress and a few other opposition parties. Their criticism is without basis. They are trying to create a deterrent in the progress of the country. And there are many examples that I can give you about this, the latest being the criticism and the commotion that they created about the CAA. What was the basic idea of the CAA; it called for fast-tracking citizenship to persecuted minorities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. It did not talk about taking away the citizenship of anyone based on religion, or having to prove one’s citizenship based on hundred-year old documents. But the Congress created a controversy. Also read: Farmers, agri sector exempted from seeking permit for groundwater useSimilarly, in the case of the farm bills, they are creating a conspiracy about issues that or not even part of the bill, for example MSP. For 50 years in this country, the agricultural scenario remained unchanged; we moved from being a food-deficit country to a food -sufficient and now a surplus country, but the policy decisions that should have been in place to plan ahead were missing. India is among the top 10 agri-export nations, but no decisions were taken during the 10 years of the UPA {United Progressive Alliance} rule, which led to farmers’ distress. To address that, Atal Bihari Vajpayee as PM set up the National Farmers Commission under the chairmanship of MS Swaminathan, which gave detailed reports based on extensive consultations conducted between 2004 and 2006. He talked about the problems as well as the way forward. But what did the Congress do between 2006 and 2014? There are many things that the Swaminathan commission spoke about including land and irrigation reforms, increasing farm incomes and creating alternative sources of income. Also read: Cong states look to bypass new farm lawsThe Modi government tried to holistically address all these issues. As for the issue of MSP, the government ensured that between 50- 100% of the crop production cost is given as MSP for as many as 22 notified crops. But what if we had only announced it, not make the procurement? So, there has been 42% growth in MSP that has added over a lakh a year to the income of the farmers and procurement has increased by 25 times over what was being procured during the UPA regime. Besides, MSP is an administrative order. Did you fail to convince your former ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal. Even the Bharatiya KIsan Sangh (BKS) has apprehensions about MSPs not being part of the laws.  If the SAD was not convinced and had problems with the ordinances, which were brought six months ago they should have left the government then. They have been part of discussions and talks with agriculture minister during outreach to farmers’ representatives and groups where they have supported the contents of the ordinances. Now for the own political interest, they have done a U-turn. This is not following a coalition dharma. They are now opposing a decision of which they were part six months ago. To protect their political interests, the opposition is conspiring to give the farmers a bad name. As for the BKS; they are an independent organisation that works with the farmers. But they have also raised the issue of MSP over which the Congress and the other opposition parties are creating misgivings. The new water policy which is in the pipeline talks of allowing water-surplus states to trade their excess supply, how will it work?  We have formed a committee under {economist} Mihir Shah. After wide consultations, it has given a basic draft of the policy. We are discussing it, but we have requested them to clarify some more issues and once that comes, we will study it internally and then take it to the stakeholders. I think it (policy) should be ready in the first quarter of the next year. It is an important document that is going to be a guiding book for the next couple of years. What is the status of the Inter-State Water Disputes (Amendment) Bill? We already have tribunals in place. It has been observed that as per the act (Interstate Water Disputes Act) while under section 5(2), the tribunal have to give their judgment within three years, under section 5(3) any state or stakeholder can file an appeal. There is a time limit of one year for disposal of appeals, but it can be further extended with no time limit. A tribunal like the Ravi Beas Tribunal which was established as a special case and the act was amended since it was a part of the Rajiv {Gandhi} {Harchand Singh} Longowal accord {of 1985}. The act was amended to mandate the tribunal to conclude the hearing within a period of one year. And the basic requirement as per the act was that a negotiation committee will be formed that will resolve issues between states within six months. To bypass that clause, an amendment was made. That particular tribunal that was mandated to give a recommendation within a year has been working for 32 years. So we brought a bill to fix a time limit and establish a single permanent tribunal. It was unanimously passed in the Lok Sabha, but again Punjab has opposed it and the SAD has done a U-turn. They have now said that the issue of water sharing should be taken up from scratch and whatever has been done all these years needs to be revisited. Hopefully it will be discussed in the next session. Will the Jal Jeevan Mission that promises piped water to every household in India by 2024 meet its target? The Prime Minister had announced this flagship programme from the ramparts of the Red Fort. There are 18.5 crore rural households. When the Prime Minister made the announcement, only 3.53 crore had water; so far we have been able to take water to 2.60 crore households and from the date of the announcement till date, 6.60 crore households have drinking water. Even during the Corona pandemic, with the aid of the state governments, we have been able to provide between 1 to 1.25 lakh connections. Our aim is not only to provide piped water, but quality drinking water. We want to ensure that 55 litre per capita is offered and that there is an NABL {the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories} accredited lab in every district to test the quality of water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-creating-row-over-issues-not-in-the-laws-gajendra-shekhawat/story-2XsAJy1e3izH4bKMHBSdPO.html
29-09-2020||India||Farmers, agri sector exempted from seeking permit for groundwater use||The Centre has notified new guidelines for groundwater use in the country, prescribing a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on industrial and commercial users who extract it without permission, but exempting farmers and the agriculture sector, the largest users of groundwater, from the requirement of a no-objection certificate or penalties for drawing water up to a limit.An environmental compensation of Rs 1 lakh on industrial, mining and infrastructure users for extracting water illegally could be increased depending on the quantum of illegally extracted water, states the new notification issued by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) under the Jal Shakti ministry on September 24. Also read: Rules go up in smoke as farm fires rage in PunjabFor industries, the new guidelines state that a no-objection certificate shall be granted “only in such cases where local government water supply agencies are not able to supply the desired quantity of water”. All industries will be required to adopt “latest water efficient” technologies to “reduce dependence on groundwater resources”, guidelines in the fresh notification state. The revised guidelines, which will apply across India, however, state that rural drinking water schemes, armed forces, agriculture activities, and small enterprises will not require any prior permission for groundwater use. Agriculture consumes nearly 90% of all water resources in the country. According to the think-tank Niti Aayog report in 2017, groundwater accounts for 63% of all irrigation water and over 80% of the rural and urban household water supplies. Yet, the Centre’s new guidelines say that regulating water use in agriculture “will prove to be an arduous task” given that the sector is the backbone of the Indian economy. Also read| Paddy procurement begins early: Farmers, arhtiyas in Ambala allege absence of arrangements in mandisThe guidelines state that according to the country’s minor irrigation census 2013-14, 87.86% of groundwater wells are owned by marginal, small and semi-medium farmers having land holding up to four hectares. Around 9.18 % of wells are owned by medium farmers having land holding of 4-10 hectares and 2.96% of the wells are owned by big farmers having land holding more than 10 hectares. Although the new rules exempt farmers from the requirement of prior permission from the CGWA for groundwater extraction, it highlights free electricity for farmers as the main reason for over-extraction of groundwater. The guidelines advise states to “review their free/subsidised electricity policy to farmers”, “bring suitable water pricing policy and may work further towards crop rotation/diversification/other initiatives” to reduce over-dependence on groundwater. Also read: BJP plans farm outreach to counter Oppn’s driveIn December, the government launched the Atal Jal Yojana scheme to conserve groundwater in seven states facing the biggest declines in aquifer levels mainly due to over-extraction for water-intensive crops. These are Maharashtra, Haryana, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. “Some states like Punjab have started to adopt policies to reduce agriculture’s dependence on groundwater but they are yet to be adopted by a large number of farmers,” said Ashok Desai of the Natural Resources Institute, Pune. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has come up with a new scheme of direct benefit transfer for electricity to agricultural consumers. Under the “Paani Bacho, Paise Kamao” (save water, earn money) scheme, farmers will get Rs 4 as direct benefit for each unit of electricity saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-agri-sector-exempted-from-seeking-permit-for-groundwater-use/story-bVBEAMgHFDMIXJlTkLhLEI.html
29-09-2020||India||Congress states look to bypass new farm laws||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday advised party-ruled states to explore the possibilities of passing legislation under Article 254(2) of the Constitution to negate the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government’s “anti-agricultural laws” and prevent “grave injustice” from being done to farmers. The opposition party is citing the BJP government’s move in 2015, when it asked party-ruled states to bring their own laws to override the Land Acquisition Act of 2013 passed during the tenure of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) to boost infrastructure development. Also read: BJP plans farm outreach to counter Oppn’s drive“Congress president has advised Congress ruled states to explore the possibilities to pass laws in their respective states under Article 254(2) of the Constitution which allows the state legislatures to pass a law to negate the anti-agriculture central laws encroaching upon state’s jurisdiction under the Constitution,” Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal said in a statement. “This would enable the states to bypass the unacceptable anti-farmers’ provisions in the three draconian Agricultural laws including the abolition of MSP and disruption of APMCs in Congress-ruled states,” he added. Also read| Farm bills: Protesters set tractor on fire near India Gate, five arrestedThe party is in power in three states, Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh, and the Union territory of Puducherry. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government pushed three bills to deregulate agricultural trade, which were passed controversially by Parliament, overriding demands by the Opposition for greater scrutiny and voting. Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the bills out of concern that deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. The reforms have cost the BJP one of its oldest allies, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which has quit the ruling National Democratic Alliance. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 seek to liberalise farm trade, enable modern supply chains, allow agribusinesses and farmers to enter into contracts, break interlocked markets and create a seamless commodities trade, currently fragmented.  The main provisions of the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 allow barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade of primary agricultural commodities, bypassing notified markets under the Agricultural Produce Market Committees. The bill will enable food traders to buy farmers’ produce from any market, rather than bind them to the specific markets where they are licensed to operate. Earlier in the day, former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “As FM Arun Jaitley got states to resort to Article 254(2) of the Constitution to override provisions of 2013 Land Acquisition law, a law he’d fully supported as LoP {leader of the opposition} in RS {Rajya Sabha}. States should now follow the same advice to undo the damage caused by the #FarmBills that have become Acts.” Many BJP-ruled states, including Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Jharkhand had in 2015 expressed their desire to have their own laws to override the Land Acquisition Act of 2013 to enable them to move fast on infrastructure development. None of these states subsequently went ahead to draft their own laws. The Article 254(2) states: “Where a law made by the Legislature of a State with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the concurrent List contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the Legislature of such State shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that State: Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature of the State.” Before coming out with the advisory, the Congress held internal consultations with leaders including Abhishek Manu Singhvi, a lawyer, to explore possible legal recourses for farm bills. Singhvi told the party to ask state governments to pass their own farm bills to negate the clauses of the Centre’s legislation. While there’s is little chance that the bills would be approved by the President, Congress strategists feel such a move by states administered by the party would send a good political signal. Singhvi also pointed to Jaitley’s legal arguments on the proposed amendments to the UPA-era land bills and said the Congress should highlight what he had said at that time to turn the tables on the NDA. Senior Supreme Court advocate Sanjay Hegde said in the concurrent list. the state legislation operates to the extent that it is not in conflict with the central legislation. “The possibility exists where there is both a state and a central legislation. But when it comes to the question of prevailing, the central legislation prevails. At times, the very presence of a central legislation can negate the state’s ability to legislate. In the concurrent list, both Centre and state have competence to legislate but in the event of any ambiguity or overlap, the Centre prevails,” he added. BJP’s national spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal said the APMC act and the local mandis are already within the domain of the state laws under the Constitution, and the Centre has no power to repeal them. “They will continue as it is. So, what law does Soniaji wants to pass is not clear. Secondly, MSP is declared by the Centre every year on different commodities on the recommendations of the CACP, (which has representatives from the farmer’s community) as an administrative order, Central government has already announced MSP for the current year, in parliament,” he said. He said the procurement has to be done by respective state governments through the local mandis, so the ball for procurement is already in the court of the states....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-states-look-to-bypass-new-farm-laws/story-KXBd1CrFgKqUKPAtkNvFtN.html
29-09-2020||India||BJP plans farm outreach to counter Oppn’s drive||To counter the opposition’s campaign against farm laws enacted by the central government, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is planning an outreach to farmers that will include door-to-door Atmanirbhar Kisan (Self-Reliance Farmers) campaigns in rural India, public rallies, press conferences and social media broadcasts.The initiative is aimed at what the BJP thinks is opposition propaganda based on “false and absurd” notions of the Narendra Modi government’s agricultural reforms, which it says will liberalise farm trade, enable farmers to earn more remunerative prices by selling their produce anywhere and benefit consumers by excluding middlemen.In a letter to party MPs and top leaders, a copy of which has been seen by HT, BJP’s national general secretary Arun Singh said the historic farm laws passed by Parliament had freed farmers from the clutches of middlemen. Singh said that these reforms, along with earlier measures like soil health cards, crop insurance and increases in the Minimum Support Price (MSP) would all help in doubling the income of farmers.Also read| Farm bills: Protesters set tractor on fire near India Gate, five arrested“The opposition parties are spreading false and absurd rumours about it in their ulterior political motive,” Singh said in the letter. Singh added that MSPs, government procurement and Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) will continue to exist while farmers gain wider market access.On the directions of party chief J P Nadda and in a bid to dispel the concerns of farmers, the BJP has planned the mass awareness programme on the new legislation, which will be implemented in line with health protocols imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, the letter said.  Among the activities planned are: door-to-door contact in the villages, public rallies in rural areas, seminars in every district, discussions with farming communities and agricultural bodies and also press conferences.The party is also likely to encourage people to write appreciation or felicitation letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar for introducing the legislations. In addition, the BJP has also decided to take on its adversaries on social media turf.Also read| Oppn creating row over issues not in the laws: Gajendra ShekhawatThe party has asked all its state leaders as well as its Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha MPs to chalk out programmes in the next two weeks as part of the campaign.The three bills - the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - have become acts after President Ram Nath Kovind signed them into law.Farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the legislation, which the government says will enable them to sell their produce in any market of their choice rather than limit them to government-run mandis called APMCs. The protestors say the Centre’s farm reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big companies. Also read: Punjab set to move Supreme Court on farm laws as stir intensifiesThe legislation seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters and large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at pre-agreed prices. The amendment to the Essential Commodities Act will remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion and potato from the list of essential items and do away with the imposition of stock holding limits. Eminent political scientist Nilanjan Sircar said “On one level, it [outreach] is extraordinary, given the advantages BJP has, they feel the need to take this step, which means at some level, their internal matrix are showing that the protest and the opposition are causing some problems on the ground for their popularity. I think the BJP has shown that it has the ability to change the narrative quite quickly”. He, however, added that it is not easy to convince people on a subject about which they already know a lot and that too from direct experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-plans-farm-outreach-to-counter-oppn-s-drive/story-hKWSSn05PYm6UXCZ6fsa0I.html
29-09-2020||India||Punjab set to move Supreme Court on farm laws as stir intensifies||Punjab, where angry farmers are protesting against the three farm bills enacted by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), will challenge the legislation in the Supreme Court, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said on Monday, accusing the federal government of trying to dismantle the farming system as it exists now.“Our lawyers are coming from Delhi tomorrow (on Tuesday). We will discuss how to proceed in the matter and then challenge the legislation in the Supreme Court,” Captain Amarinder Singh said in Khatkar Kalan, where he staged a sit-in protest against the laws. Khatkar Kalan is the village of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and Monday marked the freedom fighter’s birth anniversary.Also read| Farm bills: Protesters set tractor on fire near India Gate, five arrestedThe three bills - the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - have become acts after President Ram Nath Kovind signed them into law.Farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the legislation, which the government says will enable them to sell their produce in any market of their choice rather than limit them to government-run mandis called agricultural produce marketing committees, or APMCs. The protestors say the Centre’s farm reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big companies. Also read: Sonia Gandhi urges Congress-ruled states to override Centre’s farm lawsThe legislation seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters and large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at pre-agreed prices. The amendment to the Essential Commodities Act will remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion and potato from the list of essential items and do away with the imposition of stock holding limits.   Captain Amarinder Singh said that he will request Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to join the farmers’ protest. “Rahul Gandhi has been tweeting daily and issuing statements that the BJP {Bharatiya Janata Party} has betrayed the farmers,” he said. “The BJP has snatched away the constitutional powers of one state after the other. How do we run the state? BJP leaders think they will remain in power, but I want to remind them that the Akalis also thought so. People threw them out. It is a decision of the people to keep political parties in power or not,” he said. Targeting the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Congress leader said, “The Akalis are trying all tactics, but they’re not working because once you let people down, they don’t forget.” The Akali Dal has walked out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the centre to protest against the farm legislation.Defending farmers for holding protests against the newly enacted laws, the CM said they had the right to do so as “you are taking away their livelihood”.He accused the central government of snatching the rights of states and of trying to dismantle the minimum support price, mandi system and the public distribution system (PDS) with the farm laws.“Their motive is to demolish everything which farmers have got after a long struggle. From the green and white revolution till now, rights which farmers acquired, one by one all of them are being demolished with these farm laws,” Singh said.“MSP and mandi system will be dismantled with these farm laws and their next target is FCI {Food Corporation of India},” he said, claiming that the government also want to dismantle the public distribution system that channels subsidised foodgrains to the poor.The government has denied that either the federally fixed MSPs or the PDS will be done away with.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-set-to-move-sc-on-farm-laws-as-stir-intensifies/story-ZiQsgtKUE1581BgimpTrGK.html
29-09-2020||India||India’s fiscal federalism crisis is not the pandemic’s creation||The Centre has refused to immediately compensate the states for an expected shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, which they are constitutionally entitled to, although it has committed to paying the money after the compensation cess is extended. The states have been asked to borrow (to make good either the shortfall in compensation arising from GST implementation or the overall shortfall ), but the controversy has given fiscal federalism a jolt. At the root of this crisis are three factors. The first is the structural deceleration in the Indian economy along with a fall in tax buoyancy. The pandemic’s economic shock has only made things worse. The second is a growing squeeze on states’ share in central taxes. These two factors have been compounded by an ongoing political struggle between the centralization which has been unleashed in India’s polity due to the continuously growing political capital of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the insecurity it has generated among the non-BJP state governments.Falling tax buoyancy has compounded the growth problem’s revenue impactData from Controller General of Accounts (CGA), which works under the ministry of finance, shows that tax buoyancy in India went into negative territory in 2019-20. This is a first since 1962-63. Tax buoyancy is the ratio of change in centre’s gross total revenue and change in GDP. So, a negative tax buoyancy in a period of positive GDP growth implies that taxes actually fell even though GDP was rising. Tax buoyancy has fallen sharply between 2017-18 and 2019-20. It was 0.16 in 2016-17, 0.12 in 2017-18, 0.09 in 2018-19 and -0.05 in 2019-20. The sharp fall in tax buoyancy, when read with the equally sharp fall in nominal growth -- the last few budgets have been grossly overestimating this -- has only compounded the slowdown’s revenue impact. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();This matters because over-optimistic projections of tax buoyancy and nominal growth lead to higher revenue projections, and therefore a higher revenue share for state governments. When these projections do not materialise, states face a retrospective hit in their receivables. An earlier story by this author discussed this issue in detail.The Centre has passed on a greater burden of the tax shortfall to statesIndia’s constitutional framework provides for a rules-based distribution of tax revenues between the centre and the states. The revenue sharing formula is updated every five years by the Finance Commission. The 14th Finance Commission set the share of states in central taxes at 42%. This promise has not been realised. States’ share reached a peak of 36.6% in 2018-19 and has fallen sharply since. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Why has this happened?The centre does not share cess and surcharges with states. Over time, the share of these heads has been rising in central taxes. Research by ICICI Securities PD shows that it was less than 10% in 2014-15, but has gradually increased to 15% in 2019-20. A more granular analysis shows that the centre’s tax policy works with this objective in mind.RBI’s report on state finances gives the share of states in different central taxes. In 2019-20 (Budget Estimates), states received the smallest sharer in union excise duties (14.5%) collected by the centre. Their receivable share was greater for other taxes. It was 34.5% for corporate tax, 40.3% for income tax and 34.7% for custom duties.Corporate tax collections took the biggest hit in 2019-20, thanks to the sharp reduction in tax rates announced in September last year. The government slashed corporate tax rates for domestic manufacturers from 30% to 22%, while for new manufacturing companies, the rate was reduced from 25% to 15% provided they did not claim any exemptions. This was expected to lead to a revenue loss of Rs 1.45 lakh crore. The actual shortfall, according to Controller General of Accounts numbers, turned out to be Rs 2.09 lakh crore.This decision is in sharp contrast to the present tax policy, where the centre has announced a large hike in excise duty on petrol and diesel. An HT analysis had found that between April 1 and July 1, the share of central and state taxes in petrol and diesel prices in Delhi increased from 45% to 63% for diesel and 54% to 64% for petrol. Central taxes per litre were almost twice state taxes. Because the additional duty is not meant to be shared with the states, the centre will keep all the windfall revenue gains from fall in international crude prices. Tax collection data from CGA shows that union excise duties are the only tax component which shows an increase in cumulative collections up to July in the current fiscal year compared to a year ago. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();BJP’s politics has been provoking states rather than offering reconciliationAll along, one of the key constituents of the BJP’s political strategy has been to portray the Narendra Modi government as a sole harbinger of welfare benefits. This has helped the BJP in squeezing its opponents in national elections. The biggest proof of this success can be seen in the vote share premium the BJP enjoys in national elections in comparison to state elections. A recent paper by Yamini Aiyar and Neelanjan Sircar attributes this to three factors: the Modi government putting into place an administrative environment where state governments, and therefore regional parties, are not seen as critical for delivery of welfare benefits; a technology enabled welfare regime which claims to be more efficient and also leads to further centralization of welfare handouts; and the use of ground-level BJP cadre to popularize these schemes, and, by extension the Prime Minister’s popularity.The BJP’s political offensive on state governments led by other parties, when read with stylised facts on the state of fiscal federalism – states’ share in central taxes never reached the promised 42%, it has fallen sharply in the recent past, and they are now staring at the centre delaying guaranteed GST compensation payments – is bound to vitiate political trust rather than create an amicable environment for solving what is now a deep rooted crisis. This will only render the challenge of preserving India’s fiscal federalism framework, both in letter and spirit, more difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-fiscal-federalism-crisis-is-not-the-pandemic-s-creation/story-xGx0OgajpML1r80O4kvKdK.html
29-09-2020||India||Centre drops offset clause in govt-to-govt deal in new weapons buying policy||In a significant departure from India’s existing weapon-buying procedures, a new policy announced on Monday has done away with offsets in government-to-government deals and single-vendor contracts for purchasing military equipment on the grounds that this has not resulted in bringing cutting-edge technology into the country, a top official said.This overrides the offset policy that required foreign vendors to invest in the country to boost indigenous capabilities at least 30% (it could go up to 50%) of the value of all contracts worth more than ₹300 crore awarded to them.The scope of the offset policy will now be confined only to military contracts that involve competitive bidding, said director general (acquisition) Apurva Chandra during a presentation on the new Defence Acquisition Procedure-2020. The DAP-2020, cleared by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday, will be effective from October 1.“No offset contract has led to transfer of technology into the country, with the scope being limited to product purchase as pointed out by the Comptroller and Auditor General in a recent report. There will be no offsets in intergovernmental agreements, government-to-government deals and ab initio single-vendor cases,” Chandra said.This appeared to echo and address concerns raised in a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report tabled in Parliament last week that said several offset contracts built into multiple defence deals had failed to bring in high-end military technology into the country. The critical observations were part of CAG’s scrutiny of the status of a raft of offset contracts — including the September 2016 Rafale deal — between 2005 and 2018.Commenting on the ₹59,000-crore Rafale deal, the top auditor said that the plane’s maker Dassault Aviation and weapons-supplier MBDA had not confirmed the transfer of technology to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which was part of the offset contract. “DRDO wanted to obtain Technical Assistance for the indigenous development of engine (Kaveri) for the Light Combat Aircraft. Till date the Vendor has not confirmed the transfer of this technology,” said the report.CAG also sharply criticised foreign vendors who made several offset commitments to qualify for a contract, but were later not earnest about fulfilling their commitments. According to experts, doing away with offsets could result in savings as foreign military contractors tend to increase their prices by about 10% to cater for their offset commitments.The offset guidelines have been revised to give preference to the manufacture of complete defence products over components, the ministry said on Monday in a statement. Self-reliance push DAP-2020 has been aligned with the government’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) and empowering the domestic industry through the Make in India initiative, with the ultimate aim of turning the country into a global manufacturing hub, the statement said. “The three key focus areas of DAP-2020 are Atmanirbhar Bharat, Make in India and ease of doing business. The procedure has five new chapters including leasing, acquisition from the DRDO and post-contract management,” Chandra said. It will allow the armed forces to lease military hardware for the first time — a move that could cut down on costs associated with buying weapons and systems. Leasing could be cheaper in the longer run, Chandra said.The policy underlines that field evaluation trials for weapons and systems are to be conducted with the objective of nurturing competition rather than rejecting players for minor deficiencies. It seeks to increase local manufacturing and reduce timelines for procurement of critical military equipment. It incorporates a price variation clause “for large and protracted contracts in order to avert inflated initial quotes by vendors and arriving at a realistic price of the project,” the defence ministry statement said. The policy has also introduced a new provision for acquiring weapons and systems: “Buy Global — Manufacture in India”. It stipulates that only a minimum necessary quantity of defence equipment will be bought from abroad with the rest being manufactured in India. “The new category incorporates manufacture of either the entire/part of the equipment or spares/assemblies/sub-assemblies and maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facility for the equipment through its subsidiary in India,” the statement said.DAP-2020 should help self-reliance in the defence sector, most importantly by bringing in pragmatism into the process, said Lieutenant General Subrata Saha (retd), a member of the National Security Advisory Board and a former army deputy chief. “It has acknowledged realities based on experience and suitably adapted the policy. Introduction of leasing opens up new opportunity to get value with financial prudence. Increasing indigenous content in various categories and introduction of new categories for import substitution should enable greater participation by domestic industry,” Saha said.Formulating general staff qualitative requirements (GSQR) on the basis of what’s available addresses the oft-stated concern of industry of unrealistic specifications, he said. “This should bring in clear distinction between QRs for systems to be acquired and QRs for systems to be developed,” he said, adding that including post contract management in the policy was a good and long overdue step. Industry thumbs-up Industry welcomed the new policy. “DAP-2020 has created pragmatic avenues for foreign original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to manufacture in India on their own and in collaboration with Indian industries. It completes the triad of policy, organisation and procedure towards creating a vibrant and capable domestic defence industry base and marching towards self-reliance,” said CII director general Chandrajit Banerjee.He added that for the defence sector, self-reliance was not just an economic necessity but also a strategic imperative. To leverage the strength of the Indian software industry, the DAP-2020 has introduced a new chapter that deals with acquisition of products and information and communication technology (ICT) systems to address existing voids. “Peculiar issues related to procurement of ICT-intensive equipment especially of interoperability and built-in upgradability, enhanced security requirements and change management have been included (in the DAP),” the defence ministry said. The DAP-2020 states that several categories of acquisition and the strategic partnership model will be “exclusively reserved” for Indian vendors who meet the criteria of ownership and control by resident Indian citizens with foreign direct investment not more than 49%. “This reservation will provide exclusivity in participation to domestic Indian industry,” the ministry said. According to defence ministry officials, the DAP-2020 has clearly laid down that only those firms that have over 50% Indian ownership will be eligible to take part in key Make in India purchases. As a measure to enhance indigenous content, the policy seeks to promote the use of indigenous military material and reward vendors for utilising indigenous raw material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-drops-offset-clause-in-govt-to-govt-deal-in-new-weapons-buying-policy/story-SVKKI3cbrauwzJ0nMc8GBK.html
29-09-2020||India||Babri masjid case accused may submit reply in CBI court on Monday||All 32 accused in the Babri masjid demolition case are likely to file their written reply on Monday in the special CBI court (Ayodhya case) here. Surendra Kumar Yadav, judge, CBI court, had set August 31 deadline for the accused to file their reply. “The CBI court had set August 31 deadline for filing reply in the case. On Monday, we will file the replies,” said lawyer KK Mishra, who is representing 25 of the 32 accused, including senior BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Kalyan Singh. The apex court’s deadline for pronouncement of judgment in the case was to expire on August 31 but the court recently extended the deadline by a month till September 30. All the accused have already submitted their written arguments in the case, which is in its final stage. Also, all 351 witnesses of the prosecution have appeared before the CBI court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-case-accused-may-submit-reply-in-cbi-court-on-monday/story-oUAZ5kAzynF0tZyYdJU84O.html
