30-09-2020||India||Mathura court dismisses suit for removal of Shahi Idgah Masjid||A Mathura court on Wednesday dismissed a suit filed on behalf of child deity, Bhagwan Shri Krishna Virajman seeking removal of the Shahi Idgah Masjid which stands adjacent to the Sri Krishna temple complex at Mathura.The suit was heard by Additional District Judge, Chhaya Sharma who refused to admit the suit citing the bar under the Place of Worship (Special Provisions) Act of 1991.This law was passed at the height of the Ram Janmabhoomi dispute and seeks to protect all religious structures as they existed at the time of Independence on August 15, 1947 with the exception of the disputed site at Ayodhya.Since Ayodhya land was exempted, the Supreme Court had invoked this law in 2019 while awarding the disputed site at Ayodhya to child deity Ram Lalla while reaffirming that similar such cases cannot be entertained with respect to other sites in view of the law.The suit claiming ownership of the entire land of 13.37 acres land which is believed to be the birthplace of Lord Sri Krishna, the 8th incarnation of Lord Vishnu, was filed on September 25 through next friend of the child deity, one Ranjana Agnihotri an advocate and a resident of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. Six other devotees were also plaintiffs to the suit.They had sought cancellation of a settlement entered into between the Shri Krishna Janamsthan Seva Sansthan which is the governing body of the temple complex and the Committee of Management of Trust of Shahi Idgah (Idgah Trust) in 1968.The suit stated that Lord Shri Krishna was born in a prison of King Kans and the entire area under dispute is known as ‘Katra Keshav Dev’. Katra Keshav Dev is sacred for the devotees of Lord Shri Krishna and Hindu community. Hindu rulers have always paid homage to the birth place of Lord Shree Krishna and from time to time they constructed / renovated temple at the spot, the plaint said.It was submitted that the Idgah Trust with the help of some Muslims encroached upon the land belonging to Shri Krishna Janamasthan Trust and the deity and erected a super structure at the place.The birthplace of Lord Krishna, the 8th incarnation of Lord Vishnu lies beneath the structure raised by the trust, the suit added.It was claimed that Shri Krishna Janamsthan Seva Sansthan which is the governing body of the temple complex entered into an illegal compromise with the Idgah Trust in 1968 with a view to grab the property in question.“The Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan is working against the interest of the deity and devotees and fraudulently entered into a compromise with the Committee of Management of Trust Masjid Idgah (Trust) in 1968 conceding a considerable portion of property belonging to the deity and the trust,” the suit had argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathura-court-dismisses-suit-for-removal-of-shahi-idgah-masjid/story-MSMaCnmL7HbgUK7xywhSeI.html
30-09-2020||India||Assam launches TRISSAM brand of forest products made by tribal communities||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday launched a brand of products made by tribal communities from forest goods. Called TRISSAM, the brand under the Pradhan Mantri Van Dhan Yojana scheme aims to boost entrepreneurship among tribal people in the state and make them economically self-reliant. The scheme envisages aggregating forest products and marketing them with the required branding by Van Dhan Vikas Kendras (VDVK). At present around 50 VDVKs are operating in the state under the welfare of plain tribes and backward classes department. Sonowal launched a number of new products made by VDVKs and stated that the abundance of natural and forest based products in the state would play a key role in building ‘Atma-nirbhar’ (self-reliant) Assam. He urged those engaged in making and marketing the products to ensure value addition according to the needs of consumers and tap the vast potential naturally available in forests of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-launches-trissam-brand-of-forest-products-made-by-tribal-communities/story-y5Md6LGKPWjDji75m21raO.html
30-09-2020||India||Gauhati HC notice for Centre, Assam over nod to OIL to drill for oil, gas in national park||The Gauhati High Court on Wednesday issued notices to Centre, Assam government, and 12 other agencies over permission granted to Oil India Limited (OIL) to drill for oil and natural gas in Assam’s Dibru Saikhowa National Park, which is close to Baghjan, where an OIL gas well had a blow out in May. Acting on a public interest litigation filed by advocate Mrinmoy Khataniar and Amar Jyoti Deka, a division bench comprising Chief Justice (acting) NK Singh and Justice Manish Choudhury ordered the 14 respondents including OIL to file their affidavits within two weeks. The next date for hearing has been fixed as October 20. The bench also considered another PIL filed on the same issue filed by advocate Gautam Uzir. The petitioners had sought the court’s intervention against Centre’s permission to OIL to drill inside the national park by doing away with public hearing under the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification, 2020. Besides the Centre, Assam government and OIL, other respondents named in the petition include the national board of wildlife, the state board of wildlife and the central and state pollution control boards. On May 11, the Union forest, environment and climate change ministry had given environmental clearance for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by OIL under Dibru-Saikhowa National Park area in Tinsukia district of Assam. Spread over 340 sq km, Dibru-Saikhowa is one of the five national parks in Assam. The park, which is also a biosphere reserve, is home to 36 mammal species including tiger, Gangetic dolphin, feral horses and 382 bird species. Concerns about OIL’s drilling plan soon emerged on social media platforms after the company published an advertisement in newspapers recently mentioning the environment ministry’s clearance for the project. Reacting to the apprehensions, OIL had clarified in May that the company won’t operate inside the national park and the drilling will have no impact on the area as operation would be conducted through extended reach drilling (ERD). “We will not touch the national park. Drilling will be done from two kilometers away from the park and won’t affect the surface of the park,” OIL CMD Sushil Chandra Mishra told journalists on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-notice-for-centre-assam-over-nod-to-oil-to-drill-for-oil-gas-in-national-park/story-6hunTb2oYi7Qw3jyFdb5RK.html
30-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand gets its first pine needle power generation plant||Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated Uttarakhand’s first project for generating power through pine needles with 25KW capacity made at a cost of Rs 25 lakh in Dunda block of Uttarkashi district. Rawat said that this project will be very useful to protect the environment from forest fires as pine needles with high resin content are one of the main reasons for the spread of forest fires in Uttarakhand. “Due to forest fires, many trees, medicinal plants, vegetation gets destroyed and a large number of wild animals are also affected. With this power generation project using pine needle, forests and animals will be protected. This will also create employment opportunities,” said Rawat. The chief minister further informed that 23 lakh metric tonnes of pine needles are produced in the state annually, from which about 200 megawatts of electricity can be produced. He further said that keeping in mind the problem of network connectivity in the border areas of the state, 250 satellite phones have been given so that marginalized people do not face any problem. An amount of Rs 40 lakh has also been sanctioned by the government to erect mobile towers in the state at places where there is no connectivity. Gopal Singh Rawat, member of the legislative assembly from Gangotri thanked the chief minister and said that with the establishment of solar and pine needle plants in the district, the local people will get employment from it. He called upon the youth to develop new dimensions of employment at the local level itself. He said that the youth of the village should come forward to adopt self-employment and form groups and asked them to cooperate at all levels on behalf of the government. In April 2018, the state cabinet had approved a policy allowing commercial use of dry pine leaves for generating power. According to the pine needle policy, the state government aims to generate 150 megawatts of electricity by collection of pine needles in the state by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-gets-its-first-pine-needle-power-generation-plant/story-q3x36Xl9ieJBjScnl7m3VO.html
30-09-2020||India||PM Modi attends Somnath trust meeting through video conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday participated in the Shree Somnath Trust meeting via video conferencing as its members discussed a wide range of issues pertaining to the historic temple.  “Participated in the Shree Somnath Trust meeting via video conferencing. We discussed a wide range of issues pertaining to the Temple, including the exceptional community service by the Trust during these times and harnessing of technology to enable more devotees to pray,” he tweeted. The trust manages affairs of the famous Somnath temple of Lord Shiva, situated in Gir-Somnath district of Gujarat. The temple is believed to be the first among the 12 Jyotirlinga shrines of Lord Shiva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-attends-somnath-trust-meeting-through-video-conference/story-tGdSjRoV6BRgzRaj9jaadN.html
30-09-2020||India||Nirbhaya of Hathras killed by insensitive government: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi said the people of the country are sad and angry over the gruesome incident and said the ‘Nirbhaya of Hathras’ did not die but was killed by a “cruel and insensitive” government and its administration. In a video message, she said the country will speak up against this injustice and not allow the BJP to divide the country and violate the Constitution. “This incident is a blot on our society. I want to ask is it a sin to be a girl? Is it a crime to be the daughter of a poor? What was the UP government doing? For weeks, the family’s cry for justice was not heard. There was an attempt to cover up the issue. The girl was not given proper treatment. Today, our daughter has left us. I want to say that the Nirbhaya of Hathras did not die, she was killed by an insensitive government and its administration,” Gandhi said. “Even after her death, the girl was denied dignity and not handed over to her family. A weeping mother could not see her daughter for the last time. This is a grave sin. Her body was cremated by force. There is dignity in death. Our Hindu religion is clear about it. But she was cremated like an orphan by the police,” she added. “What kind of justice is this? What kind of a government is this? You think you can do anything and the nation will sit and watch. Never, the nation will speak against your injustice. On behalf of the Congress party, I demand justice for the family. India belongs to everyone. Everyone has the right to live with dignity. The Constitution has given us this right. We will not allow the BJP to break the country and violate the Constitution,” the Congress president said.Earlier in the day, her daughter and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi took on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the death of Hathras rape victim, saying he doesn’t have any moral right to continue as chief minister.The 19-year-old woman from Hathras died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday morning, nearly two weeks after she was allegedly gang raped and tortured by four men from her village on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirbhaya-of-hathras-killed-by-insensitive-government-sonia-gandhi/story-oYa6FgpsyeCTBMq4Bg9hMO.html
30-09-2020||India||In breather for Delhi hospitals, licenses need not be renewed till March 2021||Nursing homes in Delhi will not need to renew their licenses till March next year, with the Delhi government relaxing the nursing homes rules in the city. “In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi, Rule 7(3) of the Delhi Nursing Homes Registration (Amendment) Rules, 2011 has been temporarily relaxed till 31.03.2021,” the order by Director General of Health Services Dr Nutan Mundeja said. The rule states that applications of hospitals and nursing homes that fail to file an application for renewal of registration within six months of the expiry of the previous licence will not be accepted and their names would be removed from the register. Nursing homes and hospitals cannot operate in Delhi without registration with the nursing home cell. With registrations not being renewed since March this year, without the relaxation several of the over 1,000 hospitals and nursing homes in the city would have been affected. “We had earlier given a representation to the government to relax the rules and had received assurance. The government order has now been issued. This will be a relief for many hospitals,” said Dr Arun Gupta, chairman of the Covid Management Committee of the Delhi Medical Association. Earlier this month, the DMA had asked the state government to look into the matter of a majority of nursing homes — many treating Covid-19 patients — operating with expired licenses. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had verbally directed the department to renew licenses of nursing homes till December 31, 2020. This will also give time for the hospitals to comply with the new fire safety norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-breather-for-delhi-hospitals-licenses-need-not-be-renewed-till-march-2021/story-6Xtbym0iYv1Q6UN4GlwOGK.html
30-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand reports highest single-day Covid-19 casualties of 20||With deaths of 20 Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, Uttarakhand reported it highest single-day casualties in the pandemic since the state reported its first case on March 15. The death toll of Covid-19 positive reached 611 Wednesday. Out of the 611 deaths, 196 cases were of deaths due to coronavirus, while the others died due to comorbidities. The state reported 1,005 fresh cases, taking the tally to 49,000. On Wednesday, the state reported 976 recoveries with maximum 424 from Dehradun, taking the total number of recoveries to 39,035. With this, the recovery rate now stands at 79.66% and the rate of doubling of cases stands at 42.23 days. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Wednesday evening, a maximum 336 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by Haridwar (133), Nainital (112), Pauri (65), Chamoli (61), Tehri (59), US Nagar (58), Champawat (54), Uttarkashi (41), Bageshwar (26), Pithoragarh (24), Almora (20) and Rudraprayag (16). Dehradun district has reported the maximum 13,203 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (9361), US Nagar (8435) and Nainital (5908). The state has so far tested over 7.12 lakh samples of which results of over 12,000 are awaited. The positivity rate stands at 7.14% in the state at present. Uttarakhand currently has 458 containment zones in nine districts including maximum 291 in Haridwar district. The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday also fixed the price of antigen tests in NABH and NABL accredited private labs across the state at Rs 719. An order issued by state health secretary Amit Singh Negi mentions that after all tests, private labs are required to upload the test results on the website of Indian Council of Medical Research. Along with this, they also have to send a copy of the reports to the district chief medical officers and state surveillance officer. If the private labs are found to be violating the norms, then action can be taken against them under relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act. Meanwhile, chief minister Rawat on Wednesday sanctioned a sum of Rs 3 crores for prevention of Covid-19 in the state. The amount has been sanctioned from State Disaster Response Force fund to Doon Hospital affiliated to Doon Medical College for effective prevention of spread of Covid-19 in the state. Rawat also issued instructions to end the service of long-absent doctors in the state. He approved the proposal for termination of service of 81 medical officers who have remained absent from the State Medical and Health Services cadre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-reports-highest-single-day-covid-19-casualties-of-20/story-gUaKx0qw5pgwa8kJ5YwDbO.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Are all swimming pools open? When will schools reopen compulsorily?’: FAQs answered||The ministry of home affairs on Wednesday released guidelines for opening up of more activities in areas outside the containment zones. Multiplexes, swimming pools have been partially allowed to resume activities from October 15. States have been asked to take the final decision on the reopening of schools after October 15. State/UT governments have also been entrusted to fix the number of people to be allowed in social/political/religious gatherings. Here are some clarifications.1. Are all swimming pools open?No. Swimming pools being used for training of sportspersons will be permitted to open from October 15. A detailed guideline will be issued by the ministry of youth affairs and sports. Swimming pools inside containment zones are not allowed to reopen.Also Read: Re-opening guidelines out: MHA lets states reopen schools from 15 October. Conditions apply2. Is gathering outside containment zones allowed in October?State governments will decide this. At present, 100 people can gather for Social/ academic/ sports/ entertainment/ cultural/ religious/ political functions and other congregations.From October 15, state/ UT governments will decide whether the upper ceiling can be relaxed. But it will not be more than 200 persons if the gathering is in a closed space. 3. Are lockdowns going on in any state?Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra are the two states to have officially extended lockdowns till October 31, though several relaxations are being allowed simultaneously. State governments/UTs have been asked not to impose any local lockdown outside containment zones, without prior consultation with the Centre.Also Read: Movie theatres, swimming pools: What’s new in Centre’s guidelines for re-opening4. Are regular flights, trains back?Regular international passenger flights are still suspended. The suspension has now been extended till October 31. Vande Bharat Mission flights and air bubble flights are the only international routes operating.Regular domestic flights are on. Airlines are allowed to return to 60 per cent of their pre-Covid capacity as well. There has been no new announcement regarding domestic flights.Regular train services are still suspended. The Indian Railways is running special passengers trains, the number of which are being increased at regular intervals.Also Read: Suspension on commercial international passenger flights extended till Oct 315. Do we need a pass to travel from one state to another?No. “There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements,” the reopening guideline has said.6. Will booking counters open from October 15 as theatres are opening?No. Detailed guideline will be issued later. But according to the SOP prepared by the Multiplex Association of India, there will be no paper tickets now. 7. Are shopping malls, restaurants, hotels, gyms open in all states?Broadly yes, outside the containment zones as the Centre permitted these to reopen in the earlier phase of reopening. Maharashtra government has now allowed restaurants and bars to restart dine-in services.8. Will schools, colleges reopen after October 15?Not necessarily. The state governments will decided on whether to resume physical classes after October 15. This is applicable to states which have not yet decided a date. For instance, West Bengal government is likely to resume schools in November. Assam, Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Jammu & Kashmir have already resumed classes. Bihar and Tamil Nadu might reopen schools in October.9. When will schools reopen compulsorily?The Centre does not want to force school authorities to resume regular classes. There is no such date before which all schools will have to resume physical classes. Online classes will continue as is.10. Will attendance be enforced in schools that reopen?No. It will entirely depend on parental consent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-all-swimming-pools-open-when-will-schools-reopen-compulsorily-unlock-5-faqs-answered/story-zHKNlZ16KVIZSMRnbVTeSM.html
30-09-2020||India||TMC MP Nusrat Jahan seeks security in London alleging death threat on social media||Actor-turned-MP Nusrat Jahan of the Trinamool Congress, who is currently shooting in London for a Bengali film, has sought additional security cover saying she received death threats on social media for posting a video in which she was featured as Goddess Durga, news agency PTI reported. On September 17, Jahan posted on her Instagram and Twitter accounts photos and videos in which she was dressed like the Hindu Goddess and armed with a trident. More than one thousand comments were posted. Many of the comments came from residents of Bangladesh. While most people made fun of the actor, some were bitterly critical. A comment in Bengali read “You won’t be able to save yourself, your God of earth won’t be able to save you.. After your death you will realise your fault. There won’t be any excuses for you.” A senior officer at the Kolkata Police headquarters told HT that no official complaint was received till Wednesday evening. TMC leaders did not comment on the matter. Jahan could not be contacted. Jahan, who gets standard security cover as an MP, has taken up the matter with the West Bengal government and Ministry of External Affairs, seeking additional security arrangement during her outdoor shoots in London from September 27 to mid-October, her close aide told PTI on Wednesday. In a letter to the Indian High Commissioner in the UK on September 29, she said “I would like to inform you that I reached London two days back on my professional purpose and after reaching here I have received a death threat via my social media pages from some fundamentalists who belong to India and neighbouring country”. A copy of her letter was made available to PTI. Informing that she will be in London till October 16, Jahan said in the letter, “During my stay in London I require an immediate police protection as the threat is very serious and it is affecting my mental health. I would request you to kindly arrange to provide me a necessary protection in London”. She attached screen shots of two trolls on her mail box. One of them read, “Your time of death has come. You are fearful of Allah but cannot cover your body. Shame on you.” According to PTI, a member of Jahan’s team said “she has always stood up for secular and inclusive views and these trolls do not deter her.” Jahan had been trolled in the past by a section of Muslim fundamentalists for sporting sindoor and inaugurating a ISKCON Rathyatra. She had hit back, saying her faith in humanity and secularism does not prevent her from participating in religious festivals of other communities while believing in Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-nusrat-jahan-seeks-security-in-london-alleging-death-threat-on-social-media/story-QgmlmuZyDhlKtvVkiXtJOJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Amit Shah to chart strategy, stem rumblings in Bengal unit at Delhi meet||Amid reports of differences over recent elevation of former TMC leaders in the BJP hierarchy, the Bengal leaders have been called to Delhi to attend a key meet to be helmed by home minister Amit Shah.The former BJP president, who had set the target to oust the Trinamool government in 2021 after his party won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019, will chart out the strategies to be followed by the West Bengal unit in the run-up to the coming assembly polls. Bengal leaders called to Delhi are state president Dilip Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy and, quite significantly, Rahul Sinha, who expressed his grievance in public after being removed from the post of national secretary during the reshuffle on Saturday. On being replaced by Anupam Hazra, a much younger leader who left the TMC and joined the BJP in January 2019, Sinha rued the fact that after a service of 40 years to the party he was removed to make way for TMC leaders. In the same reshuffle, Roy, who had been a BJP national executive member since 2017, when he left the TMC, was made national vice-president. “The meeting has been called to discuss an overall strategy to be followed across Bengal. Differences that have emerged over elevation of former TMC leaders in the BJP hierarchy will also be ironed out,” a senior state BJP leader aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity. “No constituency-specific policy will be discussed at this meeting. Only core issues will be discussed on Thursday,” he told HT. There is a speculation in the BJP state unit that Roy may be entrusted with the task of overseeing the Bengal unit’s election machinery since the BJP performed well in the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha election when he was convenor of the state election committee. He was able to bring over many TMC leaders to the BJP.Sinha’s journey to Delhi was marked by an agitation by his supporters at the Kolkata airport on Wednesday afternoon. More than a hundred men and women blocked his path outside the entrance to the airport, asking him not to take the flight. “We do not want the BJP to turn into a B-team of the TMC,” the BJP workers shouted. “I am going to Delhi as I have been invited. Let me attend the meeting and return. I will talk to you,” Sinha told his supporters. Other than Shah, BJP central leaders to attend the meeting are Arvind Menon, Shivprakash, Kailash Vijayvargiya and party president JP Nadda. Menon, Shivprakash and Vijayvargiya are tasked with overseeing the Bengal organisation on behalf of the central leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rumblings-in-bengal-unit-amit-shah-summons-top-state-leaders-to-delhi/story-m9vW1k5i2hQYFFGa5hFGuO.html
30-09-2020||India||BJP’s Tejasvi Surya reiterates ‘Bengaluru terror hub’ remark||Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Tejasvi Surya on his maiden visit to Bengaluru after assuming the national post of the party said that he remained committed to his remark that “Bengaluru had become a terror hub”. Surya had made the comments citing the violence in DJ Halli and KG Halli which led to burning down of an MLA’s residence and attack on a police station in which three people died.“My blood boiled when the violence took place with the Congress giving tacit encouragement to PFI’s thuggish behaviour. The Congress should apolgise for its role,” Surya added. The young BJP leader represents the Bengaluru South constituency in Parliament. His remark that the city had emerged as an epicentre of terrorism had attracted severe criticism from the Congress and JD(S).KPCC President D K Shivakumar had demanded that Surya should be sacked adding his statements were destroying the brand equity of the city known as a technology innovation hub. JD(S) leader Kumaraswamy too had criticised the remarks.However, Surya said his demand for a branch of NIA to be established in Bengaluru seems to have created heartburn in Congress as “it will destroy its match fixing with SDPI (the political arm of PFI).” The MP also said Bengaluru was the place which had given him both education and food, with BJP giving him a sense of Asmita (pride). He thanked the party leadership for giving the responsibility “to an ordinary youth who used to tie party flags to poles. This is only possible in BJP, as all other parties function like private limited companies,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-tejasvi-surya-reiterates-bengaluru-terror-hub-remark/story-AkGfjyDTsOakF6INljWGaM.html
30-09-2020||India||BJP, Congress slam Odisha govt over Covid management, CM tweets WHO praise||Opposition Congress and BJP on Wednesday slammed the Naveen Patnaik government over its alleged poor management of Covid-19 in the state, accusing it of dressing up figures even as the government claimed that the World Health Organisation has praised Odisha’s effective governance and community-based strategies to fight the pandemic.Participating in an adjournment motion brought by BJP and Congress members on government’s alleged failures in Covid management, Congress leader Narasingha Mishra said all that the government has managed to do is fool a lot of people through fake statistics and statements.“In my home district of Bolangir, 29 ventilators in Covid hospitals are not working due to lack of necessary infrastructure. Covid-19 test results are taking a long time to come resulting in deaths. Even the kind of conditions that the Covid patients have to endure in hospitals is sickening. People are dying after they are being forcibly discharged from Covid hospitals. In Sonepur district headquarter hospital, patients could not defecate as there was no water supply for two days. Covid tests are coming down over days as doctors are being told to bring down the numbers. What certificate is the government talking about,” said Mishra.Similarly, Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati too alleged that all the claims of the government of being a model state in Covid management did not reflect on ground. “Though the government claims that ventilators and ICU beds are available in the state, there have been several instances in Bhubaneswar when people have died while trying to arrange beds for their near and dear. The tests are going down to make the Covid statistics look good. Even Lord Jagannath would not pardon the lies that the government is peddling in the name of Covid management. The chief minister should see the reality on ground,” said Bahinipati.BJP leader Jaynarayan Mishra also criticised the government, saying deaths numbers were being fudged to show that things are in control. “Everyday 10-15 deaths are being shown while the reality is something different. People are not getting beds,” he alleged.Early in the day, chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted an article from WHO website which praised Odisha for early lockdown, setting up the country’s first dedicated Covid-19 hospital, temporary medical camps to manage the huge influx of migrants, multisectoral collaboration, community-based disaster management, community engagement and mentoring support programs.Health minister Naba Kishore Das also said that Odisha has been doing a lot better in terms of Covid management than other states of India. “While the national mortality rate in the viral disease is at 1.6%, Odisha’s rate is as low as 0.38%. Odisha now has active cases just over 36,000. Out of this 29,000 positive patients are currently in home quarantine, while just 7348 patients are being treated in Covid hospitals,” he said.“If the government has failed in Covid management, then how these patients are recovering from the serious disease that has claimed more than 800 lives and infected over 2 lakh people in the state,” he asked.However, Congress MLA Santosh Singh Saluja said 10,000 people are getting infected daily but the government is only providing data of 3000-4000 people.The opposition also hit out at the government in getting the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill 2020 passed, saying it was meant to target opposition. “As per the Bill, anybody who dares to question the government would be dragged to court. If this bill is allowed to become a law, time will come when the government will not hesitate to pull the Opposition parties to the court too for raking up issues concerning the common man,” Mishra alleged.Leader of Opposition Pradipta Naik said the penalty provision of Rs 1 lakh and jail provision was actually meant to silence opposition. “Using this provision, the government can get opposition leaders arrested,” he alleged. The Bill has a provision of a jail term of up to two years and a fine amounting up to Rs 1 Lakh for anybody violating the act.Meanwhile, the state government today said all its offices in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack would function with 50% strength of employees (all staff including Group-A Officers) during the month of October. All state government offices throughout the State will remain closed on Saturdays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-slam-odisha-govt-over-covid-management-cm-tweets-who-praise/story-EKmKbtLPY4x2pepnuEN5QI.html
30-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bars, restaurants in Maharashtra to operate with 50% capacity from Oct 5 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till October 31, Mumbai local to allow dabbawalasThe Maharashtra government on Wednesday said that the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has been extended till October 31. However, hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars will be allowed to operate from October 5 with 50% capacity, the state government added. Read moreCongress seeks Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal’s resignation over police recruitment scamPointing fingers at the ruling BJP, the opposition Congress in Assam have demanded chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s resignation over the job recruitment scam in the state’s police department. The Assam unit of the Congress staged a protest rally in Guwahati on Wednesday seeking the resignation of Sonowal over the police recruitment scam. Read morePlea in SC seeks CBI probe into Hathras gang rape caseA plea was filed in the Supreme Court on Wednesday seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team (SIT) into the Hathras gang rape case alleging failure by the Uttar Pradesh authorities in dealing with the matter. Read moreBlack History Month: UK postboxes change colour to honour Black BritonsFour of Britain’s distinctive red postboxes have been painted black and gold and adorned with images by or of illustrious Black Britons, in a novel way of celebrating Black History Month. One of Britain’s most recognisable symbols, red pillar boxes appear on countless postcards and souvenir items, while tourists can often be seen posing for photographs next to the postboxes. Read moreIPL 2020: They’ll always be there - Shane Warne names four teams who will finish on top and make the play-offs in Indian Premier LeagueFormer Australia leg-spinner and current Rajasthan Royals mentor Shane Warne named the four sides who he thinks will make it to the play-offs of IPL 2020. It’s still early days in the tournament but the four sides - Rajasthan Royals, Delhi Capitals, Royal Challengers Bangalore and Kings XI Punjab - who generally languish at the bottom half of the points table in the IPL are hogging the top four spots currently. Read moreThe Crown: First pics from season 4 show Emma Connor as Princess Diana, Olivia Colman returns as the QueenThe first pictures of much-awaited Netflix series The Crown are out and they give us a glimpse at young Princess Diana ( Emma Corrin) as well as Queen Elizabeth II (Olivia Colman) who wishes to secures the appropriate wife for Prince Charles (Josh O’Connor) in the upcoming season. Read moreTravel blogger recreates vacation photos with household items, results are hilariousThe cool ocean breeze, the crisp mountain air or the beauty of untravelled locations - these are some of the things that people who love to travel have been missing over the past few months. However, some creative people have come up with their own ways to relive the experience of travelling to different destinations. Read moreDouble Take: From Priyanka Chopra to Madhubala, the resemblance of these doppelgangers to their celebrity counterparts is uncannyIt is the easiest way to unlock your phone, it sits pretty within your wallet on your driving license, if you’re lucky it may have gotten you out of more than a few sticky situations and although coronavirus times have forced half of it into hiding, your face will always be the easiest way to identify you. Read moreWatch| Babri Demolition Verdict: What next? Yug Mohit Chaudhry | On The Record||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bars-restaurants-in-mumbai-to-operate-with-50-capactiy-from-oct-5-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9kabnH2NyctH8abBynXjYK.html
30-09-2020||India||Demand for tribal state surfaced in violence in Rajasthan, say police||Attempts to radicalise tribal youths in south Rajasthan started two years ago and Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) leaders have added fuel to the attempts, said a Rajasthan Police intelligence report seen by HT.The report prepared after violence in Dungarpur and Udaipur districts said people from Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are part of the campaign. The intelligence report named several people, including BTP MLAs - all of whom denied the charges.Hundreds of tribal youths resorted to violence last week, blocking Udaipur-Ahmedabad national highway, pelting police with stones, damaging property and torching vehicles with the demand for recruitment to vacant posts of teachers in the Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) area.The intel report pegged the loss at Rs 110 crore. “Name of Tarachand Bhagora, former Congress MP from Dungarpur-Banswara , BTP MLAs Ramprasad Dindor and Rajkumar Roat, and other groups associated with the demands of creating a separate state for the tribals has surfaced in the violence. It has been found that it was a pre-planned activity in which youngsters from Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh also participated. They could be identified from their language,” the report said. The report sent to chief minister Ashok Gehlot recommended criminal cases against all these people, and said the licence of Vangad Mazdoor Kisan Sangathan, a non-profit, should be cancelled.The two-page report underlined the people in the Udaipur division - comprising Udaipur, Banswara, Dungarpur, Pratapgarh and Chittorgarh districts - have been demanding a separate ‘Bhil Pradesh’ for many years. They want Mangarh Dham as its capital. “Just like Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, some groups are giving rise to extremism and their aim is to create a Bhil Autonomous Council in every village. Radicals of Jharkhand organised an event in Ranchi on September 19 last year in which BTP MLA Dindor was the chief guest. Tribal people from south Rajasthan also went to Jharkhand during the Assembly election,” the intelligence report said. The tribal groups want Bhil Pradesh to be carved out from tribal-dominated areas of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat.The report also mentioned incidents of desecration in the area in 2018. “On August 27, 2018, in Sajjangarh police station area of Banswara one idol of Ganesh was damaged and an idol of Hanuman was stolen. On August 30, 2018, at least 30 to 40 people forcefully removed the flag from the Sonar Mata temple in Salumbar region. In this way, an attempt has been made to create enmity between tribal and non-tribal people,” the report said. BTP MLA Ramprasad Dindor said he has never been to Jharkhand all his life. “We have evidence to prove that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress are behind last week’s violence,” he said.“Why don’t these political parties understand that our region has a different culture, different dialect, etc? Why is the government imposing civil laws while there are different provisions for tribal people?” Dindor asked. Refuting allegations against himself, former Congress MP Bhagora said, “The BTP has made some message groups through which they can call mob of youngsters in short time.” He agreed that people from Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh participated in the violence. BTP MLA Rajkumar Roat said that the party was a soft target because its stature was growing in the area. “Stone pelting, communal incidents happen in other parts of state too but why are they not called Naxals or radicals there? Where was the government for the last 18 days when the candidates were protesting silently? Neither we provoked the youngsters and nor do we support violence but the demands of candidates were unheard,” said Roat. Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Raghuvir Singh Meena said that the state government had created a committee in the past to look after the recruitment issues. “However, we had to take a step back due to Covid-19. The Congress party is very serious about the issues of the tribals,” he added. Meena said the role of BTP in this violence is under scanner. “Nobody can deny that unwanted people from Chhattisgarh joined them. BTP presents unrealistic dreams in front of youngsters and try to brainwash their minds in the name of their rights,” he alleged.Former home minister and leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said that when he was home minister, there were many meetings called by the BTP in the Kherwara and Rishabhdeo blocks in which people from Jharkhand were present. “Their activities are suspicious and I have written to the chief minister about it a few days back,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-tribal-state-surfaced-in-violence-in-rajasthan-say-police/story-WnWlVGvs6EqbpbvE2s0o5O.html
30-09-2020||India||Suspension on commercial international passenger flights extended till Oct 31||The suspension on commercial international passenger flights has been extended till October 31, the government announced on Wednesday. However, the restriction will not be applicable for international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA.“In partial modification of circular dated 26-06-2020, the competent authority has further extended the validity of circular issued on the subject cited above regarding Scheduled International commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs IST of 31st October, 2020, the Centre said in a statement.However, International Scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on case to case basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-on-commercial-international-passenger-flights-extended-till-october-31/story-OVLvtpg9v9XeBToyEkWqUJ.html
30-09-2020||India||October reopening:These four activities are still prohibited. Check list||The Centre on Wednesday released guidelines in continuation with the gradual unlocking that began in June 8. Starting with essential activities to special train services to finally metro trains and schools and colleges, the Centre has been following a calculated step-by-step approach to ensure economic activities despite Covid-19 control.In its October guideline, it has allowed cinema halls, multiplexes and swimming pools to resume function from October 15. Movie theatres, multiplexes will open with only 50 per cent capacity. Several associations of movie theatres have been pressing the government for this permission, especially after the Centre reopened malls and gyms.Also read: Re-opening guidelines out; multiplexes, swimming pools to partially open from October 15However, there are some activities which are not yet allowed.1. Swimming pools for recreational purpose. It may be noted that the Centre has allowed swimming pools to reopen which are only used for the training of sportspersons.2. Social/ academic/ sports/ entertainment/ cultural/ religious/ political functions and other congregations in containment zones3. Similar such gatherings outside containment zones with more than 100 people — if state government don’t permit. Gatherings in closed spaces with more than 50% of the hall capacity, or more than 200 persons.4. International air travel of passengers, except as permitted by MHA. Apart from these broad guidelines, the states may impose a few restrictions though the Unlock 5 guideline has made it clear that no lockdown can be imposed outside containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-these-four-activities-are-still-prohibited-check-list/story-RANoLFmb0aUyBBzokMPETK.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Babri demolition verdict an inspiration for temple in Mathura’: Karnataka minister||Karnataka’s rural development and Panchayat Raj minister K S Eshwarapa who is also a former president of the state BJP unit on Wednesday welcomed the verdict which acquitted 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case saying it would provide inspiration for a similar movement in Mathura.The minister said, “Today’s verdict is an inspiration for building a grand mandir of Sri Krishna at Mathura. The mosque there too will have to eventually go and a temple for Lord Krishna has to come up.” Eshwarappa who was speaking to reporters at Shivamogga added, “It is a joyous day for all nationalists and the verdict is not limited to Ayodhya. It will inspire all of us for a similar movement at Mathura.”Earlier in the day, chief minister BS Yediyurappa also welcomed the verdict saying that he too had played a part in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and added that with today’s verdict, “Truth has prevailed. Acquittal of all BJP leaders has vindicated the law abiding nature of the party. Efforts to sully the BJP’s image have failed. Verdict has reinforced people’s belief in Indian judiciary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-verdict-an-inspiration-for-temple-in-mathura-karnataka-minister/story-aj5Ca8mGd1mZI2Es15b6oN.html
30-09-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks CBI probe into Hathras gang rape case||A plea was filed in the Supreme Court on Wednesday seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team (SIT) into the Hathras gang rape case alleging failure by the Uttar Pradesh authorities in dealing with the matter.The petition filed by a social activist, Satyama Dubey and two lawyers Vishal Thakre and Rudra Pratap Yadav claimed that grave injustice was done to the victim and her family who belonged to Scheduled Caste as her body was cremated by the police personnel without the consent of the family members.“Police personnel after getting the dead body of deceased cremated the same without the consent of the family members of the deceased. Police authorities have not performed their duties towards the victim and (are) trying to shield the accused persons. Grave injustice had been done to the victim and the system is silent on the issue,” the petition said.The victim, a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang raped and brutalized by four upper caste men on September 14 and breathed her last on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdurjung hospital.Her body was allegedly cremated by Uttar Pradesh police in a hurry in the early hours of Wednesday without the consent of the family members though the UP police has refuted this claim.The plea in the Supreme Court also sought a transfer of the trial in the case from UP to Delhi.“The case may be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation or an SIT be formed to investigate the matter under a sitting or retired Supreme Court or High Court Judge, (and) trial of the matter may be transferred from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi,” the petitioners prayed.Earlier in the day, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath said a fast-track court will handle the case for speedy justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-seeks-cbi-probe-into-hathras-rape-and-murder-case/story-KbxDOGfISvETnB0UKmpHTO.html
30-09-2020||India||Congress seeks Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal’s resignation over police recruitment scam||Pointing fingers at the ruling BJP, the opposition Congress in Assam have demanded chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s resignation over the job recruitment scam in the state’s police department. The Assam unit of the Congress staged a protest rally in Guwahati on Wednesday seeking the resignation of Sonowal over the police recruitment scam. Congress’s state unit president Ripun Bora and MLA Rakibul Hussain and dozens of party workers were detained by the police.The written exam to recruit T587 sub-inspectors (SI) was cancelled on September 20 after the question paper got leaked and was found circulating on Whatsapp. Nearly 64,000 applicants were scheduled to appear for the examination. At present, the crime branch and criminal investigation department (CID) are probing the leak and have arrested over a dozen suspects. However, a retired IPS officer and a BJP leader, both believed to have played a key role in providing applicants with question papers in lieu of cash, are absconding. “Sonowal should resign on moral grounds and seek a fresh mandate from the people in view of the government’s failure to keep electoral promises and exposure of multiple recruitment scams including the latest one in the police,” said Congress MLA and leader of opposition in assembly Debabrata Saikia. “After coming to power the government headed by Sonowal has been depriving jobs to eligible youth by operating illegal job syndicates and the SI recruitment scam is the latest one. The nefarious racket is being operated from the CM’s secretariat with involvement of various BJP leaders,” he added. Sonowal on Wednesday reiterated the government’s resolve in ensuring that all accused involved in the police recruitment scam are nabbed and brought to justice. He also assured that no deserving young men will be deprived of jobs because of such scams. “Within 15 minutes of the reported leak of the question papers, the state government cancelled the examination and ordered an inquiry. There have been several cases of question paper leaks under various governments since 1952, but never did any government act so expeditiously and transparently,” he said in a programme in Guwahati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-assam-cm-sarbananda-sonowal-s-resignation-over-police-recruitment-scam/story-e3E7ELSe5coE2z1LOXWDYM.html
30-09-2020||India||School reopening: If students prefer online classes, allow them to do so, says Centre||The Centre on Wednesday released a detailed guideline on how resume educational activities in October. In its unlock 4.0 guideline, it had allowed states to allow senior students to come to the campuses for guidance from September 21. However, not many states readily accepted the idea owing to the resistance from the parents as well. In its latest guideline, the MHA has spelt out a detailed plan.Opening of Schools, colleges, education institutions and coaching institutions1. For re-opening of schools and coaching institutions, State/ UT Governments have been given the flexibility to take a decision after October 15, 2020, in a graded manner. The decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective school/ institution management, based on their assessment of the situation, and subject to the following conditions:* Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.* Where schools are conducting online classes, and some students prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so.*Students may attend schools/ institutions only with the written consent of parents.* Attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent.2. States /UTs will prepare their own SOP regarding health and safety precautions for reopening of schools/ institutions based on the SOP to be issued by Department of School Education and Literacy (DoSEL), Ministry of Education, Government of India, keeping local requirements in view.3. Schools, which are allowed to open, will have to mandatorily follow the SOP to be issued by Education Departments of States/ UTs.4. Department of Higher Education (DHE), Ministry of Education may take a decision on the timing of the opening of Colleges/ Higher Education Institutions, in consultation with Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), based on the assessment of the situation. Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.5. However, Higher Education Institutions only for research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory/ experimental works will be permitted to open from 15th October, 2020, as under:* For Centrally Funded Higher Education Institutions, the Head of Institution will satisfy herself/ himself that there is a genuine requirement of research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology stream for laboratory/experimental works.*For all other Higher Education Institutions e.g. State Universities, Private Universities etc., they may open only for research scholars (Ph.D) and postgraduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory/experimental works as per decision to be taken by the respective State/UT Governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-reopening-if-students-prefer-online-classes-allow-them-to-do-so-says-centre/story-8MhJGpKQy7NaqQ28zqoLMJ.html
30-09-2020||India||PM Modi offered me chief ministership for 5 years if JDS allied with BJP: Kumaraswamy||Janata Dal (Secular) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Wednesday claimed that in 2018 Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself offered him the Chief Ministership of Karnataka for an uninterrupted five years if his party joined hands with the BJP. The May 2018 assembly polls had thrown up a hung assembly with BJP nine seats short of a simple majority in the 224-member House. The JD(S) eventually joined hands with the Congress to form a coalition government which lasted 14 months before some legislators of both parties quit and crossed over to the BJP.Kumaraswamy made this claim while addressing his party workers in Sira of Tumkur district. Sira and RR Nagar constituencies in Karnataka are going to bypolls on November 3. Sira was represented by JD(S) till its legislator B Sathyanaryana succumbed to Covid-19 on August 5 necessitating the bypoll. “PM Modi himself offered me the CM’s post for five years and said nobody will touch you during that period,” Kumaraswamy said without elaborating anymore.He also took a swipe at the JD (S)’s former alliance partner Congress. “Despite declining the CM’s post due to ill-health the Congress begged me also to take over reins but the experiment didn’t last due to the perverse mentality of some leaders of that party,” the former chief minister said.The BJP ridiculed Kumaraswamy’s claim. “He has a habit of making up things when convenient to him. How can he make the claim without a shred of evidence? JD(S) is a party fighting to remain politically relevant. Nobody will take his claims seriously,” said S Prakash, BJP spokesperson.Earlier in the day, leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramiah also ruled out any possibility of joining hands with its former ally JD(S) to jointly take on the BJP. “Congress is a strong national party which is capable of fighting (the BJP) on its own. There is no question of any tie-up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-offered-me-chief-ministership-for-5-years-if-jds-allied-with-bjp-kuamraswamy/story-urQUjn6aVABNtf7bVAQ8gJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Re-opening guidelines out: MHA lets states reopen schools from 15 October. Conditions apply||State governments have been given a free hand to reopen schools after 15 October under the Centre’s Unlock 5.0 guidelines announced by the Union home ministry on Wednesday. A decision on opening colleges would be taken later. Institutions that have doctoral and postgraduate researchers in science and technology streams that require laboratory work can also open.The home ministry guidelines require state governments to reopen schools in a graded manner in consultation with the management of schools and based on their assessment of the situation. This flexibility to the states to decide on reopening schools, however, is contingent on six conditions listed by the Union home ministry.1. Online and distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.2. Where schools are conducting online classes, and some students prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so.Also read: Re-opening guidelines out; multiplexes, swimming pools to partially open from October 153. Students may attend schools and institutions only with the written consent of parents.4. Attendance must not be enforced and must depend entirely on parental consent.5. States will prepare their own standard operating procedure regarding health and safety precautions for reopening of schools based on the procedures to be outlined by the Union education ministry.6. Schools, which are allowed to open, will have to mandatorily follow the SOP to be issued by the state education department.In Wednesday’s Unlock 5.0 guidelines, the Centre hasn’t spelt out its stand on reopening colleges and institutions of higher education. The timing of reopening colleges would be taken by the department of higher education in consultation with the Union home ministry based on the assessment of the situation, the guidelines said.Online learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching for colleges and shall be encouraged.Also read| Movie theatres, swimming pools: What’s new in Centre’s guidelines for re-openingInstitutions with doctoral research scholars and post-graduate students in science and technology stream shall be permitted to open from 15 October.The decision on reopening these institutions run by the central government would be taken by its head, who will have to satisfy himself/herself that there is a genuine requirement of research scholars of the two streams to come for laboratory or experimental works.The state government has been empowered to decide on reopening individual institutions under state and private universities for research scholars from the science and technology stream||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-guidelines-for-re-opening-home-ministry-lets-states-reopen-schools-from-15-october-conditions-apply/story-qJGJc99bRtTawMnbo5DDZI.html
30-09-2020||India||From airport expansion to jobs for former rebels; CM Mamata showers sops on north Bengal||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced several major projects for five districts in north Bengal with a new medical college and hospital, expansion of the Bagdogra airport and major grants for different communities figuring prominently in her list. The chief minister virtually laid the foundation stone of Jalpaiguri Medical College and Hospital and granted 104 acres of land for the expansion of Bagdogra airport near Siliguri town. “Night landing has already started at Bagdogra. More flights will operate after the expansion,” she said while handing over land documents to the chairman of the airport. The government also announced that 161 former members of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO) would be employed as home guards so that they can be rehabilitated. Formed in 1995, the KLO carried out an armed struggle for a separate state for the local Rajbanshi community which comprises a sizeable section of voters. While addressing an administrative meeting with officials from Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts, Banerjee made a series of announcements but did not hide her grievance, saying the government’s sincere efforts were not appreciated. She did not directly refer to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in which the Bharatiya Janata Party won seven of the eight seats in the region. Banerjee also announced a grant of Rs 5 crore for the Rajbanshi Language Academy and Rs 10 crore for the Rajbanshi Development and Cultural Board. “We will also set up a second campus of the Panchanan Barma University and for this a 50 acre land has been earmarked at Mathabhanga,” said the chief minister. Barma is the most prominent face of the Rajbanhsi community since he carried out the first movement against caste politics. The chief minister reached out to other communities as well. She handed over monthly allowance and home building funds to the chief priest of the famous Madan Mohan temple at Cooch Behar Palace. Banerjee announced that Cooch Behar Medical College and Hospital would be renamed after Maharaja Jitendra Narayan, the former king of Cooch Behar who died in 1922. Among his five children was Gayatri Devi who was married to Maharaja Sawai Man Singh II of Jaipur. Jitendra Narayan was married to Indira Raje, daughter of Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of Baroda. The state government also announced that Rs 6 crore had been granted for the second phase of renovation at the Katherine Graham Memorial Chapel in Kalimpong. The chief minster gave a grant of Rs 175 crore to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, the district council in the Darjeeling hill region. “So much has been done by us for north Bengal and yet some people only spread canards. Our projects are not being publicised. Something has to be done about this,” said Banerjee. Banerjee’s efforts however did not satisfy everyone. Bangshibadan Barman, general secretary of Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association (GCPA) and chairman of both the Rajbanshi Language Academy and the Rajbanshi Development and Cultural Board, did not attend the administrative meetings held on Tuesday and Wednesday although he was invited as he had been tested for Covid-19. When contacted by HT, Barman said, “Rajbanshis comprise 52 per cent of the population in Cooch Behar and 40 per cent in four other districts. The amount sanctioned by the government so far is not enough to run the board which looks after the welfare of the community in entire north Bengal.” Barman made it clear that he was not in favour of any political party. “Whoever works for the Rajbanshi community will get my support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-airport-expansion-to-jobs-for-former-rebels-cm-mamata-showers-sops-on-north-bengal/story-IivfGTwG7zNTm061ABbyPJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Movie theatres, swimming pools: What’s new in Centre’s guidelines for re-opening||The Centre on Wednesday announced new guidelines for re-opening of several activities such as restarting movie theatres, schools and colleges among other things.The Ministry of Health Affairs in its guidelines also said that swimming pools will be permitted to reopen but only for training purpose of sportspersons. Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports (MoYA&S) will issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) regarding that.Ever since the country went into a complete lockdown late March this year as a precautionary measure against rising spread of coronavirus (Covid-19), the Centre has announced significant relaxations in phases. Though there has been a rise in Covid-19 cases India, the government had assured that there would be more relaxations.Here are the complete features of the new guidelines:Activities permitted from 15th October 2020, in areas outside the Containment Zones:- Cinemas/ theatres/ multiplexes will be permitted to open with up to 50% of their seating capacity, for which, SOP will be issued by Ministry of Information & Broadcasting.- Business to Business (B2B) Exhibitions will be permitted to open, for which, SOP will be issued by the Department of Commerce.- Swimming pools being used for training of sportspersons will be permitted to open, for which the standard operating procedure (SOP) will be issued by Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports (MoYA&S). - Entertainment parks and similar places will be permitted to open, for which the SOP will be issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW).- Opening of Schools, colleges, education institutions and coaching institutions-- For re-opening of schools and coaching institutions, State/ UT Governments have been given the flexibility to take a decision after 15th October 2020, in a graded manner. -- The decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective school/ institution management, based on their assessment of the situation, and subject to the following conditions:-- Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.-- Where schools are conducting online classes, and some students prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so.-- Students may attend schools/ institutions only with the written consent of parents.-- Attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent.Also read | Re-opening guidelines out; multiplexes, swimming pools to partially open from October 15-- States /UTs will prepare their own SOP regarding health and safety precautions for reopening of schools/ institutions based on the SOP to be issued by Department of School Education and Literacy (DoSEL), Ministry of Education, Government of India, keeping local requirements in view.-- Schools, which are allowed to open, will have to mandatorily follow the SOP to be issued by Education Departments of States/ UTs.-- Department of Higher Education (DHE), Ministry of Education may take a decision on the timing of the opening of Colleges/ Higher Education Institutions, in consultation with Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), based on the assessment of the situation. Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.-- However, Higher Education Institutions only for research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory/ experimental works will be permitted to open from 15th October, 2020, as under:-- For Centrally Funded Higher Education Institutions, the Head of Institution will satisfy herself/ himself that there is a genuine requirement of research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology stream for laboratory/experimental works.-- For all other Higher Education Institutions e.g. State Universities, Private Universities etc., they may open only for research scholars (Ph.D) and postgraduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory/experimental works as per decision to be taken by the respective State/UT Governments.- Regulation of gatheringsSocial/ academic/ sports/ entertainment/ cultural/ religious/ political functions and other congregations have already been permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons, outside Containment Zones only. Now State/ UT Governments have been given the flexibility to permit such gatherings beyond the limit of 100 persons, outside Containment Zones, after 15th October 2020, which will be subject to the following conditions:In closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitizer will be mandatory.In open spaces, keeping the size of the ground/ space in view, and with strict observance of social distancing, mandatory wearing of face masks, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitizer.To ensure that such gatherings do not spread Covid-19, State/ UT Governments will issue detailed SOPs to regulate such gathering, and strictly enforce the same.All activities, except the following, shall be permitted outside containment zones: - International air travel of passengers, except as permitted by MHA.- Entertainment parks and similar places will remain closed.- Lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the Containment Zones till 31st October, 2020.- Containment Zones shall be demarcated by the District authorities at micro level after taking into consideration the guidelines of MoHFW with the objective of effectively breaking the chain of transmission. Strict containment measures will be enforced in these containment zones and only essential activities will be allowed.Also read | Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till October 31, Mumbai allows relaxations on local trainsWithin the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities allowed. These Containment Zones will be notified on the websites of the respective District Collectors and by the States/ UTs and information will also be shared with MOHFW.- States not to impose any local lockdown outside Containment ZonesState/ UT Governments shall not impose any local lockdown (State/ District/ sub-division/City/ village level), outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the Central Government.- No restriction on Inter-State and intra-State movementThere shall be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-guidelines-new-rules-relaxations-restrictions/story-SX5aD5nBbxsDhMeI9dcSvO.html
30-09-2020||India||New motor vehicle rules from October 1: No need to carry driving license?||From October 1, a number of new motor vehicle rules are coming in force, aimed at ensuring commuter convenience. The Union ministry of road transport and highways has notified these new rules.“Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MoRTH) has recently issued notifications regarding various amendments in Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989 requiring the implementation of enforcement, Maintenance of Vehicular Documents and E-Challans through portal w.e.f 1.10.2020 for better monitoring and enforcement of MV Rules,” MoRTH said in a statement. Use of IT services and electronic monitoring will result in better enforcement of traffic rules in the country and will lead to removing harassment of drivers and would facilitate the citizens, it said.Here are the new rules:1. Carrying vehicle license, registration certificate, insurance documents etc., will not be required from October if these documents are validated through government portal. 2. The documents can be uploaded on Digi-locker or m-Parivahan. Both these apps are available in any playstore. One can register through their mobile number. 3. Revoking driving license will also happen digitally. 4. Records of license being disqualified etc., will be digitally stored.5. E-challans will be issued on the portal. 6. Drivers can only use mobile phones for route navigation while driving. These changes, to be effective from October 1, were brought in by the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Bill, 2019,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-motor-vehicle-rules-from-october-1-no-need-to-carry-driving-license/story-YWLfGfCnBfqOh2MP3NiiwJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Kanha National Park now a Maoist habitat: Police||Kanha National Park, also known for high density of tigers, spread across Balaghat and Mandla districts of Madhya Pradesh is now virtually under strong Maoists influence with the forest department officials having to provide rebels grains, groceries and other essentials, according to a police officer.Kanha is considered one of the finest tiger reserves in the country having over 130 tigers, as per 2018 tiger estimate. The tiger density is most after Corbett National Park, Kaziranga National Park and Ranthambore tiger reserve. The park has been doing well till about two years ago when the Maoists facing pressure from security forces in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh decided to shift to the dense and difficult terrain of Kanha for a safe haven. Police said that in 2017 the rebels formed a platoon to increase its influence in the region and started recruiting locals. Abhishek Tiwari, superintendent of police (SP), Balaghat, said Maoists influence was earlier restricted to just the buffer zone of Kanha tiger reserve, which they used as a route to and from Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra.“Now Maoists of Vistar Dalam (the platoon) have shifted to the core area of the reserve in Mandla and Balaghat districts and are using it as a gateway to enhance their reach to other parts of MP including Vindhya region,” he said.The SP said this was revealed by Maoist leader Badal Singh Markam, who was arrested by Balaghat police after an encounter on September 18. On basis of his interrogation, the police found three dumps of arms, ammunition and essential items from the core area of Kanha.A tiger reserve is divided into buffer and core zones with the latter being most guarded for animals. An officer of Madhya Pradesh’s anti-Naxal wing said Maoists’ presence in the core area of the tiger reserve was a new and different type of challenge as movement of people is restricted in the core area, which has poor mobile connectivity.“The forest guards can help but they are scared and are providing dry ration to Maoists,” he said.Balaghat police have issued an advisory to forest officers of Kanha Tiger Reserve asking them to provide them information about the presence of rebels.“Forest department officials should cooperate with police as it is their fundamental duty,” inspector general of police, Balaghat, KP Venkateshwar, who issued the advisory. He said that the police have assured the forest guards of security if they provide information or action would be initiated against them.The Kanha forest department officials refused to speak on record on the advisory and Maoists now having virtual control of the park.A deputy ranger at the reserve, not willing to be named, said the forest guards have no option.“Armed Maoists come to patrolling camps located at every 8-10 sq km of core area and ask for ration from the guard. Our guards are unarmed and they have no option but to give them the ration. They can’t put their life at risk by challenging them,” he said. MP’s additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), JS Chauhan, said: “Earlier, the movement of Maoists was in a buffer zone so it was easy for police to take action but now their movement has shifted to a dense core zone and it is difficult for forest authorities to locate them. The unarmed guards, who are protecting wildlife in the core area and living in camps can’t resist Maoists and risk their lives by sharing information with police.”He, however, said that all possible help was being provided to the police. The police officials said Maoists movement has increased in and around Kanha, especially during lockdown, when surveillance in the forest areas was low.The anti-Naxal wing officer, quoted above, said special zone secretary for Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone Deepak Teltumbde alias Jeeva has been spotted in Mandla and Balaghat region for recruiting the locals.Maoists had also allegedly killed a 30-year-old migrant labourer in June this year in Balaghat on the suspicion of being a police informer. As many as 800 personnel of the anti-Naxal Force have been deployed in Balaghat division to combat Maoists, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanha-where-jungle-book-s-mowgli-came-to-life-now-a-maoist-habitat-police/story-EyQ1B4zlhKWmhpJJz1nzAJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Andhra CM Jagan sets up 56 welfare corporations for as many OBC communities||In a first of its kind exercise, the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has announced formation of 56 welfare corporations for as many castes falling under Other Backward Classes (OBC) category. The names of chairpersons and directors for each corporation were supposed to be announced on Wednesday, but the announcement was deferred due to some last-minute changes. “It will be done on October 8 and the new corporations would come into force with immediate effect,” an official spokesman in the chief minister’s office said. Hitherto, there was only one welfare corporation for the all the OBC communities in the state. However, in its election manifesto, the YSRC had promised to constitute separate corporations for each OBC community.“There will be a separate corporation for each OBC community having a population of at least 30,000. Separate funds will be allocated to each corporation for the welfare of the community,” the CMO spokesman said. He said hitherto neglected OBC communities like Vannikula Kshatriya, Agnikula Kshatriya, Besta, Ediga, Nagavamshiyulu and Pulanati Velama would also have separate corporations. The CMO spokesman said women would get more than 50 per cent representation in the nomination of chairpersons for these OBC corporations. Out of 56 corporations, 29 corporations would be reserved for women representatives. “Equal representation will be given to all the districts in nominating chairpersons as well as directors of the corporation,” he said. Out of the total number of posts, Anantapur district will get 4 posts, Chittoor 4, East Godavari 4, Guntur 4, Kadapa 4, Krishna 5, Kurnool 4, Nellore 4, Prakasam 4, Srikakulam 6, Visakhapatnam 5, Vijayanagaram 4, West Godavari district 4 posts. According to a YSR Congress party functionary familiar with the development, the nominated posts in these corporations would be given to those who had been loyal to the party right from the beginning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-jagan-sets-up-56-welfare-corporations-for-as-many-obc-communities/story-wSlDyVYRXYIdzfSzcJadAL.html
30-09-2020||India||Leh corps commander who led 6 rounds of military talks with China to head IMA||A change of guard is set to take place at the Leh-based 14 Corps, with its current commander Lieutenant General Harinder Singh moving out shortly after completing his one-year term, officials said on Wednesday. Singh is heading to Dehradun as the commandant of the Indian Military Academy where cadets are groomed to become officers, they said. Singh will be replaced by Lieutenant General PGK Menon, who held an important appointment in the sector as a brigadier a few years ago. Menon was present along with Singh at the latest round of military talks between Indian and Chinese commanders in eastern Ladakh on September 21. The change of guard will take place around mid-October, the officials said. Singh led six rounds of military talks with China. The September 21 talks over the dispute at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) remained inconclusive, with Indian negotiators firmly demanding comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo as the only approach towards de-escalation, and China asking India to withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction. The two sides, however, made some headway. According to a joint statement, released in New Delhi and Beijing on September 22, the two sides agreed to stop sending more troops to the front line, and to hold a seventh round of commander-level talks “as soon as possible, take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border area”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leh-corps-commander-who-led-6-rounds-of-military-talks-with-china-to-head-ima/story-AebnlkDeuKmQunRXWIMBaM.html
30-09-2020||India||Re-opening guidelines out; multiplexes, swimming pools to partially open from October 15||The ministry of home affairs has announced a detailed guideline for Unlock 5, or for reopening to be effective from October 1, shortly. Despite a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country, the home ministry has made it clear that there would be more relaxations and fewer restrictions, though local administrations in some states are heavily relying on voluntary curfew, local lockdowns etc. Also Read: Movie theatres, swimming pools: What’s new in Centre’s guidelines for re-openingHere are the guidelines:* Cinemas/ theatres/ multiplexes will be permitted to open with upto 50% of their seating capacity, for which, SOP will be issued by Ministry of Information & Broadcasting.* Business to Business (B2B) Exhibitions will be permitted to open, for which, SOP will be issued by the Department of Commerce.* Swimming pools being used for training of sportspersons will be permitted to open, for which the standard operating procedure (SOP) will be issued by Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports (MoYA&S). * Entertainment parks and similar places will be permitted to open, for which the SOP will be issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW).Also Read: Unlock 5 guidelines likely today: All you need to know about Delhi’s plan so farOpening of Schools, colleges, education institutions and coaching institutions* For re-opening of schools and coaching institutions, State/ UT Governments have been given the flexibility to take a decision after October 15, 2020, in a graded manner. The decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective school/ institution management, based on their assessment of the situation, and subject to the following conditions:* Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.* Where schools are conducting online classes, and some students prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so.* Students may attend schools/ institutions only with the written consent of parents.* Attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent.* States /UTs will prepare their own SOP regarding health and safety precautions for reopening of schools/ institutions based on the SOP to be issued by Department of School Education and Literacy (DoSEL), Ministry of Education, Government of India, keeping local requirements in view.* Schools, which are allowed to open, will have to mandatorily follow the SOP to be issued by Education Departments of States/ UTs.* Department of Higher Education (DHE), Ministry of Education may take a decision on the timing of the opening of Colleges/ Higher Education Institutions, in consultation with Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), based on the assessment of the situation. Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.Unlock 5.0 is likely to become the most crucial as a number of religious festivals are scheduled in October, including Durga Puja. The first phase of Bihar Assembly Election 2020 is scheduled on October 28. The Centre is likely to revise its order pertaining to the maximum number of people who can gather at a place.The phase-wise unlocking began in June with only a few essential activities beginning outside the containment zones. Over the last four months, offices, public transport including metro, domestic flights, religious places, restaurants, hotels, gyms, schools and colleges have been allowed to resume activities, though the state governments concerned are the final authorities. Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have extended lockdown till October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-new-guidelines-to-be-effective-from-october-1/story-CnlZ6orfuI6PrJ9NrmjDZO.html
30-09-2020||India||CM Yogi Adityanath speaks to UP gangrape victim’s family via video link||Amid nationwide outrage and calls for his resignation over a 19-year-old Dalit’s gangrape and death in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras and the manner in which the state police cremated her in the dead of night yesterday against her family’s wishes, chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke to the family via video-link. The chief minister has said a fast-track court will handle the case for speedy justice. A state government official said the SIT, headed by senior IPS officer Bhagwan Swaroop, has been asked to submit its report in seven days. “The CM has spoken to the father of the deceased woman of Hathras. Her father asked for harshest penalty against the accused. The CM assured him that the most stringent action shall be taken against the accused and all possible help shall be provided to the family of the deceased,” Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the CM and asked him to ensure strict action against the accused. The CM assured PM Modi that the guilty will not be spared. He said state government had a zero-tolerance policy against crime. On September 14, the young woman had gone to the fields with her mother and went missing soon after. She was found later, beaten and tortured, her tongue cut as she bit it when the accused attempted to strangle her.The family has alleged that the local police forced them to conduct the last rites late into the night even when they pleased with them to take the body home and cremate her in the morning. However, police claimed that the cremation was carried out “as per the wishes of the family” and news regarding cremation was “incorrect”.In a video statement posted on her Twitter account, Priyanka Gandhi slammed CM Adityanath over the incident and said the CM has made a statement 15 days after the incident.“After 15 days, he (Adityanath) has made a statement and what does he say that ‘PM called and I have constituted an SIT’. Were you waiting for the PM’s phone call, you could not do anything for 15 days, you did not provide her treatment, did not take her to a good hospital, she was brought to Delhi only day before yesterday,” the Congress general secretary said.“What kind of treatment has been meted out to the family of the victim as they could not even take the body of their daughter home for one last time, her father could not light her funeral pyre and he was locked up in a room,” she alleged.“This is the biggest example of how inhuman your government is. What all is happening in Uttar Pradesh and you are not taking responsibility... Is there no concern for women’s security in your state? Will you not take responsibility, what kind of a chief minister are you?” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-yogi-adityanath-speaks-to-up-gang-rape-victim-s-family-via-video-link/story-ybjMm8PfVVYzBFJuxSZWsM.html
30-09-2020||India||Telangana, Andhra claim Covid-19 cases declining, BJP’s Daggubati Purandeshwari tests positive||Former Union minister and newly appointed national general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata party Daggubati Purandeshwari tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, even as the Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments claimed a steady decline in the intensity of the pandemic. Purandeshwari, who returned from New Delhi on Tuesday, got admitted to a corporate hospital in Hyderabad with symptoms of Covid-19 and tested positive for the virus. Her condition is stable, a party leader familiar with the development said. Purandeshwari was inducted into the national executive committee of the BJP as a national general secretary on September 26. She is the only woman among the nine national general secretaries of the party. “There has been a steady flow of visitors and well-wishers to her house for the last four days to greet her. She also gave interviews to the media after her elevation to the party position. In the process, she might have contracted the virus from any of the visitors in Hyderabad or Delhi,” the party leader said. Meanwhile, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh which have been reporting high number of Covid-19 cases in the last couple of months have been showing a steady decline in the incidence of the virus. Telangana director of health G Srinivasa Rao said there has been a steady drop in the number of Covid-19 infections but it would take a few more months to get back to normalcy. “Increased testing, early diagnosis, isolation of symptomatic and asymptomatic persons were the reasons for steady decline in the incidence of the disease,” Rao said. On Wednesday, Telangana’s Covid-19 tally stood at 1.91 lakh out of which 1.61 lakh people have recovered – the recovery rate being 84 per cent. The fatality rate is only 0.54 per cent, as against the national average of 1.56 per cent. In the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, too, the government claimed that the Covid-19 pandemic has been declining over the last couple of weeks. “There has been a 23.75 per cent reduction in the number of coronavirus cases in the fortnights August 30-September 12 and September 13-26. The reduction in the number of deaths was 22.5 per cent,” Special Chief Secretary (medical and health) K S Jawahar Reddy said. About 58 per cent of the Covid-19 deaths were being reported from the rural areas in the state, while the rest from urban centres. From a high of 16.73 per cent, the infection positivity rate fell to 10.22 per cent by September 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-andhra-claim-covid-19-cases-declining-bjp-s-daggubati-purandeshwari-tests-positive/story-O3QTe7SSshQZFRqGD7gOXP.html
30-09-2020||India||Only 3,500 Latur earthquake victims got jobs in 27 years: Report||Twenty seven years after a massive earthquake ravaged Latur district in Maharashtra, a representative of those affected by the tragedy claims many victims are yet to get employment to sustain their livelihood.The district administration, however, said there is a provision of reservation in employment for earthquake-hit families and they get jobs on merit.Over the last 27 years, “only around 3,500 earthquake-hit people have got jobs till now, but the number is very less as compared to the number of affected families,” Bhukampgrast Kruti Samiti president Amar Birajdar told PTI.An earthquake of 6.4 magnitude jolted Latur-Osmanabad region on September 30, 1993, killing nearly 10,000 people and injuring thousands of others. Around 52 villages in the region were destroyed in the disaster.There are many issues which still remain unresolved even after such a long time, claimed Birajdar, a resident of the earthquake-hit Mangrul village in Latur.Lands of many people from the area were taken for rehabilitation of the affected families and many of them complained they got very less compensation for their lands, the activist said.“A massive movement to reach out to government offices helped us in getting this small number of 3,500 jobs,” he claimed, adding that the earthquake-affected families suffered a lot even after their rehabilitation.“We were promised three per cent reservation in government jobs. We approached every government office over the issue between 2005 and 2013,” he said.He also said they can’t blame the government alone as politicians should also have raised these issues before the state legislature.When contacted, Collector G Shreekant told PTI that reservation in jobs for quake-hit families is still there and people get jobs on merit through this provision.Raising other issues of the victims, Birajdar claimed the affected families were allotted new houses after two to three years of the incident, but they got the ownership only in 2018-19.Around 100 people have started their own businesses by mortgaging the houses they got, he said.He also noted that in 2018, the then state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said all the pending issues related to additional land allotment to the people affected by the quake will be resolved soon.He said Fadnavis had acknowledged that there were some families who were given some pieces of land, but the families expanded and needed more space.“But nothing happened in two years. We are still hopeful of getting the plots,” the activist said.The collector said some earthquake-affected people put forth their demand directly to him for additional compensation for their land, but he does not have the authority to sanction it directly.He further said the administration has sent a proposal to construct internal roads in the areas where the earthquake- affected people are residing in the district.“The proposal cost is more than Rs 100 crore and work will move ahead after the government sanctions it,” he said.“Latur has learnt a lot from the earthquake. The buildings are now earthquake-proof and people know what to do if such a calamity occurs again,” the collector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-3-500-latur-earthquake-victims-got-jobs-in-27-years-report/story-KjTPBb2xsr51lD5wejB53N.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Was a divine act’: Who said what after verdict in Babri demolition case||The special Central Bureau of Investigation court in Lucknow on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case due to lack of conclusive proof.The CBI court acquitted all the 32 accused, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti, former union minister Murli Manohar Joshi and ex-Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh, saying the demolition of the mosque was a spontaneous act and not a pre-planned one.‘Satyamev Jayate’, the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath said in a statement after the verdict was out.The Defense Minister of India, Rajnath Singh welcomed the court’s judgment and said “This shows, that though delayed, justice eventually triumphed.”Veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Lal Krishna Advani, who was one of the accused in the case who were acquitted by the special CBI court, welcomed the verdict.“I wholeheartedly welcome the judgement by the special court in Babri Masjid demolition case. The judgement vindicates my personal and BJP’s belief and commitment toward the Ram Janmabhoomi movement,” Advani said.Here’s what all other political leaders have said on the special court’s verdict in Babri mosque demolition case:Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vinay Katiyar, one of the accused who were acquitted said, “We welcome the judgement. It’s a triumph of the truth. We never had any role in the demolition. We were actually on stage, that was away from the site where the demolition took place.”Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the head of the Ram Janmbhoomi Tirth Kshetra, one of the accused in the Babri demolition case, welcomed the special CBI court’s acquittal and said the ‘dhaancha’ (structure) fell due to ‘Hindu akrosh’ (Hindu anger). “No Hindu hatches conspiracies. The ‘dhaancha’ fell due to Hindu akrosh (Hindu anger). Though belated, but at least now, the court decision, provides the stamp of approval on ‘asthaa’ (belief),” said Das. “Lord Ram is the ancestor of all and his birthplace has now been freed. December 6, 1992 is part of history. All those who were accused of demolition are devotees who would never engage in an anti-social act. Mental agony was caused to them by making them accused,” he added.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, “The then Congress government acted with political bias, indulged in vote bank politics, defamed the BJP and VHP leaders, saints and other social organisations by lodging false cases on them. The people involved in the conspiracy should now apologise to the country.”Former BJP MP Ram Vilasdas Vedanti, among the accused who were acquitted, said, “It’s good that justice has been done. The court agreed that we did no wrong.”Uttar Pradesh minister Mohsin Raza said: “The decision is a welcome one and it’s a victory of justice. This is Ram Rajya. This is what is called rule of law.’”Another accused who was acquitted by the special CBI court, Mahant Dharamdas said, “What can we say? The demolition was a divine act. There was nothing wrong in it. The judgement is a welcome one.”Iqbal Ansari, petitioner in Babri mosque demolition case, welcomed the verdict and said “Ayodhya wants to live peacefully”.“I think now, all this chaos and trouble’ must end. Ayodhya wants to live peacefully. All should welcome the judgement. We abided by the court judgement in the past and would continue to do so. Let there be no more such issues,” he said. VHP leader Sharad Sharma said “Today’s decision of the CBI court has made people’s faith in democracy and rule of law even stronger. Today, the lord’s birthplace is free of obstructions and historical mistakes of the past have been set right.” Rajnath Singh, defense minister and Lucknow MP said in a tweet, “I welcome the acquittal of all the 32 accused in the case. This shows, that though delayed, justice eventually triumphed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demolition-was-a-divine-act-political-leaders-welcome-special-cbi-court-s-verdict-in-babri-demolition-case/story-IgEmEJnB1uo63yIM9cpZTL.html
30-09-2020||India||In Dehradun, district administration pushes for education of tribal girls||Fifty-two girls including 45 from the Boxa tribe of Uttarakhand’s Dehradun in the age group of 11-14 years have started going to school for the first time following an initiative by the district administration. A recent survey by the Dehradun district administration in the remote areas of the district found that over 400 girls in the 11-14 years age group were not going to school as they had either dropped out or had never been enrolled.Akhilesh Mishra, programme officer Dehradun district said, “During an inspection for some project around Vikasnagar area, we saw that many children were roaming around outside and were not in schools. We then enquired a little and found that these girls were not enrolled in schools.” “Most of them were from the Boxa tribe who are mostly engaged in daily-wage jobs or small-scale farming and did not have a culture of educating children, especially girls. Girls would either not go to schools at all or stop after 8-9 years. We then conducted a survey to find out the exact number and have now started getting the students enrolled in schools,” said Mishra. The survey was carried out by aanganwadi workers who were already involved in spreading awareness among locals on the coronavirus epidemic. The survey was then expanded and is now being conducted in the rural areas of Dehradun district, Mishra said that the number of girls not in schools could go up to 1,000. Till now, the officials have identified 336 students who are dropouts and 64 girls who have never been enrolled in schools. At present, 45 girls from the tribe have been admitted to government schools with the Dehradun district administration paying their fees. Nineteen other girls want to continue education from open universities. Dehradun district magistrate AK Srivastava has appealed to people to come forward and help the administration to educate the girls. The project was handled on ground mainly by Taruna Chamola, child development project officer Vikasnagar, Saroj Dhyani the women welfare officer of the area and district coordinators Lakshmi Chauhan and Vaibhavi Dora. The district administration is also tapping companies to raise money through Corporate Social Responsibility donations to fund the education of these children so that lack of finance does not force them to quit school, said Mishra. According to the official records of the state education department, Uttarakhand has over 23.25 lakh students going to schools between the age group of 6-17 years, of which over 8.81 lakh students are enrolled in government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-dehradun-district-administration-pushes-for-education-of-tribal-girls/story-UsthUByI61BzaXceME9kNM.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: Family gave consent for funeral, says Uttar Pradesh ADG||After the family members of the Dalit woman who was gang-raped and succumbed to her injuries claimed that her body was forcibly cremated at 2.30 am, Uttar Pradesh assistant director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said the funeral was conducted with the consent of the family. “They were present during the funeral. The body was putrefying. The victim died yesterday in Delhi. After the post-mortem, the funeral was conducted with the consent of the family members. The details of the examination will soon be out and shared,” Prashant Kumar said.The family claimed that the woman’s body was taken away by the police in the middle of the night for final rites.“The police have forcibly taken the dead body, and my father along with them for cremation. When my father reached Hathras, he was immediately taken (to the crematorium) by the police,” the woman’s brother told news agency PTI.The body of the woman reached her village around midnight and the cremation was done by 3 am on Wednesday.The villagers claimed that they wanted to take the body of the woman to her house, but the passage for ambulance was blocked and finally cremation took place in village.A video of the victim’s mother beating her chest to have a last look of her dead daughter has been doing rounds on social media. The woman was raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras village by four men on September 14 and died a fortnight later after battling serious injuries. The woman was first taken to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh, but shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi after her condition deteriorated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-family-gave-consent-for-funeral-says-uttar-pradesh-adg/story-St66NQrjjFkGMjZ1bgFKRJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Elephant kills 55-year-old woman in Uttarakhand’s Nainital||A 55-year-old woman was killed in an elephant attack on Wednesday morning in Nainital district, when she had gone to the forests to cut grass, said forest officials. Chandrashekhar Joshi, divisional forest officer (DFO) Ramnagar said that the incident happened in Kotabagh region of the division. “Bishna Devi, a 55-year-old, resident of Jala village in Kotabagh block was killed by an elephant, when she had gone to the forest with other women to cut grass on Wednesday morning around 10 am. The other women barely managed to escape from the site and saved themselves.“The women came and informed the villagers, after which the victim was rushed to a hospital where she was declared dead,” said Joshi. The official further added that the family of the deceased woman would be given appropriate compensation. On August 30, a 47-year-old man was trampled to death by an elephant in Nainital district. The incident happened in Devchauri range of Ramnagar division when the man took his cattle for grazing in the forest. The aggression of some elephants in Uttarakhand’s Corbett and Rajaji National Park landscape, two bastions of wild elephants in the state, is a major concern for wildlife officials. Earlier, Bhuwan Ram 51, a forest watcher was killed by an elephant in Karakot in the Haldwani forest division in the month of June. In July, Parvati Devi 60, forest watcher’s wife was attacked and killed in Kishanpur range of the Terai east forest division. In November last year, a wild elephant killed two people in Haridwar when it went on a rampage in two villages. A senior forest official said that man-animal conflict has increased because of several reasons, including humans coming close to the forests for habitation. “The natural corridors have been encroached by humans and people go inside the forests and it’s a huge risk as forests are the territory of the wild animals. There is a need to sensitise people about man-animal conflict and how to avoid it,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-kills-55-year-old-woman-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital/story-841JTKn2hJsvphzwLmwPMP.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Don’t want anyone homeless during pandemic’: Bombay HC refuses to allow demolitions, evictions||The Bombay high court on Wednesday refused to relax its interim stay on all demolitions and evictions due to the pandemic situation asked the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to inform the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that its order for eviction of encroachments in a river bed cannot be implemented till October 31. The court also held that as more than 100 parties who were to be evicted as per the NGT order were not impleaded in the PCMC’s application, they were not inclined to pass orders in favour of the PCMC behind their back. A full bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta, justices AA Sayed, SS Shinde and KK Tated while hearing the interim application of PCMC in the suo motu petition initiated by the high court in March was informed by advocate G H Keluskar that the corporation had approached the HC seeking relaxation of its interim order which stayed all demolition and eviction during the pandemic situation. Keluskar informed the bench that the NGT through a September 2019 order in an application made by environmentalist Sarang Yadwadkar had directed the PCMC to remove illegal reclamation and evict encroachments on the floodplains of the Ram Nadi river. Keluskar submitted that in June 2020 the NGT had sought compliance of its order but as the HC had stayed all demolitions and evictions through its suo motu writ petition, the PCMC was seeking relaxation of the stay to the extent that it could comply with the NGT order. In September 2019, the NGT while hearing the application of Yarwadkar relating to illegal reclamation of floodplains, diversion of the original and natural flow of the rivers, encroachment by way of dumping and unauthorized construction on the floodplains of rivers flowing through Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad cities of Maharashtra had directed the removal of the same after identification.Yarwadkar had again approached the NGT in June, 2020 seeking implementation of its September order as non-implementation of the same by PCMC could have a disastrous effect on the city of Pune during the rains. The NGT had directed the commissioner of PMC to comply. After hearing the submissions, the bench said that it’s March 2020 interim stay order which has been extended from time to time could not be relaxed.“Is the NGT not aware of the HC order? Did you inform NGT about the HC order?” justice Datta asked PCMC. “Similar orders have been passed by all high courts across the country. As the persons who will be affected by the relaxation of our stay are not before us, we are not inclined to grant any relief as we do not want anyone to be dispossessed and without a home during the pandemic,” said justice Datta. The bench then directed the PCMC to inform the NGT about the stay and that it would continue till October 31 and hence its order of eviction and removal of encroachments and illegal constructions along the Ram Nadi floodplains could not be implemented till then and disposed of the interim application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-anyone-homeless-during-pandemic-bombay-hc-refuses-to-allow-demolitions-evictions/story-SNcexaQ9IYv04Ip7wi2KZJ.html
30-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘No justice, Muslim Board should appeal,’ says Asaduddin Owaisi on Babri verdict and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times‘No justice, Muslim Board should appeal’: Asaduddin Owaisi on Babri verdictAll India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday said the All India Muslim Peronal Law Board would appeal in the high court against the special CBI court judgment that acquitted LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and 30 others in the Babri Masjid demolition issue. Read moreUddhav Thackeray government withdraws August order to implement new farm laws under pressure from CongressThe Maharashtra government on Wednesday withdrew its August order to implement the new farm laws after Congress threatened to boycott the cabinet meeting. Read moreBabri demolition case: LK Advani, 31 others acquitted; no local testifiedThe special CBI court in Lucknow on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former union minister Murli Manohar Joshi, ex-Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti, in the Babri Masjid demolition case due to lack of conclusive evidence. Read moreIPL 2020: We have specific ideas how to get him out - MI bowling coach Shane Bond’s plan for KL RahulAfter losing to Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Super Over, Mumbai Indians will take on Kings XI Punjab in their next contest on Thursday. Read moreBigg Boss 14’s first confirmed contestant Jaan Kumar Sanu says getting the offer was ‘overwhelming and amazing’Singer Jaan Kumar Sanu, who is set to enter the house of Bigg Boss 14, has said he was quite surprised to get the offer for the reality show hosted by Salman Khan. Read moreNo driving license, no RC, no problem: Here’s what you need if stopped by copsCarrying a physical copy of a driving license or a vehicle’s registration certificate (RC) is not mandatory and need not be produced if stopped by traffic cops. Read moreAnurag Kashyap summoned by Mumbai Police in alleged sexual assault caseBollywood filmmaker Anurag Kashyap was summoned by Mumbai Police in an alleged sexual assault case. The filmmaker was accused by actor Payal Ghosh of sexually assaulting her during “Bombay Velvet” shoot. Read moreLong pipe echoes sound of saxophone. Video is nothing short of amazingMost of us know what an echo sounds like. Also, most of us will agree that there is a certain fascination attached to the whole concept. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-no-justice-muslim-board-should-appeal-says-asaduddin-owaisi-on-babri-verdict/story-ZamhEtUBmxWsF0fZLSz69K.html
30-09-2020||India||Kerala political killings: CBI issues notice to crime branch, asks for case diary||In an unusual move, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday sent a notice to the Kerala crime branch asking it to hand over the case diary of the twin political murders of Youth Congress workers and cautioned that the agency would be forced to seize it if it was delayed further. The CBI has sent the notice under CrPC 91 (summons to produce important documents) after the crime branch failed to hand over details after six requests, a senior official of the agency said. The notice was issued to the deputy superintendent of police who investigated the case. The state government is trying its best to prevent the CBI from taking over the probe fearing the central agency will implicate its senior leaders in the case. Youth Congress workers Kripesh and Sharth Lal were waylaid and hacked to death brutally by an alleged group of CPI (M) workers in Periya in north Kerala in February 2019. Though both chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had condemned the double murders most of the arrested were active party workers.Parents of the victims had moved the High Court later saying that the investigation was not conducted properly and many leaders were left out by the crime branch due to political pressure and they sought a CBI probe. A single bench of the HC had accepted their plea but the government moved the division bench which also upheld the single bench order. However, the government later moved the Supreme Court which also refused to stay the HC order. The Opposition Congress and BJP have questioned the government’s move saying it was more interested in protecting the perpetrators of the crime, not families of the victims. Many senior advocates from the Supreme Court were approached by the government but all the courts stood with the parents of the victims.Though the state police arrested 12 people, all local CPI(M) workers, in connection with the case, the parents alleged that it was a well-planned and executed murder and many senior district leaders were involved in the conspiracy. A week before the murder, the CPI(M) had organised a protest rally in the area and senior leader V P P Mustafa had made a speech in the meet threatening both the men that their days were numbered, the parents pointed out in their plea saying a central agency probe was needed to bring all the conspirators to book.The CBI is already probing two political murder cases in north Kerala in which many senior leaders including former Kannur district secretary P Jayarajan were named as accused. So, the party had strongly opposed the CBI probe fearing that senior party functionaries would be made accused in the latest case also. Parents of both men alleged that senior party leaders knew about the murder and they protected the accused after the crime.The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) said the Union government was using central agencies to weaken the state government and it will not allow free reign of CBI in the state. “The Modi government is using all opportunities to weaken an elected government. We will not allow this to happen,” said LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan. Two days back the party had announced an agitation against the central agencies but dropped its plan after Covid-19 cases spiked. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the government wanted to protect the “real killers” that is why it was opposing the CBI probe. North Kerala is notorious for political killings especially between red and saffron forces and usually the party leadership prepares the list of accused and submits it in the police station after every killing and this helps the real killers and those who worked behind the scenes to go scot free. But things have changed of late due to effective intervention of the judiciary and media, say political observers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-political-killings-cbi-issues-notice-to-crime-branch-asks-for-case-diary/story-ClWbl0dPPeCbKtyPpvnNYL.html
30-09-2020||India||India’s active Covid cases constitute 15.11% of total caseload: Health ministry||India’s active Covid-19 cases constituted 15.11% of the total caseload as of Wednesday against 33.32% on August 1, the union health ministry said. Currently, the country’s Covid-19 tally is over 6.2 million, which includes 97,497 deaths.According to data provided the ministry’s dashboard as of 8am, there are 9,40,441 active Covid-19 cases so far.“From 33.32 per cent on August 1 to 15.11 per cent on September 30, active cases have less than halved in two months,” the ministry said, adding that active cases are actively declining as a percentage of the overall tally.Over 76% of the country’s active cases are from 10 states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Telangana.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMaharashtra, which is considered to be the worst-hit state from the pandemic, contributes the maximum number of active cases which is over 260,000.India’s recovery rate from Covid-19 has climbed to 83.33% after 86,428 people were recovered/discharged on Wednesday.The total recoveries which are nearing 5.2 million exceed the total number of active cases by 4,247,384.The ministry pointed out speedy recoveries were being registered by states and union territories (UTs) after following the 5T strategy, i.e. ‘test, track, trace, treat, technology’ strategy. Ten states and UTs contribute 78 per cent of the total recovered cases.Also read| Maximum impact of Covid-19 faced by women, children and adolescents: Harsh VardhanMaharashtra, apart from having the highest number of active cases, has also the maximum number of recoveries which is over one million, the ministry highlighted adding that Andhra Pradesh was in the second spot with over 600,000 recovered cases.Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that over 74 million samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far out of which 1,086,688 samples were tested on Tuesday.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-covid-cases-constitute-15-11-of-total-caseload-health-ministry/story-wapruTF5ZfezfjhjFMpOjI.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri demolition case: LK Advani, 31 others acquitted; no local testified||The special CBI court in Lucknow on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former union minister Murli Manohar Joshi, ex-Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti, in the Babri Masjid demolition case due to lack of conclusive evidence.Ruling out the criminal conspiracy theory, the court held that the demolition on December 6, 1992 was a spontaneous act and not pre-planned.Ending a nearly 28-year wait in less than 28 minutes, judge SK Yadav delivered the verdict around 12.15am. He held that the prosecution (CBI) could not establish the role of the 32 accused (now acquitted) with regard to the evidence (points) it had submitted in court during the proceedings. The verdict came nearly 11 months after the Supreme Court, in November last year, paved the way for building a Ram temple at the very site in Ayodhya where the masjid once stood. It observed that none of the locals of Ayodhya testified against any of the accused to prove that they incited the mob. “The CBI court has acquitted all the 32 accused in the Babri Masjid case. This ends the long pending dispute related to the December 6, 1992 case,” confirmed lawyer KK Mishra, who represented 25 accused in the court, including Advani, Joshi and Kalyan Singh, who was the UP chief minister at the time of the demolition. “The court observed that the December 6, 1992 incident wasn’t planned and that it was a spontaneous act,” the lawyer said.The judge did not admit the videos produced by the CBI as they were not certified (tested) in the forensic laboratory to ascertain their authenticity.Photographs submitted were also not accepted as the agency could not produce the original negatives, another defence lawyer Manish Tripathi said. Of the total 49 accused in the case, 17 had died. Twenty-six of the remaining 32 accused arrived in person at the court when the judge delivered the verdict. Advani was present via video link. There were intelligence reports, the court said, at the time indicating that some anti-social elements might indulge in some unwarranted act.It said that witness (number 9) Anju Gupta had given a statement in court that some ‘dacoits and criminals’ also mingled with the crowd of kar sevaks. Anju Gupta was additional superintendent of police, posted in Ayodhya during the time the incident took place. She had testified in court The court observed that at noon on December 6, 1992 in Ayodhya, everything was fine. Then, some anti-social elements started brick-batting from behind the structure (Babri Masjid), it said. It also pointed out that Ashok Singhal (late VHP leader) was appealing to kar sevaks not to indulge in violence and only carry out kar seva as per guidelines of the Supreme Court. The judge who pronounced the verdict was on a year’s extension and his extended term ended today.A ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction of Ram temple was held on August 5 and attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Supreme Court had in November, while maintaining that the demolition was a ‘criminal act’, ordered that an alternative land be provided to the Sunni Waqf Board for a mosque within Ayodhya. The CBI will decide on filing an appeal against the special court verdict acquitting all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case after consulting the legal department, its counsel said on Wednesday.“After a copy of today’s verdict is received, it would be sent to the CBI headquarters where it would be studied by the legal department and a decision on filing an appeal would be taken as per its suggestion,” CBI counsel Lalit Singh said.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath welcomed the court verdict, terming it as Satyamev Jayate (victory of truth), according to a statement issued by his advisor Mritunjay Kumar.Adityanath also spoke with BJP veterans LK Advani and MM Joshi over phone and congratulated them on the verdict.Reacting to the court’s verdict, Iqbal Ansari, a prominent litigant in the Ayodhya title suit case, said: “The entire world saw what happened in Ayodhya (on December 6, 1992). I respect the court’s verdict.” Ansari had issued an appeal to the CBI court earlier this month, requesting to close the case and acquit all 32 accused in larger interest of the nation and Hindu-Muslim unity. “We abided by the SC verdict in November last year and we would abide by the latest decision again. There is no question of opposing it. Ayodhya wants peace,” Ansari said.Mohsin Raza, a minister in the UP government, welcomed the verdict.In an interview to HT on July 30, former chief minister Kalyan Singh, whose government was dismissed after the December 6, 1992 demolition, had said that he was proud of the fact that he refused to allow firing on kar sevaks (religious volunteers) who had gathered in Ayodhya. “I am proud of the fact that I didn’t allow firing. I also feel that it was the demolition that paved the way for the Ram temple,” Kalyan had said. An accused in the demolition, Kalyan, infected with the coronavirus, couldn’t make it to the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-lk-advani-31-others-acquitted-no-local-testified/story-Dny1uhZTZSIF4ORLGCbBNM.html
30-09-2020||India||Deadline to link Aadhaar card-ration card ends today: How to link online and offline||If you are yet to link your Aadhaar card and ration card, do it immediately as today is the last day to get the linking done. If not linked, you will no longer be eligible to receive your entitled quantity of food grains under the Public Distribution System (PDS). Earlier, the government had extended the deadline to link Aadhaar and ration cards in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The Aadhaar-ration card linking can be done both online and offline.For online:(1.) Visit the official Aadhaar website--uidai.gov.in--and click on ‘Start Now’(2.) Enter your address details: district and state(3.) From among the given options, choose ‘ration card benefit’(4.) Now, choose the scheme name; it is mentioned in the ration card(5.) Enter your ration card number, Aadhaar number, mobile number and e-mail address(6.) Now, enter a one-time password (OTP), which is sent to your mobile number(7.) You will get a notification informing about the completion of the application process(8.) After this, your application will be verified and, after successful verification, your Aadhaar card will get linked to ration cardFor offline:(1.) Visit nearest PDS or ration shop with photocopies of Aadhaar cards of all family members, a passport-size photograph of the head of the family and ration card(2.) Submit a copy of your passbook if your bank account and Aadhaar are not linked.(3.) Submit all these documents at the PDS shop with a copy of your Aadhaar card.(4.) An SMS will be sent on your registered mobile number regarding successful submission of documents(5.) Another SMS will be sent after Aadhaar and ration card are successfully linkedOnce the linking is successfully done, whether online or offline, you will get your entitled quantity of food grains every month regardless of where you stay. This is because the government has started the implementation of the inter-state portability of ration cards under its ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-to-link-aadhaar-card-ration-card-ends-today-how-to-link-online-and-offline/story-2FP04aJzeFmArNrAEqqyeI.html
30-09-2020||India||‘No justice, Muslim Board should appeal’: Asaduddin Owaisi on Babri verdict||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday said the All India Muslim Peronal Law Board would appeal in the high court against the special CBI court judgment that acquitted LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and 30 others in the Babri Masjid demolition issue. Describing it as a black day in the Indian judiciary, Owaisi alleged that this judgment was given only to satisfy the Hindutva ideology. “Muslims of India have not got justice. I request the AIMPLB to go in for an appeal against the judgment,” he said.The Supreme Court in its judgment on November 9 last year, pronounced by five judges, had clearly held that the demolition of Babri Masjid was a clear illegality and “egregious violation of the rule of law”, Owaisi recounted.“Now, I want to know whether the Babri Masjid was razed to the ground mysteriously on December 6, 1992 and whether it was also a mystery behind placing of idols of Ram in the mosque in late 1940s or behind opening of locks of the masjid during the Rajiv Gandhi regime?” Owaisi asked.He sought to know from the court as to who demolished the Babri Masjid, when everybody was innocent in the incident. He alleged that they had created a violent political climate in the country. “Wherever Advani’s Rath Yatra was taken out, there was violence and killing of innocents,” he pointed out.Owaisi wondered how the CBI court could say the demolition was not pre-planned.“How much preparation must have gone into the demolition of the mosque? Is it not true that Uma Bharati had made provocative slogans, asking the activists to demolish the Babri mosque? Is it not true that Advani had distributed sweets after the demolition?” he asked.Delivering the much-awaited verdict in the 28-year-old case, CBI judge S K Yadav did not accept newspapers and video cassettes as evidence.The court said there was no conclusive proof against themIt also observed that late Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Ashok Singhal wanted to save the structure because Ram idols were inside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-justice-muslim-board-should-appeal-asaduddin-owaisi-on-babri-verdict/story-5mSCTuIaAWyhkzlxcg4haI.html
30-09-2020||India||Goa lifeguards junk mouth to mouth resuscitation, adopt new protocol amid Covid pandemic||Lifeguards manning Goa’s beaches will now adapt to the new normal and have adopted a new rescue and revival protocol in tune with the pandemic times. The lifeguards will now no longer perform a mouth to mouth respiration method of revival and will instead use a bag valve mask, a self inflating resuscitation device along with cardiopulmonary resuscitation if necessary to try and revive a patient who has lost consciousness on account of drowning. Drishti Marine, the lifeguarding agency that operates along Goa’s 105-km long coastline said that the new protocol is being rolled now with the beaches being gradually being reopened for swimming to coincide with the withdrawal of the monsoon. “The earlier protocol involved clearing airways to avoid sand choking, commencing CPR through compressions and moving on to a BVM only if mouth-to-mouth resuscitation could not be continued,” Ravi Shankar who heads the operations of Drishti Marine, said. “The new Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) protocol has changed. Globally, hands-only CPR is recommended which includes compression of the chest, but no rescue breaths. In more advanced cases too, it’s a direct shift from the regular mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to the use of a Bag Valve Mask (BVM). This can reduce infections or diseases being transmitted in the process between victim and rescuer,” he said. Training sessions have been conducted for all the 400-member lifeguard force in separate batches to educate them on Covid-19 and dispel myths. Instructions prescribing the dos and don’ts have been put up prominently at all the 35 lifeguard towers along the coast.However, the nature of lifeguarding makes it impossible for the lifeguards themselves to avoid close contact with possible victims. Owing to its nature, a lifeguard wears a mask only while onshore but will need to take it off if he needs to rush in to rescue. The shore based teams, however, wear masks and shields. “Rescues still involve a lot of unavoidable physical contact but the new protocol can curb it down significantly and offer safety to both, the lifeguards as well as the rescued victims”, Ravi said.The lifeguards have been briefed to keep a distance of two meters between themselves and others at all times and to actively use whistles and hailers to give instructions to people present on the beach.The lifeguards also have to deal with several cases of persons attempting suicide by drowning. This year there have been at least seven cases reported of persons attempting to commit suicide by drowning which six coming within the period June to August. In cases of attempted suicide cases or those suffering from mental health, the lifeguards circle the person while speaking to him or her and keeping him/her calm, eventually bringing the person back to the shore. Goa has reopened for tourism leading to a beeline of tourists mainly from neighbouring states coming after protocol for testing at the border and quarantine were lifted by the government at the start of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-lifeguards-junk-mouth-to-mouth-resuscitation-adopt-new-protocol-amid-covid-pandemic/story-i1Gh4SpHPdJl0KoejKKzRK.html
30-09-2020||India||India successfully test-fires BrahMos supersonic cruise missile from Chandipur ITR in Odisha||India on Wednesday successfully test-fired BrahMos supersonic cruise missile with a strike range of more than 400 km from a base in Odisha, defence sources said.The launch of the state-of-the-art missile from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) at Chandipur near here was successful, Defence Research and Development (DRDO) sources said.“All the parameters were met during the trial,” a DRDO official said after the missile was test fired at 10.45 am.The missile can be launched from land, sea platforms as well as fighter jets, he said.The first extended version of the missile, which had a strike range of 450 km, was successfully tested on March 11, 2017.On September 30, 2019 a shorter range land version of BrahMos was successfully test fired from Chandipur ITR.Jointly developed by the DRDO and NPOM, a leading aerospace enterprise of Russia, the BrahMos missile is a medium-range ramjet supersonic cruise missile capable of being launched from submarines, warships, fighter jets or land.The missile, already operational with the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force, is regarded as the fastest supersonic cruise missile in the world, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missile-from-chandipur-itr-in-odisha/story-TVrmRlqHX0esXtqjYoSXpL.html
30-09-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray government withdraws August order to implement new farm laws under pressure from Congress||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday withdrew its August order to implement the new farm laws after Congress threatened to boycott the cabinet meeting. The Uddhav Thackeray-led government was already in a dilemma over the implementation of the agriculture reform laws, which were recently passed by the Parliament, after Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) opposed the farm laws in the state, calling them “anti-farmer”. Last week, deputy Maharashtra chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar had announced that the state government would not implement the agriculture reform laws.Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar announced last week that the state government would not implement the farm laws in the state. On Monday, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi had advised the states ruled by the party to inspect all possibilities of legislation under the Constitution’s Article 254(2) to negate the “anti-agricultural laws” and to prevent the “grave injustice” being done to farmers.Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat had earlier claimed that all the three ruling parties have opposed the bills. The parties were to raise the issue at cabinet meeting, which is being held today.The Upper House of Parliament recently cleared farm reform laws amid uproar and protests from the opposition parties in the house. Since then, oppositions parties and several farmers’ groups all across India have been carrying out protests against the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-government-stays-farm-reform-laws-cites-objections-by-people/story-WbsD35oJ0wJcQOoaHUT6AJ.html
30-09-2020||India||‘No criminal conspiracy’: Key points of Babri Masjid verdict||A special CBI court on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Mosque demolition case, saying the demolition of the mosque was a spontaneous affair and not a pre-planned one. The accused, including LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh, faced charges like criminal conspiracy, rioting, promoting enmity between different groups, and unlawful assembly.Also Read: LK Advani, acquitted in Babri case, says ruling vindicates ‘my and BJP’s belief in Ram Janmabhoomi movement’Here are the key points of the 2,000-page verdict* The demolition was not pre-planned and the accused had actually tried to stop the mob.* Those who climbed on the dome were anti-social elements.* The authenticity of the audio and video clips produced by the CBI is not proved.Watch - Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ * Local intelligence report forewarning that some unexpected sequence of events could take place on December 6 went unheeded.* There was no criminal conspiracy behind the demolition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-key-points-of-verdict/story-Qw8A8srjXah1Honge9x7CI.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition case: Verdict counter to SC judgment, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday said the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court’s verdict on the Babri Masjid demolition case runs counter to the Supreme Court’s November 9 ruling and the Constitutional spirit. It urged the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government to file an appeal and follow the letter of the law and the Constitution without any partiality and pre-meditated prejudice.Addressing reporters at the party headquarters in Delhi, Congress’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala said the five-judge bench of the Supreme Court in its judgement on November 9 last year held that demolition of the Babri Masjid was “clear illegality and egregious violation” of the rule of law.Also read: Court’s verdict proves no conspiracy was hatched in Ayodhya, says BJP’s Murli Manohar Joshi“But the special court exonerated all the accused. It is clear that the decision of the special court runs counter to the decision of the Supreme Court,” he said.Surjewala said the entire nation witnessed a “deep-rooted political conspiracy” by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) and its leaders to destroy the country’s communal amity and brotherhood for usurping power at any cost.“The then BJP government of Uttar Pradesh was a co-conspirator in the designed attack on India’s Constitutional ethos. So much so that Supreme Court was misled by filing a wrong affidavit on oath. It is only after detailed examination of all these aspects, facts and evidence that the Supreme Court held the demolition of Masjid to be an egregious violation of the rule of law,” he said.The Congress leader said every Indian, who has innate faith in the Constitution as also in the spirit of communal amity and brotherhood, expects and urges the Centre and Uttar Pradesh government to file an appeal against the special court’s decision founded in error and follow the letter of the law and the Constitution without any “partiality and pre-meditated prejudice”.This is the true calling of the rule of law and the Constitution, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-case-verdict-counter-to-sc-judgement-says-congress/story-pUHz9WGAgDezT7felDmOSL.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: BJP stares at the return of Dalit unrest||The protest against the cremation of a Dalit woman (19), who was gang-raped and murdered allegedly by four upper caste men in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Hathras district in the dead of night on Wednesday, could spell the return of a Dalit unrest that can have an adverse impact on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) fortunes in the upcoming Bihar assembly polls. Though UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday announced the setting up of a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the alleged crime following his talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, there is a public outcry against the coercive action of the UP Police.UP Police performed the last rites of the gang-rape victim at around 2.30 am on Wednesday in the absence of her family members. The incident has given the Opposition the arsenal to attack the BJP and the Yogi-led administration. BSP chief Mayawati tweeted that the last rites, which were conducted by the UP Police, created “doubts and resentment” about the role of the UP administration.She said it would be better if the Supreme Court (SC) took appropriate action by taking suo motu (on its own motion) cognisance of the case. She blamed the callous attitude of the UP administration and the UP Police and expressed doubts that the perpetrators of the heinous crime would not be punished and the victim’s family members would be denied of justice.Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress have also attacked the government. Congress’s Sushmita Dev said the way the victim was cremated and she was left to languish in a hospital ward for over six days, despite the serious nature of her injuries, was a gross violation of human rights. “No first information report (FIR) was filed for eight days. Even after it (FIR) was filed, what sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) did this hopeless and ruthless (UP) government invoke?” Dev asked.The ruling BJP has been quick to dub these statements as attempts to create misgivings about the UP government and stoke a raging controversy.However, a few functionaries, who spoke on condition of anonymity, admitted that the party could be bracing for the return of a Dalit unrest. “If the protests continue, it will have an impact in neighbouring Bihar as well. The UP government is taking action, but the opposition will certainly raise the issue,” said a functionary from UP. Bihar has 18% of Dalit population and the sizeable vote bank can sway the state’s electoral outcome. On Wednesday, protests were also reported from some parts in poll-bound Bihar. This is not the first time that the BJP government has been confronted by caste-based protests. In 2017, ahead of the Gujarat assembly polls, the BJP government was accused of not taking action against Dalit atrocities in Una, where a group of cow vigilantes were accused of flogging Dalit youth in public view. In January 2018, the Bhima-Koregaon clashes had led to violence and casualties during the congregation of Dalits to commemorate the 200th anniversary of an Anglo-Maratha war against the then Peshwa rule. Dalits constitute a little over 16%of the country’s population and the BJP has been assiduously trying to woo the caste groupings. “The BJP is making concerted efforts to reach out to the dominant castes, who come under the SC category. In the new national team, which was announced on Saturday, Dalit leaders, who belong to the Jatav caste and are considered to have political clout, such as Dushyant Gautam were given key posts,” said a second BJP functionary. However, Lal Singh Arya, who was appointed the SC Morcha chief, said that the BJP has given a platform to representatives from all castes since the party’s inception. He said, “I was the district general secretary at the age of 26 in 1989. Whether it is appointments within the BJP or for constitutional positions, the party ensures representation for all castes.” Arya also dismissed concerns that the Hathras incident would lead to the resurgence of a Dalit unrest. “The state (UP) government will take all the necessary steps to ensure severe punishment for the perpetrators of this heinous crime. The protests are being orchestrated by the opposition,” he alleged. However, Chandrabhan Prasad, a Dalit author and an ideologue of the community, took potshots at the BJP for being “anti-Muslims and Dalits”. He blamed the party for polarising the country in a bid to boost its electoral fortunes. He alleged that the Dalit representation in the party was “notional” because it did not “want to empower us”. He added, “The Dalits are paying a price for the freedom they had enjoyed in the country for the past seven decades.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-bjp-stares-at-the-return-of-dalit-unrest/story-tCHwxyoaMqQNOg9dxlYGLN.html
30-09-2020||India||From driving license to health insurance, five new rules from October 1||From October 1, five rules that concern our daily lives will change. Of the new rules which will come into effect from Thursday, while some will benefit people others will cause some inconvenience. Here are new rules that will kick in from October 1:Getting driving licenses to become easier: The government has said all documents related to driving license and e-challan shall be maintained on an online portal from October 1. Also, not many documents will be needed to get a driving license. Additionally, no hard copy will be asked for documents found valid electronically. Details of driving licences disqualified or revoked by the licensing authority will be recorded on the e-portal and updated periodically.More facilities in health insurance: According to insurance regulator IRDA, three major changes will be introduced in health insurance. First, insurance companies will make their policies easier so that customers can understand them. Second is to ensure insurance coverage for telemedicine and third and last is that insurance companies will have to provide claims easily.Fresh sweet in the market: Now, shopkeepers selling sweet will have to inform customers about the duration for which sweet can be consumed. Food regulator FSSAI has made it mandatory for shops selling food items to display on sweets, the duration of time for which these can be used.TV to become costlier: Buying TV will get costlier as the government will start levying custom duty of 5% on its open sales imports. According to people aware of developments, the government has taken this step to encourage manufacturing. According to reports, a 32-inch TV may get costlier by Rs 600 and 42-inch TV by Rs 1,200-1,500.More tax on money sent abroad: If you are sending money to you children studying abroad or financially helping a relative, you will have to make an additional payment of 5% at tax collected at source (TCS). The Finance Act, 2020, states that anyone sending money abroad will have to pay TCS under the liberalised remittance scheme of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-driving-license-to-health-insurance-five-new-rules-from-october-1/story-mpPBSxFrxgQqTZU84y0H4N.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition case verdict: Shiv Sena welcomes acquittal||Shiv Sena has welcomed the acquittal of 32 accused associated with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in the Babri Masjid demolition case. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday that both the party as well as Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray have welcomed the verdict. Earlier today, a special CBI court in Lucknow ruled that there was no conclusive evidence to prove that the demolition of the Mosque in Ayodhya in 1992 was pre-planned, ruling out a criminal conspiracy to bring down the mosque.Former deputy Prime Minister LK Advani along with other BJP stalwarts Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti, were among the accused in the case.“We should not forget the incident as grand Ram Mandir is now being built. If the Babri structure had not come down, we would not have seen the construction of the Ram temple,” Raut said, reacting to the verdict. Former Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan, who was then a close aide of Sena founder Bal Thackeray, was also acquitted in the case. Expressing his happiness over the verdict, he said, he was not even present at the spot.“I had no connection with the demolition as I was not even present at the spot. My stance has been vindicated and I finally got justice,” said Pradhan.The court in Lucknow said there was no conclusive proof against the accused that also included Vinay Katiyar and Sadhvi Rithambara.Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition verdict: All 32 accused acquittedEarlier, LK Advani, too, welcomed the court verdict and said it came in the footsteps of another order which paved the way for his “dream” of seeing a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.“It is a very important decision and a matter of happiness for us. When we heard the news of the court’s order, we welcomed it by chanting Jai Shri Ram,” Advani said in a video message.Also Read: LK Advani, acquitted in Babri case, says ruling vindicates ‘my and BJP’s belief in Ram Janmabhoomi movement’After the court verdict, the 92-year-old BJP leader had greeted the media, gathered outside his house, by chanting the slogan of “Jai Shri Ram”.He was seen watching the news in his residence while sitting with his family members and his daughter Pratibha Advani, who was holding his hands, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-case-verdict-shiv-sena-welcomes-acquittal/story-Tb8RxeDKzLVv1p2Nw7qviO.html
30-09-2020||India||Court’s verdict proves no conspiracy was hatched in Ayodhya: BJP’s Murli Manohar Joshi||Senior BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi on Wednesday said the decision of the Special CBI Court proved that there was no conspiracy hatched for December 6 incident in Ayodhya.Joshi made this remark after all the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case were acquitted by the Special CBI court in Lucknow.Also read | ‘Justice done’: Leaders hail special CBI court verdict in Babri demolition case“It is a historic decision by the court. This proves that no conspiracy was hatched for December 6 incident in Ayodhya. Our programme and rallies were not part of any conspiracy,” the senior leader said. “We are happy, everyone should now be excited about Ram Mandir’s construction,” he added.In its judgment pronounced earlier today, the court said that the demolition was not pre-planned and had acquitted all accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-s-verdict-proves-no-conspiracy-was-hatched-in-ayodhya-bjp-s-murli-manohar-joshi/story-52sTVFQIvUxU65FITHM3iM.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Justice done’: Leaders hail special CBI court verdict in Babri demolition case||The verdict given by the special CBI court in the Babri demolition case has been hailed by many political leaders and Union ministers. Defence minister Rajnath Singh took the lead in congratulating the 32 people who have been acquitted by the court.“ I welcome the decision of the special court of Lucknow not to join any conspiracy of 32 people including Shri LK Advani, Shri Kalyan Singh, Dr Murali Manohar Joshi, Umaji in the Babri Masjid demolition case. The verdict has proved that justice prevailed even if it is late,” Singh wrote on Twitter. Delivering the verdict, judge SK Yadav said that the demolition of the mosque was not pre-planned, but a spontaneous act. He also said that “there is no conclusive proof against the accused.” Also read: Click here for live coverage of Babri demolition case verdictThe case related to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.“I wholeheartedly welcome the judgement by the Special Court in Babri Masjid demolition case. The judgement vindicates my personal and BJP’s belief and commitment toward the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, said LK Advani after being acquitted by special CBI court.WATCH| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ BJP’s Murli Manohar Joshi, also one of the accused, said, “It’s a historic decision by the court. This proves that no conspiracy was hatched for December 6 incident in Ayodhya. Our program and rallies were not part of any conspiracy. We are happy, everyone should now be excited about Ram Mandir’s construction.”“False narratives and conspiracy theories are finally laid to rest by the Hon’bl CBI Court in historic Babri Masjid Demolition Verdict,” minister of Civil Aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri said. He also congratulated LK Advani and other leaders who were acquitted by the court. BJP’s Lok Sabha MP and one of the accused in the Babri demolition case, Ram Vilas Vedanti, emerged from court flashing a victory sign. “It’s good. Justice done. The court agreed that we did no wrong,” he said after the verdict.Welcoming the verdict, Uttar Pradesh chief minister and BJP leader Yogi Adityanath said, “Satyamev Jayate- truth has won”In a press statement CM said, “the then Congress government acted with political bias, indulged in vote bank politics defamed the BJP leaders, saints, Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) leaders and various social organizations by lodging false cases. The people involved in the conspiracy should apologize to the people of the country.”Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said both the party as well as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray welcome the verdict. “We should not forget the incident as grand Ram Mandir is now being built. If the Babri structure had not come down, we would not have seen the construction of the Ram temple,” said Raut. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) also welcomed the verdict.“After this decision, all sections of the society should come together in unity and harmony and work successfully to face the challenges before the country, and work towards the progress of this country,” RSS general secretary Suresh ‘Bhaiyyaji’ Joshi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-done-leaders-hail-special-cbi-court-verdict-in-babri-demolition-case/story-r95GlfaHKB5DcTVd2iiwxO.html
30-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Supreme Court asks petitioners to be polite and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesSupreme Court, hearing plea seeking postponement of civil services exam, asks petitioners to be polite and persuasive if they expect relief from UPSCThe Supreme Court on Wednesday told the petitioners seeking postponement of civil services examination to be “polite and persuasive” if they expect relief from the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The comments were made by the Supreme Court bench after the lawyers of the petitioners said that the UPSC is “bent upon to hold exams. Read more‘No moral right to continue’: Priyanka Gandhi’s scathing attack on Yogi Adityanath after death of Hathras gang-rape victimCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi took on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the death of Hathras rape victim, saying he doesn’t have any moral right to continue as chief minister. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘You can have your favourite food from Kerala after that’, Sanju Samson reveals advice he got from Virat KohliThe world of cricket is aware of Virat Kohli’s passion towards fitness and maintaining a strict diet. Once known for his notorious food habits, the India captain turned over a new leaf which led to his drastic transformation back in 2013. Ever since, Kohli has shaped into arguably the world fittest cricketer, his dedication proving an inspiration for youngsters to follow. Read moreAnurag Kashyap summoned by Mumbai Police in alleged sexual assault caseFilmmaker Anurag Kashyap, who has been accused by a female actor of rape, has been summoned to appear at the Versova police station on Thursday. Earlier, Kashyap, in a statement by his lawyer, had called the allegations ‘baseless.’ Read moreInternational Podcast Day: India embraces the evolution of audio streaming spaceToday is International Podcast Day. The day celebrates the evolution of the audio space that has clearly gone beyond streaming of songs. Podcasts are becoming increasingly popular as you can see many influencers, media houses, and creators embracing the genre. Read moreHonda H’Ness CB 350 unveiled in India, takes aim at Royal EnfieldHonda H’Ness CB 350 - pronounced ‘highness’ - has been officially unveiled in India with the company taking a direct aim at the popularity enjoyed by Royal Enfield in the mid-size two-wheeler segment in the country. At the launch event, it was confirmed that the bike will be priced around ₹1.90 lakh. Read moreShruti Haasan spills some secrets from her biggest beauty disaster to the product her partner loves to stealShooting for her upcoming film in Hyderabad, Bollywood and South star Shruti Haasan was spotted taking a break and sharing some of her beauty secrets with fans on social media. Spilling the beans on her “go to cleanser” and similar questions, the Behen Hogi Teri star led makeup enthusiasts into a treat. Read moreTrump Vs Biden US Presidential debate: Watch the most heated exchangesThe first US Presidential debate between Donald Trump and his rival Joe Biden witnessed several heated exchanges between the duo. The two argued and sparred over issues ranging from Covid handling, to policies and even took personal jibes at each other. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-supreme-court-asks-petitioners-to-be-polite-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OTQWPZ48IdPmZmkiS0lmrL.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition verdict: All 32 accused acquitted||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Lucknow on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused, including Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders LK Advani, 92, and Murli Manohar Joshi, 86, in the Babri Masjid demolition case almost 28 years after a mob razed the 16th century structure in Ayodhya and triggered some of the deadliest riots since partition that left about 2,000 dead.CBI judge Surendra Kumar Yadav ordered the acquittal citing a lack of evidence and added the probe agency could not prove the authenticity of the audio and video evidence submitted. He said the demolition was not pre-planned and the accused tried to stop “anti-social” elements who razed the mosque.Former Union minister Uma Bharti, and Kalyan Singh, who was Uttar Pradesh chief minister at the time of the demolition, are among other accused acquitted in the case. They have tested positive for Covid-19 and are hospitalised and could not attend the court proceedings on Wednesday. Singh’s government was dismissed over the demolition.Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition verdict: On high alert, UP police told to prevent gatheringsSadhvi Rithambhara, Lallu Singh, Pawan Pandey, Vinay Katiyar, and Champat Rai were the accused present in the CBI court.The verdict came months after the Supreme Court in November 2019 ruled in favour of building a temple at the 2.77-acre site in Ayodhya where the mosque once stood. Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended a ceremony to mark the beginning of the temple construction in August.WATCH- Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ Security was heightened on the court premises and no one except the defence, CBI lawyers, and the accused were allowed inside the courtroom. Entry was permitted through only one gate and barricades were put on nearby roads to restrict traffic. The movement of buses from the Kaisarbagh bus stand was diverted and vehicular traffic on the roads near the court building was minimised as part of multi-layered security arrangements.Supporters of the accused were stopped at the barricades as they started arriving at the court. Journalists were denied access to the court building and most of the shops in the vicinity remained closed.Lucknow’s police commissioner Sujeet Pandey took stock of security arrangements and policemen used a public address system to urge journalists to stay behind the barricades.Also Read: Purohit Mahasabha condemns suit in Mathura court on Krishna Janambhoomi issueThe accused faced charges like criminal conspiracy, rioting, promoting enmity between different groups, and unlawful assembly.Ahead of the verdict, Jai Bhagwan Goyal, 62, an accused who described himself as the international working president of United Hindu Front, said he would not comply with the CBI court’s order to bring a guarantor worth Rs 50,000 with him.“I am not going to comply with the order for sure as I feel by bringing down the disputed structure, I did no wrong,” Goyal said. “I was among the first to own up that I had a role in demolition.”Kalyan Singh, who has also served as Rajasthan governor, has said he is proud of his decision denying permission to fire on karsevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, who razed the mosque.The CBI took over the demolition case a week after the mosque was demolished on December 6, 1992. Two simultaneous criminal trials in Lucknow and Rae Bareli were conducted until the Supreme Court shifted all cases to Lucknow in 2017. The top court in July last year extended the timeframe for completing the criminal trial by six months and also set a deadline of nine months for the final order.The nine-month deadline expired on April 19. The Supreme Court on May 8 set the new deadline of August 31 for the judgment. In August, it again extended the deadline till September 30.CBI produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents as evidence during the course of the trial and the special court framed charges against 49 accused. Seventeen of the accused died during the course of the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-verdict-all-32-accused-acquitted/story-pEH3vJXWUCxhkfZ44kCnaI.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Babri demolition was spontaneous, not pre-planned’: CBI court acquits all 32 accused||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday acquitted all the 32 accused in nearly three-decade-old Babri masjid demolition case.Judge Surendra Kumar Yadav said that the demolition of the mosque was not pre-planned, but a spontaneous act. The case related to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.Among the 32 accused, LK Advani, MM Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh were not present in the court for the hearing. While Advani and Joshi were advised not to travel due to age and the coronavirus disease pandemic and attended the hearing through video link, Bharti and Singh have contracted Covid-19.“The CBI court has acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. This ends the long pending dispute related with the December 6, 1992 incident,” said lawyer KK Mishra.WATCH| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ Mishra represented 25 out of 32 accused in the case. Twenty six of the 32 accused were present in the court for hearing. Sadhvi Ritambhara, Vinay Katiyar, Champat Rai, Jai Bhagwan Goyal, Acharya Dharmadas, Lallu Singh, Ram Vilas Vedanti and Pawan Pandey were among them.Iqbal Ansari, a petitioner in the Babri case, welcomed the CBI court’s decision. “It’s good that this is now over. Let’s all live in peace. Let there be no fresh trouble of this nature. Hindu and Muslim have always lived in peace in Ayodhya,” he said.Some saints distributed sweets in Ayodhya after the verdict.Security was tightened in the court premises in Lucknow and no one was allowed inside the court room except the defence and CBI lawyers, and the accused persons.The verdict in the case comes roughly 11 months after the Supreme Court, in November last year, ruled in favour of building a temple at the 2.77 acre site in Ayodhya.A ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction was held on August 5 and attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-was-spontaneous-not-pre-planned-cbi-court-acquits-all-32-accused/story-qLtlafsEuZTb6vgiANLgKO.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras case: Kangana Ranaut expresses ‘immense faith’ in UP CM||Expressing her “immense faith,” in Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, actor Kangana Ranaut on Wednesday said she wants that the Hathras rapists to be executed in the same manner, in which the Priyanka Reddy’s rapists were punished. She took to Twitter to give her opinion on the case and said she wants an “emotional, instinctive and impulsive justice,” for the Hathras rapists.“I have immense faith in @myogiadityanath ji, just how Priyanka Reddy rapists were shot dead on the very spot they raped and burnt her alive we want the same emotional, instinctive and impulsive justice for #HathrasHorror #HathrasHorrorShocksIndia,” she tweeted.Priyanka Reddy was a veterinary doctor in Hyderabad who was gang raped and murdered in November 2019. Also read | Hathras gang-rape: PM Modi speaks to UP CM Yogi Adityanath, seeks strict actionThe 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, died on Tuesday morning, at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi.The woman was gang-raped in Hathras on September 14, 2020, and was admitted to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital for better healthcare facilities.All the four accused involved on September 14 gang-rape have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-kangana-ranaut-expresses-immense-faith-in-up-cm/story-H7zFI3KQ3Sf5O9C2MDy3AP.html
30-09-2020||India||Family dream returning Maoists to mainstream, reversal of vasectomy makes it possible||During spring of 2007, Dinesh Kadti first saw Meena in a Maoist training camp inside a dense jungle in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district and fell in love. Both of them were teenagers and within a month they decided to get married. Two years later, they got married in Edesmetta jungle, a core area of the Maoists, after the rebels forced Kadati to undergo vasectomy, a must for the cadre wanting to get married. Kadanti said vasectomy is done to keep the cadre away from the allure of raising a family, which could turn out to be a potential reason to abandon the Maoist ideology.As the years passed by their desire for a child grew. And when they surrendered before Chhattisgarh police in 2018, the first thing they wanted was to have a child. “After surrendering, I along with three others wanted to get a reversal of vasectomy done because we wanted a kid and met the superintendent of police (SP). The SP assured help” said Kadati, who is now a constable with the district reserve guard in Dantewada.In August 2019, Kadati got his reverse vasectomy done in a private hospital in Raipur along with two others and in March 2020, Meena gave birth to a child. Surrendered Maoist commander, Sannu Katran, said that his vasectomy operation was conducted somewhere in Odisha and he got a reversal of vasectomy done in 2019. “I am waiting for a kid now.” They are among 10 other former Maoist cadres, who have got reverse vasectomy done and now have children. In all, 23 surrendered cadres have got the procedure done since 2011, said Sunderaj P, inspector general of police, (Bastar range). “The purpose of providing free reverse vasectomy is to create well-being among the surrendered Maoists because they feel they are a family man now. Many surrendered Maoists have applied for the surgery and we are considering the request one-by-one,” said Sunderaj. The low awareness of the fact that vasectomy can be reversed is one of the reasons for many surrendered cadre not applying. Abhishek Pallav, Dantewada’s SP, said, “Some of them are hesitant in coming up and most of them don’t know that vasectomy can be reversed.” As per the surrender policy of the government, reverse vasectomy is offered free of cost at any government empanelled hospital to surrendered cadres. Also Read: Suspected Maoist killed in encounter in Bijapur, combing operation still on: Bastar PoliceA senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said Maoists ask their lower-rung cadres to get a vasectomy done at a young age so that they do not understand the implications of the surgical procedure.“Procreation is strongly discouraged in the Maoist organisation as pregnant and lactating women would be a liability and love for the child would push them out of the organisation.“To guard against mass resentment and attrition for want of sexual and familial relationships, Maoists promote marriage and have strict rules regarding the frequency of physical relationships,” Pallav said. But, the new cadre is resisting vasectomy and therefore, Maoists leaders allow them to opt for oral contraceptives.Also Read: Chhattisgarh DGP calls for fair trial of 120 tribals in Burkapal attack case “Reverse vasectomy resulting in child bearing is a success story. There has been a spurt in surrenders of Maoist couples and the option of undergoing reverse vasectomy is one of the main reasons,” said another Indian police service officer posted in Bastar, who was not willing to be named. Human rights activists said that state police’s initiative should be appreciated but surgery should not be forced either by Maoists or the police. “I am glad that the concerned persons could reverse the vasectomy successfully. As long as they were not forced to do it, as long as it was their own decision, there is no problem. Problem is only if they did not have a choice in the matter,” said Bela Bhatia, a human rights lawyer working in the Bastar region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-dream-returning-maoists-to-mainstream-reverse-vasectomy-making-it-possible/story-ZwxHRisMME91Fk3X1FPvvK.html
30-09-2020||India||Supreme Court, hearing plea seeking postponement of civil services exam, asks petitioners to be polite and persuasive if they expect relief from UPSC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the petitioners seeking postponement of civil services examination to be “polite and persuasive” if they expect relief from the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).The comments were made by the Supreme Court bench after the lawyers of the petitioners said that the UPSC is “bent upon to hold exams.“They are duty bound to hold exam. You have to be polite and persuasive if you expect some relief from UPSC,” the court said.The petitioners argued that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is unprecedented and extraordinary situation as they pleaded that the exams should be deferred.The court then said that the UPSC has asked the state authorities to arrage for the transport of candidates.The UPSC has already told the top court that it has incurred expenses of over Rs 50 crore for conducting the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination 2020 scheduled for October 4.In an affidavit filed on Tuesday, the commission said that any further delay would result in a huge loss to the public exchequer.Several exams conducted by the Commission have already been postponed, but the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination (CSP) 2020 was crucial to fill up vacant posts in government services, the Commission stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-hearing-plea-seeking-postponement-of-civil-services-exam-asks-petitioners-to-be-polite-and-persuasive-if-they-expect-relief-from-upsc/story-oUKF0j9glxUGd312kRAktM.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: PM Modi speaks to UP CM Yogi Adityanath, seeks strict action||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said those responsible for the gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman shall not be spared.Adityanath further said prime minister Narendra Modi had spoken to him on the incident and asked for ‘strictest’ punishment against the accused.“Those responsible for the unfortunate incident with the girl in Hathras shall not be spared. A three-member special team has been formed to probe the case. It will submit its report in seven days.To ensure speedy justice, the case will be tried in a fast-track court,” Adityanath tweeted. हाथरस में बालिका के साथ घटित दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण घटना के दोषी कतई नहीं बचेंगे। प्रकरण की जांच हेतु विशेष जांच दल का गठन किया गया है। यह दल आगामी सात दिवस में अपनी रिपोर्ट देगा।त्वरित न्याय सुनिश्चित करने हेतु इस प्रकरण का मुकदमा फास्ट ट्रैक कोर्ट में चलेगा।“Honourable prime minister Narendra Modi has spoken to me on the incident and directed that strictest punishment be taken against the accused,” he posted in a subsequent tweet. आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी ने हाथरस की घटना पर वार्ता की है और कहा है कि दोषियों के विरुद्ध कठोरतम कार्रवाई की जाए।The woman died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday morning, nearly two weeks after she was sexually assaulted and tortured by four men from her village on September 14. The case has triggered nationwide protests, with many drawing parallels with 2012’s Nirbhaya incident in New Delhi.There was fresh controversy in the case with family members of the woman claiming that the Uttar Pradesh Police forcibly creamated her in the early hours of the day. The police and Hathras administration denied these allegations. Meanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lashed out at the UP police for their treatment of the victim’s family.“A Dalit girl who was a victim of demoniac behaviour in Hathras has passed away at Safdarjung Hospital. For two weeks, she kept struggling between life and death in hospitals,” Gandhi said on Twitter.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the incident was very painful. “The Hathras victim was sexually assaulted by some brutes and then by the whole system yesterday. It is extremely painful.” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-pm-modi-speaks-to-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-seeks-strict-action/story-wwgVaSEqerXzH1YkJDplmL.html
30-09-2020||India||Sudarshan TV representatives asked to appear before inter-ministerial panel on Thursday||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the representatives of Sudarshan TV to appear before inter-ministerial panel tomorrow over airing of controversial programme ‘Bindaas Bol’, which alleged conspiracy by members of Muslim community to infiltrate civil services.On September 24, the Centre had told the top court that it has issued a showcase notice to the news channel for the programme ‘Bindas Bol’ where the focus is sudden rise in the number of Muslims in civil services; the channel calls it “UPSC Jihad”.On September 15, a three-judge Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud stayed the further telecast of the programme episodes. Four episodes had been telecast by the time the court issued the injunction.The petition against the programme has been filed by a lawyer, Firoz Iqbal Khan, who submitted that “Bindas Bol” contained statements which were derogatory about the entry of Muslims into the civil services. In the programme’s trailer, which was widely shared on social media platforms, the anchor and editor-in-chief of Sudarshan News, Suresh Chavhanke, was seen questioning how there had been a sudden increase in the number of Muslims succeeding in Indian Administrative Service and Indian Police Service examsKhan has contended in his petition that such views were derogatory to Muslims, had a divisive potential and was in violation of the programme code spelled out under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act of 1995 which regulates television content.Sudarshan News has maintained that the intention of the programme is not to vilify the Muslim community but to highlight the allegedly dubious sources of foreign funding received by an organisation that supports and provides coaching for civil service aspirants.On September 21, the top court had pondered over the nature and extent of its order regulating “Bindas Bol” saying it did not want to “curtail” freedom of speech as the programme has “public interest” involved on issues of “foreign funding” and “reservation”.The channel has urged the apex court to lift the stay on the telecast of the remaining six episodes of the controversial programme, saying the channel would abide by laws. But the Centre tol the bench of justices DY Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and KM Joseph that it has served a four-page notice seeking a written submission from the channel regarding violation of programme code and why action should not be taken against it.The bench has adjourned the hearing in the case till October 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/representatives-of-sudarshan-tv-in-trouble-over-airing-of-controversial-programme-bindaas-bol-asked-to-appear-before-inter-ministerial-panel-on-thursday/story-u9bgoyEPAdM2Jm8EmsssqI.html
30-09-2020||India||Odisha sarpanch alleges PDS corruption, fined Rs 1 lakh for organising protest||A sarpanch in Odisha has been asked to deposit Rs 1 lakh by the local block development officer over allegations that he violated Covid-19 regulations by organising a congregation of over 150 people.Sarpanch Malab Sahu of Gaurenmunda gram panchayat under Gaisilet block of Bargarh district was asked by block development officer Niranjan Sa to deposit the penalty within 3 days for allegedly organising a congregation of 150 villagers on the premises of the block office on Monday.The sarpanch had laid siege to the BDO office on Monday alleging black-marketing of kerosene to be distributed through the public distribution system (PDS). The BDO said the sarpanch had not taken prior permission to hold such a big congregation of people. “You had not taken any prior permission to allow such congregation of people, as any congregation by the general public beyond 10 persons at a place at any period of time is prohibited for containing the spread of the Covid-19 disease. Hence you are fined Rs 1 lakh for violating regulation 4C of the Odisha Covid-19 regulation,” said the letter issued by the BDO to the sarpanch.Also Read: School fees in Odisha likely to be reduced as govt submits proposal to High CourtThe BDO alleged that the sarpanch’s role in organizing the congregation to intimidate block officials was evident from CCTV footage of the block office as well as the video clips shared by the staff and their testimony. During the congregation the BDO was on a field visit.As per Covid-19 guidelines, any congregation by the general public involving 10 or more people at a place at any period of time is prohibited.Also Read: Odisha govt moves amendments to University and Factories Act as assembly session startsIncidentally, the state government is today moving a bill in the assembly to amend section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 to increase the punishment of imprisonment up to 2 years or with a fine which may extend up to Rs 1 lakh or with both for non-compliance of the pandemic guidelines.The action against the sarpanch comes just months after the government enlisted their support for managing the quarantine centres in villages and giving them the status of district collectors for enforcing the Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-sarpanch-alleges-pds-corruption-fined-rs-1-lakh-for-organising-protest/story-xiuqu1Q8SvWt1D1toW3X2H.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: UP CM Yogi Adityanath forms 3-member SIT to probe case||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the Hathras gang-rape incident. The announcement was made by the chief minister’s office (CMO) on Twitter.“CM Yogi Adityanath has ordered the formation of a three-member SIT to investigate the Hathras incident. It will be headed by state home secretary Bhagwan Swarup, and will have inspector general Chandraprakash and PAC Sena Nayak Poonam as members. The team has to submit a report within seven days,” a tweet from the UP CM’s office said. CM Yogi Adityanath forms a three-member SIT to investigate #Hathras gangrape incident, the team to submit a report within 7 days. CM also directs for trial of the case in a fast-track court. pic.twitter.com/9fVzJaNGdmThe chief minister also directed for trial of the case in a fast-track court.The 19-year-old victim was brutally gang-raped in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on September 14. She was initially rushed to JN Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh, but was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital after her condition deteriorated.She kept fighting for her life for 15 days, but finally succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday.All four accused, meanwhile, have been arrested by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-forms-3-member-sit-to-probe-case/story-0AxoFYQMAOXqX3riEyBpnJ.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Harbouring offender’: NCB defends imposition of stringent law on Rhea Chakraborty||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has told the Bombay high court that if a person does not disclose the fact of drug consumption by another person, it will amount to ‘harbouring’ of an offender.The NCB made the submission on Tuesday to justify the invocation of Section 27A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against film actor Rhea Chakrabory and four others in relation to alleged drug procurement for late actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Section 27A deals with ‘financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders’, and attracts a punishment in the range of ten to twenty years of rigorous imprisonment.The lawyers for Rhea and other co-accused submitted that the accused cannot be said to have ‘harboured’ Sushant as he was living in his own apartment and also Sushant was not under the apprehension of arrest at any point of time.Responding to this, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh submitted on behalf of the NCB : “If somebody known to me is consuming drugs...consumption is illegal..and I am not telling this to anyone...not disclosing it to police...then it can be brought under the definition of ‘harbouring’(under Section 27A).”Justice SV Kotwal asked if it was necessary to make arrest always under the NDPS cases if the intention is to reform drug addicts.Singh replied, any person who procures drugs needs to be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Act for deterrent effect.He also said that in drug cases, recovery is not necessary and if the court sees the entire syndicate, drugs were not delivered only to Sushant. “Brother of Rhea was in contact with every drug dealer. The person (Sushant) may not be alive. But that does not mean that the offence goes,” he added.Refuting the NCB allegation that Rhea, along with her brother Showik, “financed” the drug purchases of her boyfriend and late actor Sushant , her lawyer Satish Maneshinde told the Bombay high court that “Rajput was in no dearth of funds”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harbouring-offender-ncb-defends-imposition-of-stringent-law-on-rhea-chakraborty/story-kslmv2vgYyhg4s9U3M8SJO.html
30-09-2020||India||Kejriwal: Pained at mistreatment of Hathras victim’s family||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday expressed dismay over the way police and local authorities allegedly mistreated the Hathras rape victim’s family.“The Hathras victim was first raped by some barbarians. And yesterday she was raped once again by the system. The whole episode is very painful,” Kejriwal tweeted.हाथरस की पीडिता का पहले कुछ वहशियों ने बलात्कार किया और कल पूरे सिस्टम ने बलात्कार किया। पूरा प्रकरण बेहद पीड़ादायी है।The family said the woman’s body was cremated in the middle of the night and authorities ignored their pleas to let them take it home one last time.The body arrived in their village around midnight and the cremation was done by 3 am on Wednesday. The family said they wanted to take the body to her house, but administration pressed for cremation at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-pained-at-mistreatment-of-hathras-victim-s-family/story-jjcD2MfLMKCPMmMR0oPFUK.html
30-09-2020||India||‘No moral right to continue’: Priyanka Gandhi’s scathing attack on Yogi Adityanath after death of Hathras gang-rape victim||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi took on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the death of Hathras rape victim, saying he doesn’t have any moral right to continue as chief minister.“I was on the phone with the Hathras victim’s father when he was informed that his daughter had passed away. I heard him cry out in despair. He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night he was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites,” Gandhi said in her first two tweets on the issue on Wednesday.She also asked Adityanath to resign. “@myogiadityanath RESIGN. Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as Chief Minister,” Gandhi tweeted. @myogiadityanath RESIGN Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as Chief Minister. 3/3The 19-year-old died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. The woman was admitted there in a critical condition after being brutally raped by four men in her village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district.The incident took place on September 14. She was first admitted to JN Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh, but was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital after her condition deteriorated where she breathed her last.The UP government has been facing flak from Opposition parties over the issue. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had said that “no hope” is left from the “insensitive government”.Reacting to the incident, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati tweeted in Hindi, “The news of the death of the Dalit girl after gangrape in Hathras, UP, is very sad. The government should provide all possible help to the victim’s family and ensure quick punishment to the culprits by prosecuting them in a fast-track court.”The Congress has questioned the “silence” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and women leaders of his party and alleged that Uttar Pradesh under the Yogi Adityanath government has become the country’s “crime capital”.At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate alleged that for eight days no gangrape charges were pressed in the matter and that the UP chief minister’s information advisor and Agra Police kept calling the incident “fake news”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-moral-right-to-continue-priyanka-gandhi-s-scathing-attack-on-yogi-adityanath-after-death-of-hathras-gang-rape-victim/story-A2tIAEcUjHiPRO1ftyrXiP.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition case live: Satyamev Jayate, tweets Yogi Adityanath after Babri verdict; jabs Congress||Special CBI judge Surendra Kumar Yadav has delivered his verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case on Wednesday, 28 years after the 16th century structure was razed by a mob in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town. The court ruled that the CBI had not been able to produce evidence to back up its charge that there was a conspiracy to demolish Babri Masjid. The judge acquitted the 32 accused in the case including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former Union ministers MM Joshi and Uma Bharti and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh. The court ruled that the CBI had not been able to establish that there was a conspiracy to demolish the structure, holding that the demolition was not preplanned but a spontaneous act primarily carried out by mischievous elements. The 32 accused face charges under several sections of the IPC, including criminal conspiracy, rioting , promoting enmity between different groups and unlawful assembly. During the trial, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents as evidence before the CBI court. The court had initially framed charges against 49 accused; 17 accused have died.Also read: Babri demolition case verdict today, D-day for Advani and 31 othersHere are the live updates:-Vindicates my and BJP’s belief in Ram Janmabhoomi movement, says Advani after Babri verdictFormer deputy prime minister LK Advani welcomed the verdict. In his first comment after the Lucknow court delivered its finding in the Babri demolition case, Advani said he “wholeheartedly welcome the judgment”. “The judgement vindicates my personal and BJP’s belief and commitment toward the Ram Janmabhoomi movement,” Advani said, according to news agency ANI. A founding member of the BJP, Advani led a Rath Yatra in 1990 that criss-crossed north India, whipping up sentiment for a Ram temple. He had earlier denied all charges and said he was dragged into the case because of politics.-Satyamev Jayate, tweets Yogi Adityanath after Babri verdict; jabs CongressUttar Pradesh chief Minister Yogi Adityanath welcomed the CBI special court verdict. “Satyamev Jayate,” he tweeted before going on to accuse the then Congress government of acting with political bias, indulging in vote bank politics and defaming BJP leaders, saints, VHP leaders and various social organizations by lodging false cases. “The people involved in the conspiracy (over Babri demolition ) should apologise to people of the country,” he said.- Justice has been done, says Mahant Ram Vilas Vedanti after Babri verdictMahant Ram Vilas Vedanti emerged from the court flashing a victory sign. “It’s good. Justice has been done. The court agreed that we did no wrong,” said the former Bharatiya Janata Party MP who had on previous occasions, said he was ready to go to jail.- Stand vindicated, says Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan after acquittal in Babri demolition case Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan, one of the 32 accused in the Babri demolition case, expressed happiness over the verdict. “I had no connection with the demolition as I was not even present in the spot. My stance has been vindicated and I finally got justice,” said the former Rajya Sabha MP.- Good that this is over, says Iqbal Ansari, petitioner in Ram Janambhoomi case; welcomes acquittalIqbal Ansari, the petitioner in the Babri title case, welcomed the CBI court’s acquittal of 32 accused. “It’s good that this is now over. Let’s all live in peace. Let there be no fresh trouble of this nature. Hindu and Muslim have always lived in peace in Ayodhya,” he told reporters.-Court ruled video recording was tampered, CBI didn’t follow procedure: Defence lawyerSpecial CBI judge Surendra Kumar Yadav did not admit the videos produced by the Central Bureau of Investigation, holding that the recording had been tampered with, defence lawyer Manish Tripathi said. The judge also did not admit the photographs submitted by the CBI since it could not produce the original negatives. The judge also agreed with the defence that the CBI did not follow provisions of the Evidence Act.- Court said RSS, VHP didn’t have a role in demolition, says defence lawyer Manish TripathiDefence lawyer Manish Tripathi told reporters that the court ordered acquittal on grounds that the evidence against them was insufficient, “The court said the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad did not have a role in the demolition. It was carried out by mischievous elements,” Tripathi said, giving details of the court verdict.- This ends long-pending dispute over December 6 incident, says defence lawyer“The CBI court has acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. This ends the long pending dispute related with the December 6, 1992 incident, “ said lawyer KK Mishra who is representing 25 out of 32 accused in the case - CBI court acquits LK Advani, MM Joshi, 30 othersFormer deputy prime minister LK Advani, former ministers Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti and former chief minister Kalyan Singh along with 28 other accused of conspiring to demolish the Babri Masjid in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town 28 years ago have been acquitted by CBI special judge Surendra Kumar Yadav. In a hearing that lasted just about 10 minutes, the judge ruled the CBI had not been able to establish charges against the accused.- Babri Masjid demolition verdict: On high alert, UP police told to prevent gatheringsThe UP police have issued a high alert across the state in view of the verdict, in the Babri mosque demolition case, to be delivered by the special CBI court (Ayodhya case) in Lucknow on Wednesday, said senior police officials.- CBI Judge Surendra Kumar Yadav reaches CBI court. The court will pronounce verdict in the Babri mosque demolition case, nearly 3 decades after the 16th century structure was demolished in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.- While top accused including LK Advani, MM Joshi, Kalyan Singh, Uma Bharti are unlikely to attend as Kalyan and Uma Bharti are recovering from Covid-19, various other accused are expected to be present. Also read: Babri Masjid demolition verdict: On high alert, UP police told to prevent gatherings- Shiv Sena leader admits to role in Babri Masjid demolition Accused Jai Bhagwan Goyal, 62, who was Shiv Sena’s north India chief at the time of demolition arrives. On the issue of demolition Goyal while talking to HT said the CBI court had directed them to bring guarantor along and said he won’t comply with the order. “Yes, I admit to my role in demolition,” he said.Also read | Babri verdict: BJP leaders Advani, Joshi, Bharti unlikely to be present in court- BJP leader denies roleBJP leader Vinay Katiyar, who is among the accused in demolition case, denies hand in the criminal conspiracy. Katiyar and other leaders were on a stage that was away from the site where mosque was felled. - ‘Ready to face gallows for Lord Ram’, says former BJP MPFormer BJP MP and accused in the case Ram Vilas Vedanti has said that he is “ready to face anything, including gallows, for Lord Ram.”- Several accused reach CBI court ahead of verdictAmong the accused, Vinay Katiyar, Jai Bhagwan Goyal, Sadhvi Rithambhara, Acharya Dharmadas, Lallu Singh, Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, Ram Vilas Vedanti, Champat Rai and Sakshi Maharaj are present in the court. - All the accused, barring 6, inside the court; judgment shortly - Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi attend proceedings via video conferencing. - Babri demolition was spontaneous, not pre-planned’: CBI judge reads out verdict- 32 Babri case accused acquitted. Judge says demolition was spontaneous, not pre-plannedThe Special CBI court acquits all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case ending 28 years of trial in the case.“The CBI court has acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. This ends the long pending dispute related with the December 6, 1992 incident, “ said lawyer KK Mishra.Mishra is representing 25 out of 32 accused in the case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-live-cbi-court-s-verdict-in-historic-case-shortly/story-Iyp1OlFhjzymMNUB8evtGI.html
30-09-2020||India||Bird calls were sweeter this spring, thanks to lockdown, says Science journal||Less noise during the lockdown restrictions, which were enforced in various parts of the world to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic during this spring, may have allowed birds to sing sweeter and softer songs, according to a study published in the journal Science last week.Ornithologists and birders reported hearing more bird songs and calls even from the species they had never heard before, but always knew were in the vicinity.Also read: Centre convenes meeting to review anti-pollution stepsThe study found that sparrows in the United States of America’s (USA) San Francisco Bay area responded to the new acoustic space during the lockdown in April and May by singing higher performance songs — those involving trills or other vocal ornamentation and at lower amplitudes.Despite the reduced amplitude, communication distances more than doubled, which could both reduce territorial conflicts and increase mating potential, the study suggested.Titled Singing in A Silent Spring: Birds respond to a half-century soundscape reversion during the Covid-19 shutdown. The study, led by the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Tennessee, USA, also found that the low-frequency noise generated by traffic and vehicle crossings in April and May returned to levels not heard since the 1950s.Usually, birds that have breeding areas, where ambient noise is high, sing higher amplitude songs. This is called the Lombard effect, an involuntary vocal response to the presence of background noise, because people tend to speak louder in noisy environments.The study revealed that male birds produce songs with higher minimum frequencies in areas with high energy. While low frequency noise is typical of traffic in urban surroundings.The study concluded that birds managed to maximise communication and salience. “These findings illustrate that behavioural traits can change rapidly in response to newly favourable conditions, indicating an inherent resilience to longstanding anthropogenic pressures like noise pollution,” it said.“This is interesting, but, perhaps, not unexpected. Birds can modulate their song amplitude in response to noise levels. One might expect them to lower amplitudes in quieter backgrounds. More interesting is that they could then use the energy saved to sing higher performance songs…we certainly had much less ambient noise in urban spaces in India as well, but to comment on how birds may have changed their amplitude or song structure will require quantitative data, which I do not have,” said Professor Rohini Balakrishnan of the Centre for Ecological Sciences at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, and a specialist in bio-acoustics.Veteran ornithologist Asad R Rahmani, a former director of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), said he could hear several species, despite living in a crowded part of Lucknow, where there are fewer trees, during the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions.“I live in a crowded area, where there are not too many trees, bushes or shrubs. Nevertheless, during the lockdown when there was no traffic on the streets, I could hear Indian Cuckoo because March to June is its breeding season so it is very vocal, Greater Coucal, Laughing Dove, Jungle Babbler, Golden Oriole, Peafowl, Brown Rock Chat, Rose-ringed Parakeet, House Sparrow, Spotted Owlet, Indian Scops Owl (both at night), Brown-headed Barbet, Coppersmith Barbet, Black-rumped Flameback (woodpecker), Red-vented Bulbul, Common Iora, and a few other species of birds,” Rahmani said.“The initial months of lockdown --- from March to June --- were the main breeding season when the males call and become territorial. They must have had a peaceful breeding season in which their calls were not drowned by the incessant noise of traffic, loudspeakers, and horns, which are all human creations,” he said.However, the calls have stopped following the gradual easing of lockdown restrictions, he added.In Gurugram, author and ornithologist Bikram Grewal said he heard birds which he knew were in the vicinity but hadn’t heard before the 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced from March 25.“It could just be that noise levels were low. As a result, we paid more attention. I heard the Ashy Prinia, Tailorbirds, Indian Grey Hornbill, Spotted Owlet and the Rufous Treepie from my house in Gurugram. We definitely heard bird calls and bird songs a lot more this spring,” Grewal said.Some birders reported watching more birds in April and May. “I live in suburban Bengaluru, where birdlife is already quite rich. There has been a further spurt in bird activity since the lockdown restrictions were lifted. They were exhibited in two distinct phenomena – an increase in birdsong and also an uptick in their presence,” said Ramki Sreenivasan, a Bengaluru-based wildlife photographer and co-founder, Conservation India. “Notable examples are grey francolins (partridge) and peahen. Both are large birds and are, otherwise, wary of human presence. The peahens made their first visible appearance in the neighbourhood, thanks to the lockdown. I could see and hear them from my balcony. Birdsong moved to another level during the onset of monsoon. Either, there were more birds calling or we had just not heard them due to the traffic and ambient noise. For example, Ashy Prinias is always vocal wherever it is. But this monsoon the species of the bird erupted with incessant and loud vocal battles,” he added.Anand Krishnan, a scientist at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, who specialises in interdisciplinary studies of bird sensory signals, cautioned about several contradictory papers on the impact of noise on birdsong.“This paper’s quantitative assessments are nice. However, the conclusions about amplitude changes are not novel in and of themselves. The effects of noise on birdsong are a field with many, often contradictory papers, and the effects on reproduction and behaviour are also still unclear. For example, it is difficult to tease apart the effect of noise on mating and reproduction versus say air pollution or other factors. Lower amplitude songs in lower noise are something called the Lombard effect, which is known in many birds. A lot more work is needed to show that birds are responding to the ‘new acoustic space’ versus other environmental changes. Where this paper differs is in taking advantage of a one-off ‘noise reduction,’ as opposed to comparing birds singing in more and less noisy areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-calls-were-sweeter-this-spring-thanks-to-lockdown-says-science-journal/story-FcGGqkH3vCa7huWOGxc5DO.html
30-09-2020||India||Maximum impact of Covid-19 faced by women, children and adolescents: Harsh Vardhan||The maximum impact of Covid-19 has been felt by women, children and adolescents, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said Tuesday.Participating in a programme on maternal, newborn and child health via a video link, Vardhan said his ministry issued guidance to states to ensure that women, children and adolescents continue to get all the healthcare services, according to an official statement.“We are in a constant dialogue to ensure that these services are made available to women, children and adolescents and remain in focus despite the health systems being under severe strain due to COVID epidemic,” he was quoted as saying in the statement.“From instilling a behavioral change to help more women deliver in hospitals to entitlement for absolutely free services, we have come a long way now in providing quality care throughout pregnancy and childbirth with interventions like LaQshya and midwifery care,” Vardhan said.“The idea is to have a fully responsive and accountable health system that will not only result in a positive birthing experience but also help end preventable maternal and newborn deaths,” he said.He mentioned that India is transitioning “towards a phase of moderate levels of maternal mortality and analyses have shown that many of the maternal deaths occur due to delay in timely provision of comprehensive obstetric care” which could have been prevented.He also talked about protecting primary health care workers from the pandemic.“We have taken actions to create a safer work environment for our COVID warriors through uninterrupted supply of essential logistics, personal protective gear and also made provision of life insurance cover for the people dedicated to COVID and healthcare services.  “We have also been carrying out a spirited campaign to celebrate the Corona warriors and address stigma and discrimination that has come to be associated with this disease. I would say that this is not a single department’s effort, it is actually a whole of government approach that is helping us deliver to the last mile.”  The event was co-hosted by the White Ribbon Alliance (WRA) and Every Woman Every Child (EWEC). A recurrent theme this year was the effort to protect hard earned gains in the field of Reproductive, Maternal and Child Health from the COVID pandemic. PTI PLB ABH ABH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maximum-impact-of-covid-19-faced-by-women-children-and-adolescents-harsh-vardhan/story-Aab9zfMCVyQSqpO3mX6n3J.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition verdict: On high alert, UP police told to prevent gatherings||The UP police have issued a high alert across the state in view of the verdict, in the Babri mosque demolition case, to be delivered by the special CBI court (Ayodhya case) in Lucknow on Wednesday, said senior police officials.(Babari Masjid case full coverage)The officials said all district police chiefs have been asked to keep the force vigilant and in alert mode to counter any type of law and order situation that may arise after the verdict. They said extra police force has been kept in reserve in Lucknow and other sensitive districts including Ayodhya.A senior police official aware of the developments said the police officers have been directed to keep a check on movement of people in Lucknow as well as Ayodhya and to not allow gatherings before and after the verdict. “In Lucknow, along with civil police, CRPF personnel will also be deployed in and outside the high court campus where the special CBI court will be giving its verdict,” he said.WATCH| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) Sujeet Pandey said a three-layer security has been deployed in and around the court including the personnel of units of civil police, anti-terror squad and the bomb disposal squad. He said over a 1000 police personnel are deployed for the three-layer security.The CP said the roads in the area were barricaded strategically for mob management and CCTV cameras have been installed at different strategic points to capture every activity. He said heavy route diversions have been enforced since Wednesday morning to ensure no chaos is caused around the court. “As part of the security arrangements, no one will be allowed inside the courtroom except the defence and CBI lawyers and the accused,” another Lucknow police official informed. He said entry will only be allowed from gate number 8 of the court. Barricades have been put up on all adjoining roads in the vicinity of the court to restrict movement of vehicles, he added.Also Read: Babri demolition case verdict today, D-day for Advani and 31 othersTwenty-six of the 32 accused in the case are likely to be present in the court when the verdict is delivered, said an official on condition of anonymity. All the 32 accused are facing charges under several sections of the IPC, including criminal conspiracy, rioting, promoting enmity between different groups and unlawful assembly.The official quoted above said senior BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti will most likely not be present in court due to health reasons when the verdict is delivered.Also Read: Mosque in Ayodhya may be square-shaped like Kaaba: Trust officialShiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan and chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das are also unlikely to be present in the court. The remaining 26 accused will reach the CBI court at 10 am on Wednesday morning before judge Surendra Kumar Yadav reaches the courtroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-verdict-on-high-alert-up-police-told-to-prevent-gatherings/story-fHXbW7vO42o6Ici4FPxeEN.html
30-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.2 million mark with 80,472 fresh cases, 1,179 new fatalities||India recorded 80,742 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry website on Wednesday. This pushed the nationwide tally to over 6.2 million.The country also saw 1,179 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative death toll at 97,497, according to health ministry.The ministry’s bulletin on Wednesday showed 9,40,441 active cases in the country, which account for 15.42 per cent of the total cases India has seen so far.India has increased its testing capacity significantly in the last six months with tests per million population for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossing the 50,000-mark, shows Union health ministry data.In the past 10 days alone, Covid-19 testing has gone up from about 46,000 tests per million population to about 53,000 tests currently.Overall, 51,87,825 people have recovered from the disease so far, the ministry data showed.The national recovery rate crossed 83 per cent on Tuesday and the number of cases under treatment were less than 1 million.Ten Indian states which have seen the most number of coronavirus deaths in the last 24 hours include – Maharashtra (430), Karnataka (136), Punjab (75), Tamil Nadu (70), Uttar Pradesh (63), West Bengal (62), Delhi (48), Madhya Pradesh (39), Chhattisgarh (39)and Andhra Pradesh (35).The slight dip in India’s Covid-19 number comes on the day when the central government is likely to release guidelines for the fifth phase of relaxations (Unlock 5).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-6-2-million-mark-with-80-472-fresh-cases-1-179-new-fatalities/story-w4u3QPZwsPLyJFTg7agJMM.html
30-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: 6.6% population above 10 years of age exposed to Covid-19: Sero survey results and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.One in 15 above 10 yrs of age exposed to Covid-19, reveals ICMR sero survey resultsNearly one in 15 (6.6%) above 10 years of age in the country was exposed to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), till August, shows the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) second sero prevalence data that was made public on Tuesday. Read moreIPL 2020: Shreyas Iyer fined Rs 12 lakh for Delhi Capitals’ slow over rate against Sunrisers HyderabadShreyas Iyer, captain of the Delhi Capitals, has been fined after his team maintained a slow over-rate against Sunrisers Hyderabad on Tuesday. He was fined Rs 12 lakh given this was his team’s first offence of the season under the IPL’s Code of Conduct relating to minimum over-rate offence. Read moreShah Rukh Khan’s daughter Suhana Khan shares hate messages, says she was called ‘kaali chudail’: End colourismShah Rukh Khan’s daughter, Suhana Khan, shared screenshots of messages and comments criticising her complexion, adding translations for the benefit of non-Hindi speakers. She said that she has been called ugly since she was the age of 12 and added that it was sad, as Indians were brown by default, and ‘hating on your own people just means that you are painfully insecure’. Read moreArtist creates model house with mini wooden logs, video is amazing to watchIf you’re a regular user of the Internet, then there’s a possibility that you have come across those videos which capture incredible artistic skills of people. Case in point, this video of a person creating a model house using mini wooden logs. Not just the making video, the end result is so incredible that it may make you think if only you could stay in that beautiful house. Read moreIPL 2020: Sunrisers Hyderabad beat Delhi Capitals by 15 runsSunrises Hyderabad picked up a win over Delhi Capitals by 15 runs. Rashid Khan was the star for Sunrisers Hyderabad’s bowling unit as SRH defended the target of 163. Jonny Bairstow scored a fifty for SRH. Delhi saw brief cameos from Shikhar Dhawan and Rishabh Pant, but both were dismissed by Rashid. The spinner also dismissed Shreyas Iyer. DC posted 147/7 in 20 overs. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-6-6-population-above-10-years-of-age-exposed-to-covid-19-sero-survey-results-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WtPhFldqhjv7aHWYAQDM9H.html
30-09-2020||India||MP custodial death: Kin refuse to cremate victim until cops are booked for murder||Tension prevailed for second consecutive day in Narayanpur village of Satna district in Madhya Pradesh as the family members of the man killed in police custody, from a bullet fired from the service revolver of a police inspector on Sunday night, refused to accept his body unless the policemen alleged to be responsible for the man’s death are booked for murder, as per villagers and police. Two cops including an inspector Vikram Pathak and a constable Ashish Kumar of Singhpur police station of Satna district were booked under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC on Monday after death of Rajpati Kushwaha, a resident of Narayanpur village, in the police custody. Rajpati’s body has been lying in an ambulance for the past more than 12 hours in front of Rajpati’s house and police are trying to convince his family members to cremate the body, said a police officer. The family members, who are sitting on a dharna with Congress MLA Siddharth Kushwaha in the village, are demanding arrest of the cops and a case to be filed under section 302 of IPC instead of section 304, applied currently. Kushwaha’s daughter Shivani Kushwaha said, “I want to see the cops, who killed my father, behind the bar.” Congress MLA Siddharth Kushwaha said, “The state government is trying to suppress the matter. The government should ensure the cops are booked for murder and it should give ex-gratia of at least Rs 1 crore to the family. If the government doesn’t fulfil our demands, the dead body will not be cremated.” Also Read: Hathras rape victim’s body forcibly taken away for cremation by UP police, alleges family; police deny claimSatna, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Anil Singh Kushwaha said, “The body has started decomposing. We are trying to convince the family members that the legal procedure is being followed and a magisterial inquiry has also been ordered. The truth will come out but they should go ahead with the cremation.”A heavy police force has been deployed in the village to meet any eventuality. Also Read: Thoothukudi custodial deaths: CBI files charge sheet naming 9 police personnel for torturing father, sonSatna police claimed that Rajpati was called to Singhpur police station on Sunday for questioning in connection with a theft case on a complaint lodged by a former sarpanch of the village. But Rajpati committed suicide by shooting himself on his forehead after snatching the police inspector’s revolver.However, family of the deceased and other residents of the village have refused to accept the police’s theory and alleged Rajpati was murdered by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-custodial-death-kin-refuses-to-cremate-victim-until-cops-are-booked-for-murder/story-L5DofICaaRriKvQUQ339cN.html
30-09-2020||India||Fire breaks out at company office in Maharashtra’s Thane||A fire broke out at the office of a company in Thane West on Wednesday.The incident took place at the office of Raymond company in Thane West.Fire tenders along with two fire engines, two rescue vehicles and one water tanker reached the spot.Firefighting operation is underway.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-company-office-in-maharashtra-s-thane/story-g6fvNtzky0csi8VdO89aYM.html
30-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s tests per million population cross 50k-mark||India’s tests per million population for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have crossed the 50,000-mark, shows Union health ministry data.In the past 10 days alone, Covid-19 testing has gone up from about 46,000 tests per million population to about 53,000 tests currently.Keeping the pandemic situation in mind, India increased its testing capacity significantly within six months.“Till March, about 30,000 Covid-19 tests were being performed in a month on an average, which now has gone up to 29.7 million tests being performed in a month. We have made use of a calibrated approach to ensure testing facilities are made available as per requirement, with special focus on areas where infrastructure was inadequate,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).ICMR has been spearheading country’s Covid-19 testing initiative since the beginning of the pandemic. On January 23, the first test to detect Covid-19 was performed at ICMR’s apex virology laboratory, National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. Since then, at least 70 million tests have been performed in the country, with a testing capacity of close to 1.5 million tests in a day.From 121 laboratories approved for Covid-19 testing in March, the number of labs added to the testing network across the country has gone up to 1,836. Of the total testing labs approved across India, 1,089 are in the government sector, and the rest in the private sector. “On some days, we do more than one million tests, and then there are days when the number dips slightly due to various factors. What is important to note is that we have the capacity to test at least 1.5 million samples for Covid-19 in a day, and this capacity is constantly being increased,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, Union health ministry.“Covid-19 testing is adequately being done in most states; and the Centre has conveyed to states where more tests are needed. There are some states with high case load and the Centre is working with those states to effectively manage the situation,” Bhushan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-tests-per-million-population-cross-50k-mark/story-PlwioNILKihzWMTUa5sDNO.html
30-09-2020||India||Centre releases safety workplace guidelines for industry to prevent Covid-19||As part of Unlock 5, the Centre has come out with Safe Workplace Guidelines for Industry and Establishment to combat Covid-19 (coronavirus disease) and ensure safety measures at workplace.The guidelines have been prepared as a comprehensive plan for employers and workers to use to help identify risk levels of Covid-19 at individual workplace settings in their premises, and to determine appropriate control measures.These guidelines consolidate all important measures into a ready reckoner of action points to make the workplace safe based on the bulwark of infection-control measures like respiratory hygiene, frequent hand washing, social distancing and frequent sanitisation of the workplace.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayIt also details the structural and administrative measures and human resource (HR) policies that can be used to control the spread of Covid-19 at the workplace.Guidance for the assessment, categorisation and mitigation of risk related to varied work-related exposures to Covid-19 and contingency plan has also been provided in the reference material.Isolation and management of sickness at the workplace has been dealt with in detail, along with dos and don’ts for social behaviour that have also been listed.Also Read: One in 15 above 10 yrs of age exposed to Covid-19, reveals ICMR sero survey resultsUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan, and Santosh Kumar Gangwar, minister of state for labour and employment, jointly released the guidelines formed under the guidance of Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.“…workplace guidelines for industrial workers are of great significance in curbing the spread of Covid-19 disease. This is playing a critical role in ensuring that the production and economy of the country are not deterred by the pandemic. At the same time, industrial workers and their families should remain safe and free of fear. These guidelines are very timely and should be disseminated and embraced widely,” said Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-safety-workplace-guidelines-for-industry-to-prevent-covid-19/story-Lb694SZ0WKolUkphRasM8O.html
30-09-2020||India||Its season comes to an end but monsoon yet to withdraw from most parts of the country||Monsoon season officially comes to an end on Wednesday. Monsoon rainfall was 109% of the long period average (LPA) until Tuesday. The figure is higher than 102% of LPA with an error margin of +/-4%, which India Meteorological Department (IMD) had forecast in June.The final monsoon rainfall data will be released by the IMD authorities on Thursday. Also read: Sardar Sarovar Dam’s sudden water release flooded parts of Gujarat, suggests analysisA nationwide break-up shows that the southern peninsular India; central; and east and the north-eastern parts of the country have received 29%, 15%, and 7% excess rainfall, respectively, to date since June 1 while north-west India reported a 16% deficiency in rainfall during the corresponding period.Usually, monsoon is expected to withdraw from the country by October 15.However, IMD declares the end of monsoon on September 30. Monsoon months extend from June to September.The conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from most parts of Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, western Himalayan region and some parts of Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Madhya Pradesh (MP) during the next two days, according to IMD’s bulletin on Tuesday night.A cyclonic circulation is lying over west-central Bay of Bengal off the Andhra Pradesh (AP) coast between lower and upper troposphere. Under its influence, scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is likely to occur over southern peninsular India during the next two days, IMD’s bulletin said.There is a forecast for heavy to very heavy rainfall over Tamil Nadu (TN), Puducherry, Karaikal, AP, Telangana, Kerala and southern interior Karnataka until Wednesday. Rainfall activity is likely to increase over the north-eastern states from Thursday. Widespread and heavy rainfall is expected over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura between Thursday and Saturday. Dry weather is likely over most parts of north-western parts of the country during the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-season-comes-to-an-end-but-monsoon-yet-to-withdraw-from-most-parts-of-the-country/story-NqNRd5e4oAeEz6Cm90P4AK.html
30-09-2020||India||Congress sets in motion organisational polls, asks states to update list of AICC delegates||The Congress has started the process of electing its full-time president as the newly constituted Central Election Authority (CEA) has asked all state units to send an updated list of All India Congress Committee (AICC) delegates, who form the electoral college for the organisational polls, people familiar with the development said. A Congress leader said on condition of anonymity that the CEA has asked the state units to submit a revised list of the AICC delegates and has struck out the names of those who had died or quit the party since December 2017. The state units have been asked to fill the vacancies immediately. The leader said finalising the list of AICC delegates, comprising state and central leaders, is one of the key tasks in conducting the organisational polls, as they elect the party president and the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the apex decision-making body of the 135-year-old party. Also Read: Bihar assembly election 2020: Congress, RJD in impasse over seat sharing in BiharThe AICC is the party’s central unit comprising around 2,000 members from across the country. Interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi had formed the CEA for holding internal polls while carrying out a major organisational reshuffle on September 11.The five-member CEA is headed by Madhusudan Mistry and its members are Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely.Lovely is one of the 23 signatories, who had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi in August, seeking complete overhaul of the party and a full-time leadership to stem the steady decline of the organisation. Usually, the AICC delegates are elected for a fixed term of five years, as per the party constitution. The list is revised, as and when organisational polls are held. The tenure of the Congress president and the CWC is also for five years. The party had amended its constitution in 2010 to extend the term of its president from three to five years. Also Read: In farm bill protest, Cong finds a new inspiration: Arun JaitleyThe current AICC members were elected in 2016-17 and will complete their term in 2022. The list was finalised by the previous CEA, which was headed by current Kerala Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran. The previous CEA was dissolved soon after the election of Rahul Gandhi as the Congress president in December 2017. “The list only needs to be updated in a bid to elect the new AICC delegates. It will require an amendment in the Congress constitution,” said the leader quoted above. The election of AICC delegates is a long-drawn process. The AICC delegates are selected from among the members of respective state units, or Pradesh Congress Committees (PCCs). The PCC members, in turn, are elected from different blocks in each state. The number of AICC delegates for each state is decided on the basis of the size of the PCC. Around 15% of the AICC members are co-opted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sets-in-motion-organisational-polls-asks-states-to-update-list-of-aicc-delegates/story-dAwtiyfaP5uD7fbZ1DAI2K.html
30-09-2020||India||Make in India: In a first, citizens will buy Glock pistols armed forces use||Currently serving with the military, police and special forces in more than 70 nations, including India, America, England and France, the famous polymer-frame Glock pistols from Austria may soon be available to Indian citizens in non-service calibres. In 2019, the Tamil Nadu-based Counter measures technologies pvt. ltd. (CMT) and Glock Ges.m.b.H, Austria, entered into a partnership to produce the pistols at the CMT plant in Tiruvallur district, which is part of the state’s defence industrial corridor planned by the Centre. The joint venture was initially signed for supplying Glocks only to the government. With permission from the Centre, CMT has now set a target to sell the pistols to civilians by the end of March 2021, one of the Indian company’s directors and major shareholder, Jayakumar Jayarajan, told HT. For India’s civilian arms market, the arrival of the Glock will be a game changer, stakeholders feel. The pistol is sold to citizens in many countries, including the USA. “The Covid-19 lockdown delayed our project by more than six months. We are trying to pick up speed. Our first priority is to supply the 9 mm pistols to the armed forces. Civilians will get the .22 LR, .380, .357 Sig, .40 and .45 calibre pistols. We have permission to set up our own proof testing facility,” said Jayarajan. “A team from Glock landed in Chennai in January 2019 and flew to Delhi to meet Union defence ministry officials after visiting our site. In the delegation was a man who was part of the team that helped the designer, Gaston Glock, make the first pistol in 1981,” said Jayarajan. Today, Glock produces fifth generation pistols with competitors following its polymer technology. In India, the majority of licensed firearms owners are saddled with old or antiquated foreign handguns imported before 1984 or the ones being made by government ordnance factories. The erstwhile Congress government at the Centre banned import of all types of firearms in 1984, giving exemptions only to national and international shooters and state agencies. Though out of reach of India’s gun owners till now, the world’s first military service pistol to sport a light polymer frame and trigger safety feature, is a familiar name to the nation. Also Read: ‘No war, no peace in Ladakh,’ says IAF chief RKS BhadauriaA 9 mm Glock 26 compact pistol was the only weapon wing commander Abhinandan Varthaman was armed with when he was captured in Pakistan in February 2019 after the Balakot air strikes. Glocks also went into action with National Security Guard (NSG) commandos during the terror attack on Pathankot air force base in 2016 and in other operations. “We support any initiative that promotes the ‘Make in India’ programme and moves us closer to an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-sufficient India),” said Delhi-based Abhijeet Singh, spokesperson for National association for gun rights India (NAGRI), the only pan-nation organisation fighting for liberal gun laws for citizens. Prakash Simson, owner of Simson gun house in Mangalore, Karnataka, said, “Indians still pay a premium price for 50 or 70-year-old handguns because of their reliability. The India-made Glocks have to meet people’s expectations. But before that, the government must ensure that law-abiding citizens get gun licence without being caught in red tape for years. If licences are not issued there will no market. The companies will wind up their business.” Also Read: Defence ministry clears military purchases worth Rs 2,920 crore, rifles from US among themA gun owner and sports enthusiast, Yuvraj Yograjsinh of Mansa, Gujarat, said, “Glocks are not made in .32 ACP which is the most popular pistol calibre in India because the ammunition is made by our ordnance factory, the other one being .22 LR. Ammunition for the rest of the calibres being offered to civilians by CMT is not made here. Imported ammunitions are frightfully expensive. This needs to be addressed first.” Jayarajan said CMT has been given permission to manufacture ammunition of all calibres, ranging from the small .22 LR to the 12.7 x 108 mm heavy machine-gun cartridge used by the army. “We plan to make the ammunition factory operational by the end of 2021,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-in-india-in-a-first-citizens-will-buy-glock-pistols-armed-forces-use/story-Hp0SI7DwIC14FsZXb4fIPI.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras rape victim’s body forcibly taken away for cremation by UP police, alleges family; police deny claim||The family of 19-year-old Dalit woman from Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, who died in a Delhi hospital of injuries sustained when she was gang-raped, has alleged that she was forcibly cremated.The family claimed that the woman’s body was taken away by the police in the middle of the night for final rites.“The police have forcibly taken the dead body, and my father along with them for cremation. When my father reached Hathras, he was immediately taken (to the crematorium) by the police,” the woman’s brother told news agency PTI.The body of the woman reached her village around midnight and the cremation was done by 3 am on Wednesday.The villagers claimed that they wanted to take the body of the woman to her house, but administration pressed for cremation at the earliest. The passage for ambulance was blocked and finally cremation took place in village.The police, meanwhile, said that the cremation of the woman was carried out by the family members. Superintendent of Police (SP) Vikrant Veer denied any “urgency” by police in cremation despite the fact that cremation usually do not take place in night.He added that the cremation was done as usual after the body reached Boolgarhi village in Hathras district.He claimed that the situation is calm in the village, but heavy police force has been deployed.Also read | ‘We hoped she will survive’: Unease shrouds Hathras rape victim’s villageThe woman was raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras village by four men on September 14 and died a fortnight later after battling serious injuries. The woman was first taken to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh, but shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi after her condition deteriorated.She was in a critical condition and on ventilator support.The brutality against the teenager has sparked outrage across the country with several political leaders, Bollywood actors and activists demanding justice for her.The case has drawn parallels with the gang rape of a 23-year-old student in Delhi, who was attacked on a moving bus and left to die on a roadside in 2012.“A Dalit girl who was a victim of demoniac behaviour in Hathras has passed away at Safdarjung Hospital. For two weeks, she kept struggling between life and death in hospitals,” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi said on Twitter. She added that incidents of rape in Hathras, Shahjahanpur, and Gorakhpur had shaken the state.Also read: Outrage, stir after Hathras rape victim’s deathDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal demanded that the guilty be tried and hanged at the earliest. “The death of Hathras victim is shameful for the entire society, country as well as for all the governments. It is highly sad that so many daughters are being sexually assaulted and we have not been able to protect them,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.The four people accused of raping the woman have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-rape-victim-s-body-forcibly-taken-away-for-cremation-by-up-police-alleges-family/story-mFbRkp7cwMLbZlzcMjAgVL.html
30-09-2020||India||Average 79 murder cases in India daily in 2019, marginal decline from 2018: NCRB data||India recorded an average of 79 murder cases daily in 2019, according to a latest government data.A total of 28,918 cases of murder were registered in 2019, showing a marginal decline of 0.3 per cent over 2018 (29,017 cases), the data compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) showed.‘Dispute’ (9,516 cases) was the motive in highest number of murder cases followed by ‘personal vendetta or enmity’ (3,833 cases) and ‘gain (2,573 cases), it showed.The country also recorded a decline of 0.7 per cent in cases of kidnapping and abduction in 2019. A total of 1,05,037 such cases with 1,08,025 victims were registered in 2019, down from 1,05,734 cases in 2018, the data showed.Of the total kidnapping and abduction victims, 23,104 were male and 84,921 female in 2019. Out of the total, 71,264 (15,894 male and 55,370 female) victims were children and 36,761 (7,210 male and 29,551 female) were adult, according to the data.During 2019, a total of 96,295 kidnapped or abducted persons (22,794 male and 73,501 female) were found, out of which 95,551 were rescued alive, it stated.In 2019, 2,260 cases of human trafficking were also registered as compared to 2,278 cases in 2018, showing a decrease of 0.8 per cent. A total of 6,616 victims were reported to be trafficked including 2,914 children and 3,702 adults, the data showed. Apart from this, 6,571 victims were rescued from clutches of traffickers. A total of 5,128 persons were arrested in 2,260 cases of trafficking, the NCRB said.The NCRB, which functions under the Union Home Ministry, is tasked with collecting and analysing crime data as defined by the Indian Penal Code and special and local laws in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/average-79-murder-cases-in-india-daily-in-2019-marginal-decline-from-2018-ncrb-data/story-yXdjguDuK1c1RI0MVfJWON.html
30-09-2020||India||How long will Mehbooba Mufti’s detention last, Supreme Court asks govt||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre and the Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) administration whether they intend to continue to keep former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti in detention, asking them to explain the maximum duration for which a person can be held in preventive custody under the law. An apex court bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul was hearing a corpus petition filed by Mufti’s daughter, Iltija, challenging her mother’s detention under the Jammu & Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA), which allows a person to be held without trial for a maximum one year for acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and for two years for acting prejudicially to the security of the country.“You should address us on two issues — one, what is the maximum period for which a person can be detained and two, what is your proposal and how long do you propose to continue the detention,” the bench, which also comprised justice Hrishikesh Roy, told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre and the Union territory administration.Mufti was among hundreds of people detained in 2019 to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest J&K of its special status through the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 and to divide the region into two Union territories. Iltija alleged that her mother’s continued detention was because of her refusal to sign a general bond affirming that in case of release, she would not make any comment on, deliver any speech or attend any public assembly related to the changes pushed through in Jammu and Kashmir.Mehta told the court that Mufti had been detained on the grounds that her conduct could lead to public order issues, which allow a person’s detention for a period of one year under the PSA. “Considering the ground of detention, can you detain her beyond one year,” justice Kaul asked, asking Mehta to respond at the next hearing.Mehta informed the court that the J&K administration had filed a counter affidavit on the matter.The counter-affidavit filed by the district magistrate (DM), Srinagar, stated that the detention order was based on the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority and the sufficiency or adequacy of material cannot be a matter of judicial review.Iltija argued that Mufti’s detention was based on a dossier compiled by the Srinagar police superintendent which is replete with personal remarks against her and was in bad taste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-long-will-mehbooba-mufti-s-detention-last-supreme-court-asks-govt/story-WdV283QJaDc3EA2PoJzPsJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Less than 10 months after it emerged in Wuhan, China, the Sars-CoV-2 virus has claimed a million lives (1.002 million as this column is being written on Tuesday, according to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center), although a report in Bloomberg, citing Alan Lopez from the University of Melbourne’s global burden of disease group, said the actual toll could be around 1.8 million.That’s probably a directionally accurate assessment, although the number itself may, according to this writer, be exaggerated. Dr Michael Ryan of the World Health Organization said in Geneva on Monday that the “current numbers” are “likely an underestimate”. No country has recorded all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths accurately as investigations by The New York Times and The Financial Times (and this was back in April) pointed out. Neither of those investigations covered India, but it is very likely that India’s record-keeping of deaths, patchy at the best of times, suffered even more during Covid-19. The HT newsroom has reported several instances where tests weren’t carried out on the dead to check whether they died on account of Covid-19. And almost every Indian state has that Kafkaesque construct, the death audit committee, which decides whether a person died of Covid-19 or because of some comorbidity.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Based on data from antibody tests and assuming (on the basis of this data), an infection fatality rate of 0.1%, Dispatch 158 on September 15 (bit.ly/33aCg41) calculated that the number of dead in India was between 110,000 and 131,500 around mid-September. India had around 80,000 deaths at the time, so this was a difference of 37.5% to 62%. The logic behind assuming an infection fatality rate of 0.1% was explained in Dispatch 152 on September 8 (bit.ly/2GcSdhx).In terms of annual deaths from infectious diseases – there really is no point in comparing Covid-19 with others unless you are looking for a headline – the coronavirus is already ahead of everything else. And unlike deaths caused by many so-called lifestyle diseases, the ones caused by Covid-19 were sudden. India itself could cross the 100,000 mark in a few days (it ended Monday with 96,354 deaths), joining the US (over 200,000 deaths) and Brazil (around 140,000 deaths) as the only countries to have seen deaths in six digits. As of this writing, India accounts for 6.14 million of the 33.38 million cases of coronavirus disease the world has seen, or 18.41% of total cases, according to Johns Hopkins. It accounts for just around half that proportion of deaths – 96,318 out of a total of 1.02 million, or 9.6%. India’s case fatality rate has always been much lower than that of many other countries. For instance, on the basis of the numbers cited above, it works out to 1.56%, around half the global CFR of 3%, and also much lower than the case fatality rates of the US (2.86%) and Brazil (3%). These numbers are likely to decrease for all countries simply because doctors have figured out ways to save lives while treating Covid-19. This is borne out by data.Also read| 88 million in India may have been exposed to Sars-Cov2: Sero surveyAccording to worldometers.info, the world crossed 250,000 deaths on May 3 (252,865 to be exact). It ended the day with 3.5 million cases for a case fatality rate of 7.17%. It crossed 500,000 Covid-19 deaths on June 25 (500,028). It ended the day with 9.6 million cases. The case fatality rate on the day was 5.17%. It crossed 750,000 deaths on August 12 (754,740). It ended the day with 20.8 million cases for a CFR of 3.63%. A little over 70% of the cases the world has seen so far have been added since June 25 – a period which recorded half the deaths on account of Covid-19 thus far.The numbers highlight an opinion that many experts are finally beginning to voice – that early action (such as aggressive testing), and better communication (especially about masks, social distancing, and public events), may have saved more lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-0oTii5g4CF6MNlZ44mOxOL.html
30-09-2020||India||India trashes ‘1959 LAC’ claim||India on Tuesday asserted it has never accepted the unilaterally defined 1959 Line of Actual Control (LAC), and pointed out that several agreements with China committed both countries to confirming and clarifying the alignment of the boundary.The ministry of external affairs (MEA) was reacting to a report about China’s foreign ministry saying in an official statement to Hindustan Times that Beijing abides by the LAC proposed by premier Zhou Enlai to prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru in a letter dated November 7, 1959 — the first time in decades the Chinese side clearly outlined its stance on the notional boundary by reiterating a position India has consistently rejected since it was first made 61 years ago. Also read:China takes 1959 line on perception of LAC “We have seen a report in the Hindustan Times of 29th August, quoting a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement regarding China’s position on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the India-China border areas,” an MEA statement said. “India has never accepted the so-called unilaterally defined 1959 Line of Actual Control (LAC). This position has been consistent and well known, including to the Chinese side,” ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.  Srivastava pointed out that under several bilateral agreements — including the 1993 Agreement on Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC, the 1996 Agreement on Confidence Building Measures (CBMs) in the military field, the 2005 Protocol on Implementation of CBMs, and the 2005 Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles for Settlement of the India-China Boundary Question — India and China have “committed to clarification and confirmation of the LAC to reach a common understanding of the alignment of the LAC”. He added, “Therefore, the insistence now of the Chinese side that there is only one LAC is contrary to the solemn commitments made by China in these agreements.” Also read: Former envoys slam Beijing for invoking old LAC perceptionOn Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry, in a statement in Mandarin, said that Beijing abides by the LAC proposed by Beijing in 1959. “Firstly, China-India border LAC is very clear, that is the LAC on November 7, 1959. China announced it in the 1950s, and the international community including India are also clear about it,” the ministry said.Experts said India’s response reflected the wide gap in perceptions between the two sides amid the five-month standoff in the Ladakh sector of the LAC. More than five rounds of talks each through military and diplomatic channels have been unable to break the impasse in the disengagement and de-escalation process. The external affairs ministry also blamed the Chinese side for lack of progress in the process for clarifying and confirming the boundary for almost two decades.Also read: ‘1959 claim is wrong, but it punctures China’s theory’, say experts “In fact, the two sides had engaged in an exercise to clarify and confirm the LAC up to 2003, but this process could not proceed further as the Chinese side did not show a willingness to pursue it,” Srivastava said. In response to a query from HT on why the process of LAC clarification has been stalled since 2002, the Chinese foreign ministry on Tuesday blamed India. “Over the years, the Indian side has repeatedly crossed the line to encroach on China’s territory and deliberately created new incidents, making the process of verifying the Line of Actual Control between the two sides impossible to proceed smoothly,” it said in a second statement. India denies any transgressions.The statements this week from both sides have been perceived as a sign that the border standoff, which began in early May, is unlikely to be resolved soon. The standoff has taken bilateral ties to an all-time low, and both sides have mobilised more than 50,000 troops each in the region and are now preparing to dig in for the harsh winter. India on Tuesday pointed to an apparent dichotomy in the position adopted by the Chinese side — Beijing was insisting on abiding by the LAC of 1959 while stating in the latest discussions on the border standoff that the issue should be resolved on the basis of the existing agreements.“In the last few months, the Chinese side has repeatedly affirmed that the current situation in the border areas should be resolved in accordance with the agreements signed between the two countries,” Srivastava said. He said that even in the agreement reached between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during their talks on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow on September 10, the Chinese side “has reiterated its commitment to abide by all the existing agreements”. During their meeting, Jaishankar and Wang agreed on a five-point road map to take forward the disengagement process, which included dialogue aimed at quick disengagement, maintaining proper distance between troops of the two sides and easing tensions, and abiding by all agreements and protocols on border management. The MEA said the Indian side has “always respected and abided by the LAC”, and defence minister Rajnath Singh stated in Parliament recently that “it is the Chinese side which by its attempts to transgress the LAC in various parts of the Western Sector, has tried to unilaterally alter the status quo”. Srivastava said: “We therefore expect that the Chinese side will sincerely and faithfully abide by all agreements and understandings in their entirety and refrain from advancing an untenable unilateral interpretation of the LAC.” Twenty Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 in a brutal clash in Galwan valley, which also resulted in unspecified Chinese casualties. Troops of both sides have fired warning shots on several occasions since late August, the first time shots have been fired along the LAC since 1975. Meetings of the corps commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs have been unable to nudge forward the disengagement process, though the military officials agreed at their last meeting that both sides wouldn’t deploy any more troops to the frontline. The WMCC is set to hold another meeting soon. Military experts said that by raking up the 1959 LAC, China was hardening its position and making a resolution of the border row even more difficult.“India has never accepted the 1959 LAC. Not at the time it was brought up in 1959, not after the 1962 war when it was referred to in the unilateral ceasefire announced by China, or at any time after that. By referring to this, they seem to indicate that disengagement is unlikely,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). (With inputs from Rahul Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-trashes-1959-lac-claim/story-idkhp3ldJL18MetZHgYt6M.html
30-09-2020||India||China row in focus ahead of Jaishankar’s Quad meet||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will visit Japan on October 6-7 to participate in the second ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, and to hold a series of bilateral meetings against the backdrop of India’s border standoff with China.The objective of the meeting on October 6 is to tighten strategic cooperation and advance the goal of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. The meeting is expected to be followed by consultations at senior officials’ level in November. Jaishankar is visiting Tokyo for bilateral consultations with his Japanese counterpart Toshimitsu Motegi and the two ministers are expected to discuss bilateral and regional issues of mutual interest, the external affairs ministry said. “During the visit, the external affairs minister will also participate in the second India-Australia-Japan-USA ministerial meeting on 6 October, 2020, in which the foreign ministers of the respective countries will participate,” the ministry said in a statement. The foreign ministers of Quad, which was upgraded to the ministerial level in September last year, will discuss the “post-Covid-19 international order and the need for a coordinated response to the various challenges emerging from the pandemic”, according to the statement. The ministers will also discuss regional issues and “collectively affirm the importance of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific”. Jaishankar will also hold bilateral consultations with Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and US secretary of state Mike Pompeo during the visit. The Quad meeting will discuss collaboration among Quad countries in counter-terrorism, cyber and maritime security, development finance, humanitarian assistance and disaster response, according to South Block officials. The ministers are also expected to discuss practical collaborations in developing advanced technologies including 5G and 5G-plus telecom standards as well as securing the sea lanes of communications in the Indo-Pacific.There has been a sea change since the ministers met informally on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly on September 26, 2019. Quad is expected to take steps towards an institutionalized dialogue at the meeting, where Chinese actions since the rise of global pandemic from Wuhan will come under the magnifying glass.The Quad ministerial comes at a time when the Donald Trump administration has made a U-turn on US polices towards China, which were guided by the rapprochement policy tailored by Henry Kissinger 50 years ago under the Republican administration of Richard Nixon. The tough, new US policy towards Communist China was defined by US secretary of state Mike Pompeo in his Nixon Library address on July 24.The Indian relationship with China has taken a 180-degree turn since the Chennai summit on October 11-12, 2019, after the People’s Liberation Army’s aggression in eastern Ladakh in May. The armies of the two countries are still locked in a staring match in Ladakh with both sides losing soldiers in the June 15 Galwan Valley flare-up; firing in the air followed in the first week of September after the Indian Army pre-empted the PLA south of Pangong Tso. Australia’s relationship with China, its largest trading partner, has nosedived with Beijing imposing an 80% tariff on barley, launching an anti-dumping investigation of Australian wine, blocking Australian beef, arresting an Australian journalist and banning two academics from visiting China.The situation with Japan is no different, with Chinese warmongering over the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea forcing Tokyo to increase its defence budget to a record. Tokyo is also upset over new security laws in Hong Kong and pressure put on democratic Taiwan by Beijing.The members of Quad, especially India, Japan and Australia, have also stepped up work on forging partnerships with like-minded countries in the region, or those with interests in the Indian Ocean, with an eye on China’s increasing assertiveness and aggressiveness. Jaishankar recently said India and Japan were looking at cooperating on projects in Bangladesh and Myanmar as part of their efforts to work together in third countries. In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin took aim at the Quad meeting, warning that no “exclusive clique” should be formed.“Peace, development and global cooperation is the overriding trend of today’s world. Multilateral and plurilateral cooperation should all be open, inclusive and transparent. No one should seek an exclusive clique,” he said.“Efforts should be made to enhance regional countries’ mutual understanding and trust, instead of targeting a third party or harming a third party’s interests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-row-in-focus-ahead-of-jaishankar-s-quad-meet/story-qT9XaIgVCJtXOivSqOeuMI.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri demolition case verdict today, D-day for Advani and 31 others||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court will deliver its verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case on Wednesday, almost three decades after the 16th century structure was razed by a mob in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town, sparking communal tension and riots.Shortly around 10:30 am, CBI judge Surendra Kumar Yadav is expected to start reading out the verdict in a court room where many of the top accused are unlikely to be present. Watch| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ Some of the key accused, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former Union minister MM Joshi, former Union minister Uma Bharti and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, are likely to attend the proceedings through video conference because of the coronavirus pandemic. “At present I am not in a position to say who will be present in court for the final judgment. I have informed all my clients about the judgment date (September 30). Who will be present in court will only be clear on the judgment day,” said KK Mishra, who is representing 25 out of the 32 accused persons. Also read| CBI court to pronounce Babri verdict today: All you need to knowIn all, 26 of the 32 accused are likely to be present in court. Ahead of the verdict, security has been tightened in the court premises in Lucknow and no one is allowed inside the court room except the defence and CBI lawyers, and the accused persons. Entry is permitted through only one gate and barricades have been put on nearby roads to restrict traffic. All 32 accused are facing charges under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, including criminal conspiracy, rioting , promoting enmity between different groups and unlawful assembly. Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan and Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust chief Mahant Nritya Gopal Das are likely not to be present in court. Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh have tested positive for Covid-19 and are hospitalised.  Some of the accused exuded confidence. Jai Bhagwan Goyal, 62, who described himself as the international working president of United Hindu Front, said he won’t be complying with the CBI court’s order to bring a guarantor worth Rs 50,000 with him. “I am not going to comply with the order for sure as I feel by bringing down the disputed structure, I did no wrong.”Also read| Mosque in Ayodhya may be square-shaped like Kaaba: Trust officialFormer Rajasthan governor and UP chief minister at the time of the incident, Kalyan Singh, said in a July 30 interview to HT that the demolition paved the way for a Ram temple. “I am proud of the fact that I denied permission to fire on kar sevaks,” he said. Jaibhan Singh Pawaiya, former national chief of Bajrang Dal, is also an accused. “I am coming to Lucknow. If I get sent to jail, then too I will work for Lord Ram and if I remain free, then too I will spend the rest of my life for the sake of the lord and my country,” he said. Both Pawaiya and Goyal were arrested soon after the demolition. “We were arrested back then and on December 7, 1993 when we decided not to seek bail, we were sent to Lucknow jail. On December 8, we were shifted to a makeshift prison at Matateela and later to Varanasi. From there, me along with Giriraj Kishore and Satish Pradhan were kept at Chunar jail in Mirzapur,” he said.The verdict in the criminal case comes roughly 11 months after the Supreme Court, in November last year, ruled in favour of building a temple at the 2.77 acre site in Ayodhya. A ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction was held on August 5 and attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-verdict-today/story-KVqZonm4sPz2YleId3tOML.html
30-09-2020||India||Odisha govt moves amendments to University and Factories Act as assembly session starts||The monsoon session of the Odisha Assembly began on Tuesday with the Naveen Patnaik government bringing in 7 Bills including the amendment Bill allowing companies with up to 300 workers to sack people or close down units without government approval and another Bill allowing greater government control on state universities.With one-third of the 147 MLAs including deputy Speaker Rajani Kant Singh infected by Covid-19, less than 100 MLAs attended the Assembly as they sat away from each other with clear plastic boards separating them. While chief minister Naveen Patnaik took part in the proceedings through video-conference from Naveen Niwas, a few MLAs including BJP leader Bishnu Sethi attended it from their respective district headquarters through V-C mode. The first half of the session was adjourned after obituary references to former President Pranab Mukherjee, several sitting and former MLAs, Indian Army soldiers and policemen. Labour minister Sushant Singh moved the Industrial Disputes (Odisha Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeking to amend the Industrial Disputes Act for allowing companies with upto 300 workers now to sack employees without seeking the prior approval of the government. The old Act had the provision for companies with employee strength of 100 or less.The state government said the Act has been brought to facilitate investment, generation of employment and counter the hardships caused to MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) due to the Covid-19 pandemic by way of creating a more conducive and business friendly atmosphere. The Act once passed by the Assembly would be applicable retrospectively to all industrial units from July 16 this year.In May this year, the state government had increased the overtime limit from 75 hours per quarter earlier to 115 hours quarter while allowing engagement of women in factories with their consent between 6 am and 7 pm.The second most important Bill to be moved today was the Odisha Universities (Amendment) Bill 2020 that saw Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati tearing up a copy of the Bill protesting government control on the working of the state universities. “It’s a Black Bill. It should be sent to Select Committee of the House for consideration,” he demanded.The Odisha Universities (Amendment) Bill 2020 seeks to amend Odisha Universities Act, 1989 and repeal the Ravenshaw University Act, 2005 which led to the formation of the Ravens haw University as well as other unitary universities like Gangadhar Meher University and Khallikote University. It also seeks to abolish the system of Senate in universities terming it as an ornamental body and restructure the Syndicate for smooth academic and administrative functioning of the Universities.The Bill seeks to hike the tenure of Vice Chancellor from 3 to 4 years and the upper age limit to 67 years from 65 years. It also seeks to have an eminent academician, nominated by the state government as a member of the search committee for appointment of V-C in place of the nominee of the Syndicate of the University.The Bill also proposed that Odisha Public Service Commission would now do the recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff of the universities instead of the universities themselves. Moving the Bill, higher education minister Arun Sahoo said the amendment Bill would make the universities function in a better and more professional way.Opposing the Bill, Congress leader Narasingha Mishra asked why the state government was in a hurry to pass the Odisha Universities (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 in this pandemic situation. “Will the Covid-19 cease to spread if the Bill gets passed? This bill will end the autonomy of Universities in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-moves-amendments-to-university-and-factories-act-as-assembly-session-starts/story-r5ni9SsyMPd0xUF59qdfCL.html
30-09-2020||India||Amnesty says India ops shut||Stung by a multi-agency probe and the subsequent freezing of all its bank accounts in India, human rights watchdog Amnesty International said on Tuesday that it was winding up its operations in the country because of a “witch-hunt” by the government. The complete freezing of its India bank accounts has halted all the work in which it has been engaged in the country, Amnesty International India said in a statement. “The organisation has been compelled to let go of staff in India and pause all its ongoing campaign and research work. This is latest in the incessant witch-hunt of human rights organizations by the Government of India over unfounded and motivated allegations,” said the rights group.The home ministry, however, said in a statement that the stand taken by Amnesty International is “unfortunate, exaggerated, and far from the truth” and accused the body of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) violations, and “interference in domestic police debates” despite being funded by foreign donations.The rights group denies the financial violations charges and says it has been in full compliance with all laws.On October 22, 2019, Amnesty International testified at the US Congressional hearing on human rights in South Asia, with specific focus on Jammu & Kashmir after the Indian Parliament on August 5 pushed through constitutional changes that divested J&K of its special status and reorganised it into two Union territories.This August 28, the rights group released an investigative brief on the complicity of the Delhi Police in the February communal riots that claimed the lives of at least 53 people. Delhi Police rebutted the claim, saying Amnesty’s report was “lopsided, biased and malicious”. Also read: On Amnesty row, BJP leader quotes ex-PM Manmohan Singh to defend govtAmnesty has also accused the government of suppressing free speech and demanded the release of activists Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen, Sudha Bhardwaj, Surendra Gadling and others arrested in connection with the January 1, 2018, caste clashes in Bhima-Koregaon near Pune in Maharashtra. “This is the fifth time Amnesty India is being shut down. The first time was when George Fernandes led it 50 years ago,” Aakar Patel, former executive director of Amnesty India, tweeted on Tuesday. The last time the group shut its operations in India was in 2009. The rights group is being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), since October 2018 when the agency raided its Bengaluru head office and froze its accounts because of which it had to let go of some staff at the time. In early 2019, the Income Tax department wrote to Amnesty’s office-bearers seeking certain clarifications. In November 2019, CBI filed a case against Amnesty, alleging it received ₹36 crore in funding without the mandatory permission required under the FCRA and raided its offices. In August 2016, a sedition case was filed against the organisation that was quashed by a court last year. Investigative agencies have alleged that the fund-raising model of Amnesty International India was in violation of FCRA that amounts to money laundering, a charge denied by the rights group.The ministry said that Amnesty’s “glossy statements” about humanitarian work and speaking truth to power are nothing but a “ploy to divert attention” from their activities, which are in clear contravention of laid down Indian laws. Owing to illegal practices of Amnesty, the previous government had also rejected the repeated applications of Amnesty to receive funds from overseas, the home ministry said.The government earlier this month brought in a new amendment to FCRA which disallows transfer of any foreign funds received by any non-government organisation (NGO) to any other organisation or individual. “The continuing crackdown on Amnesty International India over the last two years and the complete freezing of bank accounts is not accidental. The constant harassment by government agencies including the ED is a result of our unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of the Delhi Police and the government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in Delhi riots and Jammu & Kashmir. For a movement that has done nothing but raise its voice against injustice, this latest attack is akin to freezing dissent,” said Avinash Kumar, executive director of Amnesty International India. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rejected Amnesty’s allegations and said the organisation was receiving funds from abroad in contravention of the Indian laws. “The Reserve Bank of India told all banks that Amnesty should be put in the category for prior reference. Before receiving money from outside India they would need to be in the prior permission category. There has been shifty money transfer to the companies and there is suspected flow of money into the trust of the Amnesty International, the party’s national spokesperson Rajyavardhan Rathore said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amnesty-says-india-ops-shut/story-YuvD0qLl3a6WaM0nxuxeiP.html
30-09-2020||India||With 493 new Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand’s tally touches 47,995||With 93 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, Uttarakhand’s tally of total cases touched 47,995. The state reported below 500 cases for the second consecutive day on Tuesday.The state also reported the death of 11 Covid-19 patients, taking the death toll to 591. Out of the 591 deaths, 192 cases were due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. On Tuesday, the state reported 1413 recoveries with a maximum of 411 from Dehradun, taking the tally of total patients who have recovered to 38,059. With this, the recovery rate now stands at 79.30% and the rate of doubling of cases stands at 44.58 days. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Tuesday evening, a maximum of 174 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by Tehri (65), US Nagar (60), Haridwar (53), Nainital (47), Uttarkashi (40), Champawat (15), Pithoragarh (15), Chamoli (13), Bageshwar (6), Rudraprayag (4) and Almora (1). Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 12,867 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (9228), US Nagar (8377) and Nainital (5796). The state has so far tested over 7.01 lakh samples of which results of over 11,000 are awaited. The positivity rate stands at 7.09% in the state at present. Uttarakhand currently has 454 containment zones in nine districts including maximum 297 in Haridwar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-493-new-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-s-tally-touches-47-995/story-vFiP0Pdakf2SXyrTwAqW3M.html
30-09-2020||India||Bypolls to 1 MP, 56 MLA seats in November||The Election Commission on Tuesday set the dates for elections to 56 assembly seats across 11 states and a lone parliamentary constituency in Bihar that will take place amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The bypolls will dovetail with the three-phase assembly elections in Bihar, set for October 28, November 3 and 7.In the by-elections, voters in 54 assembly constituencies across 10 states will choose their legislators on November 3;the electorate in two assembly constituencies in Manipur will vote on November 7, together with electors in Bihar’s Balmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency.The results of the elections will be declared by November 12 at the latest, with counting taking place on November 10.A team from the Election Commission, meanwhile, left for Patna on Tuesday to assess the situation in Bihar by holding discussions with district- and state-level officials ahead of the first full-fledged electoral exercise following the outbreak of Covid-19. Nearly 72 million voters will choose their representatives to the 243-member Bihar assembly with strict health protocols in place to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease. The Election Commission has put off elections to seven assembly constituencies across Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal where the term of the legislature is due to lapse in either May or June next year. People familiar with the matter had earlier told Hindustan Times that it does not make sense to hold the elections in Kerala, where there are only two vacancies and the assembly is due to be re-elected before June 2021. “In the midst of this pandemic and considering the devastation caused due to the floods, it would be unnecessarily expensive to hold the bypolls,” one person had said, adding that a representation to defer the polls had been sent to the Commission in August. The Commission will hold bypolls to assembly constituencies in Chhattisgarh (1), Gujarat (8), Haryana (1), Jharkhand (2), Karnataka (2), Manipur (2), Nagaland (2), Odisha (2), Madhya Pradesh (28), Telangana (1) and Uttar Pradesh (7). It will also hold a by-election to the Balmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency, which fell vacant on the death of Baidyanath Prasad Mahato in February.In Madhya Pradesh, three seats fell vacant because of the death of their assembly representatives and 25 because of Congress lawmakers switching sides to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress government of Madha Pradesh collapsed in March because of a rebellion by MLAs owing allegiance to Jyotiraditya Scindia, who left the party for the BJP. Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana had also written to the Commission to defer the polls in the wake of the pandemic, aside from Kerala, Hindustan Times reported on August 10.“The Election Commission had received representation from these states,” said a second person familiar with the matter. “At that point, it had temporarily deferred the elections. But now these states have re-evaluated the situation and feel polls can be held in line with the Election Commission’s schedule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-to-1-mp-56-mla-seats-in-november/story-ODmQUUAr3kbZ2WAJPVAHqI.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Glossy statements’: Home Ministry’s sharp comeback to Amnesty on ‘witch-hunt’ barb||The Union home ministry on Tuesday refuted claims made by Amnesty International India of a witch-hunt by the government, underlining that human rights cannot be an excuse for defying the law of the land. In an official statement, the ministry said that “Amnesty is free to continue humanitarian work in India, as is being done by many other organisations.”“However, India, by settled law, does not allow interference in domestic political debates by entities funded by foreign donations. This law applies equally to all and it shall apply to Amnesty International as well,” it said. Taking a dig at Amnesty over its work, the home ministry statement added: ““All the glossy statements about humanitarian work and speaking truth to power are nothing but a ploy to divert attention from their activities which were in clear contravention of laid down Indian laws. Such statements are also an attempt to extraneously influence the course of investigations by multiple agencies into the irregularities and illegalities carried out over the last few years.”The ministry said, “India has a rich and pluralistic democratic culture with a free press, independent judiciary and tradition of vibrant domestic debate.”The statement said “Amnesty’s failure to comply with local regulations does not entitle them to make comments on the democratic and plural character of India.”Accusing Amnesty of violating the law, the home ministry said the stand taken by the rights group and statements that blamed the government action for its decision to close down are “unfortunate, exaggerated and far from the truth.”Giving a chronology of events, the home ministry said Amnesty International had received permission under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) only once and that too 20 years ago, on December 19, 2000. Since then, Amnesty International, despite its repeated applications, has been denied approvals for receiving foreign funds by successive governments in accordance with the law.Also Read: On Amnesty row, BJP leader quotes ex-PM Manmohan Singh to defend govt“In order to circumvent the FCRA regulations, Amnesty UK remitted large amounts of money to four entities registered in India, by classifying it as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). A significant amount of foreign money was also remitted to Amnesty (India) without MHA’s approval under FCRA. This mala fide rerouting of money was in contravention of extant legal provisions,” it said.“Owing to these illegal practices of Amnesty, the previous government had also rejected the repeated applications of Amnesty to receive funds from overseas.This had led Amnesty to suspend its India operations once during that period as well. This bipartisan and purely legal approach towards Amnesty, under different governments, makes it clear that the entire fault lies in the dubious processes adopted by Amnesty to secure funds for its operations,” said home ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glossy-statements-home-ministry-s-sharp-comeback-to-amnesty-on-witch-hunt-barb/story-abt4Jjf7ln0BIeJAeAWABP.html
30-09-2020||India||Another 8 weeks needed to bring Baghjan gas well under control: OIL||It could take another 6-8 weeks to bring the natural gas well in Assam’s Baghjan, which had a blowout on May 27 and caught fire weeks later, completely under control, Oil India Limited (OIL) stated on Tuesday. “We are in the process of bringing in a snubbing unit from Canada for the job. It will take them 3-4 weeks to reach the site and another 3-4 weeks to complete the operation,” CMD Sushil Chandra Mishra told journalists during an online press conference on the occasion of OIL’s 61st annual general meeting. Four weeks ago, Assam industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary had also told the state assembly that it would take 6-8 weeks for the snubbing team to arrive and bring the well under control. The gas well in Tinsukia district had a blow out (uncontrolled release of oil or gas) during a work over operation. It caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters. Another engineer died at the site this month due to electrocution. While the well was capped August, the fire at the wellhead had not been doused till this month. “About two weeks back, we have been able to douse the fire at the wellhead and divert the gas for production. Now things are coming under control,” Mishra said. Though the fire at the wellhead has been doused and a portion of the released gas has been diverted for production, the unused gas directed to a flare pit near the well is still blazing. Efforts are now on to ‘kill’ the well by snubbing-a process to install or remove tubular from a well while it remains pressurized (alive). This technique is used when it is not possible or desired to kill a well using a mud-sludge called ‘kill fluid’, a technique which was tried unsuccessfully earlier. Mishra informed that OIL has suffered Rs 6 cr in losses because of the blowout at the well and a total loss of Rs 179 cr due to forced closure at other oil and gas wells in the area by various organizations. The company has also spent around Rs 70 cr on foreign experts who had reached the site in June and have tried to bring the well under control for the past four months without complete success. Replying to a query on the damage to the ecology near Baghjan, which is located close to the Maguri Motapung Wetland and the Dibru Saikhowa National Park, Mishra said that there had been no major harm. “Studies by various agencies have revealed no major harm to the ecology and environment of the area. There has been some impact on the area near the well and that can be addressed only after the well is brought under control,” he said. The blowout and subsequent fire had damaged over a dozen houses in the vicinity and uprooted nearly 7,000 local residents-some of whom are still staying in relief camps. Mishra informed that OIL has already paid an interim amount as compensation to some of the affected families and once the district administration completes its survey, will compensate others as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-8-weeks-needed-to-bring-baghjan-gas-well-under-control-oil/story-ZyuNxa5p7uzRgKZ7eg2MFM.html
30-09-2020||India||One in 15 above 10 yrs of age exposed to Covid-19, reveals ICMR sero survey results||Nearly one in 15 (6.6%) above 10 years of age in the country was exposed to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), till August, shows the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) second sero prevalence data that was made public on Tuesday.ICMR’s first countrywide sero survey that was conducted between May 11 and June 4 showed overall infection prevalence to be 0.73%.The second survey was conducted during August 17 and September 22, in the same 700 villages and wards from 70 districts in 21 States that were covered in the first survey. Blood samples were collected from 29,082 individuals. All other parameters about the two surveys have been the same except for the age bracket— in the first phase population selected was 18 years and above, and in the second phase samples were included from 10 years and above.“We changed the age group in the second survey from 18 years to 10 years and above because infection was also seen in younger population. Sero survey gives us virus exposure prevalence, but you may or may not have developed the disease,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR. About 3-5 ml of blood sample as collected to study the presence of IgG antibodies against Sars-Cov-2 virus. IgG antibodies are the longer lasting antibodies that help determine a past infection.“How much time in the past is a work in progress but these develop about 2-3 weeks after having contracted the infection and approximately stay for about 2-3 months,” said Dr Bhargava.Urban slum (15.6%) and non-slum (8.2%) areas had higher Sars-Cov-2 infection prevalence than that of rural areas (4.4%), and prevalence in adults (above 18 years of age) was also higher at 7.1%, the data shows. “It goes on to show that a large percentage of population is still susceptible to contracting the infection which is why it becomes really important to follow covid-19 appropriate behavior like wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing, and observing hand hygiene,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.Experts say these types of sero surveys do not present the current picture. “This doesn’t tell us about the current situation and that’s the reason why it may not be really beneficial at making policy-level decisions. However, for academic purposes, if anyone wants to study the pandemic trajectory in India some time later, it will be of help,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-15-above-10-yrs-of-age-exposed-to-covid-19-reveals-icmr-sero-survey-results/story-B4NG4cu0oNORa3y46W6C5N.html
30-09-2020||India||For the first time, Karnataka logs more than 10K Covid-19 cases in a single day||Karnataka for the first time recorded more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day as it stepped up testing. On Tuesday the state recorded 10,453 new Covid-19 positive cases with the total recorded now approaching around six lakh cases till date, ever since the first one was detected on March 8.A senior official of the department of health and family welfare - who did not want to be identified as he is not authorized to speak to the media said, “Part of the reason why a high number of cases have been recorded is that we also conducted 87,475 tests, the highest ever in the last 24 hours. Nearly half of them are the more rigorous RT-PCR and the rest are the rapid antigen tests.”Urban Bengaluru continues to be a spot of concern accounting for 46,610 of the 1,07,737 active cases in the state. Only Mysuru with 6,752 cases is anywhere close to the state capital. Kodagu in deep south and Bidar at the other end of the state account for the least number of active cases at 470 and 480 respectively. “Of the 612 fever clinics nearly a quarter are located in Bengaluru alone. We will continue to increase testing in the state and more so in the capital city,” the official added.Till date, 8777 people have lost their lives due to Covid-19 including two legislators and one Lok Sabha and one Rajya Sabha member of parliament from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-the-first-time-karnataka-logs-more-than-10k-covid-19-cases-in-a-single-day/story-vz55F9Di2x5rOblu8TRCHM.html
30-09-2020||India||How can drug supply to Rajput be proven if he is no more: Lawyer tells court in bail plea hearing||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday heard the bail applications submitted by actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and others arrested in a drug case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. During hearing, lawyer for alleged drug peddler Abdel Basit Parihar, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), asked court how can the drug supply link to Rajput be proven now that he is dead.In Parihar’s bail submission before the Bombay High Court, senior advocate Taraq Sayed said that on August 28, Abbas Lakhani and Karan Arora were arrested by NCB with 13 grams of ganja (cannabis) in their possession and were granted bail. Based on their statements, the agency arrested Abdel Basit Parihar on September 3. Kaizan Ebrahim and Zaid Viltara were also arrested.Sayed reminded court that the mentioned people were arrested and questioned based on a single submission that Rajput was consuming drugs. However, no recovery has been made from the five bail applicants -- Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty, Sushant’s house helps Samuel Miranda and Dileep Sawant, and Abdel Basit Parihar. Appealing for bail on behalf of Parihar, his lawyer said that in cases where the offences are punishable with a maximum of one year jail sentence, such offences ought to be seen as bailable under the NDPS Act (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985).“If the recoveries are small quantities then such offences are bailable,” Sayed said.“What is the material to show that my client Parihar delivered a contraband to some person who took it further? In none of the statements have they shown the quantity to be more than a small quantity,” Parihar’s lawyer further said, as quoted by Bar and Bench. As Sayed pointed out the chronicle of arrests made in the drug link, he said: “There are two conspiracies, two set of people -- 1) There are people directly linked in to Sushant Singh Rajput, and 2) There are people who have been arrested from the names given by the accused, like my client (Parihar).”“Sushant Singh Rajput expired on 14th June. I am not admitting that there was a conspiracy. He expired on 14th June, and we are being charged to supply him drugs when he was alive,” he said.The lawyer asked how can the offence be proven today when Rajput has passed away.“How can the offence be proved today, when the man (Sushant Singh Rajput) is no more?” Sayed said in Bombay High Court during bail hearing.“Can a charge of conspiracy ever be higher than the offence? When an offence is bailable, and accused produced before Magistrate, we were never charged offences which are non-bailable,” he pointed out.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is currently investigating a drug link into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput and so far has arrested a dozen of people.In its reply, the NCB told court that the investigation has nothing to do with Rajput’s death and it’s a case of ‘drug syndication’.“All throughout arguments, applicants state that this is connected to Sushant Singh Rajput death case but this investigation has nothing to do with it,” ASG Anil Singh, lawyer for NCB, told the court, as quoted by ANI.The anti-drug agency further said that all the people arrested in the case are interlinked to each other and there were regular links and purchasing of drugs.After the day long hearing, the Bombay High Court reserved its orders on the bail pleas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-drug-supply-to-sushant-singh-rajput-be-proven-if-he-is-no-more-lawyer-tells-court-in-bail-plea-hearing-in-drug-case/story-wUKPXxi3ApGfacm13xcXbM.html
30-09-2020||India||CBI files case against Rotomac for cheating Bank of India of Rs 806 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against pen manufacturer Rotomac Global Pvt Ltd and its promoter Vikram Kothari, his wife Sadhna Kothari and and son Rahul Kothari for allegedly cheating Bank of India of Rs 806 crores, people familiar with the development said. This is the third CBI case against the Rotomac group, run by Kanpur based Kotharis, for cheating banks. In February 2018, CBI filed its first case against Rotomac and Vikram Kothari for allegedly cheating a consortium of seven banks including Bank of Baroda, Indian Overseas Bank, Union Bank of India, Allahabad Bank, Bank of Maharashtra and Oriental Bank of Commerce and Bank of India for allegedly defrauding them of Rs 3,695 crore. It was alleged that Kothari got loans disbursed based on foreign letters of credit (FLCs) on the pretext of making payments to his buyers and suppliers in places like Dubai, Sharjah and Hong Kong but they didn’t exist.The Kotharis allegedly provided incomplete documents or photocopies of bills of loading to the banks on the pretext that original papers were sent to the importer.The banks had alleged that Rotomac did not attach the packing list, mandatory insurance copies of goods, certificate of origin of goods, or the inspection certificate from third parties while submitting documents to it. When bank officials visited Rotomac’s suppliers and buyers abroad, they found that the import/export business was allegedly running through shell companies.Later, a second case was registered in February 2020 against the company for allegedly cheating Allahabad Bank of Rs 36 crore. In the latest FIR, CBI has alleged that the company took loans over a period of time from Bank of India for which there is outstanding of Rs 806 crore. It has been alleged that company diverted most of the funds taken from the bank. With three cases registered by CBI, total amount pertaining to bank fraud involving Kanpur based Kotharis comes to around Rs 4,500 crore. Kotharis’ legal representative could not be located by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-against-rotomac-for-cheating-bank-of-india-of-rs-806-crore/story-dsmP9Bw5HlnzeXqZNGyKVK.html
30-09-2020||India||88 million in India may have been exposed to Sars-Cov2: Sero survey||One in every 15 individuals, or 6.6%, of people above the age of 10 years in India, have been exposed to Sars-Cov2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), till August, according to the findings of Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) second national sero survey released on Tuesday.If extrapolated across the country’s population, this would mean that nearly 88 million people may have been silently exposed to the virus.The second iteration of ICMR’s national sero survey covered 29,082 individuals and was conducted between August 17 and September 22, in the same 700 villages and wards from 70 districts in 21 states that were covered in the first survey. The first countrywide sero survey (conducted between May 11 and June 4) showed overall infection prevalence to be 0.73%.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage All other parameters about the two surveys were similar except for the targeted age bracket — in the first phase population selected was 18 years and above, and in the second phase samples were included from 10 years and above.“We changed the age group in the second survey from 18 years to 10 years and above because infection was also seen in younger population. Sero survey gives us virus exposure prevalence, but you may or may not have developed the disease,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR.About 3ml-5ml of blood sample was collected to study the presence of IgG antibodies against Sars-Cov2 virus. IgG antibodies are the longer lasting antibodies that help determine a past infection.“How much time in the past is a work in progress but these develop about 2-3 weeks after having contracted the infection and approximately stay for about 2-3 months,” said Dr Bhargava.Also read: One in 15 above 10 yrs of age exposed to Covid-19, reveals ICMR sero survey resultsUrban slum (15.6%) and non-slum (8.2%) areas had higher Sars-Cov2 infection prevalence than that of rural areas (4.4%), and prevalence in adults (above 18 years of age) was also higher at 7.1%, the findings show.“It goes on to show that a large percentage of population is still susceptible to contracting the infection which is why it becomes really important to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing, and observing hand hygiene,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.Experts say these types of sero surveys do not present the current picture. “This doesn’t tell us about the current situation and that’s the reason why it may not be really beneficial at making policy-level decisions. However, for academic purposes, if anyone wants to study the pandemic trajectory in India sometime later, it will be of help,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital.Several state governments have carried out independent sero surveys which have shown a large variance in findings. Delhi had shown 23.5 % and 29.1% prevalence of infection during the first and second rounds of surveys. The initial findings of the third round of sero survey in Delhi showed that roughly 33% people have been exposed. Such studies have also been conducted in Mumbai (57.8% in slums, 17.4% in non-slum), Ahmedabad (17.6%), Chennai (21.5%), Puducherry (4.9%, 22.7%) and Indore (7.8%) as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/88mn-in-country-may-have-been-exposed-sero-survey/story-Zus9PdJBSCBMl7HG256QIJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Bihar assembly election 2020: Congress, RJD in impasse over seat sharing in Bihar||The alliance between the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress in Bihar has run into rough weather over the distribution of seats in the upcoming assembly elections, with neither side willing to relent on its position, people aware of the development said on Tuesday. While the RJD’s latest offer is 58 seats in the 243-member House, the Congress is demanding 75, leaders of the two parties said on condition of anonymity. The matter has now reached Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who is expected to take a call in a day or two after consulting other senior leaders. Bihar Election 2020: Full coverageA Congress functionary said both sides have in principle decided to fight the October-November elections in an alliance and are also keen to accommodate the three left parties, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) besides the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) of Mukesh Sahani. But getting to a deal has been tough. A senior RJD leader said his party, in the first week of September, offered 73 seats to the Congress after conducting a survey of all 243 seats and also expressed a willingness to accommodate smaller parties from its quota. At the time, this person added, the Congress told the RJD that it would revert within a week, but finally got back with a demand for 75 seats only on September 26, he added. Also read: Devendra Fadnavis takes a dig at Tejashwi Yadav’s promise of 10 lakh jobsThings worsened after Congress leader Avinash Pande, who heads the party’s screening committee for Bihar, stated that the alliance with the RJD would be firmed up only if there is a respectable seat-sharing understanding between the two parties. A screening committee shortlists the party candidates and forwards the list to the central election committee for final selection.Pande’s statement prompted an angry RJD to scale down its offer to 58 seats. It also decided to let the Congress fight the by-election to the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency in Bihar. A second Congress functionary said the RJD offer was “in no way” acceptable to his party and that now, party president Sonia Gandhi to take a call on the alliance. “She will consult other senior leaders and a decision is expected within a day or two. In the past too, during {jailed RJD chief} Lalu Prasad’s time, she saved the alliance with the RJD from the brink of collapse on several occasions,” he added. Also read: Bihar election gets a new political constituency - over 16 lakh migrant workersThe exit of Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) from the grand alliance or ‘mahagathbandhan’ on Tuesday eased the pressure on both sides. While the RJD wanted the RLSP to leave, the Congress was divided , with some of its leaders making serious attempts to retain Kushwaha despite the assessment that he brought “no value addition” to the alliance and also the fact that his party’s votes were not transferable to the partners. The RLSP on Tuesday announced a tie-up with the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Janwadi Party Socialist. A third Congress functionary said the delay in firming up the seat-sharing deal has impacted the alliance on the ground as had happened during last year’s Lok Sabha polls in which the ‘mahagathbandhan’ was wiped out. Out of the 40 Lok Sabha seats, the Congress managed to win one seat while the remaining 39 went to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), comprising the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Janata Dal (United) and Lok Janshakti Party. “The delay is also going to cost the candidates dear as any further delay will take away the crucial time from their limited number of days of campaign that has to be undertaken amid several restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-rjd-in-impasse-over-seat-sharing-in-bihar/story-OdjetDCzSz0Qv8Fg1qacZL.html
30-09-2020||India||Women do most of the heavy lifting in Indian households: NSO report||A first-of-its-kind National Statistical Office (NSO) report released on Tuesday puts numbers to a well known fact -- that Indian women bear the brunt of household work and domestic chores. According to the report, the average Indian woman spends 243 minutes, a little over four hours, on these , which is almost ten times the 25 minutes the average man does. Thanks to the greater burden of domestic work, men spend more time than women in every other activity -- working, studying, even just taking care of themselves. “It has been widely known, and for long, that Indian women undertake a lot of unpaid domestic work. The time use survey only reveals the extent of the disproportionate burden on women. Yet, it is an important first step towards recognition and greater appreciation of their contribution,” said Reetika Khera, associate professor of economics at Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi.Interestingly, there seems to be an inverse relationship between age and the amount of time spent by women on household chores, but a direct one between age and the time spent by men on these. While women above the age of 60 see a sharp fall in their domestic work burden, men tend to devote a greater time to domestic work when they cross 60. Also read: We must quantify the value of women’s unpaid workThe report is based on a survey of 138,000 households in 2019 and looked at anyone over the age of six. While this may seem too young, it is a fact that, especially in poor households, and in rural India, young boys, and more often, young girls, are asked to perform several domestic chores. An average Indian woman spends 19.5% of her time engaged in either unpaid domestic work or unpaid care-giving services, according to the survey conducted between January and December 2019. Men spend just 2.5% of a 24-hour period on these activities. In every other group of activities – from employment and learning to socializing, leisure, and self-care activities like sleeping and eating – men spend a higher share of their daily time than women.Chart 1: Share of daily time spent on different activities for men and women !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();In terms of participation, 81% women take on domestic chores, compared to just 26% of men. Even within domestic work, there is a gender-based division of responsibilities. Men shop, women cook and clean. When participating in unpaid care-giving services (14% of men and 28% of women did this), the maximum participation of both is in childcare and instruction. It is only when they turn 60 that women seem to find a respite from domestic work. A broad age-group wise breakup suggests that above the age of 60, the participation of women in unpaid domestic and care-giving services reduces drastically. Men’s participation in domestic work, on the other hand, increases with age, increasing most significantly after the age of 60.Also read: Billions of hours of unpaid care work by women go uncounted“The fact that women do less unpaid work after 60 could be the result the greater participation by men, and in joint families, it could be a reflection of the older women passing on the work load to their younger bahus,” Khera said. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();There are also differences in participation of women in daily activities depending on where they live. Rural women participate more on paid or unpaid work, whereas urban women participate more in learning, socializing or leisure activities. The survey also shows that urban women who participate in employment and related activities spend 375 minutes a day on these as compared to 317 minutes spent by rural women.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-do-most-of-the-heavy-lifting-in-indian-households-nso-report/story-EKQpkpQLEpXS85vFePH5NP.html
30-09-2020||India||27 jawans killed in 6 years due to faulty ammo: Army report||An internal army assessment has flagged concerns about faulty ammunition and armament supplied by the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) causing army casualties and bleeding the exchequer; 403 accidents over the last six years have resulted in the deaths of 27 soldiers and a loss of Rs 960 crore it said. The four-page note, reviewed by Hindustan Times on Tuesday, said that the army could have bought 100 medium artillery guns with Rs 960 crore that was lost due to poor quality ammunition. It significantly said some friendly foreign countries had even refused to accept OFB products on the grounds of quality and that its corporatisation was the only way forward. An army spokesperson refused to comment, while OFB spokesperson Gagan Chaturvedi said the army’s assessment is not factually correct and that the board will issue a statement on Wednesday. The government has set a one-year timeline for the corporatisation of OFB. The note said 159 soldiers were injured in accidents attributed to OFB-supplied ammunition and armament between 2014 and 2020. “Lack of accountability and poor quality of production result in frequent accidents. This results in injuries and death of soldiers. On an average, one accident takes places per week,” the note said. The highest fatal casualties in a single year were recorded in 2016 when 19 soldiers were killed, while the maximum non-fatal casualties were reported in 2018 when 43 were injured. The ammunition and armament in question was supplied to four wings of the army --- air defence, artillery, armoured corps and infantry. “The sub-optimal efficiency of this potential strategic asset (OFB) is one of the major contributing factors to the hollowness threatening the ammunition and armament holdings of the Indian Army,” according to the army’s assessment. The note added that it was a matter of concern that certain countries have refused to even accept ordnance factory-manufactured ammunition and equipment offered against Lines of Credit due to concerns regarding quality of output, procedures in the factories and inefficient post-sale service. The government announced on September 11, the setting up of an empowered group of ministers (EGoM) under defence minister Rajnath Singh to oversee the corporatisation of OFB, which controls 41 ordnance factories engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers. The factories controlled by the board employ at least 80,000 people who are against the corporatisation. “The corporatisation of a system with modern technologies and advanced automated manufacturing will enable higher precision and minimal failures in production of sensitive munitions .The concept of centralised and state-controlled production is obsolete and needs to be addressed,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd). The corporatisation move will benefit OFB, the note said. “The corporatisation of OFB will put it on par with other defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) managed by its own board of directors with broad guidelines from the government. The government has envisioned growth of OFB post corporatisation expecting it to raise its turnover to Rs 30,000 crore by 2024-25 annually against the existing Rs 12,000 crore, and has set up a high-level panel to work out a roadmap to achieve the same.”. According to the army’s internal assessment, OFB has a monopoly over several products required by the armed forces, minimal focus on innovation and technology development , no incentive to improve quality and cost efficiency, and no accountability for its products. The note said OFB has performed below its potential over the last few decades and drained the defence budget by overpricing products. “Rs 658.58 crore worth of (ammunition) was disposed of within shelf life between April 2014 and April 2019 and Rs 303.23 crore worth of mines were disposed of within shelf life post Pulgaon accident in May 2016. Rs 960 cr loss roughly means 100 155 mm medium artillery guns could have been bought for this amount,” the note said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-jawans-killed-in-6-yrs-due-to-faulty-ammo-army-report/story-S3NoVBqSStzonfRwDnAccM.html
30-09-2020||India||Former envoys slam Beijing for invoking old LAC perception||China’s efforts to base the resolution of the boundary dispute with India on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) proposed by premier Zhou Enlai in 1959 are untenable as that does not conform with the actual situation on the ground, two former ambassadors involved in the border talks said on Tuesday. The external affairs ministry said on Tuesday that India has never accepted the unilaterally defined 1959 LAC and stressed that crucial agreements with China committed both sides to confirming and clarifying the alignment of the boundary. Former foreign secretary Shiv Shankar Menon, who played a key role in negotiations that led to the signing of the Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC in 1993, described the Chinese foreign ministry’s reference to the 1959 LAC as a “red herring”. Also read: China says it doesn’t recognise ‘illegal’ UT Ladakh, denies it’s building military bases near LACMenon has highlighted several problems with the 1959 proposal in a chapter of his 2016 book Choices devoted to the 1993 agreement. The Chinese side described the so-called LAC of 1959 “only in general terms on maps not to scale”, and the “Chinese concept was a disconnected series of points on a map that could be joined up in many ways”, he wrote. He also argued that the “vagueness of the Chinese definition left it open for China to continue its creeping attempt to change facts on the ground by military force” – something that experts contend has happened in the Ladakh sector of the LAC during the current standoff. “The fact is this is a red herring. Both sides know where the LAC is and have kept the peace for several decades. The 1959 LAC was never accepted by India. Why is it being brought up now?” said Menon, who served as the envoy to China during 2000-03 and as foreign secretary during 2006-09. Also read: 1959 claim is wrong, but it punctures China’s theory, say experts“It is being done to justify their behaviour and some people here are falling for it. The more we get into this discussion, the less sense it makes. The Chinese side changed the status quo and they should restore it,” he said. Ashok Kantha, who served as India’s ambassador to China during 2014-16 and is currently director of the Institute of Chinese Studies, described the 1959 LAC as a “notional and fictional line with no basis in facts”. “They have tried this in the past, and this notional LAC has been rejected by India, including during the 1993 negotiations,” said Kantha, who was involved in negotiations for the 1996 Agreement on Confidence Building Measures in the military field during his stint as director (China) in the external affairs ministry. Also read: ‘No war, no peace in Ladakh,’ says IAF chief RKS BhadauriaThe reference to the 1959 LAC is in line with China’s attempts to maintain ambiguity about the alignment of the boundary instead of discussing differences in perception on the LAC, Kantha said. Noting that article 10 of the 1996 agreement clearly states that the two sides would “exchange maps indicating their respective perceptions of the entire alignment of the Line of Actual Control as soon as possible”, he said India and China had only exchanged maps for the middle sector, whereas the maps for the western sector were shown but never shared. “The Chinese side showed us their maps but then took them back, and so did we,” Kantha said, adding the Chinese side should instead resume the exercise of clarifying the LAC. Menon also notes in his book that during the negotiations for the 1993 agreement, the Chinese side insisted on the LAC of 1959 and “that if there were any doubts, they would tell the Indians where the LAC lay”. He wrote: “This arrogation was patently one-sided and unfair. Chinese Foreign Office mandarins seemed hard-pressed to justify this position to us, finally saying privately that they had no leeway as the PLA (People’s Liberation Army) were insistent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-envoys-slam-beijing-for-invoking-old-lac-perception/story-k0tU3BE8HpLnR9lNSDkWpI.html
30-09-2020||India||‘We hoped she will survive’: Unease shrouds Hathras rape victim’s village||Boolgarhi, a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, was tensely calm on Tuesday after a 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was gangraped and brutalised a fortnight ago, died in a New Delhi hospital. The police were keeping a wary watch on the village that has a mixed population of Dalits and upper-caste Thakurs to prevent the tension from flaring into violence.The death of the woman in New Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital sparked protests by the Congress party and other opposition groups, who said the gangrape was another illustration of how much law and order had deteriorated in Uttar Pradesh under the watch of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Nobody wants to speak about the incident. We never thought the incident would become so big. When the girl was shifted to a good hospital, we hoped she will survive,” said a resident of Boolgarhi, a village of just 750 people.The 19-year-old and her mother had gone to the fields on September 14, and the young woman went missing soon after. She was later found, having been raped, beaten and tortured and her tongue cut after she bit down on it when the rapists tried to strangle her, according to the police account. All the four suspects have been arrested; their family members are in a state of shock.Also read: Outrage, stir after Hathras rape victim’s deathUttar Pradesh police and the Provincial Armed Constabulary were patrolling Boolgarhi, where local residents watched their village make it to television news headlines for all the wrong reasons.Inspector general (Aligarh Range) Piyush Mordia has stationed himself at Chandapa Kotwali. “We are committed to ensure law and order,” Mordia said.The rape victim was first admitted in Jawarhalal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University from where she was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi when her condition didn’t improve. She died on Tuesday morning. The news of the death of the woman, who used to live in a house opposite those of the accused, shook the families of the suspects. Women and elders in their families locked themselves up from inside.One of the accused was married six years ago and has two children, but his wife has left the village with the children. Two other suspects are unmarried. The fourth suspect has shifted to the village from Agra.Back in the city of Hathras, there were protests all around. Congress party workers, who took out a candle march, pledged justice for Hathras ki beti (daughter of Hathras).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unease-shrouds-hathras-rape-victim-s-village/story-WJ31Tb131qFvaBUWezf5EP.html
30-09-2020||India||1959 claim is wrong, but it punctures China’s theory: Experts||China’s reference to a 1959 definition of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that was never accepted by India highlights Beijing’s reluctance to disengage, experts and senior army officer said, adding that the claim has also served to puncture the country’s claim that it did not transgress into Indian territory in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh. “India doesn’t recognise the 1959 claim line. However, even as per the Chinese interpretation of the 1959 line, the LAC runs through Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan valley. But the June 15 skirmish took place 800 metres west of their own claim line. Their intention is to grab territory,” a senior Indian Army officer tracking the situation along the LAC said on condition of anonymity. China’s assertion that it abides by the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as proposed by Premier Zhou Enlai to Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru (who rejected it) in 1959 has complicated the border row . By bringing up the 1959 LAC, China is just hardening its position and making a resolution even more difficult, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). Also read: ‘Indian forces prepared for any eventuality’: IAF chief on Ladakh standoffBeijing’s position, made known in an exclusive statement to Hindustan Times amid the ongoing border friction in eastern Ladakh, is a reiteration of the long-existing differences on the boundary question and a sign that the ongoing military standoff is unlikely to be resolved soon. “India has never accepted the 1959 LAC. Not at the time it was brought up in 1959, not after the 1962 war when it was referred to in the unilateral ceasefire announced by China, or at any time after that. By referring to this, they seem to indicate that disengagement is unlikely,” Hooda added. China is attempting to justify its salami-slicing tactics by referring to the 1959 claim line, another senior Army officer added on condition of anonymity. Salami slicing refers to a string of small, clandestine operations meant to achieve a larger goal that would be difficult to accomplish in one go. The two serving officers said the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had gone beyond its own so-called claims of 1959 in the Galwan valley and triggered a deadly skirmish there on June 15 resulting in 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese deaths. Outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese in the seven-hour deadly conflict near PP-14 in Galwan valley. Also Read: Post Ladakh, PLA no longer a bogey for Indian Army | Analysis“The PLA claim has shifted to Nala junction or Y-junction where Galwan river meets the Shyok, which is 800 metres on the Indian side of China’s claim of 1959. In April 2020, the PLA objected to the construction of a bridge at the mouth of Galwan. This area was never contested and that’s why face-offs never took place here,” the first officer said, holding the PLA responsible for the brutal skirmish. “I don’t think there is any great clarity about the 1959 LAC. We do have some idea about their 1960 claim line, but a claim line does not automatically translate into the LAC,” Hooda said. “Over a period of the last 60 years, both countries have consolidated their hold over their own sides of the LAC. Areas where there are differing perceptions are also clearly known. This should form the basis for any negotiations and not some vague and undefined LAC that existed in 1959 when physical control by both sides was tenuous,” Hooda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1959-claim-is-wrong-but-it-punctures-china-s-theory/story-9uzngxH3XyvixDmW3Ht60L.html
30-09-2020||India||Outrage, stir after Hathras rape victim’s death||The Congress on Tuesday questioned the “silence” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and women leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), attacking the ruling party over the gang-rape of a 19-year-old woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras who died in New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi led the charge against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the incident, saying the “class-specific jungle raj” in Uttar Pradesh had killed another young woman. The woman was left with her legs paralysed fully and hands partially after the assault by four men on September 14. “The government said that this is fake news and left the victim to die. Neither was this unfortunate incident fake nor was the death of the victim and the mercilessness of the government,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. The attack on the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government came after the Dalit woman from Hathras died at Safdarjung hospital in Delhi Tuesday morning, days after she was allegedly raped by four men. The woman was allegedly gang-raped following which she was admitted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh. She was referred to the Delhi hospital on Monday after her condition failed to improve . The woman had gone to the fields with her mother and then went missing. She was later found injured, with her tongue cut because she bit it when the rapists attempted to strangulate her, the police said. The Congress on Tuesday protested at Vijay Chowk in New Delhi, demanding justice for the victim. Its leaders PL Punia, Udit Raj and Amrita Dhawan, along with other functionaries were later detained at the Mandir Marg Police station. Party general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government, alleging that there was “no semblance of security” for women in the state. “A Dalit girl who was victim of demoniac behaviour in Hathras has passed away at Safdarjung Hospital. For two weeks, she struggled between life and death in hospitals,” she tweeted in Hindi. Priyanka Gandhi said incidents of rape in Hathras, Shahjahanpur and Gorakhpur had shaken Uttar Pradesh. “Law and order in UP has deteriorated beyond limits. There is no semblance of safety for women. Criminals are committing crimes in the open,” she said and demanded that the killers of this girl be punished severely. “You are accountable for the safety of women in UP,” she said, referring to chief minister Adityanath. At a press conference at the party headquarters in Delhi, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate alleged that for eight days, no gang-rape charges had been pressed and only after the media reported the incident did the police register a case. She said the UP chief minister’s information advisor and the Agra Police, up until September 24, kept calling this “fake news”. “Questions still remain. Why did it take eight days for the UP police to register a gang-rape case on her complaint, why was she immediately not transferred to a premier institute like AIIMS {All India Institute of Medical Sciences}, and instead was left to die in UP?” she asked. “Why is it that these men who brutally assaulted, raped and murdered her, do not face NSA (National Security Act) charges and why is it that the UP chief minister is absolutely quiet on this?” Shrinate said. The Congress leader alleged the police were “hand in glove” with criminals in UP while the state government extends “political patronage” to them. “I will also raise questions on the absolute conspicuous silence of the Prime Minister, and women leaders of the BJP who had at one point in time said it is their moral duty to raise their voice on crimes against women and today when they are in charge of those departments, they do not utter a word,” she said. “If one does not condemn this, then one is very much hand in glove with the criminals,” Shrinate added. BSP chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav also spoke out. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, “The news of the death of Dalit victim after gangrape in Hathras, UP is very saddening. The government should provide all possible help to the victim’s family and ensure fast punishment to the culprits by prosecuting them in a fast track court. This is the demand of the BSP.” Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav condoled the death of a “Dalit daughter”. “A Dalit daughter, who was a victim of gangrape and brutality, ultimately died. I condole her death. No hope is left with the present insensitive government,” Yadav wrote in a tweet in Hindi. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the young woman’s death was a shame for the entire society and the country as well as for all governments. “It’s highly sad that so many daughters are being sexually assaulted and we have not been able to protect them. The guilty must be hanged at the earliest,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outrage-stir-after-hathras-rape-victim-s-death/story-WLYL2T7JFRN6qMPcdxgcxN.html
30-09-2020||India||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu tests Covid-19 positive, he is asymptomatic||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, 71, announced on Tuesday evening that he has been tested positive for coronavirus. He told HT that he is doing fine and the initial tests show no major complications. In fact, Naidu addressed an annual healthcare virtual conference on ‘Post-COVID Healthcare World’ on Tuesday evening. Within minutes after he finished addressing the Covid programme, Naidu was informed about his Covid test results. According to officials, the vice president promptly undertook additional tests. “The Vice President of India who underwent a routine Covid-19 test today morning has been tested positive. He is however, asymptomatic and in good health. He has been advised home quarantine. His wife Smt. Usha Naidu has been tested negative and is in self-isolation,” the vice president secretariat tweeted. The Vice President is the top Indian functionary to be tested positive for covid so far. He had frequently chaired the recently concluded monsoon session of Parliament that ran for ten days before getting adjourned on September 23 amid Covid concerns.During the session, two union ministers - Nitin Gadkari and Prahlad Patel - and at least 30 MPs tested positive for Covid-19, prompting the authorities to cut short the session. Naidu’s aides maintained his initial report shows that lung has not been affected and that he has no visible complication.Addressing the healthcare conference on Tuesday, Naidu had called upon people to adapt to the new normal amid pandemic and take maximum precautions and condemned the instances of stigma and discrimination against frontline warriors and Covid-19 patients. Calling upon people to adapt to the culture of the new normal and take all the prescribed precautions seriously to fight Covid-19 pandemic, he said that it was highly critical for the people to act responsibly and support the multifarious efforts of the government and health professionals to break the transmission of the dreaded virus.“We simply cannot allow complacency to set in and lower our guard,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-tests-covid-19-positive-he-is-asymptomatic/story-IORRKYVAExAO28HMKLuHXO.html
