01-03-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 166 new cases, 2 more fatalities in Haryana||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 3,050 on Monday with two more fatalities, while 166 new cases pushed the infection count to 2,70,950, a health department bulletin said.One fatality each was reported from Faridabad and Hisar districts, it said.Among the fresh cases, 36 were reported from Gurgaon and 19 from Panipat, the bulletin said.The number of active cases in the state is 1,288 while as many as 2,66,612 people have recovered, it said.The recovery rate is 98.40 per cent, it stated. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-166-new-cases-2-more-fatalities-in-haryana-219124
01-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmers to block KMP Expressway on Saturday: SKM leader||Protesting farmers will block the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal Expressway on March 6, a Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader said on Monday.Balbir Singh Rajewal said a call has been given to farmers camping at three Delhi border points to block the KMP Expressway from 11 am to 5 pm on Saturday.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws enacted in September last year.“We will block the KMP expressway on March 6 as part of the intensification of the ongoing protest,” Rajewal told PTI.The 136-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway or the western peripheral expressway was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018.It was built to decongest the ever-busy roads of Delhi, especially by reducing the number of trucks entering the national capital, thus helping to curb pollution. It provides high-speed link between northern Haryana and southern districts and gives uninterrupted high-speed link for traffic, especially commercial traffic, from Haryana to neighbouring states.Meanwhile, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said that a joint programme of action is being worked out by it along with many central trade unions which have expressed their support and solidarity for the ongoing farmers’ movement.In a statement, the Morcha said the month of March will witness numerous Mahapanchayats across the country, including in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, West Bengal and Odisha. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-to-block-kmp-expressway-on-saturday-skm-leader-219119
01-03-2021||---||Congress workers in Karnal protest against increasing fuel prices, farm laws||Karnal, March 1Congress workers took out a protest march here on Monday against the rising petrol, diesel and LPG prices and the three farm laws passed by the Union Government. The protesters sought the rollback of fuel prices and also insisted on repealing of the agriculture legislations.Sitting on a bullock cart, former Haryana Home Minister Subhash Batra, Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi, Congress national secretary Virender Rathore, and Trilochan Singh, former chairman Haryana Minority Commission started the protest march from Karan Park.Congress leaders accused the Centre for the price hike and demanded an inquiry into daily price change system of fuel.The protest march ended at Karan Gate.Batra said that the Union Government has failed to check the price rise even though the rates of crude oil were at its lowest.“We demand that the Union Government should reduce the excise tax and the state government should cut down the VAT on petrol and diesel to give some relief to common people,” said Batra.Claiming that the daily price change is a “big scam”, Gogi said, “The daily price change is a big scam and it should be probed by the sitting judge of the Supreme Court.”“When I was the president of the Consortium of Indian Petrol Dealers, I had raised this issue in front of the Petroleum Minister, but the issue was not addressed,” he said.Gogi further said that during the Congress regime, the rate of domestic LPG cylinder was around Rs 450, but now it has crossed Rs 800 mark, which is nearly double the price during the Congress tenure.Congress leaders also claimed that the latest agriculture laws were against the farmers and the Prime Minister should “shun his ego and take these laws back” for the larger interest of the farming community and common people.Rathore and Trilochan also flayed the Centre and the Haryana Government on these issues. They further alleged that the crime graph in Haryana was on the rise and it seems there is no law and order in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-workers-in-karnal-protest-against-increasing-fuel-prices-farm-laws-219095
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Provide 5 free masks to violators: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday issued directions to provide at least five free masks to those not wearing them in public and start the drive to impose fine on the violators.He also directed to evolve proactive strategies to combat the spread of coronavirus.Appealing to the public to wear masks, Khattar said, "Though vaccination for Covid-19 has been rolled out, we should still follow all the guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing to stay safe and prevent the virus spread."The Chief Minister gave these directions while presiding over a review meeting on the pandemic here.Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said on an average, 15,000 to 18,000 daily tests are being conducted across the state. The positivity rate on a weekly basis is less than 1 per cent. Currently, there are 1,205 active cases in the state, while more RTPCR tests are being conducted as compared to antigen tests, Arora informed.Over 1.5 lakh healthcare workers have been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine while 71,000 persons have received the second shot.Against 1.30 lakh registered frontline workers, 71,000 have been given the first dose in Punjab. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/provide-5-free-masks-to-violators-haryana-cm-219090
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||No call for hike in milk prices: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-call-for-hike-in-milk-prices-samyukt-kisan-morcha-219037
01-03-2021||Tribune Web Desk||As 3rd phase of Covid vaccination begins in Haryana, Vij tells why he doesn’t need a dose||Chandigarh, March 1Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij, who inaugurated the third phase of inoculation digitally on Monday, explains why he doesn’t need a vaccine right away.In a tweet in Hindi, Vij said: “Today 3rd phase of COVID vaccination is starting for people. There should be no hesitation for them now. However, I will not be able to take a dose as after getting Covid, my antibody count is 300, which is a quite a bit. This could be because of the trial vaccine that I took earlier. I don't need vaccine right away".आज आम जनता के लिए कोरोना वैक्सीन शुरू होने जा रही है । सब को निस्संकोच लगवानी चाहिए । मैं तो नही लगवा पाऊंगा क्योंकि कोविड होने के बाद मेरी एंटीबाडी 300 बनी है जोकि बहुत ज्यादा है । शायद मैंने जो ट्रायल वैक्सीन लगवाई थी इसमे उसका भी योगदान हो । मुझे अभी वैक्सीन की जरूरत नही है ।Vij had in December tested positive for corona virus days after getting a shot of Covid vaccine.In Punjab and Haryana, the vaccine will be administered free of cost at government hospitals and will be administered at Rs 250 at government-empanelled private hospitals.The vaccine will be administered to senior citizens above 60 years as well as those aged 45 to 59 years and suffering from co-morbidities as specified by the government.They will, however, be required to provide certificates from registered medical practitioners regarding their co-morbidities.   The pre-registration is not mandatory in this round of vaccination and those willing to be vaccinated can either pre-register themselves or just walk in for the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/as-3rd-phase-of-covid-vaccination-begins-in-haryana-vij-tells-why-he-doesnt-need-a-dose-219013
01-03-2021||---||Protesting farmers construct toilets at Tikri border||Jhajjar, February 28In view of the poor sanitary conditions at the Tikri border, Punjab farmers have constructed toilets near their camp site with the help of plumbers brought from their villages. Submersible pumps have been installed to meet water requirement. To store water, they have brought plastic tanks.The need for constructing toilets arose after the local authorities lifted several mobile toilets from the protest site following the January 26 tractor parade. As a result, farmers had started defecating in nearby fields, causing insanitary conditions, said Gurnail Singh from Sangrur.Insanitary conditionsThe need for constructing toilets arose after the local authorities lifted mobile toilets following the January 26 tractor parade. As a result, farmers had started defecating in nearby fields, leading to insanitary conditions. —Gurmail Singh, Sangrur farmerAvtar Singh, a farmer from Bathinda, said: “Protesters had earlier dug a pit and covered it with iron sheets. The pit stinks, forcing us to construct toilets.”Lakhvinder Singh from Muktsar said, “Farmers are in for a long haul. We have realised that the agitation would last a year or two. So we need to make arrangements for our long stay here. Women and elderly persons were facing problems in relieving themselves. With toilets constructed, they will have no problem now.”Jaspreet Singh, another farmer, said farmers would not return home without getting the three farm laws repealed. “We are planning to bring our cattle at the Tikri border for meeting the demand for milk,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-construct-toilets-at-tikri-border-218745
01-03-2021||---||‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ held in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, February 28A “kisan mahapanchayat” was held in the new grain market of the district’s Ranjitpur village today in protest against the three controversial farm laws.Farmer leaders Gaurav Tikait (son of Naresh Tikait), Harshpal Singh Charuni (son of Gurnam Singh Charuni), Rattan Mann and Atul Kumar Anjan, and National Commission on Farmers member Satpal Kaushik addressed the mahapanchayat.Gaurav Tikait said farmers would not return home until the three farm laws were repealed.Harshpal Singh termed the Union Government “anti-people”. “All sections of society are participating in the agitation,” he added.Rattan Mann, state BKU president, appealed to farmers not to destroy their crops and instead join the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kisan-mahapanchayat-held-in-yamunanagar-218746
01-03-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Panipat villagers to sell milk at Rs 100 per litre from March 1 in protest||Tribune News ServicePanipat, February 28Some residents of Babail village of the district on Sunday announced to hike the rate of milk to Rs 100 per litre from March 1 in protest against the Centre’s attitude towards the farmers and the high fuel prices.Besides, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Sunday clarified that the morcha did not make any call for boycott of milk sales between March 1 and 5 by farmers and hiking of the price to Rs 100 per litre.The morcha, in a release on Sunday, said a message went viral on social media in the name of Samyukt Kisan Morcha. The kisan morcha appealed to the farmers to ignore any such wrong message that they might receive in the name of Samyukt Kisan Morcha.Farmers said the milk rate would be only Rs 55-60 for the farmers’ families.Farmers Amit Ahlawat, Rakesh Ahlawat, Sunil Ahlawat, Balraj, Amit, Sonu, Randeep, Naresh and Surjeet of Babail village said it was decided in a meeting held at the village that the price of milk would be hiked as per the hike in rates of petrol and diesel in the country.Amit Ahlawat said the farmers had been protesting for three months for the repeal of three farm laws.Meanwhile, Punjab union leaders of 32 organistions held a meeting at the Singhu border today.They took decisions to intensify the protest but these would be disclosed after taking final decision on these in the Samyukt Kisan Morcha meeting, which is scheduled for Monday or Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-villagers-to-sell-milk-at-rs-100-per-litre-from-march-1-in-protest-218747
01-03-2021||---||Mentally challenged girl pregnant in Yamunanagar, kin held||Yamunanagar, February 28A mentally challenged girl (now 18) was allegedly sexually abused by her teenaged brother in a colony here. The girl is six-month pregnant.The 16-year-old, child in conflict with law, was apprehended and sent to ‘place of safety’ at Karnal yesterday.According to information, the incident came into light after someone informed the Child Helpline on Thursday.“After getting the call, we rescued the girl immediately. Her medical examination was conducted and she was found six-month pregnant,” said Dr Anju Bajpai, Director, Child Helpline, an NGO.Accused a minorShe said the counselling of the girl revealed that she became pregnant from her younger brother (16).According to information, the father of the girl runs a bicycle puncture shop and mother is a labourer. They have three children — one daughter (eldest child) and two sons. The girl turned 18 in December 2020.Dr Bajpai said on the statement of the girl’s father, a case was registered against the child in conflict with law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mentally-challenged-girl-pregnant-in-yamunanagar-kin-held-218748
01-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||CBI: Incomplete applications okayed in Gurugram land scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, February 28The CBI has claimed that Town and Country Planning (TCP) officials, in connivance with private builders, processed incomplete applications and helped them get licences by releasing notified land in the Gurugram land scam.In a chargesheet against then Chief Town Planner JS Redhu, then Assistant Town Planner Satish Kumar Arora, then Deputy Superintendent Rajbir Singh and Commander Realtors Private Limited, the CBI said the high-powered committee had in May 2012 dropped acquisition proceedings due to licences granted to builders with the release of notified land.According to the chargesheet, of the 1,417.07 acres notified, land award was announced only for 85.95 acres in 2012. The chargesheet was handed over to the accused on February 24.In respect of the licence granted to Commander Realtors, the CBI said being the technical head, Redhu accepted the application despite the fact it was not in the prescribed format.The CBI said Arora and Rajbir Singh, being the initiating officials, had played a major role in getting the incomplete licence applications processed.The CBI recommended departmental action against then District Town Planners Devendera Nimborkar, PP Singh and Vijender Kumar, then Senior Town Planner Kamal Kumar Saini and then kanoongo Chhotu Ram. It added that the role of then Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda was being looked into.According to the CBI, 16 general powers of attorney were executed at the Sub-Registrar office in Faridabad by mentioning false temporary addresses. Some of these were incomplete as signatures or photographs of parties were missing.The market value was more than Rs 3 crore per acre at that time. After the notification under Section 4, landowners decided to sell their land at a lower price as brokers offered them Rs 2.2 crore per acre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-incomplete-applications-okayed-in-gurugram-land-scam-218749
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||382 pvt hospitals empanelled for Phase 2 of vaccine rollout||The Haryana Government has empanelled 382 private hospitals for second phase of the Covid vaccine rollout from March 1.The list of the hospitals empanelled under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, the Ayushman Bharat Scheme or the state government insurance scheme is available on the CoWIN portal and the beneficiary can select the vaccination centre while doing the registration.Health Minister Anil Vij will start the third phase through video-conferencing. The population above 60 years and those with co-morbidities falling within the age group of 45 years to 60 years will be administered the vaccine. — TNS174 new Covid cases; one diesWith 174 new cases, the Covid count in the state reached 2,70,784 on Sunday. With one death in Yamunanagar, the toll reached 3,048. Gurugram reported a maximum of 56 cases, followed by Ambala (21) and Kurukshetra (20). The number of health workers vaccinated stood at 2,98,863. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/382-pvt-hospitals-empanelled-for-phase-2-of-vaccine-rollout-218750
01-03-2021||Gurugram||15-yr-old gang-raped, 3 held in Gurugram||A Class IX student of a Delhi school has allegedly been held captive and gang-raped after being taken to a hotel by another minor girl.The incident came to light on Saturday when the 15-year-old victim and her family approached the women police station. The police registered an FIR and nabbed three persons, including the Class IX girl student. The victim was under treatment in hospital.“One accused, studying in Class XII, is an adult. The other rape accused and the girl, studying in Class IX at private schools, are minors. One accused was produced in a local court, which sent him to judicial custody,” said the investigating official.1 adult, others minorOne accused, studying in Class XII, is an adult. The other rape accused and the girl, studying in Class IX at private schools, are minors. —Investigating officer“The girl and the other rape accused were produced before the Juvenile Justice Board, which sent them to the correction home in Faridabad. The victim claims that the girl is behind the plan,” said the official.According to the victim’s complaint, she met the girl a few days ago at the house of another classmate, after which they planned to visit Connaught Place in Delhi.“On Friday, when she and I were on way to Connaught Place, she called her boyfriends. We went to a hotel. Vikas booked a room, where he raped me. I fled the hotel and reached home in the evening,” she told the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-yr-old-gang-raped-3-held-in-gurugram-218751
01-03-2021||Rohtak||Former Cong minister decries Ghulam Nabi Azad||Former minister and Congress leader Krishan Murti Hooda has criticised Ghulam Nabi Azad for not issuing a statement in favour of farmers. He also accused him of weakening the party by making baseless statements against the leadership.“India’s largest agitation is being carried out by farmers at the Delhi borders for the past 94 days but Azad, former Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, neither raised the issue nor mounted pressure on the Centre for accepting the farmers’ demands,” said Krishan here today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-cong-minister-decries-ghulam-nabi-azad-218753
01-03-2021||---||Out on bail, 7 Punjab farmers back at Tikri||Jhajjar, February 28Seven Punjab farmers, who were arrested in connection with violence during the tractor parade on January 26 in Delhi, rejoined the agitation at the Tikri border today after getting bail. They were accorded a warm welcome by protesting farmers on reaching the main protest site.They were presented with a “siropa” (robe of honour) on the dais, while protesters raised slogans of “Kisan Ekta Zindabad” and “Jai Hind”.The seven farmers — Kulvinder, Satnam Singh, Jagshir Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Gurmel Singh and Jagpal Singh — belong to Sangrur district.“These seven farmers are heroes. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha is fighting a legal battle of farmers arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the January 26 violence,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Buta Singh.Centre misleading usThe Centre is trying to mislead people by making false statements that youth is not supporting the agitation. The reality is that youth in large number join the protestat the Tikri border. —Buta Singh, BKU LeaderHe alleged the Centre was trying to mislead people by making false statements that youth was not supporting the agitation. “The reality is that youth in large number join the protest at the Tikri border.”Meanwhile, a meeting of the All-India Kisan Mazdoor Sanghthan held at Chhotu Ram Dharamshala in Bahadurgarh decided to organise a public meeting in every village of Jhajjar district against the three farm laws.“The meetings will be aimed at making people aware of the loopholes in the farm laws and mobilising them to join the protest,” said Anoop Singh Matanhel, state president of the sanghthan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/out-on-bail-7-punjab-farmers-back-at-tikri-218754
01-03-2021||Parveen Arora||NCC Academy project tardy, revised budget awaits nod||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, February 28The construction of the National Cadet Crops (NCC) Academy at Ariepura village in Gharaunda block is set to be delayed further as the revised budget for the project is yet to be approved by the authorities concerned. The project is running one year behind schedule. Sources said work had been delayed due to changes in the drawing and site plan and the Covid-induced lockdown.“Due to changes in the drawing and layout plan, the project cost has escalated to Rs 73.85 crore from Rs 56.95 crore estimated earlier. We had sent a revised budget to the Education Department for administrative approval in August last year, which is yet to be received,” said RK Nain, XEN, PWD (B&R). He added that the project would take at least one year for completion after the budget was approved.Approval by Education Dept awaitedWe had sent a revised budget to the Education Department for administrative approval in August last year, which is yet to be received. —RK Nain, Xen, PWD (B&R)Earlier, the government had earmarked 11 acres for the project and it was awarded to a company through the tender process in February 2018. The foundation stone was laid by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in July 2018 and the deadline was fixed for February 2020.However, in view of the demand by residents to construct a passage to connect two roads of the village, additional land had to be provided for the project and the area increased to eleven-and-a-half-acre. A revised layout plan and drawings were made, which were approved by the Education Department in May 2018, said Narender Malik, JE (PWD (B&R).Will take up issue with authoritiesI will take up the issue with the higher authorities in Chandigarh and get the project completed at the earliest. —Harvinder Kalyan, Gharaunda MLAIn the first drawing, the building plan was made as per the PWD Buildings Code 2015-16, but in the new one, amendments were made as per the PWD Code of 2017, he added. No work could be carried out from November to January due to budget shortage.Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan said, “I will take up the issue with the higher authorities in Chandigarh and get the project completed at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ncc-academy-project-tardy-revised-budget-awaits-nod-218755
01-03-2021||Nitish Sharma||Haryana’s first velodrome to come up near Dronacharya Stadium||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, February 28State’s first velodrome worth Rs 35 crore, which was announced nearly six years ago, is now expected to come up near Dronacharya Stadium in Thanesar.The velodrome, which will facilitate cycling competitions and practice sessions, was earlier proposed to be constructed in Alampur village and then at a land offered by Kurukshetra University in Mirzapur village but the project failed.Kurukshetra District Sports Officer (DSO) Balbir Singh said, “There is a proposal to construct the velodrome near the Dronacharya Stadium and it will be the state’s first velodrome, which requires at least four-acre land for its construction. There are several national and international-level cyclists in Kurukshetra and with the construction of the velodrome they will get the facility of cycling competitions and practice sessions here in the district itself. It would be an international-level velodrome and will provide opportunities to budding cyclists.”Will facilitate practice sessionsThere are several national and international level cyclists in Kurukshetra. The velodrome will facilitate cycling competitions and practice sessions and will provide opportunities to several budding cyclists too. —Balbir Singh, Kurukshetra District sports officerA cycling coach in Kurukshetra said, “There are nearly six international level, over 60 national and 50 state level cycling medalists in Kurukshetra. Currently they practice on roads or go to Patiala and Ludhiana in Punjab to practice but if the velodrome comes up here, it will definitely help not only the current cyclists but also attract more youngsters towards the game. In the 2019 National Road Cycling Championship held in Bikaner, Haryana’s cycling team was the overall champion. XEN PWD (B&R) Arun Bhatia said, “The site near the Dronacharya Stadium which has been proposed is good for the velodrome project. The estimate for the project has been prepared and a proposal has been sent to the government. We are hopeful that soon the project will be approved. After the approval, an Olympic certified agency will be roped in to construct the velodrome.”Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha, who has been taking a keen interest in the project, said, “The site near the stadium is almost final. The velodrome will be an international level sports facility where national and international-level games will be organised. For the construction work, Germany-based companies are being contacted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-first-velodrome-to-come-up-near-dronacharya-stadium-218756
01-03-2021||---||Promotion of  SIs to be fast-tracked||Chandigarh, February 28Police officials in the rank of Sub-Inspector (SI) may no longer have to wait to get promoted. They will get promotion to the rank of Inspector immediately after becoming eligible.Haryana Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said parameters had been set to conduct the Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) meeting once a year, in which names of all eligible SIs who fulfilled criteria in the entire year, would be considered for promotion.He pointed out that after recommendation, their promotion orders would be issued in the month in which they became eligible.He said the DPC could not be held every year regularly earlier due to law and order exigencies or elections in the state, which deprived eligible police officials of timely promotion, as a result of which they retired without getting the benefit of promotion. He said the police had promoted 184 SIs s in 2020. He said they had been expediting the process of carrying out promotion of all categories of posts in all units at all levels. The DGP said in an effort to further improve police-public ratio, the Haryana Police were all set to add more than 10 per cent staff to their strength in 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/promotion-of-sis-to-be-fast-tracked-218757
01-03-2021||Hisar||Farmers' stir represents all communities: BKU leader||A “sarv dharma” meeting was organised by protesting farmers at the Khatkar toll plaza in Jind district today. People from different communities gave a call for unity and vowed to keep their struggle against the three farm laws going.District BKU president Azad Singh Palwan said, “The congregation of people from diverse faiths has strengthened the agitation.”Khera khap pradhan Satbir Singh said the meeting was a reply to the Centre that it would fail in its devious design of creating fissures on caste or communal lines. “The farmers’ agitation is not linked to any particular caste or community. It represents all communities.”Nawab Ali, another farmer, maintained it was unfortunate that the powers that be have been trying to create divisions among communities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-stir-represents-all-communities-bku-leader-218758
01-03-2021||Ambala||Anil Vij to resume weekly Janta Darbar in Ambala||Home and Health Minister Anil Vij has decided to resume his weekly Janta Darbar at the PWD rest house in the Ambala Cantonment from this week. Currently, a large number of people reach his residence every day in the morning with their complaints. The weekly Janta Darbar will be held on every Saturday.  The decision has been taken due to the health issues of the minister. Vij has recovered from Covid, but he is still facing some problems.  Earlier, Vij used to hold a weekly Janta Darbar at the PWD rest house where the complainants from across the state used to come. But for the past couple of years, he had been meeting the complainants daily. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-to-resume-weekly-janta-darbar-in-ambala-218759
01-03-2021||Panipat||Two die in road mishap||Two Uttar Pradesh youths  were killed in an accident near Raslapur village of the district today. The deceased have been identified as Ravi (26) of Ramkaur Garhi village of Shamli district and Vikas (25) of Saharanpur district.  Deepak, brother of Ravi, in his complaint said he along with his brother Ravi and cousin Vikas had gone for some work to his uncle. While they were returning on Sunday, Ravi was driving the tractor and Vikas was sitting along with him. As they reached near the under-construction flyover on the new bypass near Chhajpur Kalan, a dumper driver hit into their tractor. Vikas and Ravi died on the spot and the dumper driver managed to flee.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-die-in-road-mishap-218760
01-03-2021||Nitish Sharma||Remove encroachments: Saraswati board to public||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, February 28To increase the water-carrying capacity of the Saraswati and ensure natural flow of the river, the Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board has appealed to the public to remove encroachments from the river, failing which action will be taken against them.From Pipli to the SYL canal, the length of the Saraswati is about 70,000 feet. While the width of the Saraswati in the Pipli area is about 65 feet, it reduces to between 15 feet and 30 feet towards the city due to the development of colonies, badly affected the natural flow of the river.Officials asked to submit reportThere are encroachments at several places between Pipli and Jyotisar. Officials have been asked to complete the demarcation of the river soon and submit a report on encroachments. Dhuman Singh Kirmach. —Dy Chairman, Saraswati heritage development board“Demarcation of the Saraswati is being carried out and encroachments have come to notice at several locations between Pipli and Jyotisar. Officials have been asked to complete their demarcation at the earliest and put up a report regarding encroachments identified so that land could be freed,” said Dhuman Singh Kirmach, deputy chairman of the board.“There are over 20 locations where encroachments have been identified. At present, the board is appealing to people to remove encroachments, including domestic and commercial, on their own. The board will start sending notices to them soon and action will be taken accordingly. A meeting in this regard will be held with district officials soon,” he said.“We have big plans for the Saraswati and there is a need to ensure smooth flow of water. After removing the encroachments, the banks of the river will be strengthened and beautified. It will help in increasing the water-carrying capacity of the river and prevent a flood-like situation in Thanesar,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/remove-encroachments-saraswati-board-to-public-218761
01-03-2021||Jhajjar||Community centre for cops||Message is loud and clearKarnal: The Karnal IMA organised a cyclothon on World Hearing Day to spread awareness about deafness and the importance of hearing. District unit president Dr Arun Goyal said 60 per cent deafness was preventable in children and young adults. The cycle rally was started by Dr Jagdish Dureja of Kalpana Chawla Medical College. Quoting WHO figures, Dr Sanjay Khanna said around 46.6 million people worldwide had hearing loss, 26.6 million of whom were Indians and 3.4 million children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/community-centre-for-cops-218770
01-03-2021||Kaithal||Blood donation camp organised in Kaithal's RKSD College||Webinar on education policyRohtak: A national webinar on the new education policy was organised by the internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) at Government Post-Graduate College for Women, Rohtak. Dr Markanday Ahuja, the vice-chancellor of Gurugram University, was the main speaker, while Poonam Bhanwala, the principal of the host college, presided over the event. The IQAC convener, Savita Paruthi, who conducted the online event, said the experts laid emphasis on the significance of academic and technical expertise to ensure qualitative changes in the institutions of higher learning in accordance with the new education policy.Students' Council constitutedFaridabad: To give representation to students in various activities for institutional development and student welfare, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has constituted a new Students' Council for 2020-21. Describing students and their welfare as his first priority, Vice Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar urged the students' council to perform jointly and collectively for the welfare of students' community. Dean Student Welfare Prof Lakhwinder Singh informed that Chirag Goyal, a student of BTech (electrical engineering) has been selected as president, while Parveen Goyal from BSc (maths) got nominated as vice-president. The post of secretary went to Tanushree from BTech (IT) as Ankur Tripathi from BJMC and Latakshi Sharma from BSc (chemistry) got selected as joint secretaries.Faculty development programmeKurukshetra: A seven-days faculty development programme on 'Advanced panel data analysis' was started by the FDC and Department of Economics of Kurukshetra University. Prof Manjula Chaudhary, KU Dean Academic Affairs, said researchers and teachers to improve their research level. Project coordinator of the programme, Prof Tejinder Sharma informed about the various activities undertaken by the centre and told that the centre was committed towards promoting learning of research techniques.Students' induction programmeMahendragarh: Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised a 'students induction programme' wherein Prof Markanday Ahuja, Vice-Chancellor, Gurugram University, as special guest described the induction programme as very important for the students. He highlighted the guru-shishya tradition and said education continued throughout life.Talk on traffic awarenessAmbala: DAV public School, Ambala Cantt, organised a talk on traffic awareness for students of the senior secondary classes. SHO Ajaib Singh, speaker, along with SI Ravi Kumar spread awareness about various sections and punishments under the Traffic Act. The initiative was taken by the members of the Rotary club industrial area. OnlineInternational conference heldKurukshetra: Professor MM Goel, Adviser, 6th State Finance Commission, Haryana, in the inaugural function of an online international conference at Geeta Engineering College, Naultha (Panipat), spoke on Gita-based needonomics for sustainable development of business in the post pandemic era.Compassionate recruitment soughtRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) non-teaching employees' association has demanded job on compassionate ground to the next kin of those university employees who die before attaining the age of 54. The demand was raised at a meeting of the association chaired by its president Randhir Kataria at the association's office. The meeting also resolved to extend financial assistance of Rs 50,000 to kin of a sanitary worker Joginder who died recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blood-donation-camp-organised-in-kaithals-rksd-college-218771
01-03-2021||The roads in Rohtak are in bad shape||Roads in pathetic condition at Rohtak||Subsidy on electricity bill withdrawn without noticeThe Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam has increased the MMC amount in my electricity bill dated February 19, 2021 of the electric meter installed at my house number 112, Sector 12, Part 2, Karnal, whose account number is 9881520000 and has also withdrawn the government subsidy without any reason. In this context, complaint number CMPL12000367450 was registered on the toll free number of the UHBVN, but no action has been taken so far. The officials concerned should take cognizance of this and solve the problem immediately. —Shakti Singh, KarnalMunicipal Council office lacks basic facilities for visitorsVisitors at the Kaithal Municipal Council office have to use stinking toilet and forced to sit on steel sofas with broken legs supported by bricks. Neither the councillors nor the executive officer (EO) and senior officers care for the inconvenience caused to public visiting this office for official works in large numbers daily. Concerned officials should act fast to improve the situation. —Satish Seth, KaithalDifficult to move around in AmbalaThere are mud mounds and dangerous pits across the city. One cannot reach the railway station or bus stand by the usual route, as all roads are blocked due to the laying of sewage pipe. A distance of 3km is covered in six kilometers due to barricades and pits all around. In addition, there are traffic jams on the Ambala Jagadhri highway. The authorities must speed up the work so that the public is not inconvenienced. —MS Tandan, Ambala CanttDog pound useless if strays can’tbe kept there The recent inauguration of the dog pound had kindled the hopes of Panchkula residents of getting rid of stray dogs, but the recent information contrary to it that the stray dogs cannot be kept permanently at the pound has dashed the hopes of residents. Can the government/ covic body or the HSVP work out a strategy to get rid of the menace so as to safeguard the lives of people. —Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaPoor sanitary conditions in Panchkula sectorThe footpath and the gate of street park in Sector 4 (the road leads to sector 2) has been turned into a garbage dumping site. Since there is no garbage bin, people throw waste alongside the roads making life miserable for the residents living in the vicinity. We the residents of the area again request the authorities to look into the problem and visit the site to take stock of the situation. —Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/roads-in-pathetic-condition-at-rohtak-218772
01-03-2021||Sukhpal Singh||Link farming with employment to stem the rot||Indian agriculture is passing through a critical phase. Farmers are facing problems related to crop production, marketing and profitability. The new farm laws may enhance farm productivity, but these are bound to change the prevailing system. The ownership farming system is prevalent in Punjab, Haryana and other states as owned land forms a major part of operational landholdings. The model of the Green Revolution (GR) improved the economy of the farmers, but later their economic condition started deteriorating, along with the depletion of natural resources and environmental degradation. Capital-intensive technologies reduced work opportunities on the farm for labour. Globalisation policies pushed farmers into debt, depeasantisation and suicide. Every day, 28 farmers/farm labourers commit suicide (according to a report of the National Crime Records Bureau) and about 2,400 leave farming in our country. In Punjab, every farmer family has an average debt of Rs 10 lakh. On an average, two farmers and one labourer have been committing suicide daily since 2000.Of the 10 lakh farming families in 1991, about 5 lakh were small ones in Punjab. In just a decade, the number of these small farming families came down to 3 lakh. Under the capital-intensive system of farming, 2 lakh families had to give up farming in the state. In contrast, the number of small farmers in India increased from about 11 crore to 12 crore during the same period.The GR model pushed many farmers out of agriculture. But it is believed that the new farm laws would push even greater number of farmers out of agriculture. What would these farmers do? It is expected that the farming population is likely to move in the same direction as during the GR period. Studies found that small farmers in Punjab were pushed out of agriculture due to crisis-induced factors such as low crop productivity, crop failure and high living costs. In contrast, some large farmers left agriculture due to growth-oriented factors and joined remunerative occupations. About 40 per cent of the marginal farmers (owning up to 2.5 acres), after leaving farming, joined the labour market. A small portion of them became farm labourers, while a large chunk commute to nearby cities for work. Similarly, 23 per cent of the small farmers (owning 2.5-5 acres) became labourers after quitting farming. The transformation of farmers into labourers is considered to be a misfortune in the socio-economic and cultural milieu of Punjab. About one-fifth of the small farmers who quit farming started their own petty occupations. About 3 per cent of the farmers started selling their vegetables or opened shops in the village. Some started earning a livelihood as mechanics or skilled workers. Around 7 per cent of the farmers started dairy or animal trading after quitting farming. None of the small farmers entered the dealer or arhtiya (commission agent) business, while some large and medium farmers went that way. Small farmers also quit farming because they got employment in the government or the private sector. Some middle and large farmers settled abroad. After leaving farming, some people sold a part or all of their land and many began to make a living by selling their land or by renting it out. Many people took up an activity after quitting farming, but failed at it and then started another activity. Even now, many people are dissatisfied with the new post-farming occupations. In such a situation, it is imperative to keep people engaged in farming.Contract farmingIn the new farm policy paradigm, contract farming under the aegis of corporate farming will be enabled with artificial intelligence, which would further reduce the demand for human resources. The condition of small-scale industries in the country and the state is deplorable. In Punjab, about 18,700 industrial units were shut down between 2007 and 2015. This phenomenon has led to an increase in unemployment as these units were mainly labour-intensive. It is believed that the new farm laws may land the peasants and other people in deep trouble and make them unemployed. In this situation, even the large farmers may be devastated by ownership farming. The market-oriented model propagates that growth can only be achieved by getting people out of farming. The National Skill Development Council suggested in 2015 that the overall development of the country could be achieved by reducing the farming population from the current 57 per cent to 38 per cent. It is being presumed that the productivity of the labour force in the agricultural sector is much lower than that of other sectors. The displaced labour force can be engaged in other areas for generating ‘surplus value’.The question arises: why is the corporate world showing keen interest in Indian agriculture? The huge farm subsidies of the developed countries reduce the costs and prices of some crops. A major scarcity of foodgrains is feared at the global level. Cereal crops are mainly grown in developing countries like India, whereas horticultural crops are predominantly cultivated in developed countries. The World Food Programme received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2020 for distributing food among 10 crore hungry people in 88 countries. This shows that there is a big role of food in the economy. That’s why corporates have been trying to gain control over agricultural production and markets.Under the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, the oligopolistic market would be developed in which a few companies may control the food market. The higher prices of these commodities, especially of processed products, may adversely affect consumption by labourers in general and the poor in particular. Four companies — ADM, Bunge, Cargill and Dreyfus — control the bigger part of the world’s agri-business. These companies have plundered the world’s farmers and consumers through contract farming and agri-business.Market controlThe new farm policy regime is different from the GR model. While the GR model ensured control only over the farm input market, the new farm laws would allow corporates to establish control over both the farm input market and the farm output market. In the GR era, the small peasantry was eventually pushed away from agriculture. In the process, the small farmers joined as wage labourers, whereas the large ones joined lucrative occupations. But it is likely that the new farm policy would push small as well as large farmers towards wage labour.In an agrarian economy, it is important to keep people engaged in agriculture. The prospects of gainful employment in most other sectors of the Indian economy are dismal. Therefore, the emphasis should be on the promotion of cooperative/state farming. Micro and macro-level planning of crop production and consumption requirements should be prepared. The backward linkages (farm inputs) and forward linkages (processing and value addition) of agriculture should be set up in the public domain. This would generate ample employment opportunities in the rural areas. So, the need of the hour is to initiate reforms for improving the livelihood of the peasantry.The author is Principal Economist, PAU, Ludhiana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/link-farming-with-employment-to-stem-the-rot-218921
