02-03-2021||---||SC notices to Centre, Haryana on minor rape victim’s plea for termination of pregnancy||New Delhi, March 2A 14-year-old minor girl from Haryana has moved the Supreme Court seeking permission to terminate her 26-week pregnancy.She alleged that she was raped by her cousin which led to the unwanted pregnancy. She has moved the top court in view of Section 3 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 which prohibits termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks.A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde on Tuesday asked the medical board of Civil Hospital, Karnal, to examine the rape victim and submit its report on the feasibility of termination of foetus.The Bench also issued notices to the Centre and the Haryana government seeking their replies to her petition by March 5, the next date of hearing.“Medical Board - District Civil Hospital, Karnal, may examine the girl and submit its report about the feasibility of her request for termination of pregnancy,” the top court said.Earlier, her counsel VK Biju said the medical board should be directed to immediately look into the matter as the pregnancy was in the 26th week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-notices-to-centre-haryana-on-minor-rape-victims-plea-for-termination-of-pregnancy-219570
02-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Villagers display daughters’ names on house plaques||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 1In a move to promote the birth of a girl child and to discourage female foeticide, the Kaithal administration, under the “Meri Beti, Meri Pehchan” campaign, has started a campaign of putting up house plaques bearing names of their daughters.‘Nari Shakti Utsav’ to be observed till March 8The initiative has been started under a week-long special campaign dedicated to the “Naari Shakti Utsav” to mark the International Women’s Day.Kaithal Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh started the campaign by inaugurating plaques outside two houses in Nehru Garden. So far, the administration has identified around 400 families based on the criteria that the family should have two girls and had adopted family planning measures.“The campaign has been initiated under the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ initiative to promote the girl child in Kaithal district,” said the DC, adding that similar programmes would be organised in all seven blocks of the district.Kaithal Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associates (CMGGA) Pankhuri Gupta said the step had been taken to break the stereotype of considering the girl child as a burden. “The ‘Meri Beti, Meri Pehchan’ campaign will help in improving the sex ratio at birth in the area,” she said.The “Nari Shakti Utsav” will be observed till March 8, under which several other programmes will also be initiated. “On March 2, a prorgamme “Khawaab: Udne do re” will be organised in schools and colleges where conversation about aspirations of young women will be discussed,” she said.“On March 3, Pinjra tod: Ek vartalaap mahila sashaktikaran ki or” would be held, under which a discussion on socio-economic empowerment of women will be conducted at Panchayat Bhawan,” said Gupta.While, on March 4, a programme “Honsle: Prevention of crime against women” would be organised, under which a workshop on crime against women child marriage and gender equality would be organised at EVM Warehouse. Similarly, on March 5, a prorgamme “Udaan: Celebrating womanhood” would be organised at Community Centre in Sector 19, in which women warriors would be honoured, said Gupta.A programme to promote sports activities among women namely “Khel khel mei: Sankalp se siddhi ki or” would be organised on March 6 at Jaat Ground. On March 8 i.e. International Women’s Day, a programme will be organised at RKSD College, in which six-month strategy on “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” will be launched. Besides, a project of CMGGA namely ‘Swabhimaan’ promoting sustainable livelihood to women through self-help groups in Kaithal would also be launched, the CMGGA added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-display-daughters-names-on-house-plaques-219314
02-03-2021||Faridabad||Vehicle thieves held; 15 mobikes recovered||The crime branch team of the central police station has claimed to have busted a racket of two-wheeler thefts by arresting two members of a gang operative in the district. A spokesperson of the Police Department said today, the accused identified as Deepak, a resident of Hasapur village, and Manjit from Nangalia village of Palwal district, involved in the thefts of motorcycles in the city for the past about six months, were nabbed by the police on the basis of inputs on Sunday. Claiming that the duo was suspected to be part of a bigger gang, he said arrest of more accused could not be ruled out. He said the police had been able to recover 15 motorcycles stolen by the gang from various parts of the district.  Revealing the modus operandi, he said the accused used to carry out recce of the spot and would steal the motorcycle with the help of a master key, after confirming  there was no CCTV coverage of the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vehicle-thieves-held-15-mobikes-recovered-219315
02-03-2021||---||HVPNL to add 11 sub-stations||Chandigarh, March 1  Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL) has planned to add 11 new sub-stations and augment 106 existing sub-stations in 2021-22. Additional Chief Secretary, Power Department, PK Das, informed that in order to improve the reliability and quality of power supply, HVPNL is planning to add 7,194 MVA by creating 11 new sub-stations and augmenting 106 existing sub-stations and erection of 1,057 circuit km transmission lines during financial year 2021-22. He said that HVPNL has also initiated two important projects viz ‘SAMAST’ (Scheduling, Accounting, Metering and Settlement of Transaction) in power sector and Reliable Communication and Data Acquisition System for 132 kV level also to establish integrated IT systems for effective grid management. During the ongoing financial year, the transmission system in the state has been further strengthened by adding five new sub-stations — three 220kV, one 132 kV, one 66kV — and augmentation of 41 existing sub-stations resulting in an increase in capacity by 1,979 MVA. Besides above, 246 circuit km transmission lines have also been added during this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hvpnl-to-add-11-sub-stations-219316
02-03-2021||Hisar||Schoolteacher shot||A JBT teacher was shot dead by two persons at the gate of the government primary school in Ramsara village of Fatehabad district today. The victim has been identified as Jitender Kumar. He died on the spot. Police sources said the teacher was going home from the school in his car when he was intercepted by two motorcycle-borne youths at the entrance of the school. The assailants shot him twice from a close range and fled from the spot. The police have started the probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schoolteacher-shot-219317
02-03-2021||Kurukshetra||5th gang-rape accused held||The police have arrested the fifth accused in connection with the gang-rape of 17-year-old girl of the Babain area here. The accused has been identified as Kamal (23), a resident of Palwal village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5th-gang-rape-accused-held-219318
02-03-2021||---||Two kids drown in tub in Jind village||Hisar, March 1Two brothers, aged four and two, drowned in a tub of water while playing at their house in Gangoli village of Jind today. The family members were busy in work on the first floor of the house. The police said they had initiated proceeding under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-kids-drown-in-tub-in-jind-village-219319
02-03-2021||Hisar||Farmers halt milk supply to dairies||Farmers of the Narnaund block of the district today halted the supply of milk to the dairies which further provide it to the Haryana Dairy Development Corporation.  The Satrol khap, which has a significant influence in the Narnaund region, has given a call to sell milk at Rs 100 per litre to the milk cooperative societies. However, it is sold at the previous rates to fellow villagers and other needy people.  Rajender Singh, a farmer of Narnaund, said he had refused to supply milk to the cooperative society for a week. The supply of milk to the cooperative society has been stopped by farmers of Rajthal, Bahni Amirpur, Sulkhani, Ghiray Chuli Kalan and Chuli Khurd villages in the district. They said they had taken the decision to send out a massage of support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Surender Mann, secretary, New Rajthal Cooperative Society, Narnaund, said: “I have informed milk plant officials about the decision of farmers to sell milk at the hiked price. Since we cannot purchase it at this rate, we decided not to buy it from them.” He added his society did not supply milk to the plant on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-halt-milk-supply-to-dairies-219320
02-03-2021||Pradeep Sharma---||Now, govt can sell EWS, BPL houses to general category||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 1 Effecting a major tweak in its housing policy, the BJP-JJP government has allowed the sale of plots and flats meant for the allotment to the economically weaker sections (EWS) and below poverty line (BPL) persons to the general category. “For the unsold inventory lying with the Housing Board, Haryana, so far, one last and final opportunity will be given to the targeted beneficiaries (EWS/BPL) and thereafter, the remaining inventory may be sold to the general category beneficiaries of the Haryana domicile,” the policy issued by the Town and Country Planning Department said. The policy said since repeated efforts of the housing board had not received the required response from the EWS/BPL categories, the state government had allowed the sale of these properties to the general category. The housing board is the coordinating agency for the allotment of flats and plots earmarked for the EWS/BPL beneficiaries by the private builders in the licensed colonies. “In the forthcoming schemes, two attempts will be made by the housing board to sell the new properties to the targeted beneficiaries. Thereafter, these properties may be sold by the housing board to the general category beneficiaries,” the policy said. Under the scheme, 20 per cent of the total number of residential plots is reserved for the EWS/BPL categories while 15 per cent of the residential flats in the group housing society are reserved for this category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-govt-can-sell-ews-bpl-houses-to-general-category-219321
02-03-2021||---||Protesters to mobilise non-farming groups||Jhajjar, March 1  The Haryana constituents of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) that met at Tikri on Monday resolved to strengthen and expand the farmers’ protest by contacting non-farming communities to make them aware of the loopholes in the three farm laws for garnering their support. The meeting — presided over by BKU leader Joginder Nain — decided to train volunteers for carrying out a campaign in the villages and towns for the purpose. Office-bearers of around 20 farmer outfits attended the meeting. Inderjit Singh of All-India Kisan Sabha placed a review report that underlined the trend of participation of women in a considerable number of activities. “We discussed the future course of action to strengthen the protest after reviewing the prevailing situation. Some teams will be trained for going to various sections, including non-farming communities, to explain the ill-effects of the three laws on them as the public distribution system will collapse, causing malnutrition among the poorer sections in general and women and children in particular,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesters-to-mobilise-non-farming-groups-219322
02-03-2021||---||Congress protests farm laws, inflation||Karnal, March 1 Congress workers on Monday took out a protest march here against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders and also against the three farm laws. They demanded the rollback of prices and repealing of the three laws. Sitting on a bullock cart, former Home Minister Subhash Batra, Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi, national Congress secretary Virender Rathore, former chairman, Haryana Minority Commission, Trilochan Singh and others started the protest march from Karan Park and ended it at Karan Gate in the city. They blamed the Union Government for the price hike. They demanded an inquiry into the daily price change system of fuel from a sitting judge of the Supreme Court. Batra said the Centre had failed to check the price rise even though the rates of crude oil were at low. “We demand of the Centre to reduce excise tax and the of state government to cut VAT so that fuel prices fall,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-protests-farm-laws-inflation-219323
02-03-2021||---||Punjab's Bill on MSP anti-farmer: Haryana CM||Chandigarh, March 1The Covid pandemic has resulted in a Rs 15,000 crore deficit in Haryana in this ongoing financial year which ends later this month.Solution to stir will be foundThe stalemate over farmers’ issue cannot continue forever. A solution will be found sooner or later. The Centre wants no confrontation with farmers and will let them protest till they understand. — Manohar Lal Khattar, CMThe revenue receipts are 10 per cent lower than the estimates. This has meant an increased reliance on loans though the government remains well within the permitted limits.Speaking to select mediapersons here today, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the revenue receipts are down by Rs 7,000-8,000 crore and the Centre’s grant-in-aid share has also seen a decline.“We are short by Rs 15,000 crore. However, due to the Covid-induced lockdown, the pace of development also slackened and the budget earmarked for the purpose witnessed a reduced outgo of Rs 8,000-10,000 crore. So, we are essentially short of Rs 5,000-6,000 crore which has been met by increased debt,” Khattar said.Stating that Punjab Government’s Bill on MSP is against the farmer since no buyers would purchase the produce below the price, Khattar — commenting on the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s laws — said that the matter would be resolved soon but he can’t set a dateline for it.“People from among the farmers will emerge and explain to them that the stalemate cannot continue forever. A solution will come sooner or later,” he said, reiterating that the government wanted absolutely no confrontation and would let them continue till they understand.Khattar maintained that farmers destroying their standing crop or announcing that milk would be sold at Rs 100 per litre is no way of registering a protest.“Economics tells us that the price of a commodity depends upon the demand and supply. Milk can be sold at Rs 500 per litre provided there are buyers. Further, milk is a perishable item and there is no organised market,” the CM said.He said that Haryana had purchased bajra at MSP over and above the production in the state since farmers of neighbouring states — attracted by the rates — flocked to Haryana to sell their produce.On the Antyodaya scheme for uplifting the status of poor families, Khattar said that the government wants to identify the most economically backward families through the Parivar Pehchan Patra. “Our effort is to extract honey from haves and distribute it among have-nots,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjabs-bill-on-msp-anti-farmer-haryana-cm-219324
02-03-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Co-accused’s statement can be taken into account: HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 1 Clearing the air on the admissibility of a statement by a co-accused during the course of investigation, the High Court has dubbed as totally misconceived and unacceptable the contention that it could not be taken into consideration. The ruling by Justice HS Madaan came in a case where an accused claimed he was not named in the FIR, but by a co-accused. Justice Madaan asserted the petitioner could not take advantage of the fact that he was not named in the FIR and his name cropped up in the interrogation of the co-accused. “Statement suffered by a co-accused during the investigation can certainly be taken into consideration for providing lead in the investigation and even otherwise, it is admissible under Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act,” Justice Madaan asserted. The petitioner was seeking pre-arrest bail in an FIR registered in June last year for criminal intimidation, negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter and other offences under Sections 147, 148, 149, 285, 323 and 506 of the IPC at the Kalan Wali police station in Sirsa district. The offence of attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC was added later on. Pointing at the facts of the case in hand, Justice Madaan asserted that the complainant in the FIR referred to several unidentified persons accompanying the assailants named in the FIR. The identity of one such unidentified person came out to be that of the petitioner. Justice Madaan added that a co-accused had disclosed that he brought a pistol and cartridge from the son of his brother-in-law — the present petitioner. The pistol was used in firing a shot at the complainant in the case. Besides this, the present petitioner was accused of collecting three-four persons from his friend circle, arranging a vehicle, joining other accused along with his associates and taking active part in causing injuries to the complainant and his sons. Such act and conduct was required to be taken with all seriousness. Dismissing the plea, Justice Madaan added pre-arrest bail was a discretionary equitable relief to be granted by the court in rare circumstances to save the innocent persons from harassment and inconvenience and not to provide protective umbrella to the criminals enabling them to avoid arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/co-accuseds-statement-can-be-taken-into-account-hc-219326
02-03-2021||Sushil Manav||Covid cases: 50% jump in week in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 1With the state witnessing a fresh wave of Covid-19 infections, Haryana has seen 50 per cent jump in weekly number of new cases as well as in total active cases in the last seven days.The state recorded 1,054 new cases in the last week of February (from February 22 to 28) at a daily average of 151 cases against 684 cases witnessed during the third week of the month (February 15 to 21) averaging 98 cases per day.Vij launches vaccination driveThe state had seen 534 and 615 new cases, respectively, in the first two weeks of February. This is the steepest jump in the week in the state since the first week of June last year when the state saw 2,357 new cases of Covid-19 infections during the week from June 1 to 7 against 907 cases during the last week of May last year.The total active cases in the state have also seen nearly 50 per cent jump from 861 from the third week of February to 1,275 last week.Gurugram continues to be on the top among all the districts in the matter of total active cases with 337 out of 1,275 being there alone.As many as 146 sessions of vaccination were held in the state, in which 2,071 people above the age of 60 and 260 people in the 45-60 age bracket with comorbidity were vaccinated on Monday.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, said the cumulative number of those provided with the first dose of vaccine so far in the state was 2,22,959 while 74,391 had got their second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-cases-50-jump-in-week-in-haryana-219327
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Fine those without mask: Haryana CM Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today directed officers to distribute at least five masks to those not wearing them in public and start the drive to impose fine on violators.He also directed officers to make strategies to curb the spread of Covid in the state.Appealing to people to wear masks, Khattar said, “The Covid vaccine has been rolled out, but we still need to follow guidelines such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing to stay safe and curb the spread of the virus.”The CM gave the directions while presiding over a review meeting regarding Covid held with Administrative Secretaries here.During the meeting, Khattar directed officers to ramp up Covid management preparations coupled with aggressive surveillance and stringent containment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fine-those-without-mask-haryana-cm-khattar-219328
02-03-2021||---||Om Prakash Chautala expects mid-term elections||Hisar, March 1The INLD supremo and former Chief Minister, Om Prakash Chautala, claimed that the BJP-led Haryana Government would not be able to complete its tenure while predicting mid-term polls after the collapse of the government.Addressing party workers at Devi Lal Sadan in Hisar town today, Chautala said his party was geared up for the elections in Haryana. He urged the INLD workers to get proactive with a new vigour ahead of the Ellanabad byelection.The former Chief Minister said the INLD had already gone in electoral mode and decided to hold rally in Ellanabad on March 3. “The present government has lost the confidence of people. The farmers have been staging a peaceful protest for the last three months but the government is not listening to them at all. The farmers’ agitation has taken the shape of a people movement and now it cannot be crushed by using coercive methods,” he said.Chautala said people from all the communities were working together to shake the government out of deep slumber. “The ruling party will have to pay a price for its insensitive attitude as the people are all prepared to uproot the misrule of the BJP-led coalition in Haryana, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/om-prakash-chautala-expects-mid-term-elections-219329
02-03-2021||Gurugram||Electricity Dept team attacked in Gurugram village||A team of the Electricity Department accompanied by the police was attacked by Ghata villagers here on Sunday night.  Many officials, including a Junior Engineer (JE), were injured in the stone-pelting incident. An FIR has been registered at the DLF Phase 1 police station. Earlier, a similar attack was made on a team in Gadoli village. As per the complaint of  Vinod Kumar, lineman of south city sub-division, an FIR has been registered against five persons under Sections 186, 332 and 353 of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/electricity-dept-team-attacked-in-gurugram-village-219330
02-03-2021||Karnal||Missing Karnal boy found alive in suitcase||A three-year-old boy was found in unconscious state in a suitcase, hours after he went missing outside his house on Daniyalpur road on the outskirts of the city.The bag was lying in the bushes at some distance from their house. The kin suspect it to be a handiwork of some gang involved in kidnapping.Victim Aman’s mother Kanchan Devi said Aman was playing outside the house and was found missing around 11 am. She said after searching for him for around three hours, they found a luggage bag in the bushes near their house, in which Aman was found.The Sector 32-33 police said they were yet to receive any complaint. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/missing-karnal-boy-found-alive-in-suitcase-219331
02-03-2021||Kurukshetra||Tributes paid to first President Dr Rajendra Prasad||Tips on Overcoming exam stressFaridabad:  The student welfare department of the DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad, organised a series of sessions on the topic titled “Conquering trepidations- overcoming examination stress” here recently for the first year students of the undergraduate courses. “As the Covid pandemic has brought life to a standstill and has caused stress for all of us. Students are no different and have been affected by this pandemic. This programme has been able to provide some kind of relief, as those affected directly and indirectly have been able to share their views and have been distressed to some extent ,”claim the organisers. The sessions were taken by in-house senior faculty members Dr Pooja Kaul, Dr Anjali Ahuja, Dr Rashmi Bhargav, Dr Bhawna Sharma, Dr Juhi Kohli and Pooja Sachdev for different courses. The faculty members also gave an overview of the examination pattern and expectations of the examiners.CUH online alumni meetMahendragarh:  The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised an Alumni Meet online in which Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad said they were an integral part of the university and their participation was very important for its development. “By staying in whatever field they are working in, they can contribute to the betterment of the university,” said the VC who also released the university's alumni portal prepared by the Alumni Club.757 students get degrees onlineMahendrgarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised its 7th convocation online. Union Minister of State for Education Sanjay Dhotre attended it online as a chief guest. Addressing students, Dhotre said new education policy 2020 had been enforced to make India a 21st century global knowledge superpower. The multidisciplinary approach of the New Education Policy provides ample opportunities for the comprehensive growth of the students. He called upon the students to dream big and not remain satisfied with small goals. Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad informed a total 757 students were given away PhD, MPhil, graduate and postgraduate degrees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tributes-paid-to-first-president-dr-rajendra-prasad-219346
02-03-2021||Iwant to bring to the notice of the traffic police that people are taking the wrong side to cross under the flyover from the Sector 20 market side to the Kalka-Shimla road. During office hours||Wrong-side traffic violation in Panchkula||Kanwar Lakhan Bir Singh, PanchkulaMain railway road in bad shape in NarwanaThe main road from Patiala Chowk to the railway station is an important one as both sides of the stretch has shops and colonies and is always full of traffic. About a year ago, more than half of the road was dug for laying water pipes, but was abandoned midway. Most of the remaining portion of road has been encroached upon by rehriwalas, so very little space is left for the traffic and pedestrians to move. The businessmen are feeling the pinch as people avoid going there. The government should build this road at the earliest.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaTransformer inconveniences commuters in KurukshetraTheRailway Road in Kurukshetra is a premier road. In front of Hotel Pearl Mark, across the road, there is a transformer which is not only an eye-sore but also is a source of trouble for road users. At the time of widening of this road, all electric poles and transformers were shifted to the edge of the road except this one for the reasons best known to the department concerned. During foggy days, many accidents took place due to this transformer. The administration has not paid any heed to it and failed to take actionDr Deepak Kaushik, Kurukshetra‘One way only’ signpost needed on new flyoverA new pathway from the Kurukshetra city flyover to the railway road has been operational for more than a month, but nowhere one can see any signboard saying its one way only. Heavy vehicles keep moving and it can lead to traffic jam and accidents. The authorities need to take quick action in public interest before any untoward incident takes place.Rakesh Sudan, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrong-side-traffic-violation-in-panchkula-219347
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||CM Haryana says Yadava to continue as DGP||Unfazed by Home Minister Anil Vij’s insistence on a new panel being sent to the UPSC for selecting a new DGP, Haryana Chief Minister stated that the present DGP would continue.“The Director General of Police (DGP) is still the DGP,” he said, mincing no words in backing the continuation of Manoj Yadava as the head of the police force during an informal interaction here today while trying to downplay Vij’s demand for a new panel.“When we meet, we will talk it out and it will become clear. We have not met so far but this is not an issue,” he said, adding that the 1988-batch IPS officer had been given an extension before his two-year term had ended.Also read: Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava gets one-year extension: MHADespite this, Vij, in directions to the Home Secretary, had said that a seven-member panel be sent to the UPSC to select a new DGP since Yadava’s two-year term had ended on February 20 and had said that the post be considered vacant from March 2.While Vij’s actions were being seen as a direct attack on the CM since the government had given Yadava an extension, Khattar chose to defend the former.“I have known Vij since 1990s when he won the byelection from Ambala. Our party was in alliance with the Indian National Lok Dal which fielded a candidate. Vij contested that election,” Khattar said.Emphasising that Vij was clear-hearted with no ill-intention, Khattar said Vij, instead of diplomatically putting across his view, was straightforward in his approach and that had proved to be an asset on many occasions.Asked if the confusion was on account of government order on Yadava’s extension which mention that it was till “further orders”, Khattar said that this open-ended statement meant the DGP could continue till his retirement.Yadava has come to Haryana from the IB for two years and has already been empanelled as DG at the Centre. It is learnt that the government will seek an extension for Yadava from the MHA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-haryana-says-yadava-to-continue-as-dgp-219283
