03-03-2021||Chandigarh||12 more coronavirus deaths in Punjab, 778 new cases; Haryana reports zero COVID-related deaths||The COVID-19 infection tally in Punjab climbed to 1,84,310 with 778 new cases reported on Wednesday while 12 more deaths pushed the toll to 5,872, according to a medical bulletin.Punjab has been seeing an upswing in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases for the past three weeks. The number of active cases also jumped from 5,198 on Tuesday to 5,593 as of now.Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar reported the maximum of 108 cases followed by Jalandhar with 96, Patiala with 80, among new cases that surfaced in the state.A total of 365 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,72,845, as per the bulletin.There are 14 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 99 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 50,69,381 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.In neighbouring Haryana, the state recorded 240 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections in the state to 2,71,365, a health department bulletin said.With no coronavirus related fatality during the past 24 hours, the total COVID-19 deaths in the state remained at 3,052, according to the bulletin.Fresh cases were reported from districts, including Gurugram and Karnal, with 44 infections each.The number of active cases in the state were 1,470. The recovery rate was 98.33 percent, it stated.Meanwhile, the Union territory of Chandigarh on Wednesday reported 56 more coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 21,962, a medical bulletin stated.The death of a 79-year-old woman took the toll in the UT to 355, as per the bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 472 on Tuesday to 503 as of now, as per the bulletin.A total of 24 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 21,104, as per the bulletin.A total of 2,59,793 samples have been taken for testing so far and 2,36,870 of them tested negative while reports of 108 samples were still awaited, the bulletin stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-more-coronavirus-deaths-in-punjab-778-new-cases-haryana-reports-zero-covid-related-deaths-220098
03-03-2021||---||Sonepat court grants bail to labour activist Shiv Kumar in two cases||Sonepat, March 3Labour activist Shiv Kumar, an associate of Nodeep Kaur, on Wednesday got bail in two cases from a local court.Kumar, president of Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan, was arrested a few days after the arrest of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur.Kaur was granted bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on February 26.More details are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-court-grants-bail-to-labour-activist-shiv-kumar-in-two-cases-220023
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Governor clears 75% quota for Haryana locals in private jobs||Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya has given assent to a Bill giving 75 per cent quota to state domicile candidates in the private sector. The state government has notified the Bill after Governor’s assent.CM Manohar Lal Khattar said the new law would offer more job avenues to the state youth. The Assembly had passed the Bill on November 5.Under the Bill, all private sector units, including companies, trusts, societies and limited liability firms, employing 10 or more persons will have to reserve 75 per cent jobs for state residents. The quota will be applicable for jobs with monthly emoluments up to Rs 50,000. The firms can recruit 10 per cent manpower from one district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/governor-clears-75-quota-for-haryana-locals-in-private-jobs-219734
03-03-2021||Karnal||Haryana: 54 school students in Karnal test COVID-19 positive||Fifty four students of a school near here have tested COVID-19 positive leading to suspension of classes and other academic activities, an official said on Tuesday.Karnal Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Yogesh Sharma said three students of Sainik School Kunjpura had tested positive for the virus on Monday following which the health department took samples of 390 students and staff members of the school for testing.Also read: Wedding, poll season fuelling Covid rise, say high-burden states“The reports revealed that 54 students are COVID-19 positive,” Sharma said.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the school building and its hostels have been declared as a containment zone.The Sainik Schools are run by the Sainik Schools Society under the Ministry of Defence and the students stay in hostels.Also read: 150 monks test COVID-19 positive at Gyuto monastery in Himachal's DharamsalaThe Haryana education department had reopened schools for classes 9-12 in December last year and classes 3-5 from February 24. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-54-school-students-in-karnal-test-covid-19-positive-219537
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panel formed to analyse all probe reports||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here today that a one-member committee of Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan had been constituted to analyse recommendations submitted by various committees constituted to probe various liquor complaints, including the issue of deaths on account of consumption of spurious liquor across Haryana, smuggling and illegal stocking.While addressing a press conference here, the Chief Minister said taking cognisance of complaints received regarding liquor, special investigation team (SIT) and special enquiry team (SET) were formed to investigate these complaints.“Members of these committees have separately submitted their recommendations to the government and now the Chief Secretary after analysing these recommendations would take action against those found guilty” the CM said , adding the state government had adopted a zero-tolerance policy against corruption. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-formed-to-analyse-all-probe-reports-219611
03-03-2021||Kaithal||Centre to blame for stalemate: Congress||Congress workers on Tuesday took out a protest march in the city over the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder. They also blamed the Union government for the situation arising out of protest over the three farm laws.Sitting on a bullock cart, Congress state affair in-charge Vivek Bansal alleged the Centre was not serious on the issues of farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-to-blame-for-stalemate-congress-219606
03-03-2021||Karnal||Carrying sapling, Punjab youth head to Singhu||With a message of unity, a group of youth from Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib today reached Karnal. After spending some time on the NH-44, they left for Singhu.Carrying a sapling as a symbol of unity, the youth had started their journey on Monday. After having spent the night in Kurukshetra district, they entered Karnal today.“We will plant the sapling at Singhu border. We will finish our journey on Wednesday,” said Ishpreet Singh, who was part of the group. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/carrying-sapling-punjab-youth-head-to-singhu-219607
03-03-2021||Kurukshetra||Gender test racket busted; two arrested in Kurukshetra||A team of health officials from Kurukshetra and Karnal today busted a sex-determination test racket and arrested two men. Their accomplice, however, managed to flee.The accused have been identified as Sube Singh, who works as a technician at a private hospital in Kurukshetra, and Sonu Bajaj, a resident of Ambala. Their accomplice, Sukhdev, is an ambulance driver.RK Sahai, nodal officer, PC-PNDT, Kurukshetra, said: “A pregnant woman, acting as a decoy customer, contacted the tout, Sube Singh, for the gender test. He demanded Rs 35,000 for it. After having performed the test, he dropped her near Mohan Nagar Chowk here. He was nabbed from there and Rs 5,000 was recovered from him.”“During questioning, Sube Singh disclosed the name of Sonu Bajaj, in whose car the gender test was conducted. He was arrested from Kurukshetra. A portable ultrasound machine and Rs 15,000 were recovered from him,” Sahai said.Sube Singh and Bajaj face cases under the PC-PNDT Act and the IPC. Bajaj was nabbed last year as well. On coming out on bail, he again started performing sex-determination tests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gender-test-racket-busted-two-arrested-in-kurukshetra-219608
03-03-2021||---||Covid-19: 54 Sainik School students test +ve in Karnal||Karnal, March 2Karnal has witnessed a sudden surge in the cases of the Covid-19 in the last one week.On Tuesday, as many as 78 cases have been reported, of them 54 were students of Sainik School, Kunjpura, forcing the authorities to come into action.“Three students of the Sainik School have tested positive on Monday, following which we got collected the samples of contacts and all the students of the hostel and staff members. On Tuesday, samples of 54 students, out of 390 samples collected by us, were found positive,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon. After surfacing of a huge number of cases in a single day, Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav on Tuesday declared the school building as containment zone.Chandigarh: As many as 4,557 people above the age of 60 and 471 in the 45 to 60 age bracket with comorbidity got their first dose of Covid vaccine in Haryana today.According to sources in the National Health Mission, 209 session sites were held today across the state.Besides them, 1,270 healthcare and frontline workers got their first dose of the vaccine while 2,405 got their second dose. The cumulative number of doses till today is 3,06,055.Today, 175 new cases of Covid were witnessed in the state, while two persons, one each at Kurukshetra and Gurugram, lost their lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-54-sainik-school-students-test-ve-in-karnal-219590
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||DGP Manoj Yadava gets 1-year extension||Haryana Director General of Police Manoj Yadava, who was due to return to Central deputation, has been given extension of one year “beyond” February, 20, 2021 by the Ministry of Home Affairs.Yadava, a 1988 batch IB officer, had been called back to his parent state, Haryana, in February 2019 and appointed DGP for a two-year term. The Haryana government had already extended Yadava’s term as DGP “till further orders” through an order issued by Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora in January this year. It said Yadava’s term had been extended by the Governor beyond February 20 this year, when his tenure was scheduled to end.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij had initiated the process of selection of a new DGP on grounds that Yadava’s two-year term had ended and sought a seven-name panel of the senior-most IPS officers. He had directed the Home Secretary to send the panel to the UPSC, forcing CM Manohar Lal Khattar to step in and put an end to the exercise. Khattar had yesterday said Yadava would continue to be the police chief of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dgp-manoj-yadava-gets-1-year-extension-219592
03-03-2021||New Delhi||Supreme Court notice to Haryana on minor’s pregnancy termination||A 14-year-old girl from Haryana has moved the Supreme Court seeking permission to terminate her 26-week pregnancy.A Bench, headed by CJI SA Bobde, on Tuesday asked the medical board of the Civil Hospital, Karnal, to examine the rape victim and submit its report on the feasibility of termination of pregnancy. The Bench also issued notices to the Centre and the Haryana government seeking their replies to her petition by March 5, the next date of hearing. “Medical Board, District Civil Hospital, Karnal, may examine the girl and submit its report about the feasibility of her request for termination of pregnancy,” the SC said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supreme-court-notice-to-haryana-on-minors-pregnancy-termination-219593
03-03-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Streetlight points lying non-functional for a month||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Streetlight points lying non-functional for a monthThe movement of pedestrians on the Ambala road in Kaithal town has become risky as dozens of streetlight points installed on dividers continue to remain non-functional for the past over one month. The Municipal Council staff has been reminded many times by the road users about the situation, but no action has been taken to rectify the defects. The authorities should get up from its slumber and act fast to provide relief to residents. Satish Seth, KaithalNo fixed place for meat shops in TohanaA place is fixed for the meat market by the Municipal Council, but at Tohana, no place has been fixed for it. These shops of cooked and uncooked meat can be seen every where. Foul smell and the dirt around these shops affect the health of everybody and religious sentiments of the vegetarians. The administration should allot a fixed place to the meat vendors at a secluded place instead of in the common market. RK Garg, TohanaRoads in pathetic condition in KaithalRoads in Kaithal district are in a pathetic condition. The road between Kasan village and Kichhana are in poor state and pose accident threat to commuters. The authorities should look into the issue at the earliest to provide relief to the general public. Sunil Ravish, KaithalFarmers should not burn standing cropThe recent incidents of farmers burning their standing crops, stopping supply of milk, not sowing seeds, chakka jam, occupying railway tracks, Republic Day violence etc does not show farmers in a good light. The farmers should not resort to such actions. Ramit Ritu Bagga, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/streetlight-points-lying-non-functional-for-a-month-219609
03-03-2021||Sirsa||Vital role of media in providing info||Winners to be DC, SDM for a dayBhiwani: The Bhiwani Deputy Commissioner, Jaiveer Arya, said the five toppers of the mock parliament session being organised at the district headquarters during the celebration of 'Women Week' would hold the symbolic positions of the district administrative officials for one day. The DC who was present at the Panchayat Bhawan during the mock parliament session said the winners from among the participants from Government Girls Senior Secondary School would symbolically hold the position of the DC, SDM and other administrative positions for one day. The women week is being organised to spread awareness among the women about their rights.Fire safety mock drill at KCGMCKarnal: A fire safety mock drill was conducted at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College. Fire Safety Officer Narendra Singh Yadav conducted the whole drill and made doctors, students, security personnel, technical staff and others aware of the fire safety equipment. First-hand knowledge and hands-on demonstration of the firefighting equipment, including various types of fire extinguisher cylinders was given. The functioning of the fire hydrant was also checked and its functioning demonstrated.Poster presentation contestRohtak: In an initiative, a plant-cum-poster presentation contest was organised to mark Science Day on the premises of Government Postgraduate College for Women at Rohtak. An online quiz contest was also organised on the occasion. Dr Veena Sachdeva, the convener of the scientific council at the college, said participants prepared different types of ornamental, xerophytic, medicinal and purifying plants to feature the wide range of biodiversity. The students also made informative posters on various topical issues.Admission notice for vacant seatsRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has issued admission notice for vacant seats of various certificate/diploma programmes in the university teaching departments and MDU CPAS, Gurugram, for the 2020-2021session. MDU Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja said applications on prescribed performa (available on the MDU website) could be submitted in the departments concerned upto March 5. The scrutiny of admission forms and documents will be done on March 6. Physical counselling for the admission will be conducted on March 9. Candidates will have to report for admission from 9 am to 11 am in the departments concerned on March 9. The candidates who get admission will have to deposit fees on the same day, the Registrar said details of the vacant seats were available on the MDU website.Science Day celebrated at KUKurukshetra: On National Science Day, the faculty of science celebrated the occasion through a special address. The theme of National Science Day 2021 is "Future of STI (science, technology and innovation): Impacts on education, skills and work". The occasion was attended by Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, who delivered the presidential remarks. The VC spoke about the contributions of late Sir CV Raman and its relevance in material characterisation. Professor SS Teotia, Dean, Sciences, spoke about how the university and departments should transform to meet the challenges and opportunities in education through virtual mode in lab practical.Opportunities in defence bodiesHisar: The Department of applied psychology, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, organised a one-day workshop on "Opportunities in defence organisations". The keynote speaker of the event was Dr Updesh Kumar, adjunct faculty, School of Criminology, Crime Science and Behavioural Science (SCCSBS), RastriyaRaksha University, Gujarat. He was former Scientist 'G' in the Defence Institute of Psychological Research, DRDO, New Delhi. The chairperson of the department Prof Rakesh Kumar Behmani welcomed the keynote speaker and the gathering and also shared his words of wisdom with themIndian scientists’ role in developmentFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised a national conference on the "Role of Indian scientists in sustainable development" to mark National Science Day which is celebrated to commemorate the discovery of Raman effect by Indian prominent scientist Sir CV Raman. The conference was part of two-day National Science Day celebrations organised by the faculty of sciences on the theme "Future of STI (science, technology and innovation): Impacts on education, skills and work". Events such as quiz, declamation and poster presentation competitions were also organised online to mark the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vital-role-of-media-in-providing-info-219610
03-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Electricity Department team attacked in Gurugram again||Gurugram, March 2A team of the Power Department was attacked for the third consecutive day yesterday while it was conducting raids to check power theft. This time, the incident took place in Bhora Kalan village.The other two incidents had taken place in Ghata and Gadoli village. On a tip-off, the team accompanied by the police raided the Bhora Kalan village on Monday only to be with resistance from villagers.The team nabbed Suraj and Jitender for allegedly stealing power. The accused resisted their arrest and abused officials. The incident was filmed on camera.On the complaint by Junior Engineer (JE) Raj Kumar, a case was registered against Suraj, Jitender and two unidentified persons under Sections 186, 353, 332, 427 and 34 of the IPC at the Bilaspur police station.“The accused attacked Assistant Linemen Raj Kumar and Sanjay. They snatched my mobile phone while I was recording the incident and broke it,” the JE stated in his complaint.“The matter is under investigation. The accused will be arrested soon,” said ASI Umed Singh, investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/electricity-department-team-attacked-in-gurugram-again-219612
03-03-2021||Gurugram||Gangster Sube Gujjar’s property set to be auctioned||Months after staying the attachment of property of gangster Sube Gujjar, a local court today vacated the stay. The decision has given a green signal for the auctioning of the Rs 4 crore property of the gangster.Gujjar’s property is the first to be attached by the police as per an ambitious plan to attach the properties of gangsters to urge them to surrender.Police Commissioner KK Rao, then chief of STF, constructed a police ‘chowki’ on the gangster’s land which was reportedly grabbed from a builder.The family of Gujjar moved court and got a stay on attachment of his entire property. The 450 sq yards plot of Sube was attached by the Gurgaon police in February 2019 but the auction failed due to the stay order.“There was a stay on the attachment and auction of the property of this criminal, but now the court has cancelled the stay. We have started the process to auction his property,” said CP KK Rao. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gangster-sube-gujjars-property-set-to-be-auctioned-219613
03-03-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Samyukt Kisan Morcha to oppose BJP in poll-bound states||Tribune News ServicePanipat, March 2The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the protesting farmer unions, decided to campaign against the BJP and its alliances in five poll-bound states and the morcha will start campaign from Kolkata on March 12.Besides, the SKM will block the traffic on the KMP Expressway at various points on the 100th day of protest on March 6 for five hours from 11 am to 4 pm.Balbir Singh Rajewal, Yogender Yadav, Dharmender Malik, Ramzan Chaudhary, Jogender Nain and Abhimanyu Kohar in a press conference said the morcha had finalised programmes for the next two weeks in the national general body meeting.Rajewal said the farmers’ protest was going to complete 100 days at Delhi’s border on March 6. That’s why there will be a five-hour blockade of the KMP expressway connecting various protest sites outside Delhi. This would be between 11 am and 4 pm. Toll plazas would also be stopped from collecting toll.Besides, the day would be marked by flying black flags on houses and offices to signify support to the movement and to protest against the government on March 6. The SKM also asked protesters to wear black bands on that day.The SKM would mark March 8 as Mahila Kisan Diwas. Women would manage the stages and make speeches on that day, he added.Yogender Yadav said the SKM had held a meeting with the 10 Central trade unions, who had given a call to mark March 15 as ‘anti-privitaisation day’.The morcha had decided to support the call of the trade unions by marking the day as ‘anti-coportisation day’ and appealed to farmers to join the protest near railway stations across the country on March 15, Yadav said.Yadav said it was also decided in the meeting that farmer leaders would move to the poll-bound five states — West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry — to teach a lesson to the BJP for its “anti-farmer” policies.The leaders’ delegation would start the anti-BJP campaign from Kolkatta on March 12 and then move to other election-bound states.Protester dies in accident||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-oppose-bjp-in-poll-bound-states-219596
03-03-2021||---||Congress MLA, party men detained in house||Faridabad, March 2Neeraj Sharma, Congress MLA from NIT Assembly segment here, was among 25 party activists who were put under “house arrest” allegedly for more than three hours today. He had announced to take out a protest and show black flags to the Deputy CM over the farmers’ agitation.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala had been here to chair a meeting of the District Public Relations and Grievances Committee this noon. Sharma and the others were freed after the conclusion of the meeting, it is revealed.Talking to The Tribune later, Neeraj Sharma said that he and around 200 party activists including one Jagan Dagar, a former municipal corporater, had assembled at the latter’s house in Sector-7 regarding their protest programme at around 10.30 am.He claimed that police officials, accompanied by 40 police personnel, arrived at the spot and informed that they would not be allowed to go out of the premises till further orders.According to Neeraj Sharma, the police officials told him and others to remain seated at the spot till the meeting of the Grievances Committee was over and told them they would not be allowed to stage any demonstration.He said the party wanted to express its resentment over the failure of the BJP government to resolve the farmers’ agitation and wanted to show black flags as JJP leader Dushyant is Deputy CM and also a partner in BJP rule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mla-party-men-detained-in-house-219597
03-03-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Protesting farmers making arrangements for rising temperature||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, March 2After having braved the biting cold, farmers protesting at the Singhu border for the past three months have started making arrangements for the rising temperature. More than 20 water coolers, fans, generators and stubble sheds have been installed at the protest site, giving the indication that they are in for a long haul.Harender Lakhowal, BKUHeat no deterrentThe Centre thinks that the scorching heat will deter farmers. The Modi government is mistaken. We are up for every challenge.They passed off the winters well as geysers, firewood, blankets and quilts were made available to them by farmers’ unions and social organisations. Now with the mercury rising by the day, farmers have started making arrangements accordingly.Harender Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), said: “Lakhs of farmers have been staging dharna at Delhi borders for the past three months, demanding repeal of the three farm laws, but the Centre simply ignored our demand. It thinks that the scorching heat would deter us. The Modi government is mistaken. We are up for every challenge.”Farmers have constructed permanent bathrooms at the protest site, dug up borewells and installed more than 20 RO systems.Besides, bamboo huts, generators, mosquito nets and tents with nets are being installed, Lakhowal said. “Fans, pedestal fans and coolers have been distributed among farmers. About 200 more fans will be distributed at the Singhu and Tikri borders in a couple of days.”Ranjeet Singh of Hoshiarpur said farmers would not step back until the Union Government revoked the farm laws. “We braved the bone-chilling cold wave and rain. How can summer dampen our spirits?” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-making-arrangements-for-rising-temperature-219598
03-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Minor requires more than roof, food, rules High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 2In a significant judgment in child custody cases, the High Court has made it clear that ‘welfare of the child’ — a matter of paramount importance while appointing a natural guardian — could not be limited to fulfilling financial needs alone.Justice Jaishree Thakur ruled that a minor required more than a roof over his head and food on his table. Emotional sustenance, too, was a requirement. “A safe environment, full of love and nurturing care, is always conducive to the overall development of a tender mind and that is why the legislature in its wisdom provided for custody of a minor under the age of five to be ordinarily with his/her mother,” Justice Jaishree Thakur said.The judge also made it clear that a writ of habeas corpus was maintainable to seek a minor’s custody from a father. The assertion came on a petition filed by a mother through counsel Divjyot Singh Sandhu. She was seeking the issuance of direction, especially in the nature of habeas corpus, for custody of minor son, aged about four, from his father.The father’s counsel had submitted before the Bench that habeas corpus would not be maintainable in the light of a judgment passed in September 2018, wherein this court had allowed a minor child’s interim custody with his father, while expressing opinion that it would be open to the mother to approach the guardian Judge to decide the question of custody.After hearing rival contentions, Justice Thakur asserted the judgment cited by the father’s counsel was distinguishable and would not be relevant in the facts and circumstances of the present case. Among other things, it pertained to a child who was more than six.Before parting with the case, Justice Thakur described habeas corpus as “efficacious remedy”, keeping in mind the reality of the delay occurring while availing alternate remedy of filing application under the Guardian and Wards Act or Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-requires-more-than-roof-food-rules-high-court-219600
03-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Suicide by farmer at Tikri: Breadwinner no more, she stares into void||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, March 2Pakasma village resident Renu Rana and her 11-year-old daughter Kanika find themselves caught up in a whirlpool, in a situation where it is hard to make sense of the reality. With her husband no more, Renu stares at an uncertain future for her and her daughter, who studies in Class VI.Renu, Jai Bhagwan Rana’s wifeFarmers’ plight worried husbandMy husband was pained at the plight of farmers. Every day, he would discuss the farmers’ agitation with us. On the morning of January 19, Jai Bhagwan Rana (42) and other villagers had left for the Tikri border to join protesting farmers. He had been to the protest site three to four times earlier as well. He had told his wife Renu that he would be back by evening.At the dusk fell, her wait stretched into the night but there was no news of him. At Tikri, Jai Bhagwan had consumed poison. He was taken to Delhi hospital, where he passed away on the intervening night of January 20 and 21. He was the sole breadwinner of his family.Jai Bhagwan owned merely half an acre of ancestral land in Pakasma village and used to take land on lease to make ends meet.“I am still in trauma. Before the farmers’ agitation, we all were living happily. There was no problem. His frequent visits to the Tikri border made him unhappy. He was pained at the plight of farmers. Every day, he would discuss the farmers’ agitation with us,” says Renu with tears welling up in her eyes.She is a postgraduate and B Ed degree holder, but doesn’t have a job.Renu says he never sounded pessimistic. “I think the decision to end his life was spontaneous after having listened to speeches at the Tikri border.”In this hour of crisis, she says she has no idea how she would eke out a living. “No representative of the state government has visited us so far. Only former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda visited us and provided us with financial aid.”Jai Bhagwan’s cousin Yogesh Rana, who lives across the lane, says the state government should provide Renu with a job so that she could earn a livelihood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/suicide-by-farmer-at-tikri-breadwinner-no-more-she-stares-into-void-219601
03-03-2021||Deepender Deswal||8 convicted of Hisar triple murder||Tribune News ServiceHisar, March 2A Hisar court on Tuesday convicted eight persons in a triple murder case. The incident took place at Shekhpura village on March 13, 2017, on the day of Holi.Additional District and Sessions Judge Ved Prakash held eight of the 23 accused guilty in the case.Those convicted are Subhash Chander, Ashok, Ajit, Dalel, Umed, Ramphal, Sandeep — residents of Shekhpura village — and Krishan of Fatehabad district.The then DSP of the Haryana Police, Bhagwan Dass, who was posted in Hisar at the time of incident, was also an accused in the case. Two days after the triple murder, the DSP shot himself in Panchkula and he later died during treatment.The police said a verbal spat during Holi took an ugly turn and three members of a family — Ram Kumar (60), Pradeep Kumar (28) and Mukesh Kumar (30) — were shot dead by the accused belonging to a neighbouring family.The police had booked 23 accused, including the then Hisar DSP. The police sources said two neighbouring families were having an enmity for some years and a verbal duel while playing Holi resulted in the murders.The complainant, Sanjay Kumar, had alleged that they were challenged by a group of men when they were sitting in their house. As they came out, the DSP, Bhagwan Dass, who was sitting in a blue beacon-fitted car, directed his “accomplices” to kill them (complainant’s family).In the ensued firing, Ram Kumar (60), Pradeep Kumar (28) and Mukesh Kumar (30), a BSF jawan, who had come home on a leave to celebrate Holi, were shot dead on the spot, while two others, Mukesh, alias Pinnu, and Rajesh, also suffered injuries and were admitted to a private hospital.The villagers said the families of Subhash Chander (convicted side) and Balbir Pradhan (victim side) had old enmity. During the panchayat polls, Subhash Chander had opposed Balbir Pradhan, who was a former sarpanch, which had resulted in violent scuffle between the two groups. Balbir Pradhan had urged the district administration to transfer DSP Bhagwan Dass as one of his family member was candidate in the sarpanch poll and who won the election.The quantum of the punishment would be awarded on March 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-convicted-of-hisar-triple-murder-219591
03-03-2021||Nitish Sharma||Tourist info centres lying closed for year in Kurukshetra||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, March 2While the state government has been claiming to promote Kurukshetra as a global tourist destination, all three tourist information and facilitation centres — opened at a cost of Rs 2 crore to facilitate tourists who reach Kurukshetra from across the country — have been lying closed for nearly a year at Kurukshetra.The centres were started a couple of years ago to give tourists information about the ‘tirthas’ situated in Kurukshetra and there were plans to start ticket booking counters, souvenir shops, cafeteria and cloakrooms as well. Budget provided under Krishna circuit was utilised in this project.An official said initially, the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) had agreed to run the centres but now, the KDB wants the Tourism Department to run the centres.Currently, there is no centre to help the tourists who reach Kurukshetra to visit the ‘tirthas’ here.The tourist information centres were opened at three strategic locations at Pipli, near Gurdwara Chhati Patshahi and Brahma Sarovar.There was another desk on the premises of the office of Kurukshetra Development Board but there is no employee there to guide the tourists.While the already available centres are lying closed, there is a proposal to open a tourist information centre at Jyotisar too.Honorary secretary, KDB, Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “The centres were closed due to Covid. The matter has been taken up with the authorities and efforts are being made to resume operations at the earliest so that good services could be provided to the tourists who reach here from faraway locations.”Chief Executive Officer, KDB, Anubhav Mehta said, “These are tourist facilitation centres and the projects of Krishna circuit are being executed through the Tourism Department. The projects which are handed over the board are being run as per the board’s policies.WERE OPENED AT THREE LOCATIONSThe tourist information centres were opened at three strategic locations at Pipli, near Gurdwara Chhati Patshahi and Brahma Sarovar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tourist-info-centres-lying-closed-for-year-in-kurukshetra-219584
03-03-2021||---||Vendors resist drive, demand rehabilitation site in Ambala||Ambala, March 2Demanding a vending site for their rehabilitation before displacing them from Manav Chowk in Ambala City, vendors today put up a resistance against the anti-encroachment drive of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in Ambala. The Bhartiya Kisan Union and political parties also came out in support of the vendors and participated in the dharna started by them on Tuesday.As per the information, the HSVP had issued a notice asking the vendors to vacate the land, and on Tuesday, the officials along with the police force reached the site to get it vacated. As the news spread, the BKU (Charuni) and Congress leaders also reached the spot and held a protest against the action.Ramji, president of the Rehri Fari union, said, “There are nearly 500 vendors who have been earning there livelihood here. On February 22, a notice was issued by the HSVP to vacate the land within three days. We have been issued vendor’s license by the corporation. We will give an appropriate answer if the administration tries to vacate the land forcefully. They should have informed the union timely. We are ready to vacate the land, but the vendors should be provided suitable land before displacing us.”BKU (Charuni) activist Jai Singh said, “We extend our support to the vendors and will not allow the government to displace them.”Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee treasurer Rohit Jain said, “Nearly seven years ago, the vendors were displaced from another location and they were allotted a place at Manav Chowk and now, they are being displaced from here as well while no other space is being allotted to them to earn their livelihood. The administration must have a sympathetic view towards the poor vendors and provide them a suitable location.”Later, a delegation of vendors along with Congress leader Rohit Jain met Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma. The drive was suspended later in the evening.“I held a meeting with officials of the HSVP and the protesting vendors. The land will be vacated soon. The HSVP will resume its drive in a couple of days”, said Ashok Sharma, Deputy Commissioner.150 illegal properties sealed in GurugramGurugram: A demolition drive was held at the U Block of the DLF, Phase 3, on Tuesday. Accompanied by over 100 cops and two JCB machines, the team of the DTP, amid massive resistance, sealed 150 properties where commercial activities were illegally being held from residential plots. The drive was carried in the main U1 lane of the licensed colony where people were running beauty salons, property dealer shops, restaurants, medical shops, grocery shops etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vendors-resist-drive-demand-rehabilitation-site-in-ambala-219585
03-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Food Corporation of India stops accepting rice, millers approach Additional Chief Secretary||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 2The decision of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) of not accepting further delivery of custom milled rice (CMR) from rice millers has brewed resentment among the millers.Members of Haryana Pradesh Rice Millers and Dealers Association (HPRMDA) on Tuesday met the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Haryana, and Director of the department, demanding the immediate acceptance of CMR delivery as around 25 per cent of the CMR is still pending and they have a deadline of April 30 to deliver the CMR to the government.Amarjit Chhabra, president of the association, led the delegation and said that the delivery of the CMR was going on smoothly and efficiently. So far, around 75 per cent CMR delivery has been completed, but on February 28, the FCI has issued an order directing all the millers to stop the delivery of CMR from March 1.“The FCI is demanding fortified rice blended with CMR by 1 to 100 ratio (1 kg fortified rice in 100 kg CMR), but it was not mentioned in the agreements between the procurement agencies and millers at the beginning of the season,” he said. “We know that distribution of fortified rice under PDS is a good thought, but for it, the millers require a lot of time as there are certain issues which can hamper the delivery of fortified rice with CMR. There are 10 to 15 plants across the country that make fortified rice and the earliest delivery is not available before April 15,” said Chhabra.Anurag Rastogi, ACS, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, said the FCI has issued the order in this regard and a delegation of the rice millers’ association has raised this issue. “I have assured the millers that I will raise their issue with the FCI,” said the ACS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/food-corporation-of-india-stops-accepting-rice-millers-approach-additional-chief-secretary-219587
03-03-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana to table Bill on ‘love jihad’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 2Haryana is all set to table a Bill on ‘love jihad’ during the budget session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha which begins on March 5 and it will form a part of the Bill on religious conversions. It has been sent to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar by the Home Department.According to the information available, the Bill is likely to deal with religious conversions which take place due to allurement by way of education or providing improved health services, employment or any material benefits as also coercion where an individual is forced to convert to another religion or by way of marriage.Sources close to Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said that any conversions through these means would be punishable under the law once the Bill gets the nod of the Vidhan Sabha and is approved by the Haryana Governor.While conversions made using any allurement, marriage and coercion will be declared null and void as and when a complaint is received, it will be made punishable with one year jail and Rs 1 lakh fine. Also, anybody concealing his religion with the idea of marriage will also be punished with imprisonment.Sources said that the Bill deals with punishment for mass marriages where the religion is concealed. This too forms part of the Bill prepared by the Home Department and it lays down the conditions for marriage when the man and woman belong to different religions.Sources maintained that a number of states including Orissa, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have already enacted such Acts. Though no concrete data is available on the marriages where religious conversion was forced, sources in the government maintain that the need for such an Act has become a necessity since such complaints are on the rise.One-year jail, Rs 1-lakh fineWhile conversions made using any allurement, marriage and coercion will be declared null and void as and when a complaint is received, it will be made punishable with one year jail and Rs 1 lakh fine. Also, anybody concealing his religion with the idea of marriage will also be punished with imprisonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-table-bill-on-love-jihad-219589
03-03-2021||New Delhi||SKM will ask farmers in poll-bound states to defeat BJP: Outfit leaders||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading anti-farm law protests in Delhi, will send its leaders to poll-bound states to appeal to farmers there to defeat the BJP in assembly elections, leaders of the outfit said on Tuesday.The protesting farmers will also block the KMP (Western Peripheral) Expressway on March 6 as the anti-farm law protest at Delhi borders completes 100 days. The expressway will be blocked at various points for five hours, from 11 am on March 6, SKM leader Yogendra Yadav said.He said SKM leaders will hold a public meeting in Kolkata on March 12 to appeal to the farmers of poll-bound states.SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said that SKM teams will visit poll-bound states, including West Bengal and Kerala, to appeal to farmers to defeat the BJP.“We will not seek votes for any party. We will appeal to them to vote for those candidates who can defeat the BJP which has failed to address farmers’ issues,” Rajewal said at a joint press conference of SKM at Singhu border.The morcha leaders will also visit Karnataka where farmers are getting at least Rs 1,000 less than MSP on various crops, Yadav said.On Womens’ Day on March 8, women protesters will lead the protest at Delhi borders and other places across the country, Yadav said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-will-ask-farmers-in-poll-bound-states-to-defeat-bjp-outfit-leaders-219544
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Governor nod to Bill providing 75% quota to state people in private sector jobs||Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya has given assent to the Bill providing 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here on Tuesday.The Haryana Assembly had late last year passed the Bill, a key poll promise made by the ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party.“The Haryana Governor today gave his assent to the Bill entailing 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state. The government will notify it soon,” the CM told reporters at a press conference here.The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020 provides quota for local people in private sector jobs that offer a salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month.The quota will initially apply for 10 years, according to the Bill.Apart from tackling unemployment among local people, the state government said the law will discourage the influx of migrants seeking low-paid jobs, which has a “significant impact” on local infrastructure and leads to the “proliferation of slums”.The Bill covers private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms in the state. It provides for training to eligible local candidates when qualified people are not available.It defines local candidates as those domiciled in the state. For the domicile status, a person should be born in Haryana or have lived there for at least 15 years.Giving 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs was a key poll promise by Dushyant Chautala’s JJP, which is the BJP’s coalition partner in the state.Chautala described the assent given by the Governor as “happiest moment for the youth of Haryana”.“The rules on this new law will be framed soon and published,” he said at Faridabad. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-nod-to-bill-providing-75-quota-to-state-people-in-private-sector-jobs-219532
03-03-2021||Deepender Deswal||8 convicted in Hisar triple murder case||Tribune News ServiceHisar, March 2A Hisar court on Tuesday convicted eight persons in a triple-murder case. The incident took place in Shekhpura village on March 13, 2017, on the day of Holi.The Additional District and Sessions Judge Ved Prakash held eight of the 23 accused guilty in the case.Those convicted included Subhash Chander, Ashok, Ajit, Dalel, Umed, Ramphal, Sandeep– residents of Shekhpura village and Krishan of Fatehabad district.The then DSP of the Haryana Police, Bhagwan Dass, who was posted in Hisar at the time of incident, was also an accused in the case.Two days after the triple murder, the DSP shot himself in Panchkula and he later died during treatment.The police said that a verbal spat during Holi took an ugly turn and three members of a family, including Ram Kumar (60), Pradeep Kumar (28) and Mukesh Kumar (30) were shot dead by the accused belonging to neigbouring family.The police booked 23 accused, including the then Hisar DSP. The police sources said that two neighbouring families were having an enmity for some years and a verbal dual while playing Holi turned out to be the immediate provocation.The complainant Sanjay Kumar had alleged that they were challenged by a group of men when they were sitting in the house. As they came out, the DSP, Bhagwan Dass, who was sitting in a blue beacon fitted car directed his accomplices to kill them (complainant’s family).In the ensued firing, Ram Kumar (60), Pradeep Kumar (28) and Mukesh Kumar (30), a BSF jawan, who had come home on a leave to celebrate Holi were shot on the spot, two others Mukesh alias Pinnu and Rajesh also suffer injuries and were admitted in a private hospital.The villagers said that the families of Subhash Chander (convicted side) and Balbir Pradhan (victim side) had old enmity. During the panchayat polls, Subhash Chander had opposed Balbir Pradhan, who was a former sarpanch, which had resulted in violent scuffle between the two groups. Balbir Pradhan had urged the district administration to transfer DSP Bhagwan Dass as one of his family member was candidate in Sarpanch poll and who won the election.The quantum of the punishment would be awarded on March 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-convicted-in-hisar-triple-murder-case-219493
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava gets one-year extension||Haryana Director-General of Police Manoj Yadava, who was due to return to central deputation, will continue in his post for another year, as per a notification issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).Also read: CM Haryana says Yadava to continue as DGPThe state government, after issuing orders of his extension in January this year, had written to the MHA seeking a one-year extension of his tenure. On deputation from IB to his parent cadre, Yadava, was to serve in Haryana for a two-year term beginning February 2019.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had, on Monday, said that Yadava would continue to be the police chief. Home minister Anil Vij had asked the Home Secretary to send a 7-member panel of IPS officers who had completed 30 years of service to the UPSC for the selection of a new DGP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dgp-manoj-yadava-gets-one-year-extension-219461
