06-03-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||12-year-old gangraped in Gurugram; one held||A 12-year-old girl was allegedly gangraped by a neighbour and his group of friends in Gurugram’s Basai Enclave, police said on Friday.The victim’s father, who worked at a mobile shop, said the suspect, whom he identified as 24-year-old Matru Lal, had become friends with his daughter—a Class 5 student—two months ago, and claimed she was sexually exploited before in these months. On March 3, his complaint said, when he and his wife, a domestic helper, were out for work, the suspect invited three of his friends over to rape his daughter.The suspect, the complaint said, was a labourer who lived in the same rented accommodation as his family.  He had threatened the girl with “dire consequences” if she told anyone of the incident, IANS quoted the victim’s daughter as having told the police.The victim told the police that she frequently spoke to the prime suspect over the phone before the incident.Police claimed a medical examination of the girl confirms rape. Police have booked all four under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The main suspect, Matru Lal, has already been arrested, police said.The victim identified the other suspects in the case as Rishi, Suraj and Deepak, all of who lived in the same area, police said. The others are still absconding, they said.Police said the suspect said that the girl and he were good friends and admitted that he met her every day, but denied the rape allegation.   "We are probing the matter, all four accused have been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act," Sunil Kumar, Station House Officer, Sector-10 police station, said. — With IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-year-old-gangraped-in-gurugram-one-held-221541
06-03-2021||Vibha Sharma||Samyukta Kisan Morcha seeks support against Khattar government||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 6The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has appealed to Haryana citizens to approach each of their legislators, especially from the ruling BJP-JJP alliance, and ensure that the anti-farmer state government is defeated in the no-confidence Motion’ against the Manohar Lal Khattar government."Manohar Lal Khattar's government faces a crucial no-confidence motion on March 10."The Samyukta Kisan Morcha appeals to all citizens of Haryana to approach each of their legislators, especially from BJP and JJP, and ensure that the anti-farmer state government of BJP and its allies is defeated in this no-confidence motion."Let the MLAs of Haryana know that those who do not stand with farmers in this crucial juncture of the farmers' movement will be taught a lesson by people in future," read a statement issued by the Morcha.The opposition Congress moved a no-confidence motion against the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana on Friday – the first day of the Budget session.Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta approved the motion and a discussion on it will be held in the House on March 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukta-kisan-morcha-seeks-support-against-khattar-government-221535
06-03-2021||Chandigarh/Delhi||Was just a trial, says Rakesh Tikait as farmers' blockade of KMP Expressway ends||As farmers' blockade of the six-lane Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway came to an end on Saturday evening, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait warned of intensifying such measures unless the Centre heeded to their demands of repealing the controversial agriculture laws.  "Like Delhi borders, KMP can also be blocked completely. Today was a trial for five hours," he said. Farmers blocked some parts of the highway as a mark of 100 days of their protest at Delhi's borders on Sunday.  The road blockade began at 11 am and continued till 4 pm.Farmers have pitched tents at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, since November in an attempt to pressure the central government into repealing three laws ---the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesters have held several rounds of talks with the central government with no headway. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a joint front of 32 farmers' unions that have been spearheading the protests, had called a 5-hour blockade of the 136-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway,  also known as the western peripheral Expressway, on Saturday. Protesters said they would only allow emergency vehicles to pass during those five hours. Released from Sonepat jail, Dalit activist Shiv Kumar says was thrashed by cops dailyThe 53-km Manesar-Palwal section was inaugurated by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2016 and the 83-km Kundli-Manesar section was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018.Won’t hesitate to take produce to Parliament: BKU leader Rakesh TikaitFarmers holding black flags and wearing black armbands and some women protesters with black ‘dupattas’ shouted slogans against the BJP-led government for not acceding to their demands.Protesters in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts and some other places brought their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles and parked them in the middle of the KMP Expressway in some stretches.The Haryana Police had made arrangements for traffic diversions and deployed adequate personnel.Protesting farmers squatted on the expressway and criticised the Narendra Modi government for not withdrawing the farm legislation, which they called “black laws”.“Our agitation against the three farm laws will continue unless the Centre withdraws these laws. We will not step back,” said a protester in Sonipat.Farmers held a protest at the KMP Expressway near Mandothi village in Jhajjar district. Some people from nearby villages joined them.“We are holding our protest in a peaceful manner,” said a farmer, adding that they were also observing “black day” on Saturday.Protesting farmers said the government should withdraw these laws.Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, while addressing a gathering on the KMP Expressway, asked the Modi government to withdraw these laws.This agitation will certainly put pressure on the central government, he said.Farmers claimed that their five-hour protest remained peaceful.Sonipat Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said arrangements were made for traffic diversions.Heavy vehicles were diverted from Panipat and others from Ganaur to Delhi, said officials.Traffic was also diverted from Murthal via Sonipat city to Narela and Bawana and from Bahadurgarh to Baghpat, they said.Officials said traffic resumed at KMP expressway after famers lifted their blockade at 4 pm.In Palwal district also, farmers staged a ‘dharna’.At some places in Haryana, farmers even put up black flags atop roof of their houses as a mark of their protest against the government for not withdrawing the farm laws.Also read:The KMP Expressway was built to decongest the ever-busy roads of Delhi, especially by reducing the number of trucks entering the national capital, thus helping to curb pollution.It provides a high-speed link between northern and southern Haryana districts and gives an uninterrupted high-speed link for traffic, especially commercial traffic, from Haryana to neighbouring states.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the three laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.What next?As plains of North India brace for scorching summers and the harvesting season begins, farmers made it clear that they would not turn back until their demands are met.“After completing 100 days of an unparalleled sit-in at the Delhi’ borders, unions will unveil the next agenda and programme for coming days on March 11,” Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary of BKU (Dakaunada), said. The aim is to expand the movement to other parts of the country, including poll-bound West Bengal and, also States like Madhya Pradesh Karnataka and Odisha, added BKU general secretary Yudhvir Singh.Senior leaders say despite “many hurdles posed by the government and its agencies, the movement is going strong and is set to become bigger”. However, the underlying message for BJP’s political rivals is that this does not mean all support for them.  Patiala said the organisations will coordinate with BJP’s rival parties to make this clear to them.“We are apolitical, we want to make it clear to the Opposition parties as well,” he said. Rajewal said the protest is a “symbolic” and will become “bigger”.“We are ready for talks if government invites us (farmer leaders). But our demand remains the same. We want the withdrawal of the three farm laws. We will not accept the modification in the laws,” said Rajewal, president of BKU Rajewal,  who has been leading the talks of farmer unions with the central government.    Unions are also planning meetings, panchayats and mahapanchayats in other states and other areas, but at a distance from the current dharna sites at the Delhi borders. Yudhvir Singh said the movement has got tremendous support from across the country and it is now timefor farmers in other states like Odisha and Karnataka to register it physically.“For 100 days farmers have been camping at the Delhi borders in bitter cold, many have also died. But the government’s attitude has not just been disappointing but also shameful. We have no other option but to take the movement to other states and ensure our physical presence there. We will do whatever it takes to show our ‘nararzgi’ (anger),” he said. Singh said the movement has got a very good response from Rajasthan and they are considering a panchayat in Jaipur on the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh.“We will hold meetings/panchayats in Bengal on March 12, 13, and 14, Madhya Pradesh on March 14 and 15, Odisha on March 19, and Karnataka on March 20, 21, and 22. The movement is no longer limited to dharnas. If we want, we can collect a huge crowd on Delhi borders in one hour, but that is not the only aim now,” he said. — With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/was-just-a-trial-says-rakesh-tikait-as-farmers-blockade-of-kmp-expressway-ends-221437
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Due to ‘inefficiencies’ of HVPNL, consumers were overburdened by Rs 168 crore: CAG||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) learned that due to the “inefficiencies” of Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL), the consumers had to bear a burden of Rs 168.54 crore from 2014-19. The report was tabled before Haryana Assembly on Saturday.  HVPNL could not ensure “synchronous completion of sub-stations and associated transmission lines which resulted in overburdening of consumers by Rs 67.33 crore” and due to delay in “repair of transformers and underutilisation of substations”, a burden of Rs 6.71 crore had to be borne by the people.  The CAG found out that due to the non-passing of benefits of Advance Against Depreciation (AAD) and interest waiver to the consumers, the burden was enhanced by Rs 72.64 crore.   The profitability of HVPNL was adversely affected by Rs 70.08 crore during 2014-19 due to inefficiencies like non-achievement of Transmission System Availability (TSA), availing mid-term loan against government guarantee without carrying out cost-benefit analysis, delayed filing of Aggregate Revenue Requirement (ARR), and non-adherence to working capital norms.  “The Company could not fully avail the World Bank loans available at cheaper rates, due to poor pace of project implementation, and resorted to costlier funding arrangement with Rural Electrification Corporation which cost the Company Rs 24.63 crore. Also, the Company had to bear Rs 31.32 lakh on account of front end fee on an un-availed portion of World Bank loan,” said the CAG.   Thirty out of the 32 projects, commissioned by the Company during the years 2014-19, were delayed in completion ranging between three months to over 8 years.  On Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited, the CAG said that it paid Rs 27.29 crore as compensation for the short lifting of coal during 2016-17, as it did not initiate timely action for reduction of Annual Contracted Quantity of coal with Coal India Limited for its Panipat thermal power station.    The CAG also pointed out that Uttar Haryana Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) had to bear reactive energy charges of Rs 59.83 crore due to the inadequacy of functional Automatic Power Factor Capacitors (APFCs), which is an electrical device for improving power factor by regulating current flow and voltage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/due-to-inefficiencies-of-hvpnl-consumers-were-overburdened-by-rs-168-crore-cag-221423
06-03-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Released from Sonepat jail, Dalit activist Shiv Kumar says was thrashed by cops daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5After the sessions court at Sonepat granted bail to labour rights activist Shiv Kumar (24) on Thursday in an attempt-to-murder case on the “grounds of parity”, he arrived at the PGI today after his release from the jail. He was earlier granted bail in two cases of rioting and extortion on Wednesday.Also read: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail bedsAt the hospital, after doctor’s consultation, an X-ray was performed on him, the reports of which will be out on Saturday, said his friend Jasminder, who accompanied Shiv’s father Rajbir and another friend Ankit. Joined by some members of the Students for Society (SFS), Panjab University’s student organisation, the trio marched straight to Panjab University, outside the VC’s office where members of PURSA staged a hunger protest.Of police ‘brutality’Shiv Kumar, president of the Mazdoor Adhikaar Sangathan, sat on a chair, with plaster on his right leg, and narrated the tales of brutality meted out to him at the Kundli Police Station. “From January 16 to January 23, I was beaten up every day at least three times daily for a minimum of one hour. The cops would ask me where the organisation’s getting funds from,” he said.Shiv tailed the memories of his arrest from the Kundli border. “I was at the washroom near a KFC outlet at Kundli. Safai karamchaaris asked me to get out. Some four or five people, dressed as civils, put a cloth on my face, pointed two pistols at me and asked me to walk with them. I screamed for help, but in vain. After walking a while, they asked me to sit me in a car. At that time, I got to know they were police,” he said.“They drove me to a police station, Staff One behind Purani Kachairi near Gur Mandi in Sonipat. There, they removed my clothes, at beat me up brutally, like an animal. My hands were tied. They hit my feet. My toes were bleeding. Then, they hit my hands in the same way. Cops would get tired, but the beating wouldn’t stop. Pattey maarey hai, stretch khol dena, koladi pherna, chappal maarna.... one of the cops even spit on my face. This is how they tortured me for three hours. Then I was asked to walk, while my feet bled,” he said.The police, said Shiv, would not allow him to talk to his parents despite repeated requests. “I gained strength from Bhagat Singh. He was beaten up too. Also, a comrade’s words gave me support, he would say: ‘pair toot jaye, honsala nahi tootna chahiye’,” Said Shiv.The police has slapped charges of extortion on Shiv, but that, says, Shiv is absolutely baseless. “I feel it was a backlash of labourers siding with farmers on the ground level. We maintain a diary and have helped a minimum of 300 labourers with their salaries amounting to some Rs5 Lakh. I’ve been part of the sangathan and its founding member since 2018,” he adds.‘Sleepless nights’Shiv still gets sleepless nights thinking about the days he spent in jail. “I was presented in court on January 23 at night, somewhere between 10 pm and midnight, while others were presented during daytime. I was locked up in the car and the IO and another police officer spoke to the judge. They came with remand orders. I was then left at the Kundli police station for 10 days. There, I was mentally harassed and verbally abused even though they didn’t beat me up during the remand time,” he said.Shiv still wonders why other people who were jailed with him, one arrested for peddling heroine, other for theft or robbery, weren’t beaten up as much as he was?. “They we’re asking me the same question. But I didn’t have any answer. On knowing about me even they’d support me,” He said. Kumar said, he would be leaving for Tikri and then Singhu tomorrow. Today, he also visited protesters at Matka Chownk and Sector 37 traffic lights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/released-from-sonepat-jail-dalit-activist-shiv-kumar-says-was-thrashed-by-cops-daily-221321
06-03-2021||Schoolchildren without driving licence should not be allowed to ply vehicles on roads as with this they put many lives in danger. It has become a common trend nowadays that minor children can be seen driving vehicles that too by throwing all norms to the air. They can be seen riding bikes without wearing helmet and ignoring all safety precautions by riding three persons per bike and not carrying any valid documents with them. Parents and teachers of such children need to teach them the harms of such acts. The police too should act strictly against them so that any mishap could be prevented in future.||Parents must not let underage children drive||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaStray dog, monkey menace in Karnal irks residentsKarnal district got the status of CM’s city over six years back, but still the city residents are facing several problems. Stray dog and monkey menace are among them. Daily, several dog and monkey bite cases are reported in the city. Residents had raised the issue with the authorities concerned several times but in vain. Stray dogs and monkeys can be seen in every nook and corner of the city and they attack the people particularly children, women and elderly persons. I request the authorities to take a note of the situation and get the needful done immediately. Malak Singh, KarnalPeople must obey traffic norms to avoid road mishapsThe news of death of a 20-year-old boy in a road mishap in Bilaspur near Manesar was heart wrenching. In the accident, the boy's uncle who was travelling with him was also injured when a speeding dumper hit their bike. This is not the only such incident and there are many lives lost per day in such accidents owing to rash driving and violation of traffic rules. It is high time that people act responsibly and follow traffic norms to prevent any harm to their own and lives of other people.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parents-must-not-let-underage-children-drive-221361
06-03-2021||Ambala||2 SD students excel in Vista-2021||Seminar on education policyKurukshetra: Prof Manjula Chaudhary, Dean of Academic Affairs, KUK, said every institution would have to initiate steps for an effective implementation of the National Education Policy-2020. He was addressing a gathering during the inaugural session of a two-day national seminar on ‘Implementation of NEP-2020’ being organised by the faculty development centre (under PMMMNMTT, Union Ministry of Education) in collaboration with the department of education, KUK, through online mode. Professor Chaudhary stressed on two workable aspects of the policy implementation - assurance of quality education and multidisciplinary education - that can be immediately initiated by all institutions.Prof Kabre is IQAC directorSonepat: Vice-Chancellor, Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science And Technology, Prof Rajender Kumar Anayat Deen has appointed Prof Chitrarekha Kabre from the department of architecture as the director of the Internal Quality Assurance Cell. Prof Satish Khasa from the department of physics has been appointed as a research coordinator, Prof Suresh Verma as consultant academics and Prof Suman Sangwan from the department of computer science and engineering has been made president of the Institute Innovation Council. The council will promote start-ups and encourage students to work with new ideas through periodic activities related to innovation and entrepreneurship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-sd-students-excel-in-vista-2021-221360
06-03-2021||---||Kisan Sabha to observe ‘black day’ today||Tribune News Service     Hisar, March 5  The state committee of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has decided to observe March 6, the 100th day of the protest, as a “black day”. On the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmers will block the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal highway to mark the occasion.  The sabha urged its activists to hoist black flags atop their houses and vehicles, and sport black badges on arms that day.  The AIKS will mobilise women of all sections of society on the International Women’s Day (March 8) to join farmers protesting at the Delhi borders and toll plazas.   A proposal for “padyatras” by farmers and labourers was discussed. A resolution in this regard would be sent to the SKM for approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kisan-sabha-to-observe-black-day-today-221241
06-03-2021||---||Won’t hesitate to take produce to Parliament, says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||Jhajjar, March 5Reacting to the Union Government's statement that farmers will be able to sell their produce anywhere in the country once the three laws are implemented, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday said the growers would not hesitate in taking their produce to Parliament where the MSP was fixed.He was addressing mediapersons at the Dhansa border here. Tikait said the growers were ready for a long haul to get the three farm laws repealed.Tikait said the future of farmers could not be decided by sitting in plush houses in Delhi. Before the implementation of any farm-related law, the government should hold a discussion with farmers, he added.On the other hand, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, who reached the Tikri protest site today, clarified that any call to intensify the agitation would be taken by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. “At present, there is no plan to march towards Delhi,” said Charuni, on being asked about Tikait’s remark that farmers would go to Delhi to sell their produce at the MSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-hesitate-to-take-produce-to-parliament-says-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-221245
06-03-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad activist begins stir over potholed road||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, March 5As the wait for the repair of 1.3-km-long road between Hardware and Pyali Chowk in the NIT area here lingers on despite the Rs 6.25 crore project prepared five months ago, an agitation was launched this morning seeking immediate relief.Unavailability of fundsWhile the authorities had planned to spend Rs3 crore in 2018, repairs were not taken up due to unavailability of funds, claimed sources adding that An estimate of Rs 6.25 crore, which was prepared by the Municipal Corporation Faridabad in October last year, is awaiting the release of funds.Charging that the authorities concerned had continuously been overlooking the need for repairs of the all-important Hardware-Pyali road here, Baba Ram Kewal, a social activist along with a few residents, started a dharna (sit-in) this morning at Pyali Chowk (Baba Deep Singh Chowk).He announced that the dharna would be converted into an indefinite fast after three days if the authorities fail to act. Claiming that the passage providing access to several residential and industrial areas and the connectivity to Gurugram had been lying damaged for the past over four years, he said the authorities had failed to act despite protests.He alleged while a similar protest was lodged in 2018, the MC had wasted several lakhs on so-called repairs that withered away soon, he said.“An estimate of Rs 6.25 crore, which was prepared by Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) in October last year, is awaiting the release of funds,” said sources in the civic body.“One of the busiest roads in the city has emerged as a nightmare for commuters due to potholes,” said SK Sharma, District Coordinator, Road Safety Organisation (RSO) here.The issue got highlighted in September last when a 29-year-old engineer died after an accident here. He was run over by a truck after he fell down from his motorcycle that had lost balance due to potholes.While the authorities had planned to spend Rs 3 crore in 2018, repairs were not taken up due to unavailability of funds, claimed sources.“Though a Rs 6.25 crore tender has been released subject to condition of fund approval, a final nod from the state government is awaited,” said Ramji Lal, Chief Engineer, MCF, who added that the road needs a complete overhaul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-activist-begins-stir-over-potholed-road-221216
06-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Councillors corner Karnal MC officials over demolition drive||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 5Several Independent councillors and that of the ruling BJP on Friday cornered the officials of the Municipal Corporation (MC) in a stormy general House meeting over various issues, including the demolition drive carried out at unauthorised colonies, generation of fake IDs on no-due portals to issue certificates and others.They also accused the officials for not taking consulting the councillors before any development work in their wards.The meeting chaired by Mayor Renu Bala Gupta, and presided over by Commissioner Vikram Singh, started with ruckus by councillors Balwinder Singh, Yudhveer Saini, Sudarshan Kalra, Ram Chander Kala and others over the ban on entry of mediapersons inside the house. Meeting started at 2 pm and was on till the filing of this report.Live streaming of the House was also prohibited, that brewed resentment among the councillors. “Media should be allowed as we do not have any hidden agenda to discuss. We are raising the issues of the general public, which the public should know,” said Balwinder Singh.“We come to know about the development works only after these are started. Prior to the starting of work, no discussion is made with the concerned councillor,” said Vir Vikram Kumar, councillor.Councillors Singh, Saini and others alleged that several houses and establishments were being razed on discrimination at unauthorised colonies. “We want that already constructed houses and establishments should not be demolished as people had purchased the land there by selling all their belongings,” said Singh, adding that the action was being taken through pick and choose method.Most of the councillors demanded action issuance of no-due certificates after the generation of fake IDs. Councillors also raised the issue of stray dog and monkey menace at the meeting. They also highlighted the issue of the regularisation of contractual cleaning staff who were yet to be taken on pay role.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/councillors-corner-karnal-mc-officials-over-demolition-drive-221217
06-03-2021||Kurukshetra||One held for duping man of Rs 9 lakh||The police have arrested a man for allegedly duping a local resident of Rs 9 lakh on the pretext of getting his son’s selection done in the Mumbai Indians team of the Indian Premier League (IPL). The accused has been identified as Atul Morya from Kanpur. He was produced in a court, which sent him to two-day police remand. Three of his accomplices, Karan Singh, Kasturi Dhanraj and Mahipal, are still at large.  In his complaint to the police in April 2019, Subhash Chandra had said that his son Vikrant had been taking cricket coaching from Greater Noida for the past three-four years. In October 2018, his son told him about Karan Singh and his wife Kasturi Dhanraj, who had offered to get his selection done in Mumbai Indians and sought Rs 15 lakh for the same.  They gave Rs 9 lakh to the couple in different instalments. The accused also made them talk to one Atul Morya, who introduced himself as the manager of Mumbai Indians.  Investigating Officer Subhash Rana said  the accused had initially demanded Rs 15 lakh for the selection, but the deal was struck at Rs 10 lakh. Efforts were being made to nab other accused, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-held-for-duping-man-of-rs-9-lakh-221218
06-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Give Rs 7L compensation for custodial death, says HHRC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) on Friday recommended a compensation of Rs 7 lakh in a Panipat custodial death case of 2018.Was Arrested for murder, dacoityA Bench comprising Justice SK Mittal (retd) and member Deep Bhatia observed that Rajesh, who was arrested for murder and dacoity in 2018, died an “unnatural death due to his detention in CIA-II Panipat”.On December 11, 2018, Rajesh was arrested by Inspector Yogesh Kumar who is now facing the murder case for Rajesh’s death. In the night, he was taken to Civil Hospital, Panipat, where doctors referred him to PGIMS, Rohtak, due to his condition. He died at PGIMS on December 14, 2018.It was the father of Rajesh, Rattan Singh, who had approached the HHRC for relief.The Commission observed that after the perusal of treatment record, Dr Piyush Jain, from Department of Forensic Medicine, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, gave the cause of death as “Subacute Brain Infarction and its complications”.He further stated that the injuries, which were seven in number, described in the post-mortem report were found to be antemortem and individually and cumulatively non-fatal.“He (Rajesh) — at the time of his death — was 32-33 years of age having two children. Moreover, after his arrest, he was not produced before the Illaqa Magistrate within 24 hours of his arrest as is the requirement of law,” observed the Commission.“The death of an accused/prisoner in jail/police custody is not a temporary phase but has created a long-lasting impact on the lives of the victim’s family members,” said the HHRC.While granting compensation of Rs 7 lakh, the Bench said that the state government would be entitled to recover the amount from “wrongdoers Inspector Yogesh and his accomplices”.“It is also recommended that the case of murder against Inspector Yogesh and other accused be got conducted from a senior police officer having impeccable integrity and character besides carrying out departmental proceedings,” said the order.The Commission said, “It may also be mentioned here that any statement made by a person before a police officer during criminal investigation exonerating culpability of an accused named in the FIR should not be taken as a hurdle in nailing the perpetrator,” and ordered for sending the copy of the order to Chief Secretary, Haryana, for disbursal of compensation within eight weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/give-rs-7l-compensation-for-custodial-death-says-hhrc-221219
06-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||No takers for 6,400 seats of diploma in elementary edu||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, March 5Over 6,400 seats of diploma in elementary education (DEIEd) course have remained vacant across the state even after nine rounds under the third counselling held last month.Private colleges have blamed delay in issuing the admission schedule for the course following the Covid pandemic. As per information, there are a total 18,400 seats for the course in 342 self-financing colleges in the state.The state council of educational research and training (SCERT) is, these days, conducting fourth counselling to fill the vacant seats on the demand of private colleges.“The CBSE and HBSE had declared their Class XII results in July last year but the admission process for the D.EI.Ed course was initiated in October. In the meantime, interested students took admission to other courses as there was no certainty about the schedule, resulting in low registration for counselling,” said Satish Khola, president, Haryana Self-Financed Colleges’ Association.He said three counsellings for admission to the course were conducted in November and December in 2020 and January this year but around 35 per cent seats remained vacant. Earlier, the admission for the D.EI.Ed course was started in August but the delay in the schedule forced the students to opt for other options, he added.Khola said since a high number of seats were lying vacant, they demanded the conduct of fourth counselling and the permission to fill the seats of reserved categories from general ones. The fourth counselling was going on and would conclude next week, he added.“Many students did not get the admission as they were not allotted any college in their district concerned following the option of five choices,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-takers-for-6-400-seats-of-diploma-in-elementary-edu-221220
06-03-2021||Faridabad||1 killed as tractor-trailer overturns||A 60-year-old woman died, while a five-year-old boy got injured after they got buried under a tractor-trailer laden with sand that overturned near Bhadana Chowk on Nangla road in the NIT area here today. A case has been registered by the police. No arrest has been made so far. According to police sources, the incident took place around 2.30 pm on Friday when a tractor-trailer carrying sand overturned. Mala Devi and her grandson, who were walking adjacent the vehicle, got buried under the sand after the trailer fell on one side, it is revealed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-killed-as-tractor-trailer-overturns-221221
06-03-2021||---||Governor lists efforts to double farmers’ income||Chandigarh, March 5Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya today said the state government was vigorously pursuing the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal matter in the Supreme Court and listed steps taken by Manohar Lal Khattar government for doubling farmers’ income.Obituary referencesAmbedkar statue unveiled in HouseChandigarh: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday unveiled a 7-foot-high statue of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar on the premises of the Vidhan Sabha. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa were present. All leaders and the CM raised the slogans of ‘Baba Saheb Ambedkar Amar Rahe’ and ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’.The Governor also lauded the state government for effective tackling of Covid and becoming the first state to implement Atam Nirbhar Bharat — a ration token scheme for economically distressed people because of Covid.Delivering his address on the opening day of the Budget session of the state Assembly, Arya said the state government was working on a vision to make agriculture profitable.He said the state government had taken several decisive steps towards doubling farmers’ income, including procurement of nine crops from the state budget at MSP, top-up subsidy under the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture, micro irrigation and highest claim to premium ratio (greater than 1) under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. Arya said Haryana gave the highest price of Rs 350 per quintal for sugarcane and had procured sugarcane amounting to Rs 1,263.74 crore in 2019-20.He said the government had procured 56.07 lakh metric tonne paddy, 7.36 lakh metric tonne bajra, 650 metric tonne peanut, 1,099 metric tonne moong and 4,016 metric tonne maize at MSP in the kharif 2020 season. He said Rs 17,000 crore has been directly transferred into the bank accounts of 9.5 lakh farmers.The Governor said in a bid to ensure that Haryana got its legitimate share of water, the state government was vigorously pursuing the SYL matter in the Supreme Court and the court had given its verdict in favour of Haryana.He said Haryana had strongly registered its demand for early completion of the canal with the Ministry of Water Resources in the tripartite meeting of Punjab and Haryana Chief Ministers with the Union Minister for Jal Shakti, convened as per the mandate of the Supreme Court.Lauding the efforts of the state government for efficiently tackling Covid, he said like every other state, the Haryana Vidhan Sabha was meeting in the shadow of a pandemic that had changed the world in myriad ways. He said the government had taken various initiatives to effectively control spread of this pandemic.Arya said under Operation Samvedna, the government had sent 4,44,422 migrant workers to their home states through 100 special trains and 6,629 buses, incurring an expenditure of Rs 8.21 crore.He said Haryana was the first state to implement Atam Nirbhar Bharat, a scheme to help those under economic distress because of Covid who were not covered under any PDS scheme. He said persons who had no ration card were provided 5 kg wheat per person and 1 Kg dal per family per month during May and June 2020.The Governor mentioned the recently enacted law to provide 75 per cent jobs in private industry to local youth, entrepreneurship and employment policy of 2020, Mera Pani Meri Virasat, a scheme aimed at crop diversification, and other welfare schemes being implemented by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/governor-lists-efforts-to-double-farmers-income-221222
06-03-2021||Pradeep Sharma---||Treasury Benches, Opposition spar over private member’s Bill||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 5 A war of words broke out between  the Treasury Benches and the Opposition on the first day of the Budget session on Friday after Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta rejected a private member’s Bill having implications on the Centre’s three farm laws moved by Congress legislator BB Batra. As the Speaker’s decision to reject the Haryana Agricultural Produce Markets(Haryana Amendment) Bill, 2021,  was announced, Batra was on his feet claiming that  all parameters of the admissibility of the Bill were fulfilled. “Under which law is it written that if the matter was sub judice,  it cannot be taken up in the state Assembly,” Batra said, adding that the APMC was a state Act. Earlier, the Speaker said the Bill had been rejected as this  was the  violation of the farm Acts enacted  by Parliament. “Besides, the matter is  still sub judice  with the Supreme Court staying their implementation till further orders”, he added. Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda contended that   the Bill was not against  the Central laws and the Congress only wanted  to make procurement below the MSP an punishable offence. Khattar, however, countered Hooda saying that in the aims and objects of the Bill, Batra had clearly mentioned about the Central Acts. “The private member’s Bill wanted the removal of Section 42 from the APMC Act, which was introduced by the Congress government  in 2008,” Khattar said.  The Speaker tried to mollify the Congress members saying that the decision to reject the Bill could be reconsidered if the party modified its aims and objects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/treasury-benches-opposition-spar-over-private-members-bill-221223
06-03-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar MLA, Mayor face farmers’ anger at stone-laying event||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, March 5Yamunanagar MLA Ghanshyam Dass Arora and Mayor of the Yamunanagr-Jagadhri Municipal Corportion Madan Chauhan faced opposition from farmers during the stone-laying ceremony of six streets in ward 9 on Friday.Under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, the farmers gathered at the venue and raised anti-government slogans in protest against the three agriculture laws. “The Centre’s three agriculture laws will ruin the farming community. Our protest will continue till the government repealed the laws,” said farmer leader Jarnail Singh Sangwan.However, under tight police security, the MLA and the Mayor laid the stone of projects. Later, Ghanshyam left for Chandigarh to attend the Assembly session. The Mayor also left the venue after he failed to pacify the protesters.Earlier, they laid the stone of six streets to be constructed in Rajdhani Colony and Sunder Nagar phase-I of ward 9 at a cost of Rs 71.75 lakh.District president of the BJP Rajesh Sapra, warm 9 councillor Bhavna Bittu, former senior Deputy Mayor Pawan Bittu and XEN Ravi Oberoi were present on the occasion.Meanwhile, the protesting farmers, under the banner of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, have resolved to oppose the visit of state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar to Yamunanagar districton March 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-mla-mayor-face-farmers-anger-at-stone-laying-event-221224
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||JJP trying to hold on to minority votes||Two days after Haryana Deputy CM and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala had a meeting with the minority wing of his party over the proposed ‘love jihad’ Bill, state Home Minister Anil Vij today clarified that the word ‘love jihad’ does not appear anywhere in the Bill.Dushyant’s announcement to not support the proposed Bill being brought by the Khattar government in the Budget session of the state Assembly is being seen as an attempt to save his party’s minority votes from drifting away.“Our members shared their concerns over the name of the proposed Bill that sought to target people of a particular religion. Our party doesn’t have any objection to any Bill that seeks to stop forcible conversion of people whether by force or by allurement. But, the name love jihad conveys a meaning that it is aimed at targeting a particular religion,” said Mohsin Chaudhary, state president of the minority wing of the JJP. Dushyant Chautala had on Thursday told mediapersons that if the law would be to check forceful religious conversions, his party would definitely support it. “But if the law will be presented with a specific term like ‘love jihad,’ then we will discuss it,” he had clarified.Meanwhile, Vij, who first announced the tabling of the Bill in the Budget session, clarified that the proposed legislation mentions no religion anywhere. He said that the proposed legislation has been titled “Haryana Freedom of Religion”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjp-trying-to-hold-on-to-minority-votes-221225
06-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Find out modus operandi of ‘Candy Baba’, says HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday ordered the constitution of a special investigation team (SIT) to find out the modus operandi of self-styled godman “Candy Baba”. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan directed the SIT to verify the bank accounts and other properties of his dera.“It is made clear that till the SIT completes investigation, the sessions court will not entertain any application for grant of regular bail to co-accused Jasbir Singh and Rajesh alias Candy Baba,” Justice Sangwan ruled.The matter was placed before Justice Sangwan after Priyanka alias Priya moved the High Court against Haryana for anticipatory bail in a case alleging cheating, criminal breach of trust and other offences registered in July 2019 at the Shahabad police station in Kurukshetra district.The FIR was lodged on the complaint of Amit Kumar. Among other things, the complainant alleged that he was induced to purchase gold at lower price from “Candy Baba”. He initially purchased half a kilogram of gold on two occasions from “Candy Baba”, which was sold at a higher price by the other co-accused.The complainant subsequently agreed to purchase four kilograms of gold from “Candy Baba” and paid Rs 1.08 crore, but he failed to deliver the gold to the complainant and also did not return the amount.The FIR added that “Candy Baba” had told the complainant that he had licence for importing gold at low price and could sell the same at a higher price in the market. As such, the complainant was allured by him to part ways with a huge amount.Issuing notice of motion to the state for the last week of April, Justice Sangwan directed the petitioner to appear before the investigating officer to join the probe before being released on interim bail on certain conditions.Before parting with the case, Justice Sangwan directed the Kurukshetra Superintendent of Police to submit an affidavit “whether any such or similar complaint was filed against him by other persons”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/find-out-modus-operandi-of-candy-baba-says-hc-221227
06-03-2021||---||Hooda gets interim bail in ind’l plot case||Chandigarh, March 5Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday got interim bail in the industrial plot allotment case. The challan had been filed earlier and all 22 accused were summoned on Friday. Interim bail was granted till March 15. The case was related to fraudulent allotment of 14 industrial plots in Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-gets-interim-bail-in-indl-plot-case-221228
06-03-2021||---||Eight get life term for Hisar triple murder||Hisar, March 5The district court today sentenced eight persons to life imprisonment for triple murder in Shekhpura village on March 13, 2017, on the day of Holi.Additional District and Sessions Judge Ved Prakash held eight persons guilty on March 2 and acquitted two others. DSP Bhagwan Dass of the same village had killed himself in Panchkula on March 15 after his name figured in the triple murder case. The police had found him innocent during inquiry.Subhash Chander, Ashok, Ajit, Dalel, Umed, Ramphal and Sandeep, residents of Shekhpura village, and Krishan of Fatehabad district were awarded life term. A fine of Rs 42,000 each was also imposed on them.The police said a spat during Holi took an ugly turn and three members of a family — Ram Kumar (60), Pradeep Kumar (28) and Mukesh Kumar (30) — were shot by their neighbours.The police had booked 23 persons, including the then Hisar DSP. Police sources said two neighbouring families had enmity for some years and a duel during Holi turned out to be the immediate trigger.In the firing that ensued, Ram, Pradeep and Mukesh, a BSF jawan who had come home on leave for Holi, were shot. Two others — Mukesh alias Pinnu and Rajesh — also suffer injuries and were admitted to a private hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eight-get-life-term-for-hisar-triple-murder-221229
06-03-2021||Ravi S Singh---||AAP intensifies efforts to expand base in state||Tribune News Service New Delhi, March 5 To expand its base, especially in rural areas, as part of its preparations for elections in the state in future, the AAP has upped the ante. The party has set its eyes on the next elections to local rural and urban bodies. It has been upfront in its support to the farmers’ agitation, and party leadership hopes to reap dividends on this account. “The party has stepped up its political activities. Preparations for elections to local bodies, starting with that to village panchayats are simultaneously afoot,” said AAP Rajya Sabha MP and in charge of Haryana affair Sushil Gupta on Friday. He added that from now on the party will contest all elections in the state adding that the party was currently holding village-level meetings in each of the 90 Assembly segments in the state. Besides, its frontal organisations are holding protests and demonstrations against the Union and state governments on public related issues. Gupta said search committees had also been constituted in each of the Assembly segments to prepare a panel of probable candidates for village panchayat, block samiti and zilla samiti elections. The committees, however, will submit the panels to the Central leadership after the schedule for the local bodies’ elections are announced. Gupta said anti-incumbency was creeping against the BJP-JJP government and the main Opposition Congress was faction-ridden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-intensifies-efforts-to-expand-base-in-state-221230
06-03-2021||---||Debit card-cloning gang busted, 3 held||Faridabad, March 5 The cyber cell of the local police has claimed to have busted a gang involved in financial fraud through cloning of debit cards, after the arrest of three persons recently.  DCP (HQ) Arpit Jain said here today that the accused identified as Mubarik, Arif and Majhar, have been arrested by the cops in connection with an incident that took place a month ago in which the accused got transferred an amount of Rs 3.4 lakh illegally from the account of one Prambhajan Singh of Sector 23 here, after cloning his debit card.  He said while Mubarik hailed from Rajasthan, Arif and Majhar were residents of Ballabgarh and Ferozpur Zirka town of Nuh district. Claiming that the arrested accused had admitted their involvement in at least 20 different cases, he said the amount withdrawn by them in a fraudulent manner was over Rs 20 lakh. Around 50 debit cards, Rs 1.93 lakh and two schemer devices have been recovered. All accused were remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/debit-card-cloning-gang-busted-3-held-221231
06-03-2021||Sushil Manav---||Will job quota law help state slash unemployment rate?||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 5 Even as the Governor has given his consent to the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act 2020, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) data released in September 2020 has placed Haryana on top in the rate of unemployment at 33.5 per cent. The latest updates on the CMIE website state that the unemployment rate in northern states has gone up further in January. It is because of the efforts of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala that the legislation could see the light of the day. Dushyant, who had set up the Jannayak Janta Party after separating from the Indian National Lok Dal led by his grandfather Om Prakash Chautala, had included 75 per cent jobs in private industry to local youth in his poll manifesto for the October 2019 Assembly elections. Dushyant met Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya twice and Union Home Minister Amit Shah once to expedite approval. Within three months of the Bill coming into effect, employers in applicable establishments are required to register employees with a monthly salary below Rs 50,000 on a designated portal.  An employer cannot employ a new person till such registration is complete. The Bill provides that employers may claim exemption from providing reservation to locals if adequate numbers of local candidates are not available. The Bill specifies penalties for various offences.   For example, failure to provide 75 per cent of new employment to local candidates will attract a fine of between Rs 50,000 and Rs 2 lakh, with additional penalty of Rs 1,000 for each day till contravention continues. Industry sources maintained that the new law would be counter-productive as no new unit would like to come to Haryana with such a regressive law, tending to reverse “ease of doing business”. Rakesh Chhabra, president of the Rai Industry Association, said the law would encourage Inspector Raj. Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Leader of Opposition, said the claim of 75 per cent reservation in private jobs was a fraud on the youth of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-job-quota-law-help-state-slash-unemployment-rate-221232
06-03-2021||Ambala||Missing boy’s body fished out of pond||Body of a four-year-old boy was fished out from the pond of Mahavir Park near Aggarsain Chowk in Ambala City. The deceased has been identified as Raj. His parents, hailing from Uttar Pradesh, work as labourers in the city park and had been living in the ‘jhuggis’ there. A case was lodged at Ambala City police station on Thursday. The deceased’s mother Resham Kali, in her police complaint, had stated that she has five children. On Thursday, she had gone to get some household stuff from Jagadhri Gate, while Raj was playing with other children in the park. When she returned, she didn’t find her son in the park, following which she lodged a kidnapping case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/missing-boys-body-fished-out-of-pond-221233
06-03-2021||---||Karnal villagers protest outside IG office||Karnal, March 5 Residents of Staundi village camped outside the office of Karnal Range IG Bharti Arora here today over alleged police inaction in a case of altercation on February 25. They cooked their food outside the office. They alleged that the police were not arresting the accused and instead harassing them after registering cases against them. After an assurance of a fair inquiry by DSP Jagdeep Doon, they went back. “My brother and uncle were beaten up by several people after a programme organised to mark the birth anniversary of Sant Ravidas. We came here for justice as the police were harassing them instead of arresting the accused,” said Tilak Raj, a resident. Darshna, another resident, alleged that the other group celebrated Sant Ravidas birth anniversary and had the keys of the religious place. “When two or three youths of our family went to bring the keys, several people attacked them,” she said. After some time, several people attacked their family members, she added. The SHO denied the allegation and said cross FIRs had been registered in this case. Six persons had been arrested from the rival group, said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-villagers-protest-outside-ig-office-221234
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana House to take up no-trust motion on March 10||The Haryana Vidhan Sabha will take up for discussion the no-confidence motion by the Congress against the BJP-JJP government on March 10. Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda sought to move the motion after Governor’s Address and obituary references, to which Speaker Gian Chand Gupta responded that it had been accepted and would be taken up for discussion on March 10.The no-trust motion, signed by 23 Congress MLAs, alleged that the BJP-JJP had betrayed all sections, including farmers. “The general public has lost faith in the government. The situation has become such that even the CM, Deputy CM and other ministers and legislators are afraid to venture out in public,” the motion claimed.Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislature Party Aftab Ahmed said voting on the motion would reveal if the legislators were with the farmers or with the ‘anti-farmer’ BJP-JJP government. The motion is a Congress ploy to embarrass the ruling coalition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-house-to-take-up-no-trust-motion-on-march-10-221236
06-03-2021||New Delhi||Supreme Court Collegium for Vikas Bahl as Punjab & Haryana High Court Judge||The Supreme Court Collegium has recommended elevation of advocate Vikas Bahl as Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.In a meeting held on March 2, the Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde also decided to recommend advocate Rahul Bharti for appointment as a Judge of the Jammu and Kashmir HC. The Collegium has recommended elevation of three lawyers — Dr Vivek Sharan, Nidhi Patankar and Pranay Verma — as judges of the Madhya Pradesh HC.The Collegium, which also includes Justice NV Ramana and Justice RF Nariman, reiterated its earlier recommendation for elevation of Satyen Vaidya as a judge of the Himachal Pradesh High Court. It also reiterated its recommendation to elevate advocates Viju Abraham Mohammed Nias CP and Paul KK for Kerala HC and Nagendra Ramachandra Naik for Karnataka HC. It approved the proposal for appointment of 10 Additional Judges of Allahabad High Court as Permanent Judges.They are Justices Ali Zamin, Vipin Chandra Dixit, Shekhar Kumar Yadav, Ravi Nath Tilhari, Deepak Verma, Gautam Chowdhary, Shamim Ahmed, Dinesh Pathak, Manish Kumar and Samit Gopal. It also cleared elevation of judicial officer A Badharudeen as Kerala HC Judge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supreme-court-collegium-for-vikas-bahl-as-punjab-haryana-high-court-judge-221195
06-03-2021||  Chandigarh||Bus conductor tortured, given electric shocks to extract confession: CBI to court||The Central Bureau of Investigation has claimed that some Haryana policemen had fabricated evidence to implicate a bus conductor in the 2017 murder of a 7-year-old schoolboy in Gurugram.The CBI, which took over murder investigations in the September 2017 case after allegations of lapses assailed the police force, said in its chargesheet that four policemen—DSP Birem Singh, Inspector Narinder Khatana, Inspector Shamsher Singh (then a Sub Inspector), and Exemptee Sub Inspector Subhash Chand—had deliberately tried to set Ashok Kumar up in an attempt to “shield” the real culprit—a Class 11 student who was eventually arrested.Ashok Kumar had accused the policemen of having tortured him with physical assault, electric shocks, and even injections, and had claimed that they had threatened to kill him in an encounter—an extrajudicial killing—to force him into signing a fake confession.The chargesheet also quotes Dr Praveen Yadav, a medical officer from Gurugram’s Civil Hospital Sohna, who conducted Ashok Kumar’s medical examination on September 9, 2017, as having told investigators at the CBI that the bus conductor’s walk “was not normal and he was taking the support of police officials while moving”, but claims that there was no external injury.In addition, the chargesheet mentions that Ashok Kumar had been taken to the jail hospital on September 20, 2017—13 days after his arrest in the case—with complaints of pains all over his body and was given tablets for them.A police constable, Manju, later told the CBI that one of the four suspected policemen, Inspector Narinder, had given her a pre-written confession statement for Ashok Kumar to sign.CBI also found that the confession statement that was shown to have been made on the school premises on September 8, 2017, was in fact written at a later date, on September 11, 2017, and was backdated.The CBI’s chargesheet also claimed it had found memos tilted ‘Government vs Ashok S/o Amichand r/o village Gamrose, Bhondsi, Gurugram’ that it said was made during the day on September 8—hours before Ashok Kumar was even considered a suspect in the case. Investigators also claimed that Head Constable Vineet Kumar had made backdated case documents and case diaries for Senior Inspector Shamsher and Inspector Narinder.The CBI also claimed that there was no evidence of sexual assault by Ashok Kumar on the victim, and that some witnesses were pressured to making statements against Ashok Kumar. Meanwhile, the 7-year-old schoolboy's family said it would appeal the Haryana Government's decision to deny sanction to prosecute the policemen in the high court.“We have approached the high court against the Haryana Government’s decision. The next hearing is July 6,” counsel Sushil Tekriwal, who represents the victim’s father.The Haryana government had refused to sanction a trial for the cops earlier this week. The state government said that the policemen's conduct showed an “error of judgment” and not malice.A special CBI court meanwhile will hear the case next on March 19. The murder case dates back to September 8, 2017, when the child was found with his throat slit in a school toilet. Kumar was arrested the same day.The CBI eventually arrested a senior student of the school in November, The student allegedly wanted a meeting a Parents Teachers Association meeting put off.   Ashok Kumar meanwhile was discharged in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bus-conductor-tortured-given-electric-shocks-to-extract-confession-cbi-to-court-220519
