07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Open to suggestions from industry in framing rules for law on pvt sector job quota: Haryana Deputy Chief Minister||The Haryana government is open to including suggestions from industry bodies while framing rules for the law that provides 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday.The first meeting for framing the rules will be held here on Monday, he said.Last week, Governor Satydeo Narain Arya gave his assent to the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, providing 75 per cent reservation for those who have a domicile certificate and are seeking private-sector jobs that a monthly salary of less than Rs 50,000.“It will be our endeavour to frame the rules by the end of this month. Next month, we will run employment drives in all 22 districts and 67 employment exchanges in the state,” Chautala, who holds the industries portfolio, said at a news conference here.Responding to criticism from various quarters, including some members of the industry, he alleged that many people have “misconception” about the law and pointed out that Haryana was not the only state where such a provision had been made.Chautala said the state government held eight rounds of meeting with industry associations before this law was made “and even now we will hold consultations with them”.“After consultations, if we have to incorporate some technical things in the rules, will do that so that industry comes to our state in an even bigger way,” the deputy chief minister said.“Earlier too we had sought suggestions from them. We will now seek suggestions from industry associations of our state and chambers of industry bodies. We will write to them with copies of the bill and seek suggestions for framing the rules,” he said.In reply to a question, Chautala said Haryana remains a favourite destination for the industry and added that a leading lithium battery manufacturing company was setting up a plant at an investment of Rs 7,500 crore.“Top companies, including Amazon, are ready to invest in Haryana,” he said.Hitting out at the opposition, he said not even one factory has moved out of the state even during the coronavirus pandemic.Asked why a section of the industry was opposing the state government’s reservation move, the deputy chief minister said, “If there are objections, observations of industry, we will hold consultations and resolve it. That is the job of the state government.”        On the issue of crop procurement, he said Haryana will start procurement of six crops, including wheat, at minimum support price next month.“Wheat procurement will begin from April 1 in nearly 400 mandis,” Chautala said, adding the farmers will have the option to get the payment for their crops procured directly into their accounts within 48 hours or through ‘Arhitiyas’ (commission agents).Chautala said a majority of the 67.48 per cent farmers from the state have expressed their wish to take payment directly into their bank accounts.On the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders against the three Central farm laws, he said the leaders should hold dialogue with the Union government to resolve the issue. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/open-to-suggestions-from-industry-in-framing-rules-for-law-on-pvt-sector-job-quota-haryana-deputy-chief-minister-221968
07-03-2021||Hisar||2 killed, 5 injured in road accident while returning from marriage function in Haryana||Two persons were killed while five others were injured when their car rammed into a tree in Fatehabad district on Saturday night.The victims were returning from a marriage function when they met with the accident near Dhani Chhatariya village.Seven persons were in the car at the time of the accident.The deceased have been identified as Jatin, 19, a resident of Agrawal colony and Janit, 25, a resident of Jhalania village of Fatehabad district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-killed-5-injured-in-road-accident-while-returning-from-marriage-function-in-haryana-221877
07-03-2021||Deepender Deswal||Woman gives birth outside Hisar hospital||Tribune News ServiceHisar, March 6A migrant woman delivered a baby outside the Civil Hospital here on Saturday. Women standing nearby rushed to help her. The mother and the baby are fine and have been admitted to the hospital.The woman, a resident of Kaimari village, developed labour pain last evening. She went to the Mangali primary health centre, from where she was referred to the Civil Hospital in Hisar.Rajkumar, a relative of the woman, said they came to Hisar in an ambulance. However, the staff there asked them to wait outside for some time. In the meantime, she delivered a baby in the open.He alleged that to hide their negligence, the staff put the blame on the ambulance driver. “We reached the hospital in time. However, the staff asked us to wait despite the fact that she was in labour pain,” Rajkumar added.The Principal Medical Officer, Dr Gobind, could not be contacted. However, a woman doctor claimed that the baby was delivered in the OPD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-gives-birth-outside-hisar-hospital-221572
07-03-2021||Gurugram||12-year-old raped in Gurugram, main accused nabbed||A labourer from UP has been arrested for allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl, who lived in the same building in which he lived, the police said. His friends, who are also allegedly involved in the crime, are absconding.The police have said the arrested accused, Matru Lal (24), had lured the girl, a Class V student, to his house and raped her. The victim’s father, in his police complaint filed yesterday, said: “My daughter told me Matru Lal and his friends raped her twice. The first incident took place a couple of months ago. She didn’t tell us then. The second incident took place on March 3.”The girl’s medical examination has confirmed rape.A case under Section 6 of the POCSO act and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered. The police have said the accused have confessed to the crime, but claimed his friends were not involved in it. “The girl is my friend and we met daily,” he reportedly told the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-year-old-raped-in-gurugram-main-accused-nabbed-221573
07-03-2021||Karnal||Woman, lover arrested on murder charge||A woman, her paramour and another person have been arrested for allegedly killing her husband at Assandh in the district. The accused have been identified as Neha, her paramour Billu and Subham. The trio killed Assandh resident Somnath (42) on February 21.According to the police, Billu was having an illicit relationship with Neha. Somnath used to oppose it and beat her up. Neha and Subham allegedly hatched a conspiracy to kill him.As per the plot, Billu took Somnath to his residence and they consumed liquor together. Billu killed Somnath when the latter was in an inebriated condition. He along with his nephew Subham dumped the body near Urlana village in Panipat district.The police said Neha filed a missing complaint and Somnath’s body was found on March 2, said Kamaldeep Rana, SHO, Assandh. The accused had been arrested. Neha has been sent to judicial custody while Billu and Subham have been remanded in two-day police custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-lover-arrested-on-murder-charge-221574
07-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Only legally wedded wife entitled to claim maintenance||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 6A wife’s attempts to get maintenance allowance from her ex-husband during the pendency of her appeal against divorce even after getting remarried has failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The Bench has made it clear that only a legally wedded wife was entitled to maintenance. A wife, who remarried, could not claim the same during the pendency of litigation. The ruling by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came on an application by a woman under Section 24 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, for monthly maintenance from the respondent-husband.The Bench was told that their marriage was solemnised in March 2011, but no child was born out of the wedlock. The applicant-wife allegedly started maltreating and quarrelling with the respondent-husband and his parents. She also left the matrimonial home without her husband’s consent.The applicant-wife also allegedly levelled false allegations against her husband and in-laws and extended threats to lodge a false case against them. As such, the husband filed a petition seeking divorce on the ground of cruelty and desertion. The plea was accepted and the decree of divorce was granted in his favour vide the judgment dated July 7, 2017. Aggrieved, the wife preferred the appeal before the High Court, which was pending adjudication.Her counsel submitted that the applicant-wife was staying with her aged parents and was totally dependent upon them for her daily needs. The respondent-husband was, on the other hand, leading a luxurious life with all facilities, as he was in the Indian Army.Responding to the contentions, the husband’s counsel submitted that the applicant-wife had remarried. The photographs of the remarriage obtained from social media were annexed along with the reply.It was added that the ex-husband had also been acquitted in criminal proceedings initiated by the applicant-wife, vide the judgment dated January 27 passed by the Palwal District Judge. Since the applicant-wife had remarried, the question of granting maintenance to her did not arise.The Bench asserted that Section 24 stipulated that the order to pay maintenance or litigation expenses could be passed in any proceedings under the Act, if it appeared to the court that either the wife or the husband did not have independent income sufficient for support.“Only a legally wedded wife will be entitled to maintenance pendente lite (pending litigation). Since, the counsel for the applicant-wife has not been able to specifically contradict the factum of the second marriage of the applicant-wife, in our considered view, she has lost her valuable right of maintenance pendente lite,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-only-legally-wedded-wife-entitled-to-claim-maintenance-221575
07-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Fake call centre busted; duped 500 foreigners||Gurugram, March 6Acting on a tip-off, a team of the cyber crime branch busted a fake call centre in Sector 50 here last evening and arrested its owner Ayush, a resident of Panipat, for allegedly duping foreigners on the pretext of rectifying technical glitches in their Canon and HP printers. As many as 13 employees were detained but later released. The centre has duped more than 500 persons.Modus operandi$200-$500 for rectifying a technical fault in printersAccording to information, the team, led by Inspector Jasveer Punia, raided the centre being run in the name of Global Solution. During investigation, the employees could not produce a valid OSP licence of the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work.The accused said that to make a quick buck, he opened a call centre in Gurugram two months ago. One of his accomplices would transfer calls to American nationals. The accused said that he had worked in an e-commerce company in Delhi for 15 years, where he met a person, who gave him the idea of starting this business. They would charge between $200 and $500 from a client and he would get 55 per cent of the profit. His accomplice is yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-duped-500-foreigners-221576
07-03-2021||Nitish Sharma||Proposal to shift out dairies from Ambala residential areas||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, March 6The Ambala Municipal Council, Sadar Zone, has proposed to shift out all dairies from residential areas and construct a complex for them at Brahman Majra village in Ambala Cantonment. A resolution in this regard has also been passed by the panchayat of Brahman Majra village.A number of residents are into dairy business for decades. Cow dung is being dumped in the open and in nullahs. Poor sanitary conditions and the movement of cattle on the main roads cause inconvenience to commuters.In 2003, the then Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala had told the district administration to shift out all dairies from residential areas, but it could not be done due to various reasons.Former councillor Hira Lal Yadav said, “Gawal mandis and dairy business are being run at different locations. Some of the units are within the limits of the Ambala Cantonment Board and were established by the British”.“Initially, it was proposed that dairy owners will be allocated land near Champa Rice Mill on the Jagadhri road. Later, the location was changed to Ugada Bada village. However, the decision was strongly opposed as the dairy owners would have to travel through the Army area to reach Ugada Bada. We are ready to cooperate, but the government must ensure all facilities,” he added.Apoorva Chaudhary, Executive Officer, Ambala Municipal Council, said, “We have identified land at Brahman Majra village to shift the dairies. The panchayat’s resolution will be forwarded to the state government for further action”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/proposal-to-shift-out-dairies-from-ambala-residential-areas-221577
07-03-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Special Investigation Team grills HCS officer in paper leak case||Tribune News ServicePanipat, March 6A special investigation team (SIT) of the Panipat police on Saturday questioned an HCS officer for around four to five hours in connection with a paper leak case. According to sources, the main accused in the case is a close relative of the HCS officer and is on the run.On January 11, the Panipat police busted a gang that allegedly leaked the question paper for the post of panchayat secretary. The examination for the post of panchayat secretary was conducted in the state on January 9 and 10, but the state government cancelled recruitment after the paper was leaked.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan constituted an SIT headed by ASP Pooja Vashishth to probe into the matter. The SIT had arrested 18 persons in the case, including the owner of a private school at Samalkha. However, it was revealed during investigation that Naresh, a resident of Madlauda in Panipat, was the kingpin of the paper leak gang and is still at large. It was also revealed that Naresh is the brother-in-law of an HCS officer.The Panipat police served a notice on HCS officer Sandeep Kumar, at present posted as SDM at Tohana in Fatehabad district, to join the investigation in connection with the paper leak case. Following the police notice, the HCS officer reached Samalkha and joined the investigation today. The ASP told The Tribune that the HCS officer joined the investigation and they questioned him for around four to five hours. The case details couldn’t be disclosed at this stage. The police teams were trying to nab the main accused Naresh, she added.The HCS officer said, “I joined the investigation at Samalkha and ASP Pooja Vashisth asked me questions about Naresh, a resident of Madlauda, which I replied to,” he added.“Naresh is my brother-in-law but I have no contact with him. I don’t know about his whereabouts. I have assured the police officers of my cooperation and if Naresh has done anything wrong, he will have to face the law,” he said.Exam for post of panchayat secretary||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-investigation-team-grills-hcs-officer-in-paper-leak-case-221562
07-03-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar village sarpanch booked for fraud||The sarpanch of Manakpur-I village, Jarnail Singh, has been booked for allegedly causing a loss of Rs 3,18,515 to the gram panchayat.On the complaint of Chhachhrauli BDPO Yogesh Kumar, the sarpanch has been booked under Sections 409 and 420 of the IPC.The BDPO alleged the gram panchayat had sold 1,502 trees for Rs 25,55,100 in an open auction on August 20, 2018. However, the sarpanch kept aside Rs 12.9 lakh for works in the village.“As per the rules, the sarpanch can keep only up to Rs 25,000 for development works. He was asked to deposit 21 per cent interest annually on the amount,” the complainant said.He said Rs 3,66,515 interest was calculated but the sarpanch deposited only Rs 48,000 on September 9, 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-village-sarpanch-booked-for-fraud-221563
07-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Commuters join farmers' protest on KMP eway||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 6Farmers from Punjab and Haryana displayed a show of unity and bonhomie during the massive blockade at the KMP Expressway near Mandothi village in the district today. They worked in tandem in managing traffic and serving langar, while blocking both sides of the highway peacefully.Virender Hooda, farmer leaderBonhomie & unityBrotherhood between Punjab and Haryana farmers is the backbone of this stir. Punjab is discharging the duty of an elder brother, while Haryana is executing its directions properly.They requested the drivers and cleaners of commercial vehicles stuck in the blockade to join the protesters on the expressway. Moved, many drivers parked their vehicles on the roadside and joined the protest in solidarity with the farmers.It was the third such protest by the farmers in the past one month after “chakka jam” on February 6 and ‘rail roko’ on February 18 to mount pressure on the Central Government to get the three farm laws repealed.Sudesh Goyat, activis Women powerThe presence of women is a proof that the protest is going strong. We have been supporting the stir from the beginning and will not return home until the laws are repealed.The two protests in February were led by Haryana farmers, but today’s protest was led by farmers of both states. “Brotherhood between Punjab and Haryana farmers is the backbone of this agitation. Punjab is discharging the duty of an elder brother by leading the agitation, while Haryana is executing the elder brother’s directions and making all necessary arrangements,” said farmer leader Virender Hooda.Among the protesters were women from Punjab and Haryana in large numbers. Those from Haryana wore black attires and carried black flags, while Punjab women donned yellow “dupattas”. They raised the slogan of “Kisan Ekta Zindabad”.Sudesh Goyat, a woman activist from Hisar, said: “The presence of women from Punjab and Haryana is a proof that the protest is going strong. We have been supporting the agitation from the beginning and will not return home until the three farm laws are repealed. There is no let-up. We all are determined”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/commuters-join-farmers-protest-on-kmp-eway-221564
07-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Farmers raise concrete huts at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 6Farmers have started constructing concrete huts along the highway on the Tikri border while presuming a long battle against the three farm laws. They blame the Centre for this step, stating it is forcing them to stay here for a long time by not paying heed towards their demand.Ranbir Singh, Rohtak farmerIn for long haulWhen the Delhi Police can seal the highway by installing spikes, then why cannot we build concrete huts? “When the Delhi Police can seal the highway by installing spikes and putting up concrete barricades then why we cannot set up concrete huts along the highway to make a long haul bearable! Not only us, but also several other farmers are gearing up to make concrete huts to beat the summer heat that will grip the region in coming days,” said Ranbir Singh, a farmer from Rohtak.He maintained that the government was making misleading statements that farmers would go back home to harvest their crops but they had given a clear message to it by initiating construction that they would not return without getting their demand met.Satbir Singh, another farmer, said the decision to construct huts had to be taken keeping in view the approaching summer season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-raise-concrete-huts-at-tikri-border-221567
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||323 new Covid cases reported in Haryana||The state today recorded 323 new cases of Covid and reported three deaths. With this, the total number of cases has reached 2.72 lakh. One death each was recorded in Faridabad, Karnal and Hisar.In all, 9,934 first doses and 1,302 second doses were given today. So far, 3.65 lakh doses have been given. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/323-new-covid-cases-reported-in-haryana-221568
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Kiran Choudhry’s resolution on farm laws rejected||Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry’s resolution against three Central farm laws and the Calling Attention motion on the SYL canal, law and order situation in the state and the hooch tragedy were rejected.Kiran told the media here that no reason was given for the rejection of the resolution on the farm laws. “It shows that the attitude of the BJP-JJP government towards farmers,” she added.“The SYL canal is an important issue. People observed fast for it recently to divide farmers. The SYL canal is the lifeline of the region I come from. We are facing shortage of drinking water, forget about water needed for irrigation. But I have been told that the resolution is irrelevant,” she said.Kiran said that the law and order situation was getting worse day by day but the Calling Attention motion on it was rejected, too. “About 50 persons have died in the hooch tragedy but they don’t want a discussion on it,” she added.The former minister said she had moved 13 Calling Attention motions but she had been intimated about the fate of only a few that had been rejected. “Recently, the government celebrated its law on 75 per cent reservation for Haryana youths in industries but in reality it was applicable to new industries only,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kiran-choudhrys-resolution-on-farm-laws-rejected-221578
07-03-2021||New Delhi||Approach MLAs on no-trust motion: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has appealed to Haryana residents to approach legislators of their areas, especially from the BJP and JJP, and impress upon them to vote against the Manohar Lal Khattar government on the no-confidence motion in the ongoing Budget session.The Khattar government faces a crucial no-confidence motion on March 10.“Let Haryana MLAs know that those who do not stand with farmers in this crucial juncture of the agitation will be taught a lesson in the future,” a statement issued by the SKM said.The Congress had, on Friday, moved a no-confidence motion against the government. Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta had approved the motion. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/approach-mlas-on-no-trust-motion-samyukt-kisan-morcha-221579
