08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar government withdraws Sports University of Haryana Bill||The Haryana Assembly on Monday withdrew the Sports University Bill of Haryana, 2019, under which it had earlier announced to appoint cricket legend Kapil Dev as the chancellor, following "certain observations from the Centre".In September 2019, the then Haryana Sports Minister Anil Vij had announced that Kapil Dev would be the first chancellor of the Haryana Sports University at Rai in Sonipat district.The Bill was withdrawn after Sports Minister Sandeep Singh moved a resolution in the House, saying the state government has decided to take a  "relook" at it on the Centre's advice.Intervening in the discussion, Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra said although the state government was competent to withdraw the Bill, the legal status of any appointment in the proposed university needed to be made public.To this, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar clarified that no appointment had been made so far.He added that the objection flagged by the Centre on the Sports University in Rai would be rectified, and later, another bill will be brought.The Haryana Assembly had passed the Bill in August 2019. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-government-withdraws-sports-university-of-haryana-bill-222431
08-03-2021||---||Man, 4-year-old son jump before train in Sonepat, die||Sonepat, March 8A 36-year-old man along with his four-year-old son allegedly committed suicide by jumping before a running train near Bandepur village of Sonepat district on Sunday night under suspicious circumstances.The General Railway Police (GRP) reached the spot and recovered the dead bodies of father-son duo.The deceased have been identified as Kaptan Singh of Kultana village in Rohtak district and his 4-year-old son Naman.The bodies were handed over to the victims’ kin after postmortem examination on Monday, said SHO, GRP, Rajkumar.The man along with his son jumped before Kalka-Delhi mail, he said.Singh, who was working as a guest teacher in a government school in Jharoda, Delhi, had left the house along with his son Naman on Sunday afternoon.The family members refused to comment on the reasons behind the suicide, said the SHO.Action would be initiated as per the statements of the victims’ family members, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-4-year-old-son-jump-before-train-in-sonepat-die-222413
08-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||No martyr status for farmers who died during protest against agri laws: Haryana Government||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 8Home Minister Anil Vij on Monday told the Haryana Assembly that no proposal was under the consideration of the government to give the status of martyr to the farmers who died in the agitation against three central farm laws at the state border. Also, no proposal is there to provide government jobs and financial assistance to the families of deceased farmers hailing from the state, he said.Earlier, Congress had demanded status of martyr for the deceased farmers and financial assistance to their families on the pattern of neigbouring Punjab.In a reply to a question from Congress MLAs Aftab Ahmed and Indu Raj Narwal, Vij informed that a total of 68 farmers had died till February 18 at the border. Of these, 21 belonged to Haryana and 47 deceased were Punjab residents.On the reasons behind the deaths, it came out that 27 (39.7 per cent) alone died of heart attack and 15 (22.1 per cent) died in road accidents. Twelve people (17.6 per cent) were brought dead to the hospital. One committed suicide by revolver, another was found hanging while three deaths were due to consumption of the poisonous substance, Vij said in his reply.On Independent MLA Balraj Kundu’s question, Vij said that sanitation facilities had been provided to protesting farmers by engaging 118 workers and provision of 750 toilet seats was also made.“Adequate facility of streetlight has been made available at NH-44 and from Tikri border to Jakhoda border. Drinking water is being supplied through water tankers at agitation sites and water storage units have been installed for the purpose,” he said.Vij further said that 10 ambulances and 10 bike ambulances had been stationed on the NH-44 and four ambulances were stationed at Tikri border. Vij clashes with HoodaAs Congress MLAs were asking supplementary questions during the question hour, Vij said that he had thought that former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda would get a training camp for his MLAs but what could you expect from him when he was chargesheeted in corruption cases by the CBI.Hooda replied that the cases were politically motivated and the court would give him justice.Earlier, Congress MLA Kuldeep Vats took a jibe at Vij saying that the quality of health services in the state can be gauged from the fact that the Health Minister had to be shifted to a private hospital from PGIMS Rohtak. 33% ration depot holders to be womenDeputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who holds the charge of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, clashed with Congress MLA Jagbir Malik who levelled corruption allegations of thousands of crore in ration cards in Sonepat during the Question Hour.Meanwhile, on the occasion of Women’s Day, Chautala announced that now 33 per cent of ration depots would be given to women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-martyr-status-for-farmers-who-died-during-protest-against-agri-laws-haryana-government-222361
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hooda rides tractor outside Haryana Assembly to protest against fuel prices||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday started his protest march on a tractor against the fuel price hike outside the Vidhan Sabha.Other Congress MLAs were pulling the tractor with ropes.Congress MLA Shakuntla Khatak pulled an auto to protest against fuel and LPG price hike.Within a few minutes, the police stopped the tractor.Congress MLAs jostled with police personnel as they were not allowing the tractor.The entry to Vidhan Sabha was blocked now as Congress MLAs refused to budge.Now both the entries to Haryana and Punjab Assemblies have been blocked.On one side there are Congress MLAs with tractor and the other side is blocked by SUVs of Congress MLAs.Faridabad NIT MLA Neeraj Sharma reached assembly on an Activa.Finally, police allowed the tractor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-rides-tractor-outside-haryana-assembly-to-protest-against-fuel-prices-222328
08-03-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Firing at Singhu border; 4 men came in car with Chandigarh number||Chandigarh, March 8There was an incident of alleged firing at the Singhu border on Sunday night.Four men came in a car and fled after firing three rounds on farmers. There was no casualty.Those who fired drove a white-coloured Audi with a Chandigarh number.The incident took place near the TDI mall when langar was being served.Police suspect the men to be from Punjab.Farm Laws: Half-baked policies can be counterproductiveThe farmers complained to the Kundli police.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said a case was registered against unidentified men and they were investigating the matter.Hisar farmer ends life at Tikri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/firing-at-singhu-border-4-men-came-in-car-with-chandigarh-number-222296
08-03-2021||---||Wheat procurement from April 1||Chandigarh, March 7The Haryana Government has decided to start procurement of wheat from April 1, so that farmers do not have to stock the early crop. The procurement of wheat was started on April 10 last year. About 400 small and big procurement centres will be set up for the procurement of wheat.While addressing a press conference, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said Haryana is the only state in the country where a total of six crops — wheat, mustard, pulses, gram, sunflower, and barley — are purchased at the minimum support price (MSP). For the first time in the state, barley crop would be procured on the MSP and for this seven mandis were earmarked.He said Haryana would be the first state in the history of the country where the payment for the crop would reach the farmer in his own bank account or in the account of the arthiya within 48 hours of submitting the J-Form.He said so far 7.25 lakh farmers of the state had registered themselves on the Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal for the sale of wheat. Not only this, 1.03 lakh farmers of neighbouring states had also registered themselves on the portal.He claimed that Haryana was the first state in the country to successfully complete the first batch of Phase-III of the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana. In this batch, 690-km length of rural roads came under Haryana at a cost of Rs 383.58 crore. Apart from this, Haryana became the first state in the country to achieve another historic success under the same scheme as it got the approval for the Phase-II just two days ago on March 5, 2021. This includes getting approval for 120 roads to be built at a cost of about Rs 550 crore. He said the total length of these roads sanctioned for 14 districts of the state was 1,217 km.He asserted that any gram sabha which did not want liquor vends to open in its village, could pass the proposal and send it to the Haryana government through its Deputy Commissioner by March 15, 2021.Terming 75 reservation for Haryanavis in private sector as “constitutionally valid”, he stated that efforts were being made to starts its implementation by next month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wheat-procurement-from-april-1-222054
08-03-2021||Hisar||Two die as car rams into tree||Two persons were killed, while five others were injured when their car rammed into a tree in Fatehabad district on Saturday night.The victims were returning from a marriage function when they met with the accident near Dhani Chhatariya village. Seven persons were in the car at the time of the accident.The deceased have been identified as Jatin, 19, a resident of Agrawal colony, and Janit, 25, a resident of Jhalania village of Fatehabad district. The injured have been admitted to hospitals in Fatehabad and Hisar towns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-die-as-car-rams-into-tree-222055
08-03-2021||---||2 held for generating fake property IDs||Karnal, March 7 The Economic Offence Cell of the Karnal police has arrested two persons in connection with a case of generating fake temporary property IDs to issue no-dues certificates which were further used in the “registration of properties of unauthorised colonies” also.  The accused have been identified as Amit, a resident of Prem Nagar who operates three Atal Sewa Kendras, and Rajiv of Gandhi Nagar and an employee of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC). Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police, said that the accused were arrested on March 5 and were taken on police remand on March 6 for two days. The police had registered a case under Sections 420, 467, 120B of the IPC, 65/66C, 66E of the IT Act on the complaint of EO KMC Nisha Sharma for generating fake temporary unique IDs on the no-dues certificate portal.  The investigation was given to the Economic Offence Cell in charge inspector Sandeep Kumar. With the support of his team and the technical staff, they arrested both the accused, the SP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-generating-fake-property-ids-222058
08-03-2021||---||Agent dupes family of Rs47 lakh, booked||Kurukshetra, March 7 A Pehowa family has allegedly been duped of Rs 47 lakh on the pretext of sending a youth of the family abroad. Keshav, a resident of Jaipur, allegedly took Rs 47 lakh from the family to send Sandeep, a resident of Pehowa in Kurukshetra, to the USA, but didn’t send him. A case has been registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC and Sections 10 and 24 of the Immigration Act at the Pehowa police station. In her complaint to the police, Snehalata, a resident of Pehowa, stated that Keshav was an acquaintance of her son Sandeep and used to visit and stay with them. Similarly, Sandeep used to stay with Keshav in Jaipur. Keshav told them that he sends people abroad and offered to send Sandeep to the USA, for which he sought Rs 50 lakh. After the family expressed inability to pay Rs 50 lakh, he offered them to give him money in instalments. He took Rs 47 lakh in instalments, but never sent Sandeep to the USA. The complainant alleged that when they confronted Keshav and asked him to arrange Sandeep’s visa or return the money, he refused to do so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/agent-dupes-family-of-rs47-lakh-booked-222060
08-03-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Now, no need of Cabinet nod for govt land transfer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 7The BJP-JJP government has made the transfer of land belonging to the government, municipal bodies and panchayat for public purpose transparent and hassle-free. This will speed up development projects.Under the “Policy for transfer of government, municipal bodies and gram panchayat lands for public purposes”, there would be no need for approval from the Council of Ministers for the land transfer from one government department to another.However, the Chief Minister’s approval would be required though no prior concurrence of the Finance Department would be required for the land transfer. The transfer would be free of cost, stated a notification issued by Sanjeev Kaushal, Financial Commissioner Revenue (FCR).The transfer of government land to municipal bodies, and Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) would, however, be made on collector rates. The approval of the Council of Ministers would also be required. Prior concurrence of the Finance and the Revenue Departments would be required by the acquiring department.The transfer of municipal land to the government department would be effected at collector rates. Similarly, the transfer of panchayat land to any department would be done at the rate prescribed in the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation), Rules, 1964.“In case, land has to be transferred to the Union Government at rates less than the collector rates, a committee headed by the Chief Secretary will examine the matter and place the proposal before the Council of Ministers after the CM’s approval,” the notification added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-no-need-of-cabinet-nod-for-govt-land-transfer-222061
08-03-2021||Kurukshetra||Govt to start 48-kos yatra in five districts, says Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said the Centre and the state government are committed to developing Kurukshetra. The state government has been making efforts to start a 48-‘kos’ yatra covering 134 ‘tirthas’ spread over five districts of Haryana.He was addressing the gathering after the inauguration ceremony of Mini Gita Museum at Gita Gyan Sansthanam in Kurukshetra on Sunday. The museum has been constructed at a cost of Rs 5 crore.The Chief Minister said, “The Gita has been a source of inspiration and it has given the message of humanity to the world.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-to-start-48-kos-yatra-in-five-districts-says-khattar-222063
08-03-2021||---||No-trust motion to expose MLAs: Bhupinder Hooda||Karnal, March 7Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said the discussion on the no-confidence motion in the House on March 10 would expose those claiming to be well-wishers of protesting farmers.“There are several problems facing the common man such as the three farm laws, inflation, deteriorating law and order situation and unemployment. The state government has failed miserably. Hence, the no-confidence motion,” he said.The former CM was here to chair a programme to honour Dronacharya awardee Krishan Kumar Hooda, who retired as SP from Haryana Police Academy last week. He is the former chief coach of the Indian kabaddi team.On the farmers’ protest, the Congress leader said: “I have never seen such a long and peaceful agitation.”He later told the media the Act ensuring 75 per cent reservation for the state’s youths in the private sector was a fraud with them.On the ‘G-23’ group of Congress leaders who wrote a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi demanding organisational overhaul, he said the party was united and there was no conflict.Hooda also criticised the state government over the sports policy and said honouring players, who brought laurels for the country on the global stage, should be the priority of every government.“The sports policy is an indicator of a country’s development. The stronger the policy, the stronger the country,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-trust-motion-to-expose-mlas-bhupinder-hooda-222066
08-03-2021||---||Illegal colony carved out in Yamunanagar village, three booked||Yamunanagar, March 7Three persons were booked for carving out an unauthorised colony on agricultural land in Alahar village of the district.On the complaint of District Town Planner (DTP), Amit Madholia, a case was registered against Karam Chand, Amit and Gaurav, all residents of Alahar village, under Sections 3, 7 (i), 7 (ii) of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975, at the Jathlana police station on March 5.In his police complaint, the DTP said that as per provisions of the Act, no person could carve out a colony without obtaining a licence from the Director, Town and Country Planning, Haryana.“Three persons carved out an unauthorised colony and promoted unauthorised construction on agricultural land,” said Madholia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-colony-carved-out-in-yamunanagar-village-three-booked-222068
08-03-2021||---||Hisar farmer ends life at Tikri||Jhajjar, March 7A 48-year-old farmer ended his life by hanging himself from a tree at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Sunday. He left a note blaming the three contentious farm laws for the extreme step.The deceased, who was actively participating in the farmers’ agitation, has been identified as Rajbir of Sisay village in Hisar district. The incident came to light when fellow farmers spotted his body hanging from the tree near the Kasar village turn in the wee hours today and informed the police.In a suicide note, Rajbir called upon the farmers to go back home only after the three farm laws are repealed and the minimum support price (MSP) is guaranteed. He asked the Union Government to fulfil his last wish and repeal the laws.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), Haryana, has expressed grief over the tragic incident.“The note left behind by the deceased shows the extent of anguish among the protesting farmers as a result of utter insensitivity of the Modi government,” said Inderjeet Singh, an SKM leader.He claimed these sacrifices would not go waste and the people would “severely punish the BJP and JJP”.Hisar: The tragic incident of suicide by a farmer, Rajbir Kaliraman (48) of Sisay village in Hisar district, at the protest site on Tikri border last night has come as a shock for the family. He left a note blaming the three contentious farm laws for the extreme step.Hundreds of villagers attended the last rites of the deceased. A sense of outrage prevailed in the village as the locals are upset with the government over its apathy towards farmers. Ajit Singh, a former sarpanch of the village, blamed the government for the suicide.“The government is neither accepting the farmers’ demands nor has it been able to make the agitated farmers understand the benefits of the new laws. It’s shocking that the farmers are left to fend for themselves as the senior functionaries of the government have turned a blind eye to the happenings at the Delhi borders,” said Baljit Sihag, another villager.The family owns one acre land which was the sole means of livelihood for the family. The victim’s farmer has been an active participant in the protest at Tikri border.Rajesh Singh, another villager, said despite meagre resources to support the family, Rajbir was a man of progressive thought. “He has a 24-year-old daughter Pinki, who is pursing MSc and a 21-year-old son Manjeet,” said Singh.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) Haryana has expressed a deep sense of grief on the tragic incident.32-yr-old Karnal farmer dies at SinghuKarnal: A 32-year-old farmer, Harinder Singh, a resident of Thari village in the district, was found dead under mysterious circumstances at the Singhu border on Sunday morning. Harinder owned two acres agricultural land and he was participating in the farmers’ protest against the three farm-laws ever since the dharna was started there on November 27. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-farmer-ends-life-at-tikri-222069
08-03-2021||---||23 students test positive in Kaithal village||Karnal, March 7 A total of 23 students of Government Senior Secondary School, Kharka village, in Kaithal district have tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples were collected on Friday and reports came on Sunday. Confirming the results, Sujan Singh, Deputy Commissioner, Kaithal, said 23 students tested positive and most of them were asymptomatic and in home quarantine.  “Since, almost all the students are asymptomatic and they have the space for the home quarantine at their residences, so they have been kept in home quarantine,” said the DC, adding that their samples were taken in random sampling of RT-PCR. Chandigarh: With 305 fresh cases, the Covid-19 tally reached 2,72,530 in Haryana on Sunday. Gurugram reported  maximum of 63 cases, followed by Karnal (45) and Panchkula (30).The death toll remained at 3,056 as no fresh death was reported. With 656 vaccinations today, the total vaccinations against Covid-19 reached 3,65,652.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/23-students-test-positive-in-kaithal-village-222071
08-03-2021||---||Five IAS, 14 HCS officers transferred||Chandigarh, March 7 The state government has issued transfer and posting orders of five IAS and 14 HCS officers with immediate effect. Pradeep Dahiya has been posted as Director, Citizen Resources Information Department, and Additional Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department. Krishan Kumar has been posted as Administrator, HSVP, Faridabad, and Additional Director, Urban Estate, Faridabad. Jaspreet Kaur goes as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Panipat, Manoj Kumar-II is Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jind, Vishram Kumar Meena has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Ganaur. The names of the HCS officers include Vatsal Vashisht who has been posed as Chief Protocol Officer, Gurugram, and Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Panipat, Jag Niwas as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jhajjar, Dr Subhita Dhaka as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Nuh, and District Municipal Commissioner, Nuh. Pooja Chanwaria has been posted as Joint Director (Admn) Development and Panchayats Department, Gaurav Antil as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Tohana, Sumit Kumar as Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Gurugram, Surender Pal as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Radaur. Bharat Bhushan goes as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Ratia, Shikha as Managing Director, Cooperative Sugar Mills, Kaithal, Vinesh Kumar as General Manager, Haryana Roadways, Panchkula. Kapil Kumar has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Shahabad, Anubhav Mehta as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Ladwa, and Chief Executive Officer, Kurukshetra Development Board, Kurukshetra, Jagdish Chander as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Loharu, and Dinesh has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Mahendragarh, and Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Kanina.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-ias-14-hcs-officers-transferred-222074
08-03-2021||Chandigarh||Tech-savvy women get solution to grievances on social media||The state government’s continuous efforts to empower women has been paying off as women in the state are not only well educated, tech-savvy but also well aware of their rights.This can be gauged by the numerous tweets made by both women and men of the state regarding various welfare schemes started by the state and Central Government. In fact, the state government has been continuously working for the uplift of women, be it their education, safety and welfare.The implementation of e-governance in the state has ensured that the Chief Minister’s Office is just a click away from the people.Sharing details about the tweets made by empowered women of the state, the IT Consultant to the Chief Minister, Dhruv Majumdar, said in a tweet made by Suman, a resident of Sirsa Ghogra in Bhiwani district, on the official Twitter handle of the Chief Minister’s Office, she said she was not getting the ration which was supposed to be given to pregnant and lactating women under various schemes started by the government. The Social Media Grievance Tracker Team, which manages the Twitter handle, immediately swung into action and thereafter facilities were provided as per government guidelines.In another tweet made by a resident of Mohana in Sonepat in which he sought release of cash incentive of Rs 5,000 for pregnant and lactating mothers under the Pradhan Mantri Matritva Vandana Yojana (PMMVJ). The woman’s husband, Deepak had tweeted on the CMO’s Twitter handle that he had deposited the documents with an anganwadi worker but the same were not updated on the website. Hours after tweeting he received a call from the department and the documents were updated immediately, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tech-savvy-women-get-solution-to-grievances-on-social-media-222075
08-03-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat---||Official shifted ahead of demolition drive||Tribune News Service Faridabad, March 7 The transfer of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) Administrator Pradeep Dahiya ahead of the impending demolition of commercial establishments on the bypass road here to give way to 12-lane Delhi-Mumbai expressway has raised eyebrows. His transfer, the order of which was handed over to him today, is being seen as a result of an ongoing “tussle” related to the demolition. Sources say land allotted to religious bodies could have brought the matter to this point. The HSVP had recently reclaimed 18 acres worth more than Rs 450 crore in Sector 20-A here, putting the office in the spotlight.  A district official on the condition of anonymity said, “About 140 showrooms and shops need to be razed for the 12-lane expressway. The transfer of a senior official at a time when the demolition drive is in progress is unjustified.” He further said the demolition process was running behind schedule. The HSVP was supposed to handover the land to the NHAI two months ago.  The sources say land survey and demarcation have already been done, while the authorities have given the go ahead for the demolition. Local resident AK Gaur said, “Dahiya’s transfer at this juncture will not only delay the anti-encroachment drive, but also boost the morale of the land mafia.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/official-shifted-ahead-of-demolition-drive-222077
08-03-2021||Jhajjar||Store owner, worker felicitated||Kids win prizes in short film-makingAmbala: INTACH Ambala conducted a short film making (2 to 3 minutes duration) contest for schoolchildren in December last year. Lt Gen Ranjit Singh (retd) was the chief guest. It was part of the national contest organised by INTACH head office, Delhi. Col RD Singh (retd) said that as many as 146 children from across the country participated in the contest. The winners from Ambala whose films were selected for sharing across the country among schools were: Police DAV School’s Abhinav Mehta and Akarshit Goel, Army Public School’s Antariksh and Namit Chopra, Convent of Sacred Heart’s Meenal and Sujal. Antariksh also won a trophy in the category of ‘best screenplay’.Pvt plane to be used for charity tooFaridabad: Having a private plane may not be an issue for a wealthy businessman, but Pradeep Mohanty is an entrepreneur who has decided to use his private craft not only for business work but also for charity. The newly acquired seven-seater aircraft would also be used as air ambulance for organ donations, says Mohanty, who heads the Sledgehammer Oil Tools Private Limited, a company involved in the manufacture of oil drilling equipment and machinery. Mohanty who holds a commercial pilot licence said that it would be stationed at Narnaul and would be used from Delhi when the need arises.Twins win 4 medals in swimmingHisar: Twin sisters (12) from Hisar have bagged four medals — one gold and three bronze — in the state-level swimming championship held in Bahadurgarh town of Jhajjar district on Sunday. Rajesh Varma, father of Ashmita and Avanita, said that Hisar-based coach Rahul Rana spotted the swimming talent of his daughters and helped them get training for competitive sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/store-owner-worker-felicitated-222090
08-03-2021||Karnal||Students shine at GK Olympiad||Seminar on law reformsRohtak: Baba Mastnath University here held a national seminar on ‘Criminal law reforms in recent times: Issues and challenges’. Faculty of Law Dean Dr Raj Kumar Yadav at the university said key speaker Central University of Haryana School of Law Dean Prof Rajesh Malik described the essence of law and how the criminal law began and continues to work till date with reforms and amendments. Guest of honour Dr Monika Malik spoke about the issue of homosexuality in the society.Workshop for sd college facultySonepat: Indira Gandhi National College, Ladwa (Dhanora), organised a one-day workshop for its faculty members on ‘e-content development’ in collaboration with SD College, Ambala Cantt on the college campus. The programme was organised under the UGC Paramarsh scheme. Principal Dr Hari Parkash Sharma welcomed SD College Principal Dr Rajinder Singh and all resource persons. The programme was divided into three technical sessions. Mandeep Kaur was the resource person of the first technical session who acquainted the faculty members with the knowledge of creating an effective PPT. Heena was the resource person of the second and third technical session and instructed the faculty members about uploading PPT/videos on YouTube, concept of licensing and using Google Classroom, Google Docs and Google Sheets for e-content development.Scholarship for meritorious kidsFaridabad: To extend financial help to meritorious students for their study, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here has provided Vishwa Prakash Mission Scholarship to 11 deserving students. The scholarship is sponsored by Vishwa Prakash Mission (VPM), a charitable trust of Faridabad headed by Rakesh Sethi, retired executive director of Union Bank, working to provide financial assistance to deserving and underprivileged students for their education. A total of 11 students of the university enrolled in the current academic session have been selected for the scholarship of up to Rs 50,000 per annum per student for academic fee with total outlay of Rs 18.5 lakh till the completion of their degree. A total of 50 students have, so far availed total financial assistance of over Rs 48 lakh through the scholarship scheme. Rakesh Sethi, Chairman of the VPM trust, said the expenditure of study of all selected students would be borne by the mission under the scholarship scheme. He said more than 60 students had applied for scholarship, out of which 11 had been selected considering the academic record, personal interview and economic status of the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-shine-at-gk-olympiad-222094
08-03-2021||THE attached picture is of Gym Park at Ganesh Vihar||Dilapidated gym Park in Ambala cantt irks residents||Gian P Kansal, Gurmail S Antal, Ganesh Vihar, Ambala CityPoor quality work at Defence ColonyFEW days back, in this very column, I had reported caving in of a road in the Defence Colony (Lane 9, Sector D) due to poor quality work of laying of sewerage pipe lines and the roads not being restored properly thereafter. Now, just about three feet away from where the caving in had taken place, a fresh gaping hole has developed in the same lane. The undulating and broken roads are causing a lot of inconvenience to residents and commuters, apart from being prone to accidents. It is once again requested that the authorities concerned should come to the ground and take stock of the work being done. Quality public utility work should be provided because the citizens (defence veterans in this case) deserve it. <Col RD Singh (retd), Defence Colony, Ambala CanttAwareness drive for cyclists mustTHE traffic police should initiate an awareness drive to make users of non-motorised vehicles (NMVs) such as cycles, rickshaws and rehris aware about the consequences of drunken driving and to increase their visibility. This will help in preventing accidents and other such mishaps to this segment. The police should also challan all illegal motorised rehris.Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaGarbage should not be burntIN Narwana, the sanitation staff of Nagar Parishad and other major establishments, such as telephone exchange, private and government, hospitals, schools and colleges, know no other way of effective method of disposal of garbage but to put it on fire in open. In the morning, one can spot fire and smoke billowing out of such garbage dumps at many places daily. The local municipal authorities should look into the issue and make arrangements for garbage disposal.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dilapidated-gym-park-in-ambala-cantt-irks-residents-222095
08-03-2021||Milkha Singh Aulakh||Farm Laws: Half-baked policies can be counterproductive||THE three farm laws enacted by the Union Government last year could have an enormous impact on the livelihoods of various sections of society as well as food security of our highly populated country. Policy-makers often cite the examples of developed countries to justify the need for such reforms in India to liberalise and open up the farm sector to private players. However, when we compare the social security net, insurance cover and market options available to farmers in India and developed countries, the disparity is striking.Farmers and farm labourers constitute a smaller proportion of the population in developed countries (2-5 per cent) as compared to India (60-70 per cent). In the US, 897 million acres of agricultural land is cultivated by 2 million farmers; in India, only 350 million acres are cultivated by 145 million farming families. A majority of the farmers in developed countries have large-sized farms. The average farm size in the US is 448 acres, way above India (2.5 acres). Their farmers have the capacity and capability to store their products for long periods after each harvest; they also own transportation facilities. Their farmers are usually involved in decision-making policies that could impact their livelihood. In addition to a much larger cash and commodity support than in India, the government provides them social security, including old-age pension, health services and education to their wards (schoolbuses pick up and drop their wards at their on-farm residences). For example, the farmers of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta provinces in Canada have farms varying from 500 to 2,000 acres, along with modern machinery and infrastructure. They produce mainly wheat, barley, pulses and edible oilseeds that are exported to other countries. After each harvest, farmers often store grains in on-farm silos and transport them only when they get good prices.Farmers on boardThe Canadian Wheat Board was constituted in 1935 with representatives of the government and the farmers. Its functions include identification of markets, negotiations for best prices and delivery of agri products. Accordingly, the farmers grow those crops and transport their produce to allocated railway yards to upload it in containers for onward transport to seaports for export. If and when some fields are left fallow due to lesser demand of agri products, the government compensates farmers for their fallow acreage.Contract farming under India’s new agri laws would lead to the establishment of large farms and the development of state-of-the-art infrastructure by clubbing landholdings of small, marginal and poor farmers, who have less than five acres and constitute 86 per cent of the farmers. However, such large farms would render rural people unemployed, who account for 60-70 per cent of our population. Keeping in view the joblessness of a significant proportion of the urban population, the movement of people in large numbers from rural areas to cities would aggravate unemployment. In order to avoid unnecessary glut of one agri product or the other and maintain equilibrium between their production and requirements, the state governments and farmers’ cooperatives could be allowed to export their agri products, including fresh vegetables and fruits, directly to other countries.Insurance schemesIn India, several crop insurance schemes have been formulated, implemented and withdrawn from time to time. In 1999-2000, the government introduced Rashtriya Krishi Bima Yojana. In recent years, four insurance schemes were launched: Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, Weather-based Crop Insurance Scheme, Coconut Palm Insurance Scheme and the Pilot Unified Package Insurance Scheme. However, none of these schemes has become popular among farmers because their premium rates are quite high, and they have several inbuilt bylaws for calamities and other factors that are mostly unfavourable to the farmers. For example, while more than 11 lakh policies were purchased by farmers in 2017, only 3.08 lakh were indemnified. Other reasons for their non-acceptance are the complicated procedures involved, lack of education and awareness among farmers, and most importantly, the incapability and affordability of poor farmers to pay the annual premium in advance.In contrast, the farmers of developed countries are in a better position in several ways and capable of paying premium. A variety of insurance policies are available at competitive rates, which cover personal liability of farmers and their co-workers, their farmhouses and possessions, machinery and livestock, and stored-on-farm agri products, besides the insurance for crops that witness a loss in yield, whether it is due to an insurable cause of loss in the quality or quantity of the insured crop. Governments co-pay substantial premiums; for instance, in British Columbia province of Canada, the government pays up to 45 per cent of the crop insurance premium. Moreover, the system is transparent and farmers use insurance policies to cover the risk and make a profit.MSP shieldThe Union Government introduced the MSP (minimum support price) regime to guarantee a minimum profit for the farmer for his harvest if the open market offers a lesser price than the cost incurred. Although the MSP is announced for 23 farm-produced crops, the Centre does not assure that all these agri products are purchased at or above the MSP. The Centre purchases mainly paddy (unmilled rice), wheat and a few pulses through the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and state government agencies for their distribution among poor people through the Public Distribution System (PDS). This leaves the farmers at the mercy of corporates (including private buyers), who may purchase all remaining agri products at whatever price they offer, and farmers have no option but to sell their produce.As the MSP holds the key to farmers’ security and the nation’s self-sufficiency, the provision of its legal status is a necessity so that no one can swindle, fleece or force poor farmers, who are already in a pitiable condition, to sell their agri products at much lower than economically viable rates. This would also encourage crop diversification so as to avoid a glut of wheat and rice, and reduce imports of pulses and edible oils.In a nutshell, we should either adopt reforms of developed countries in totality, including liberalisation in agriculture and agri-marketing, social security and crop insurance, as selective actions can distort our well-established system and prove counterproductive, or try to frame our own viable and dynamic agricultural policies that will provide economic and ecological sustainability and protect the interests of various sections of the population.The author is former Dean, College of Agriculture, PAU, and founder V-C, BandaUniversity of Agriculture and Technology, UPSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-laws-half-baked-policies-can-be-counterproductive-222121
08-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmers’ agitation: Samyukta Kisan Morcha to reveal agenda on March 11; plans to expand movement to more states||Farmer unions on Sunday said that they will not be returning from Delhi borders till their demand that the new farm laws be repealed are met. Unions will unveil the next agenda and programme for the coming days on March 11, Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary of BKU (Dakaunada) said. Also read: Farmers’ agitation to continue till rollback of three farm laws: TikaitThe aim is to expand the movement to other parts of the country, including poll-bound West Bengal and, states like Madhya Pradesh Karnataka and Odisha, added BKU general secretary Yudhvir Singh.Senior leaders say despite “many hurdles posed by the government and its agencies”, “the movement is going strong and is set to become bigger”. However, they continue to insist that their movement was apolitical. Also read: Hisar farmer ends life by hanging from tree at Tikri border, blames three farm lawsJagmohan Singh said the organisations will coordinate with BJP’s rivals to make this clear to them. “We are apolitical, we want to make it clear to the Opposition parties as well,” he said Unions are also planning meetings, panchayats and mahapanchayats in other states. Yudhvir Singh said the movement has got tremendous support from across the country and it is now time that farmers in other states like Odisha and Karnataka to register it physically. “For 100 days farmers have been camping at the Delhi borders in the bitter cold, many have also died. But the government’s attitude has not just been disappointing but also shameful. We have no other option but to take the movement to other states and ensure our physical presence there. We will do whatever it takes to show our ‘nararzgi’ (anger),” he said. Yudhvir Singh said the movement has got a very good response from Rajasthan and they are considering a panchayat in Jaipur on the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. “We will hold meetings/panchayats in Bengal on March 12, 13, and 14, Madhya Pradesh on March 14 and 15, Odisha on March 19, and Karnataka on March 20, 21, and 22. The movement is no longer limited to dharnas. If we want, we can collect a huge crowd on Delhi borders in one hour, but that is not the only aim now,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-agitation-samyukta-kisan-morcha-to-reveal-agenda-on-march-11-plans-to-expand-movement-to-more-states-221909
08-03-2021||Jhajjar||Hisar farmer ends life by hanging from tree at Tikri border, blames three farm laws||A 48-year-old farmer died by suicide as he hung himself from a tree at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Sunday. He left a note blaming the three contentious farm laws for the extreme step.The deceased, who was actively participating in the farmers' agitation, has been identified as Rajbir from Hisar district.A suicide note recovered from the spot said the three farm laws were responsible for him taking the extreme step.The incident came to light when fellow farmers spotted his body hanging from the tree near the Kasar village turn and informed the police.In a suicide note, Rajbir called upon the farmers to go back home only after the three farm laws are repealed and the minimum support price (MSP) is guaranteed. He also demanded the Union Government fulfil his last wish and repeal the laws.“The government demands sacrifice hence I sacrifice on behalf of farmers,” stated the suicide note.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) Haryana has expressed a deep sense of grief on the tragic incident."The note left behind by the deceased shows the extent of anguish among the protesting farmers as a result of utter insensitivity of the Modi government," said Inderjeet Singh, a leader of the SKM.He claimed these sacrifices shall not go to waste and the people would "severely punish the BJP and JJP".Last month, a farmer from Jind in Haryana who was also supporting the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws had allegedly hanged himself from a tree, merely two kilometres from the Tikri border protest site.Earlier, another farmer from Haryana had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at the Tikri border. He had died during treatment at a Delhi hospital later.In December last, a lawyer from Punjab had allegedly killed himself by consuming poison a few kilometres away from the protest site at the Tikri border.Earlier, Sikh preacher Sant Ram Singh had also allegedly ended his life near the Singhu border protest site, claiming that he was “unable to bear the pain of the farmers”.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November last year at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the Centre has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. —with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-farmer-ends-life-by-hanging-from-tree-at-tikri-border-blames-three-farm-laws-221860
