09-03-2021||Chandigarh||No changes to be made in rules and norms of reservation for SC, BC in govt jobs: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar on Tuesday announced in the Assembly that there will be no change in the rules and norms of reservation for Scheduled Castes (SC) and Backward Classes (BC) in government jobs.The existing rules will remain, Khattar said, responding to the points raised by the opposition regarding changes brought by the state government to allow any person living in Haryana for five years to get a domicile certificate as against the earlier requirement of 15 years.Khattar was responding to the discussion of the motion of thanks to the governor's address in the Assembly.On some issues flagged by opposition members regarding the government's policy to reserve 75 per cent private sector jobs for local youths, Khattar said Haryana was not the only state to have such a provision."Whatever is in the interest of our state, we will do that,” he said, adding if any changes are to be made, the government will do so.“We don't have any pressure,” he said.Giving 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs was a key poll promise of the BJP's ally Jannayak Janta Party (JJP).On the issue of farmers, he said their interests are paramount for the state government which had taken a number of steps for their welfare.The chief minister said that state government is committed to economic development and prosperity of farmers of the state.Khattar said the state government has also taken steps to increase crushing capacity of sugar mills.The chief minister said that to reduce water consumption, the state government had urged farmers to adopt crop diversification and this decision too drew a lot of criticism initially.Under the Distress Ration Scheme, 4.86 lakh families were provided free ration for three months, he said.He accused the opposition Congress of misleading people about the rate of unemployment in the state, and said its members were quoting figures from a private agency which were not correct. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-changes-to-be-made-in-rules-and-norms-of-reservation-for-sc-bc-in-govt-jobs-khattar-222892
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ agitation dominates second day of discussion on Governor’s address||The farmers’ agitation on three central farm laws dominated the discussion on Governor’s address for the second day in Haryana Assembly on Tuesday.  Treasury benches accused the opposition of misleading farmers. The Congress leaders called for giving the status of martyrs to farmers who lost their lives during the agitation on Haryana borders and also demanded financial assistance for their families.  Two Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) MLAs, Jogi Ram Sihag and Ram Kumar Gautam, spoke against the farm laws.  Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said farmers were being misled on Minimum Support Price (MSP) that it would end.He said, “In fact, during our rule, more crops are being included in the ambit of the MSP. The mandis will not end but they will be strengthened.”Attacking the Congress, he said it was during their rule the law on contract farming was brought but now they were opposing a similar law brought by the Central government.  Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda countered, “We are not against private investment in agriculture. Our law ensured purchase through MSP in contract farming and our amendment was making the purchase below MSP a penal offence.”  Earlier, starting the discussion today, BJP MLA Assem Goyal said neither the MSP nor mandis would end. He claimed that Punjab Congress leader Navjot Sidhu had praised Haryana’s procurement system.When he accused Congress of farmers’ suicides during their rule and grabbing their land under land acquisition law, ruckus started. Congress MLAs entered the well of the house.  Former minister and Congress MLA Kiran Choudhry said farmers, small entrepreneurs, and unemployed youth present the real picture of the state today and not the rosy image created in Governor’s address.“Fun was made of farmers’ death by a minister. We have seen lathi-charge and use of water canon against farmers. Nails were dug on their way to stop them,” she said.  Former minister Raghubir Singh Kadian accused the government of snapping power, water, and internet at the protest sites at Haryana borders.“The National Investigation Agency (NIA) sent notices to farmers’ leaders. Sedition cases are filed against them. Farmers are called parasites. This is fascism,” he said.  Congress MLA BB Batra described the BJP-JJP administration as a “government of scams”.“Liquor scam, paddy scam and recruitment scam have taken place under this government. PTI and art and craft teachers also lost their jobs because of the government.”  While taking a jibe at the ruling alliance, Deputy CLP leader Aftab Ahmed said their CM, ministers, and MLAs were not able to visit their constituencies due to farmers’ backlash. “Are we misleading them?” he asked.  JJP MLA Jogi Ram Sihag said that farmers’ agitation was the biggest movement in Haryana and state peasants were apprehensive about three central farm laws.He called for enacting a new law by the state legislature to guarantee MSP. Another JJP MLA Ram Kumar Gautam said the House should pass a resolution urging the Central government to hold the implementation of the laws till 2024. Towards the end, Rewari Congress MLA Chiranjivi Rao said, “Please do not get CBI or ED to raid an MLA if he votes for us during the no-confidence motion.”  BJP MLAs Deepak Mangla, KL Middha, Vinod Bhayana, and Kamal Gupta supported the government during the discussion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-agitation-dominates-second-day-of-discussion-on-governors-address-222869
09-03-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram: Posing as custom officers, fake call centre employees dupe 500 Americans in a month||Gurugram police on Tuesday busted a fake call centre where employees impersonating custom officials would dupe foreigners threatening to cancel their social security numbers.They used to charge USD 3,000 to 5,000 through gift cards from the vulnerable victims.The police have arrested the team leader from the spot, while the owner of the call centre is still absconding. An FIR has been registered at Udyog Vihar police station.A police team led by Inspector Satbir Singh, SHO of Udyog Vihar police station, conducted a raid on Tuesday after getting a tip off that a fake call centre was being run from the third floor of plot no 7500, Udyog Vihar phase-V.When police reached the spot, a total of 35 employees, including women, were busy on computers and laptops making calls to Americans.Police nabbed team leader Ranjeet Singh Rana from spot and during investigation the raiding team found that the fake call centre was operating since last month.They did not possess any valid OSP licences of department of telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work. Police detained all employees and let them off on bail later.“They were calling the Americans posing as custom officers saying they had received a parcel containing drugs and illegal alcohol. Threatening them of legal action they would also threaten to close their social security number and scared, the victims gave money. They had duped over 500 Americans,” said SHO Satbir Singh.The SHO added that the arrested team leader revealed that he is a graduate and wanted to make quick money and thus started the fake call centre along with his friend from Ahmedabad, who is still absconding. Further investigation is being done by the cybercrime police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-posing-as-custom-officers-fake-call-centre-employees-dupe-500-americans-in-a-month-222854
09-03-2021||Jhajjar||Haryana farmer dies of cardiac arrest at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border||A farmer died of cardiac arrest at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Radha Mann of Dhindholi village in Jind district.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi borders to demand the repeal of the three contentious farm laws. They claim that the new laws have left them at the mercy of corporates and will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system. The government, however, has presented the laws as “major agricultural reforms”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmer-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-at-tikri-bahadurgarh-border-222805
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Assembly is competent to pass Congress bill, says Legal Remembrancer||The Legal Remembrancer (LR) informed Chief Minister that under Rule 36 of Rules of Business, Government of Haryana, the Assembly is competent to enact the Congress’ private member bill on Haryana Agricultural Produce Markets (Haryana Amendment) Bill, 2021—which intends to guarantee MSP to farmers.LR reasoned, in its letter dated February 17, “The subject matter of the proposed legislation is relatable to entry 14 of the State List in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India, and the State Legislature is, therefore, competent to enact the proposed measure. It is not a Money Bill.” Under Rule 36, the LR added, that “It would be necessary to embark upon legislation as the purpose in view cannot be achieved otherwise, and It will be necessary to reserve the Bill for the consideration of the President of India after it being passed by the State Legislature as required under the provisions of Article 254 (2) of the Constitution of India”. It adds that the “proposed measure would not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution of India including those relating to Fundamental Rights”. However, while rejecting the Bill, Haryana Assembly had told 24 Congress MLAs, including former CM BS Hooda, dated March 5, that it was intending to amend central laws through an amendment in state law on the matter which is subjudice and provisions under Article 254 and 246 are very clear in this regard. Therefore, it will not be legally appropriate to consider the Bill, as advised by the agriculture department, read the letter from Assembly to the MLAs. Rohtak Congress MLA BB Batra, who had led the party’s arguments in the Assembly against rejection, said: “It is nowhere intimated by the LR that the bill couldn’t be moved. The agriculture department is not competent to decide on it.” When contacted, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said, that they acted as per the state government’s letter to them. “Chief Secretary and Agriculture Secretary told us that Bill was not legally appropriate when it is subjudice,” he said. The LR has opined that according to rule 37 of the Rules of Business, the Bill is needed to be first submitted to the Council of Ministers for obtaining their approval and after that to the Law Department. It was recommended to the administrative department to submit the case to the Council of Ministers first. The LR also said that in the proposed Bill, under clause 8J, neither the “description of any Central Act nor of APMC Act has been provided, which specifically needs to be clarified, particularly by mentioning the name of the said Act”. Regarding another anomaly, the LR said that clause 8K of the Bill said that it will have an “overriding effect” on Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2020 but no such Act existed in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-assembly-is-competent-to-pass-congress-bill-says-legal-remembrancer-222763
09-03-2021||Sushil Manav||Weekly Covid cases treble in month||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 8With Covid cases witnessing a spurt again after three months, the weekly number of new infections has increased more than thrice in a month and active cases have more than doubled in two weeks.The state recorded 1,736 new infections from March 1 to 7 compared to 534 cases from February 1 to 7. The number of deaths was low, with eight fatalities in the first week of March compared to 11 in the first week of February.The number of active cases more than doubled in two weeks — from 861 between February 15 and 21 to 2,031 in the first week of March.Nine districts accounted for 90 per cent of the state’s total active cases Gurugram (396), Karnal (331), Kurukshetra (293), Panchkula (224), Ambala (182), Panipat (126), Kaithal (110), Yamunanagar (101) and Faridabad (98).The test positivity rate, which had gone down to less than 0.5 per cent towards the first week of February, had now risen to 1.2 per cent. “A surge has been witnessed in neighbouring states and this is bound to impact Haryana. We have not reduced our testing and efforts are being made to identify and isolate those testing positive,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare.12 more test +ve at Kaithal govt schoolKarnal: A day after 23 students were found positive for Covid-19, 12 more students of Government Senior Secondary School, Kharka village in Kaithal, have tested positive for coronavirus, taking the number to 35 in two days. The department has collected samples of around 160 students and teachers of the school where 23 students and 5 teachers had tested positive, said an official, adding that the students have been kept in isolation. The school has already been closed, the official added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weekly-covid-cases-treble-in-month-222552
09-03-2021||---||Police foil protesters’ bid to lock Chaudhary Bansi Lal University||Hisar, March 8Residents of Prem Nagar village, about 10 km from Bhiwani, tried to lock Chaudhary Bansi Lal University on Monday. They were demanding jobs for local youth and a medical college on the land donated to the state government.A heavy police posse foiled their bid. The protesting villagers asked the district administration to arrange a meeting with the Chief Minister for a discussion on their demands. The villagers had been on the agitation path for nearly two months.The Prem Nagar panchayat had given land to the state government on a token lease of Re 1 per year for setting up a university and medical college. While the university was functional, the government had changed its plan regarding a medical college, which was now being constructed in Bhiwani.Accompanied by police personnel, SDM Mahesh Kumar and DSP Virender Singh kept the protesters away from the university premises. The protesters maintained that they would continue their dharna till their demands were met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-foil-protesters-bid-to-lock-chaudhary-bansi-lal-university-222553
09-03-2021||---||75% job quota only pretence, says Kumari Selja||Chandigarh, March 8President of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee Kumari Selja said in order to hide its failures, the BJP-JJP government of Haryana was only pretending to give 75 per cent reservation to the local youth in new jobs in the private sector.“Neither the youth of the state is happy with this decision, nor are the people running industries. This government has once again betrayed people of the state,” she said.She added, “Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman herself was describing this decision as incomprehensible. The entire Bill has given a way that if a company does not get the special skills in the youth of Haryana for employment, it can hire outsiders. This way, any industry can deny reservation to the local youth by making excuses.” Holding a press conference today, she said the objective of the Congress’ no-confidence motion was to expose ministers and MLAs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/75-job-quota-only-pretence-says-kumari-selja-222555
09-03-2021||---||Kapi Devl’s appointment as first Chancellor of the sports university hits rough patch||Chandigarh, March 8The state government’s plan to appoint cricket legend Kapil Dev as the first Chancellor of the sports university in Rai (Sonepat) suffered a setback today with the Assembly withdrawing the Sport University of Haryana Bill, 2019, following an objection by the Centre.Sports and Youth Welfare Minister Sandeep Singh, who moved the resolution for the Bill’s withdrawal, said: “On the Centre’s advice, it has been decided to have a relook at the Bill.”The Centre has raised objections concerning the criteria for the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor.Intervening in the discussion, Congress legislator BB Batra said the state government was competent to withdraw the Bill, but the legal status of any appointment in the proposed university needed to be made public.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the objection flagged by the Centre in connection with the sports university would be cleared and it would be sent back to the Union Government for approval.“The Bill was sent to the Centre after having been vetted by Legal Remembrancer (LR). Since objections have been raised, the Bill will be passed again and sent to the Government of India. It is important to construct a sports university, which will provide budding sportspersons with a platform to hone their skills,” he added.In 2019, the Assembly had passed the Bill to establish the first sports university in Haryana. Then Sports Minister Anil Vij had, on September 14, 2019, tweeted that 1983 World Cup winning captain Kapil Dev, who belongs to Haryana, would be the first Chancellor of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kapi-devls-appointment-as-first-chancellor-of-the-sports-university-hits-rough-patch-222557
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||CM Khattar launches drive on anaemia, WhatsApp helpline for women||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today launched a campaign against anaemia and malnutrition on the occasion of Women’s Day. He also inaugurated 30 model creches for working women.Further upgrading women’s safety, the Chief Minister started WhatsApp Women Helpline. Now, women of the state can also complain through WhatsApp on the number 9478913181 in case of emergency. Earlier, the helpline number 181 was available for assistance.On the occasion, women who excelled in various fields were also honoured. Sirsa, Bhiwani and Sonipat districts were awarded first, second and third prizes, respectively for their outstanding performance in enhancing sex ratio. Besides this, Nuh, Mahendragarh and Panchkula were awarded the first, second and third prizes, respectively for the state-level nutrition award.To provide protection and shelter to abandoned children, the ‘Hari Har Scheme’ was launched. Under the scheme, abandoned child will be given shelter at a state-run destitute home till 18 years of age and thereafter, the state will provide financial aid to him or her for further education. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-khattar-launches-drive-on-anaemia-whatsapp-helpline-for-women-222558
09-03-2021||---||Two projects dedicated to women launched||Karnal, March 8 To empower women and children, the Kaithal district administration has launched two major projects on Monday, including “Swabhimaan” and “Neev”.  Project Swabhimaan is an initiative of Chief Minister Good Governance Associate (CMGGA) Pankhuri Gupta to promote sustainable livelihood of women focused on production of high-quality and low-cost sanitary napkins to ensure hygienic menstrual health to women and girls in Kaithal with the help of self-help groups. The project Neev is an initiative of the district administration chalked out by Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh under the six-month strategy to curve low sex-ratio at birth, gender inequality, anaemia, malnutrition, child-abuse, and crime against women at village level.  Dr Rakesh Gupta, Commissioner and Secretary, Government of Haryana, Department of Women and Child Development, launched project Neev through video-conferencing. He appreciated and motivated the administration and the CMGGA to implement the project successfully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-projects-dedicated-to-women-launched-222560
09-03-2021||adeep Sharma---||House bonhomie on women’s day||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 8 In the male-dominated Haryana Assembly, women legislators hogged the limelight on the International Women's Day today. Be it presiding over different sessions of the House or participating in the discussion on the Governor's Address, women had more than their share of allocated time. And for a change, male legislators did not mind women holding the centrestage. As soon as the Question Hour was over, Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta stepped aside and invited senior Congress member Kiran Choudhry to preside over the session while two-time BJP MLA Seema Trikha was given the privilege of opening the debate on the Governor's Address. Later, Trikha, Geeta Bhukkal (Congress) and Naina Chautala (JJP) held the fort by being the presiding officers. Trikha and Bhukkal did their best to toe their party line while speaking on the Governor's Address, but the acrimony was short-lived and bonhomie prevailed in the House. On their part, male legislators tried their best to make women comfortable. Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel tried his hand at poetry on the theme of the International Women's Day, while his party colleague Subhash Sudha and Kuldeep Vats (Congress) wore pinks jacket to mark the occasion. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala responding to a slew of demands from his mother (Naina Chautala) announced that 33 per cent ration depots would be allotted to women in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/house-bonhomie-on-womens-day-222561
09-03-2021||Sushil Manav||Haryana Cong, BJP spar over farmer agitation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 8Noisy scenes were witnessed in the Assembly during a discussion on the Governor’s Address on Monday as Opposition members led by Gita Bhukkal of the Congress attacked the government on the farmers’ protest and BJP MLAs, including ministers Kanwar Pal Gujjar and JP Dalal, accused the Congress of misguiding farmers.Protest not in state’s interestThe protest at the Delhi borders is not in the interests of the state. I get calls not to visit villages in my segment. We cannot even visit our constituencies, what to speak of working for people. — Devender Babli, JJP MLAToday was the first day of the discussion on the Governor’s Address. The motion on thanks on the Governor’s Address was moved by Seema Trikha and seconded by Naina Chautala. Ruckus ensued when when Bhukkal started attacking the government over the handling of the farmers’ agitation.Carrying pictures of farmers who had died during the agitation, she said it was ironical that they were celebrating International Women’s Day even as hundreds of women had lost their husbands, sons and brothers because of the attitude of the government.“A nation moves forward when its women become achievers. How will the country progress when its women are forced to protest on the roads?” she said. Terming the farm laws as “black laws”, she alleged the government was insensitive to farmers.Bhukkal was interrupted by Gujjar, who said before terming the laws as “black”, the Congress MLA should clarify what was black about the three laws. Ruckus ensued when Gujjar accused the Congress of misleading farmers and held it responsible for the death of farmers.Dalal retorted when Bhukkal referred to his comments on the deaths. She wanted him to apologise for his “insensitive” comments.Some other members from the treasury benches came in support of the ministers. Kiran Choudhry, who was in the chair when Bhukkal started her speech, had a tough time managing BJP members.The moment Trikha replaced Choudhry in the chair, she asked Bhukkal to take her seat as her time was over. This prompted Bhukkal to come to the Well of the House, demanding more time.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda intervened, saying time wasted by BJP members must not be counted. Trikha gave one more minute to Bhukkal to finish her speech.Devender Babli of the JJP surprised everyone by targeting his government. He said happenings on the Delhi borders were not in the interests of the state.“I get calls not to visit villages in my segment. We cannot even visit our constituencies, what to speak of working for them,” he said.The television relay in the media gallery at Haryana Niwas went off when he was speaking. It was later clarified that it was a technical glitch.Tertiary cancer care centre soonChandigarh: Health Minister Anil Vij on Monday said the process of setting up a tertiary cancer care centre in Fatehabad was in progress. He said work on a tertiary cancer care centre in Ambala would be started soon. Responding to a question, he said a proposal to set up a cath lab at the Civil Hospital in Sonepat was under consideration. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cong-bjp-spar-over-farmer-agitation-222562
09-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||No martyr status for farmers who died in stir: Haryana Home Minister||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 8Home Minister Anil Vij today told the Assembly that there was no proposal under the consideration to give the martyr status to farmers who died during the agitation.Also, no proposal was there to provide government jobs and aid to the families of farmers hailing from the state, he said.Earlier, the Congress had demanded that the status of martyr to deceased farmers and financial assistance to their families on the pattern of Punjab should be given.To a question from the Congress MLAs Aftab Ahmed and Indu Raj Narwal, Vij said 68 farmers had died till February 18. Of these, 21 belonged to Haryana and 47 Punjab.Meanwhile, as Congress MLAs were asking questions during the question hour, Vij said he had thought Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Hooda would organise a training camp for his MLAs but what could you expect from him when he was chargesheeted in corruption cases. Hooda said the cases were politically motivated.Congress MLA Kuldeep Vats took a jibe at Vij and said the quality of health services could be gauged from the fact that the Health Minister had to shift to a private hospital from the PGIMS, Rohtak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-martyr-status-for-farmers-who-died-in-stir-haryana-home-minister-222563
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Best MLA Award for Abhe Singh Yadav, Varun Chaudhary||Nangal Chaudhary MLA Abhe Singh Yadav and Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhary will be awarded the Best Legislator Award for 2020-21 for overall outstanding contribution to the Assembly.The selection criteria include attendance in House, behaviour on floor of the House, contribution in carrying out development works for constituency and contribution to various House committees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/best-mla-award-for-abhe-singh-yadav-varun-chaudhary-222565
09-03-2021||andigarh||Cong MLAs pull tractor to protest rising fuel prices||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday led a march of Congress MLAs to the Assembly against inflation while sitting on a tractor, pulled by party MLAs with ropes.MLA Shakuntla Khatak pushed an auto-rickshaw alone while MLA Neeraj Sharma drove a Honda Activa to protest against fuel price hike.When they were stopped at a check post before the Assembly gate and told that they couldn’t take a tractor inside, the Congress MLAs blocked the road and raised slogans against the government. The jam on the road started lengthening.Hooda said the common man was facing all-round inflation due to the policies of the government. “While incomes of families are decreasing, household expenses are increasing.”Finally, the police personnel allowed the march till the Assembly gate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-mlas-pull-tractor-to-protest-rising-fuel-prices-222566
09-03-2021||vinder Saini||With verve & vigour, women farmers put up show of strength at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 8Women put on a show of strength at the Tikri border today — from serving langar to delivering speeches, from conducting the stage to raising anti-government slogans. Their presence at the protest site was all-pervasive on the International Women’s Day.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) had given a call to its member organisations to hand over the reins of the protest to women to mark the occasion.A large number of women from Punjab and Haryana reached Tikri in buses, tractor-trailers and cars to join the protest. With verve and vigour, they discharged the duty of volunteers throughout the day.Dressed in traditional attires, Haryanvi women danced on folk songs and raised anti-government slogans in their local dialect.“Every day is a women’s day, but today is a special day for us we have taken the centrestage. Today’s programme symbolises unity among us all. Some hard steps will be taken to get the three farm laws repealed,” said Suman Hooda, an activist from Hisar.Another women leader Sudesh Goyat said, “Women are soft, but not weak. We have been standing shoulder to shoulder with farmers in this agitation and will leave no stone unturned to ensure their victory.”Women who took initiative and worked tirelessly to strengthen the agitation were felicitated at the border today.“The mobilisation of women in large numbers at Delhi borders is a lesson for the Centre, which tried to mislead people by making false statements about the stir,” said Jagmati Sangwan, vice-president of the Janwadi Mahila Samiti.To mark the occasion, green “jalebis”, “kheer” and other sweets were prepared. “Since green is the symbol of agriculture, we decided to make green ‘jalebis’ to send out a message to the Center that all farmers are united and will not return home until the three farm laws are repealed,” a farmer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-verve-vigour-women-farmers-put-up-show-of-strength-at-tikri-border-222568
09-03-2021||Kurukshetra||No-trust motion against Haryana Govt, crucial: Gurnam Singh Charuni||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has said the no-confidence motion against the state government, the discussion on which will be held in the Assembly on March 10, was crucial.He appealed to public to hold protests, submit memorandums and mount pressure on BJP, JJP and Independent legislators to vote in favour of the no-confidence motion.In a video message, he said: “Residents of the state should protest in front of the residences of legislators, who have been supporting the state government. They should warn the leaders that they would face social and political boycott if they continued to support the laws.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-trust-motion-against-haryana-govt-crucial-gurnam-singh-charuni-222569
09-03-2021||---||Farmers launch ‘kisan mazdoor nyay yatra’||Karnal, March 8Farmers under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Tikait) on Monday launched a ‘kisan mazdoor nyay yatra’ from here.Through the yatra, the farmers will reach out to the people of the state to highlight the disadvantages of the three farm laws passed by the Union government. Besides, they will also highlight the uncontrolled inflation in terms of increasing prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. They are also demanding a guarantee law ensuring the MSP.Rattan Mann, state president, BKU, said the farmers’ agitation had crossed 100 days, but the government was not taking the issues of the farmers seriously.“We have started the yatra in support of our demands. Also, we are demanding a cut in the rates of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders,” said Mann. “We have started this yatra to ensure justice to farmers and mazdoors,” the state president added.Bhupinder Singh Ladi, state general secretary of the BKU, said farmers assembled at the old grain market and took out a protest march through all major roads of the city. Some farmers were walking, while several others were on tractors. He said the yatra would reach every district of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-launch-kisan-mazdoor-nyay-yatra-222571
09-03-2021||---||Protesting women farmers apply ‘inquilabi mehendi’, play ‘gatka’ at Ghazipur border||Ghazipur (Ghaziabad), March 8Women’s Day was celebrated at the Ghazipur border on Monday. Women protesters volunteered to manage the stage on this special day.The running theme was ‘Inquilabi Mehendi’ as women applied henna on their hands with farmers’ protest slogans. ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’, ‘Nari Shakti Zindabad’ and plough patterns were found on the hands of the women. A few also performed ‘gatka’ (combat training with wooden sticks).The Andolan Committee had a set calendar to mark the special day. Over 18 women sat on a hunger strike on the stage for the day, whereas on a normal day, 12 male protesters sit.“We used the day to portray that mehendi is not only used for beautification purposes. Today, we used it to show that mehendi can be used to further inquilab as well,” Ravneet Kaur said.Ravneet Kaur, who was overseeing the stage and other engagements, further said women from many states and children too took part in the Women’s Day celebrations.“We had women from Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala and a few other states. Women from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand have been present here for a long time. Some of them addressed the crowd against the farm laws, but many were here to show support for the andolan,” Ravneet explained.“There were few poets who addressed the crowd while a few played ‘gatka’ near the stage, she added.BSCM, ABVP activists clash at DU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-women-farmers-apply-inquilabi-mehendi-play-gatka-at-ghazipur-border-222572
09-03-2021||Sonepat||"Women Farmer’s Day" celebrated at Singhu border||Thousands of women farmers celebrated the International Women’s Day as “Mahila Kisan Diwas” (Women Farmer’s Day) at the Singhu border. They held a protest march and expressed anger against the Centre for not having repealed the three contentious farm laws.Women leaders managed the stage and shared their experiences of struggle. Haryanavi women presented cultural programmes to mark the occasion.Scores of women from various parts of the country reached Singhu on Sunday evening, while groups of women in tractors, cars, jeeps, buses, tempos and trains reached the protest site later waving flags of farmers’ and labourers’ organisations.Kavita Kuruganti, a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said: “Women made all arrangements related to the morcha today.”At the Singhu border, women farmers challenged the Modi government and said they were getting stronger by the day.“The government feels that the agitation would run out of steam with time, but the spirits of the farmers are high,” one of the protesters said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-farmers-day-celebrated-at-singhu-border-222573
09-03-2021||Sonepat||Man, son end life||A 36-year-old man, Kaptan Singh of Kultana village in Rohtak district, and his four-year-old son Naman reportedly jumped before a train near Bandepur village in Sonepat on Sunday night. The GRP reached the spot and recovered the bodies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-son-end-life-222574
09-03-2021||Install streetlights on NH-65||Install streetlights on NH-65 in Narwana||Narwana: The NH-65 passing through Harial Chowk to the Patiala railway crossing flyover, Narwana, remains in absolute darkness as the evening falls and thousands of people who reside nearby are scared to move out during the night. Prominent establishments that fall into this route are PWD rest house, Basant Vihar, Mini-Secretariat, bus stand, telephone exchange, Government College and School, ITI, a lot of petrol pumps and auto showrooms. The NHAI must ensure that the streetlights are installed immediately. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaEnsure availability of rabies injectionsKurukshetra: All district government hospitals, including the CHCs (Community Health Centre) and PHCs (Primary Health Centre) are supposed to have adequate availability of injections for dog bites patients. Currently, there is a course of five injections for patients of dog bites. It is disheartening to note that many government hospitals, health centers and polyclinic have no availability of such injections. The Health Department should take necessary steps to ensure the availability of such injections in all hospitals, health centre and polyclinic. Ravi Bhushan, KurukshetraAdvertisement hoardings installed in Sector 21 parkPanchkula: Some unscrupulous elements have put up advertisement hoardings at the Sector 21 park and community centre purportedly in connivance with HSVP officials. Similarly, fruit & vegetable vendors continue to put up stalls in front of the market on B road, resulting in traffic chaos and accidents. The newly elected councillor who promised clean and squatter-free sector is now turning a blind eye. ND Bansal, PanchkulaJump in number Covid cases in P’kula worrisomePanchkula: A report of “44 Covid positive cases, biggest jump in P’kula since Dec 17”, is both worrisome and alarming. It should set the alarm bells ringing for the general public who seem to have thrown all required precautions to the winds, resulting in jump in cases. People should understand that the pandemic is not yet over and it will take a lot of time to get the entire population vaccinated. As such, nobody should lower the guard against the invisible enemy, which has already reached alarming proportions. Ramit Rittu Bagga, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/install-streetlights-on-nh-65-in-narwana-222586
09-03-2021||Kurukshetra||Women’s Day celebrations||Discussion on health, well-beingHisar: Department of applied psychology, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, organised a panel discussion on the topic “Health and well-being of women” at Ch Ranbir Singh Auditorium of the university on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Friday. Prof Sandeep Rana, Dean of colleges of the university, in his address emphasised that empowering women to participate fully in all sectors and at all levels was essential to build a strong nation. To improve the quality of life for women, they themselves needed to take the responsibility for their physical, social and mental health and also encourage men, families and communities to come together and provide an enriching environment to make progress. Dr Neelam Khetarpaul in her lecture highlighted the importance of healthy nutrition and balanced diet for girls and women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/womens-day-celebrations-222588
