10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 359 fresh COVID-19 cases, 2 fatalities||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 3,064 with two more fatalities on Wednesday, while 359 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 2,73,446, a bulletin by the Health Department said.One fatality each was reported from Karnal and Gurgaon districts, which also registered 83 and 80 fresh cases, respectively.At present, there are 2,440 active cases in the state, while the recovery rate is 97.99 per cent, the bulletin added. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-359-fresh-covid-19-cases-2-fatalities-223351
10-03-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Karni Sena president Suraj Pal Singh Ammu’s son found dead under mysterious circumstances||Gurugram, March 10Karni Sena national president Suraj Pal Singh Ammu’s 32-year-old son was found dead under mysterious circumstances in his Ghaziabad residence late Tuesday night.The police suspect it to be a case of suicide even as investigations are under way.Aniruddh Raghav was living in a rented accommodation in the Land Craft Society of Ghaziabad for the past three months with his wife Shalu Raghav. He was found dead in his house.“While his wife was at home at the time of death, she was found in a sedated state and is not in a condition to make any statement yet. She has been admitted to hospital. Prima facie, it seems like a case of suicide and we are waiting for the post-mortem report,” said Nipun Agarawal, SP (City), Ghaziabad.Police said they got a call from a friend of the deceased and when the team reached the spot, the body was found lying on the bed and a stole tied to the ceiling fan.After completing his education in England, Raghav had become an active member of the Karni Sena and Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha. His Facebook page shows him posing with BJP leaders, including Amit Shah.Suraj Pal Singh Ammu, president of Karni Sena, denied saying anything citing trauma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karni-sena-president-suraj-pal-singh-ammus-son-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-223348
10-03-2021|| Gurugram||24-hour vaccination in 5 Gurugram hospitals||In a bid to boost the ongoing vaccination drive, five Gurugram hospitals would be administering vaccine 24X7.The district is the first state to start this facility. It would be available in Government Hospital Sector 10, Medanta the Mdicity, Artemis, Fortis Memorial, and Max. This decision was taken during a special meeting of the vaccination task force. A vaccination helpline also has been started to aid, and encourage people for vaccination.“The rising of cases makes vaccination all the more important. Currently, immunisation is being done 9 to 5 but in these five big institutions, and we will now be going 24X7. This will not just reduce the load in certain hours, but would also increase our reach,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav. Currently, in Gurugram the vaccination is being provided in 22 government, and 45 private hospitals. Till now, since March 1 3,1636 people have been vaccinated whereas 19,762 people got immunised in private hospitals, and 11874 in government. The helpline numbers 108, and 7015663108 will provide information about the 24-hour vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/24-hour-vaccination-in-5-gurugram-hospitals-223324
10-03-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram: Four accident black spots get permanent ambulances stationed||To deal with poor immediate medical response to accident victims, Gurugram Road Traffic Accident (RTA) will permanently position four hi-tech ambulances at four major accident black spots.Ranking amongst the highest accident spots—IFFCO Chowk, Panchgaon Chowk near KMP, Sultanpur, and Hero Honda Chowk—will get ambulances.In case, any accident is reported close by the ambulances would not only provide first aid to injure, but would also ensure the injured reaches the hospital in time.The RTA collaborated with the Health Department for this project. There is also a plan, in the pipeline, to place ambulances on all accident black spots.At this point, there are over two dozen accident black spots in the district. About 16 accident black spots are on Delhi-Jaipur highway.According to RTA secretary, Dhaarna Yadav, hospitals are directed to improve referral transport system.“Private hospital have been asked to not only maintain entry register for ambulance, but to also provide the ambulance on accident spot with a better response time”, added Yadav.Notably, the police has identified more than two doze accident black spots.  As follows:Shankar Chowk, IFFCO chowk, Atlas Chowk, Signature tower chowk, Jharsa chowk, Rajiv chowk, Hero Honda chowk, Khands cut, Narsinghpur cut, Kherki Daula toll plaza, IMT, Manesar chowk, Panchgaon chowk, Bilaspur chowk, Sidhrawali and Rathiwas cut while three major black spots are on golf course road and these are Bristol chowk, Sector 56 Extension road and Himgiri Chowk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-four-accident-black-spots-get-permanent-ambulances-stationed-223323
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Though Director of Krrish Buildtech is not named as accused, CBI court summons him||Despite the CBI not making Amit Katyal, Director of Krrish Buildtech as accused in an individual capacity in a case related to Gurugram land release case, CBI Special Court, Haryana, has summoned him as an accused. The court in its order dated, March 9, said that “it has also been held that prima facie case to summon additional accused, namely, Amit Katyal, Director, M/s Krrish Buildtech Pvt. Ltd. (now M/s Brahma City Pvt Ltd) is also made out”, for committing offences punishable for criminal conspiracy read with cheating and forgery and Prevention of Corruption Act. Earlier, CBI Special Judge, Haryana, Panchkula, Jagdeep Singh, on February 11, had questioned that when there was a specific mention in the chargesheet that “in furtherance of the criminal conspiracy entered with Amit Katyal, director of M/s Krrish Builtech Pvt Ltd, despite having major discrepancies, accused JS Redhu (then Chief Town Planner in Town and Country Planning office) dishonestly and fraudulently, proposed to seek approval of the government to grant licence to the accused company, by releasing notified land of 130 acres from acquisition proceedings, thereby causing cheating to the related landowners/HUDA/State of Haryana”, Katyal had not been arrayed as an accused.   Investigating Officer (IO) DSP Kailash Sahu was even asked to file an affidavit in this regard.   Sahu told the Special Court on March 1 that the CBI stood by its challan and the “competent authority” had decided on it.   The IO had also mentioned that further investigation of the case had been kept pending on the point of ascertaining the role of other coloniser companies in the case as well as other licence cases as mentioned in the FIR.      Besides Redhu, former Assistant Town Planner Satish Kumar Arora and former Deputy Superintendent Rajbir Singh, both from the Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department, are named as accused in the challan along with M/s Krrish Builders for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act.  The case pertained to the release of notified land in sectors 58 to 63 and 65 to 67 of Gurugram. As a result out of 1417.07 acre notified land, the award was announced for only 85.95 acre in 2012.     The next date of hearing is March 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/though-director-of-krrish-buildtech-is-not-named-as-accused-cbi-court-summons-him-223304
10-03-2021||New Delhi||Hackers hit Indians with ransomware supporting farmers||In a unique way to support protesting farmers in India, cyber criminals have launched a new ransomware attack in the country that does not ask for money but justice for the community, conveying a message that no data will be recovered until the demands of the farmers are met, a new report revealed on Wednesday.The ransomware is designed to target entities connected with farmers’ protests in India, with the hacker group titled Khalsa Cyber Fauj reported to be leading this attack in the country.Quick Heal Security Labs, the threat research and response division of global cybersecurity firm Quick Heal Technologies, said it has discovered the ransomware named as “Sarbloh”, which is being distributed through malicious word documents via emails, containing a political message supporting the farmers’ community.“The latest Sarbloh ransomware that appears to be working in the favour of farmers without any monetary grains is a testimony to their growing attack abilities,” said Himanshu Dubey, Director, Quick Heal Security Labs.Surprisingly, threat actors through this new attack technique are infecting user devices by encrypting their files without asking for a ransom, which is usually the key objective of any ransomware.“Khalsa Cyber Fauj is using military-grade encryption on system files to turn them useless,” the company mentioned.The news came as apart from intensifying the agitation at Delhi’s borders, farmers are now trying to strengthen the stir against the Union farm laws on social media platforms as well.Farmers have been protesting against the various newly enacted Union farm laws since November 26, 2020, at various borders of the national Capital.“Threat actors have constantly demonstrated innovation through their evolving attack strategies. We will continue to analyse the threat environment and deploy safety measures for our users,” said Dubey.The company advised users not to download any attachment that comes from unknown emails and messages.“Avoid clicking on unverified links and those found in spam email. Besides, practice backing up the data so that it can be recovered in case of compromise, and keep updating antivirus solutions to stay protected,” the company said. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hackers-hit-indians-with-ransomware-supporting-farmers-223268
10-03-2021||---||38 cases registered after violence in Delhi on January 26, minister informs Parliament||New Delhi, March 10The government on Wednesday said Delhi Police had registered 38 cases against people, including foreigners, following the January 26 violence in the capital during the farmers’ protests.Responding to a written question in Parliament, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the police had informed them that no road had been dug up at the city’s borders in view of the agitation, but security had been strengthened in the national capital.“Delhi Police have informed that 38 cases have been registered against the persons, including foreigners, who violated various legal provisions, including cyber crime, recently in Delhi, while protesting in the name of farm laws,” the minister said.Reddy said Delhi Police had informed that the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha broke barricades on Republic Day in violation of the permission granted for taking out a tractor parade on a mutually accepted route. He said the protestors proceeded towards central Delhi despite being stopped at other barricades inside the city and broke those barricades as well.In view of this experience, and the manner in which the protesting farmers used tractors as weapons for breaking the barricades and injuring policemen, the barricades at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border were strengthened to prevent a repeat of the conduct displayed on January 26, the minister said.To alleviate the hardships caused to the commuting public due to the activities of the protestors, arrangements had been made to provide alternative routes to them, the minister said, adding that to ensure law and order and smooth movement of traffic at the borders adequate forces had been deployed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/38-cases-registered-after-violence-in-delhi-on-january-26-minister-informs-parliament-223262
10-03-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ending suspense, Tohana JJP MLA Babli toes party line in Assembly||Tribune News ServiceHisar, March 10Putting an end to the suspense over his stand in the Assembly, the JJP MLA from Tohana Devender Babli supported the BJP-JJP government during floor test to ensure win of the government in the no-confidence motion on Wednesday.Earlier in the day, his supporters gathered at his office in Tohana town of Fatehabad district to discuss his possible move. Manoj Babli, a brother of Devender Babli, told The Tribune that about 500 close workers have attended the meeting who left it to the MLA to take a final call on matter. “We discussed the issue whether the MLA should support or oppose the no-confidence motion in view of the farmers agitation. The sentiments of the workers was conveyed to him,” Manoj said while refusing the share the details of the discussion in the meeting.Read also: BJP-JJP government in Haryana wins trust voteIn a statement to the mediapersons yesterday, Davinder Babli had urged his party, JJP, to walk out of the government in view of the pending issues of farmers. Babli has urged the JJP to walk out of the government as there has been pressure on the government and the leaders, including the chief minister and deputy chief minister and the JJP MLAs are not able to organise public meetings in their constituencies.His supporters kept their fingers crossed throughout the day as the MLA finally opted to go with the government during the vote in Assembly. The political observer said the yesterday’s utterances of the Tohana and the workers meeting at his residence was an exercise to project him as sympathiser of the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ending-suspense-tohana-jjp-mla-babli-toes-party-line-in-assembly-223258
10-03-2021||Vibha Sharma||‘Reservation of jobs for locals in Haryana against Sangh's one nation one people stance’||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 10While the ruling  BJP's ideological fountainhead, the RSS, is not in agreement with the jobs for locals decision of the beleaguered BJP-Jannayak Janta Party government in Haryana, senior functionaries say the political decision is "unlikely to fructify", and if implemented it may fall under its own weight due to "economic and revenue losses it may lead to in the state."A senior RSS functionary who blamed political expediency behind the move to counter growing despair and discontent and the ongoing farmers' movement said if implemented, the loss will "ultimately be that of the state government".Notably, the Monohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana recently decided to bring in a law to reserve of 75 per cent of private-sector jobs with a salary cap of Rs50,000 monthly for locals. Stating that Haryana, reservation in jobs for locals in Haryana contradicts the “one nation, one people” stance of the Sangh, the functionary also agreed that the decision could not be taken without the concurrence of Narendra Modi government in the Centre."If it is indeed put in practice, the state will have to bear economic losses as business will always find a way to circumvent the situation. They can move their business out of Haryana or open offices in Delhi and show the work force from other states on rolls there," the functionary added.Incidentally, the BJP-Jannayak Janta Party government, which faces a no-confidence motion today, has termed the decision as fulfillment of a key election promise."It has been done under pressure (including from the JJP) but the fact is migration of people for jobs cannot be stopped. Besides such decisions always come with an economic fallout," he said, citing the example of Bihar where the ban on consumption of alcohol did not prove effective on the ground and caused revenue losses for the state.Giving another example, the prohibition by the erstwhile Bansi Lal government in Haryana, he said it led to mushrooming of a parallel illegal liquor industry in the state. "Ultimately, the decision had to be rolled back under public pressure," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reservation-of-jobs-for-locals-in-haryana-against-sanghs-one-nation-one-people-stance-223232
10-03-2021||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has refuted a message being circulated on social media that it has formed a nine-member committee for talks with the government. SKM leader Dr Darshan Pal said that a team of morcha leaders would go to West Bengal and Assam to appeal to people to vote against the BJP in the forthcoming Assembly elections. The three-day tour would start on March 12||No farmers panel formed for talks with govt: SKM||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-farmers-panel-formed-for-talks-with-govt-skm-223122
10-03-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Ahead of Haryana trust vote, JJP MLA ‘breaks ranks’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 9On the eve of the Opposition Congress’ no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP Government in Haryana, the ruling alliance today issued a whip to its MLAs to attend the Assembly session even as voices of dissent began rising from the treasury benches while farm groups continued to pressure the legislators to support the motion.Also read:Late in the evening, JJP’s Devinder Babli demanded that his party withdraw support to the BJP. “We have lost the moral ground to be in power. I will meet our leader and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala in the morning and urge him to forgo his position and support the motion. Most of our MLAs want to support the motion. The government, in any case, will still have the numbers,” he said. JJP’s Ram Kumar Gautam and Jogi Ram Sihag, who had earlier spoken against the central farm laws in the House, said they were with the Khattar government.The Congress too has issued a whip to its MLAs. Though the numbers favour the government (BJP-JJP has 56 MLAs, including five Independents and one HLP MLA), the Congress (30 plus two Independents) aims to “expose” the government’s “anti-farmer stance”.Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “The main job of the Opposition is to give voice to the sentiments of the people, who have lost faith in the government. The numbers will favour us if voting takes place without any whip.”On the eve of the trust vote, farmers protested outside the houses of state ministers and MLAs in Karnal, Kaithal and Yamunanagar. BKU national spokesman Rakesh Tikait took to the social media urging the MLAs to vote against the government. Haryana minister and BJP chief whip Kanwar Pal said, “The members are requested to be present at the time of voting and must not leave without permission.” The JJP, under fire for “failing to stand with the farmers”, has issued a similar whip. Any member going against the whip will invite the provisions of the anti-defection law.Moved by ex-CM Hooda and signed by 28 Congress MLAs, the no-trust motion was accepted by Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on March 5, the first day of the Budget session, and fixed to be taken up in the House on March 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ahead-of-haryana-trust-vote-jjp-mla-breaks-ranks-223046
10-03-2021||---||Defending champions Hockey Haryana keen to retain trophy||Chandigarh, March 9Defending champions Hockey Haryana will be looking ahead to retain the title of the 11th Hockey India Sub-Junior Women National Championship 2021 starting from March 10 to 18 in Simdega district, Jharkhand, for the first time.Haryana had lifted the title in 2019 following a thrilling final against Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy. Hockey Jharkhand, which is in Pool B, and Hockey Odisha in Pool C are also expected to go far. Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy, meanwhile, will be looking to go one better than it did in 2019.Hockey Haryana, which is in Pool A along with Hockey Uttarakhand and Hockey Rajasthan, is upbeat about its chances of retaining the trophy.“We had a memorable outing last time (in 2019). The tournament was held in Haryana and the girls rose to the occasion to perform exceedingly well. So many players made a mark, including forward Deepika who currently plays for the Indian Junior Women’s Team. We are confident of putting up a good show once again. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, training was challenging but we have come well prepared, thanks to the support shown by Hockey Haryana and Hockey India,” said Kuldeep Siwach, coach, Hockey Haryana.Skipper Nidhi expressed excitement ahead of the tournament. “I am so glad to be back playing with my teammates after a long gap. The circumstances were challenging to train due to the Covid-19 restrictions. But in recent months, that has changed and we feel well prepared for the 11th Hockey India Sub-Junior Women National Championship - 2021. I am proud to be representing Haryana and we are confident of winning gold again,” said Nidhi.A total of 22 teams with over 400 players as well as coaching and support staff will be in Simdega for the prestigious tournament, which will be closely watched by Hockey India national selectors. After five days of pool matches, quarterfinals will be played on March 15. The semi-finals and the final will be held on March 17 and 18, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/defending-champions-hockey-haryana-keen-to-retain-trophy-223039
10-03-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Ban on diesel gensets lifted in Delhi-NCR||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 9In a significant order having implications for several districts of the state, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has lifted the ban on the use of diesel generator sets.Shiv Das Meena, CPCB Chairman, in his order said: “Air quality in the Delhi-NCR is expected to improve in the coming days because of improved ventilation conditions. Based on this forecast, the CPCB has decided to lift the ban on the use of diesel gensets in the Delhi-NCR.”The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA), on the advice of the task force on the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), had banned the use of diesel generator sets in the Delhi-NCR with effect from October 15, 2020.Now, on the recommendations of the Commission on Air Quality Management in the NCR and Adjoining Areas (which replaced the EPCA last year), the CPCB has lifted the ban. This, however, comes with strict compliance with the pollution control norms.State pollution control boards in the NCR have been asked to ensure that large construction sites adhere to the prescribed guidelines and take measures for dust management.The state boards have also been asked to clear waste, including plastic and municipal solid waste, dumped on the open land and by the roadside. Besides, they have been told to enforce pollution control regulations in brick-kilns and industries.The boards will also start mechanised sweeping of roads and sprinkle water on unpaved ones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ban-on-diesel-gensets-lifted-in-delhi-ncr-222988
10-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Time for trial courts to become strict: High court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 9The time has come for trial courts to be strict in their handling of parties, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has said. Tactics aimed at delaying proceedings have the tendency of adding to the burden of already clogged courts, it added.The assertion by Justice Sudhir Mittal comes at a time when 11,50,672 cases are pending in Haryana and another 8,44,434 are awaiting adjudication in Punjab. The problem of plenty is expected to worsen, with courts witnessing an unmanageable flood of litigation once these reopen for normal operations.Functioning in restricted mode for almost a year following Covid, courts were initially hearing a limited number of cases through video-conferencing. Although physical functioning had resumed to some extent in the subordinate judiciary, the process of hearing matters was yet to gain momentum.As a result of the inordinate pendency of cases, it was suspected that many petitioners were no more there to pursue their grievances. When some of these cases were suddenly listed, the counsel were often at a loss in the absence of complete records or instructions.Justice Mittal also asked trial courts to keep in mind the requirement of law that no party should be overtly prejudice by its act. The Bench was hearing a case in which it was evident that the defendants did not lead their evidence despite numerous opportunities.“No argument has been raised by the counsel for the petitioner to point out any error in the findings of the trial court. The grant of one opportunity on account of sympathy is not justified,” Justice Mittal asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/time-for-trial-courts-to-become-strict-high-court-222989
10-03-2021||Gurugram||Fake call centre staff dupe 500 Americans||The Gurugram police busted a fake call centre racket where employees impersonating as custom officials duped foreigners by threatening to cancel their social security numbers.They used to charge 3,000 to 5,000 dollars through gift cards from vulnerable victims. The police have arrested the team leader from the spot, while the owner of the call centre is still absconding. An FIR has been registered at Udyog Vihar police station.A police team led by Inspector Satbir Singh, SHO of the Udyog Vihar police station conducted a raid today after getting a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run from the third floor of plot No 7500, Udyog Vihar, Phase V. When the police reached the spot a total of 35 employees, including women, were busy on computers and laptops.The police nabbed team leader Ranjeet Singh Rana from the spot and during investigation, the raiding team found that the fake call centre was operating since last month. They did not possess any valid OSP licences or documents. The police detained all employees and let them off later on bail.“They would call the Americans posing as custom officers saying that they had received a parcel containing drugs and illegal alcohol. They were threatening them of legal action and that they would also cancel their social security number. The scared victims in return would give money. They had duped over 500 Americans like this”, said SHO Satbir Singh. The SHO further said the arrested team leader revealed that he was a graduate and wanted to make quick money and thus started this fake call centre with a friend from Ahmadabad, who was absconding. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-staff-dupe-500-americans-222990
10-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||2 JJP MLAs speak against farm laws||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 9The farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws dominated the discussion on the Governor’s Address for the second day in the Haryana Assembly here today.The Treasury benches accused the Opposition of misleading farmers. Congress leaders called for giving the status of martyr to farmers who lost their lives during the agitation on the Haryana borders and also demanded aid for their families.Farmers apprehensiveFarmers are apprehensive about the three farm laws. The state legislature must enact a new law guaranteeing the MSP to farmers. — Jogi Ram Sihag, JJP MLATwo Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) MLAs — Jogi Ram Sihag and Ram Kumar Gautam — spoke against the farm laws. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said that farmers were being misled on the MSP that it would end. He said, “In fact, during our rule, more crops are being brought within the ambit of the MSP. Mandis will not be abolished and rather they will be strengthened”.He said it was during the Congress rule that the law on contract farming was brought but now they were opposing a similar law enacted by the Central Government.Put laws on hold till 2024The House should pass a resolution to urge the Union Government to put on hold the implementation of the three laws till 2024.—  Ram Kumar Gautam, JJP MLALeader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “We are not against private investment in agriculture. Our law ensured purchase of produce through contract farming at the MSP and our amendment was to make the purchase below the MSP a penal offence”.Earlier, starting the discussion, BJP legislator Assem Goyal said that neither the MSP nor the mandis would end. He claimed Punjab Congress leader Navjot Sidhu had praised Haryana’s procurement system. A ruckus started and the agitated Congress MLAs entered the well of the House when Goyal blamed the Opposition for farmers’ suicides during its rule and accused it of grabbing their land.Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said farmers, small entrepreneurs, and unemployed youths present the real picture of the state today and not the rosy image created in the Governor’s Address.JJP MLA Jogi Ram Sihag said that the farmers’ agitation was the biggest movement in Haryana and the state peasants were apprehensive about the three farm laws. He called for enacting a new law by the state legislature to guarantee the MSP.Another JJP MLA Ram Kumar Gautam said that the House should pass a resolution to urge the Central Government to put on hold the implementation of the three laws till 2024.Towards the end, Rewari Congress MLA Chiranjivi Rao said, “Please do not get the CBI or the ED to raid an MLA if he votes for us on the no-confidence motion”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-jjp-mlas-speak-against-farm-laws-222991
10-03-2021||---||Jind farmer dies at Tikri||Jhajjar, March 9Radha Singh (60), a farmer of Dindoli village in Jind district, reportedly died of a cardiac arrest at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border in the wee hours on Tuesday.He had been camping near the Jharoda flyover for the past several days. The death came to light when fellow farmers found him unconscious at the camp. Notably, 41 protesters, including 11 from Haryana, have so far lost their lives at the Tikri border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jind-farmer-dies-at-tikri-222992
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Plan to set up varsity in Nuh: Gujjar||The Haryana  Government plans to open a state university in Nuh district, said Education Minister Kanwar Pal  Gujjar while responding to a question asked by Ferozepur Jhirka MLA Mamman Khan during the ongoing Budget Session of  the Vidhan Sabha here today. The Higher Education Council was exploring its feasibility. Once feasibility was ascertained, further action would be taken, he added. The government would soon start the construction of  the Mandola-Narnaul state highway in Mahendragarh district. Besides, the Dadri-Mahendragarh road would be widened (seven metres to 10 metres) to four lanes, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala told the Assembly. Dushyant said  there would be no shortage of development projects in the  Baroda Assembly constituency. He added that the problem of drainage of waste water in some villages would be resolved soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plan-to-set-up-varsity-in-nuh-gujjar-222993
10-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Police open Jharoda border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 9The Delhi Police have opened the Jharoda border leading to Najafgarh (Delhi) from Bahadurgarh town here on the insistence of the residents and farmer leaders of nearby areas.The police had placed a multi-layer barricading at the Jharoda border on January 26 to keep farmers away from the national capital following violence during the Republic Day tractor parade. A large number of commuters were using the Jharoda border at that time to enter Delhi following the closure of the nearby Tikri border due to the farmers’ agitation since November 26.LIVE: BJP faces no-trust motion in Haryana amid conflict over farm BillsFor the past around one-and-half month, commuters were forced to use alternative routes through fields and villages to travel to Delhi in connection with their jobs and businesses. The heavy load of vehicles on these routes led to traffic congestion and disturbed the peaceful atmosphere of villages.Dust and air pollution caused by vehicles was also adversely affecting vegetable crops. The people of nearby areas organised demonstrations twice in the past fortnight to get the barricades at the Jharoda border removed. They had also threatened that if the police did not remove the barricades, they would do it on their own.Jind farmer dies at Tikri borderFarmer leaders, too, criticised the Delhi Police for placing barricades at the border and accused them of deliberately harassing commuters with an intention to defame the farmers’ agitation and make them go against the protesting farmers camping at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border for the past over 100 days against the three farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-open-jharoda-border-222994
10-03-2021||Pradeep Sharma||25% posts of doctor vacant in Haryana, says Anil Vij||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 9The shortage of doctors continues to be the Achilles heel of the Haryana Government, as nearly one-fourth (25 per cent) of the 4,800 sanctioned posts are lying vacant, taking a toll on healthcare services, said Health Minister Anil Vij in the Vidhan Sabha here today.Vij said that of the 4,800 sanctioned posts of doctors in Haryana, 1,141 were vacant. “The state government is making efforts to recruit 400 to 500 doctors to tide over the shortage,” he added.He said that the problem had compounded, as around 200 doctors were working on deputation in the Union Territory of Chandigarh. The deputation of doctors to Chandigarh was necessary, as Haryana has to maintain the 60:40 ratio vis-à-vis Punjab in the UT Health Department. Besides, around 200 doctors remain on leave at any given time.Vij said that to tide over the shortage of doctors, a separate cadre of specialist doctors was being created with lucrative pay scales. Besides, around 200 extra posts were being created for posting doctors in Chandigarh.Earlier, JJP legislator Devender Babli took the government to task for its failure to post doctors at the Civil Hospital, Tohana, for several years. Congress members, including Kiran Choudhry, tried to corner Vij for the sorry state of health infrastructure, even as the minister claimed there had been a marked improvement in the facilities since the BJP formed the government in 2014.Talking points||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-posts-of-doctor-vacant-in-haryana-says-anil-vij-222995
10-03-2021||Hisar||Farmers urge MLAs to vote for no-trust motion||Farmers visited the offices and residences of BJP and JJP legislators in Jind, Hisar, Bhiwani and Fatehabad districts in an attempt to drum up support for the no-confidence motion against the state government, the discussion on which will be held in the Assembly tomorrow.In Uchana, they submitted a memorandum to the guard deployed at the office of Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala while, in Jind, a group of farmers pasted the memorandum outside the residence of BJP MLA Krishan Middha.They claimed the days of the Manohar Lal Khattar government were numbered.In Sirsa, farmers protested and raised slogans against Independent legislator Gopal Kanda, as he failed to turn up to receive the memorandum. They refused to hand over the memorandum to his staff.The protesters said they had already asked Power Minister Ranjit Chautala, who is an Independent MLA from Rania, to withdraw support from the government or else face political boycott. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-urge-mlas-to-vote-for-no-trust-motion-222996
10-03-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Environmentalists oppose Haryana Govt proposal to resume mining in Aravalis||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, March 9Environmentalists have opposed a Haryana Government’s proposal to resume mining in the Aravalis, for which it has sought the Supreme Court’s approval.The activists have launched an online protest requesting the apex court to not approve the government’s proposal, citing ecologically fragile status of the Aravalis lying primarily in Gurugram district.“It’s been more than 10 years since mining was banned, but the Aravalis ranges are yet to recover from the damage caused to the wildlife. The mining destroyed the topography of the region. Today, Gurugram is in the dark zone as the water table is at its lowest level,” said Jatinder Bhadana of the Save Aravali Trust.Another activist Rachna Sahay said, “Every monsoon, we face flash floods. Gurugram and Faridabad are drowned. Our region is turning into an arid zone. Hundreds of environmentalists are fighting to save whatever is left of the Aravali ranges. Mining quarries will destroy everything. The government’s proposal has not taken into consideration the environmental cost.”Social organisations have been posting “before and after pictures” of the Aravalis, highlighting the damage caused to the ecologically sensitive zone by mining.The state government has taken the plea that it wants to generate jobs by resuming mining. According to the proposal, there will be 10 mining blocks on 600 hectares, a majority of them in the recently identified wildlife corridors.The Supreme Court had, in 2009, imposed a blanket ban on mining in the area. In 2002, it had banned mining within 5 km radius of Delhi.Haryana has been citing examples of Rajasthan to press its case for mining, claiming that it would take all necessary measures to ensure that mining does not disturb the environmental and ecological balance.The reality, however, is different. In 2018, a Supreme Court-appointed committee had found that 31 out of 128 hills in Rajasthan’s Aravali region vanished in the past 50 years because of illegal quarrying.10 mining blocks on 600 hectares||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/environmentalists-oppose-haryana-govt-proposal-to-resume-mining-in-aravalis-223000
10-03-2021||Sunit Dhawan---||In Rohtak, photostat shops near colleges flout Section 144||Tribune News Service Rohtak, March 9 Owners of photostat shops and cybercafés located in the vicinity of local colleges, where examinations of undergraduate classes are underway, are violating Section 144 of the CrPC with impunity.  After The Tribune in its March 4 edition had highlighted that shopkeepers were selling “cheating slips”, popularly known as “gutkas”, to students, the District Magistrate had ordered that photostat shops and cybercafés located within the 200 m radius of the examination centres would remain closed while the exams were in progress. In spite of his order, shops located near Jat College, Neki Ram Sharma Government College and other colleges remain open during the exams.  “Cheating slips” are being sold for Rs 40 to Rs 60 per set. Each set comprises of exam notes in the question and answer format printed on small pieces of paper. “The District Magistrate’s order remains on paper,” said a local resident, who lives near a college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-rohtak-photostat-shops-near-colleges-flout-section-144-223001
10-03-2021||ibune News Service||Special publicity cell ex-chief Mittal held||Panchkula, March 9A joint team of the Panchkula and Kaithal police arrested YouTube singer and former chairman of the special publicity cell of the Haryana Government Jai Bhagwan Mittal, aka Rocky Mittal, from his house in Sector 4 here on Tuesday.Rocky Mittal was first taken to Sector 5 police station from where the Kaithal police took his custody after completing formalities. He was arrested in a case registered against him about six years ago for misbehaving with a Judge. Based up on medical report of the Judge, the police have added Sections 332, 333 and 353 to case. The case dates back to May 18, 2015, when miscreants entered the shop of a commission agent in the new grain market in the afternoon. When Munish Mittal, sitting in his shop in front of the shop, saw this incident, he got up and confronted the miscreants who shot him dead and escaped. The commission agents blocked the road in protest against the brutal murder. Meanwhile, Rocky also arrived at the protest site. He blocked the way of a Judge travelling on the Jind road in his car. It was alleged that Rocky not only misbehaved with the Judge but also assaulted him. The Kaithal police had registered a case against him and others.Rocky alleged that he was being targeted as he had been raising voice against corruption in various departments of the state government. He had opened a front against CM Manohar Lal Khattar. The government later removed him from the chairmanship of the special publicity cell. Rocky had not only questioned the functioning of the officers of the CMO, but also constantly criticised Khattar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-publicity-cell-ex-chief-mittal-held-223002
10-03-2021||Mahendragarh||Two-time MP Manohar Lal Saini passes away||Two-time MP Manohar Lal Saini passed away at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi on Monday night after a prolonged illness. He was 81. People from all walks of life gathered at his house in Narnaul city as soon as they learned about his death this morning. They paid tributes to the departed soul and attended his cremation. Saini was first elected MP from Mahendragarh in 1977 on the ticket of the Bharatiya Lok Dal. He fought the next Lok Sabha elections from Kurukshetra in 1980 on the ticket of the Janta Party (Secular) and again won. TNSRohtakFarmhouses being built in green belt razedA demolition squad of the Town and Country Planning Department demolished two farmhouses being built illegally and in violation of orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on the outskirts of Rohtak city on Tuesday. Rohtak DTP Mandeep Sihag said these farmhouses had come up in de-licensed land of Omaxe City even after the stay orders on the construction passed by the High Court, and were hence demolished. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-time-mp-manohar-lal-saini-passes-away-223005
10-03-2021||Sushil Manav||Haryana CM to speak on agri laws during no-trust motion today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 9Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today offered replies to a myriad of issues, including the functioning of the staff selection panel, unemployment, rising prices and law and order etc, but stopped short of touching farmers’ issues.Khattar said that he would speak on the farmers’ issues and the farm laws when the Congress brings the no-confidence motion tomorrow.In a marathon reply to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the Governor’s Address in the state Assembly that lasted till 7.30 pm, Khattar also listed the achievements of his government during the past one and a half year. He said agriculture and health had remained in special focus of his government.“No one had expected that Covid-19 would suddenly bring the world on its knees. But our government worked overtime to provide relief to people during the lockdown. We announced a Rs 1,200 crore package, provided relief to 16 lakh families, 4.86 lakh families got ration for three months under the Distress Ration Coupon Scheme, migrants were sent home through 100 special trains and 6,600 buses. The migrants were again brought back once the lockdown was lifted and industries opened,” he said.Khattar said that his government launched a special drive to conserve water and farmers were motivated to diversify from water-guzzling paddy to other crops under the Mera Pani, Meri Virasat scheme.He added that farmers cultivating 96,250 acres had adopted crop diversification under the scheme and Rs 7,000 per acre had been given to them as incentive.Khattar and Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra had a long argument while replying on the issue of the termination of the services of PTI teachers and the cancellation of the recruitment process for PGTs in English and Sanskrit.He blamed the previous Congress government led by Bhupinder Hooda for all this. While Khattar justified his government’s actions by saying that the HC had passed the orders and even the Supreme Court had upheld the HC order, Batra blamed it on the BJP government. Hooda also intervened and said it was because of the Khattar government’s stand in courts that the candidates were suffering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-to-speak-on-agri-laws-during-no-trust-motion-today-223007
10-03-2021||Cleanliness is a distant dream in Sector 16 and 17 of Hisar district. The issue had been raised the authorities concerned for the last three-months||Garbage dumping at vacant plots irks residents||Anil Kumar Jalandhra, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-dumping-at-vacant-plots-irks-residents-223009
10-03-2021||Rohtak||Indira Gandhi Mahila Shakti Award||‘Glaucoma week’ observedJhajjar: World College of Medical Sciences here observed ‘Glaucoma Week’ to spread awareness about glaucoma. College Director Dr Chand Singh Dhull said glaucoma patients need timely treatment to prevent the loss of vision. Faculty member and eye specialist Dr Inder Mohan Rustagi described the precautions while students took out an awareness rally to make people aware about glaucoma.MoU for digitalisation processSirsa/Hisar: A memorandum of understanding was signed between Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa, and Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, for speeding up the process of digitalisation. CDLU Registrar Dr Rakesh Wadhwa and Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology Registrar Dr Avnesh Verma signed the MoU in presence of both the Vice-Chancellors. CDLU VC Ajmer Singh Malik termed it as the inception of a new era of digitalisation and exchange of electronic resources and software to ensure self-reliance of the universities. Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology VC Tankeshwar Kumar congratulated for the initiative taken by CDLU and termed it as the first step of the state university collaboration in the field of digitalisation.MDU observes Dayanand JayantiRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand Jayanti was observed in Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) on Monday with a vedic hawan and a lecture programme. MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh presiding over the programme paid rich tribute to Maharshi Dayanand Saraswati. He said Maharshi Dayanand was a great social reformer who strived hard for the removal of social evils. The VC said Swami Dayanand was a pioneer of women's education and their empowerment. He said the university would work for the promotion of vedic values under the aegis of Maharshi Dayanand Chair. Chairperson, Swami Dayanand Saraswati Chair, Central University of Haryana, Mahendragarh, Prof Ranbir Singh in his address said Swami Dayanand worked for the welfare of society.JC Bose varsity wins awardFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has been conferred the Institutional Award for Legal Awareness at a function organised by the Delhi State Legal Services Authority and the Bhagidari Jan Sahyog Samiti in New Delhi recently to mark International Women's Day. The award was conferred on the university in recognising exceptional work done by its NSS wing to create awareness on legal issues by conducting various webinars. The university also won “Hindi Sevi Amarnath Shastri Running Trophy” in a debate competition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indira-gandhi-mahila-shakti-award-223010
10-03-2021||Panchkula||Former chairman of Haryana's Special Publicity Cell arrested in Panchkula||YouTube singer and former chairman of the special publicity cell of the Haryana Government has been arrested by a joint team of the Panchkula and Kaithal police from his house in Panchkula’s Sector 4 on Tuesday morning.On Tuesday, a magistrate's court in Kaithal remanded him in police custody until March 12, Kaithal City Station House Officer Shiv Kumar said. Police also added new charges against Mittal---hurting a public servant while he's doing his duty (section 332), causing grievous hurt to a public servant doing his duty (section 333), and assaulting a public servant on duty (section 353) of the Indian Penal Code. Kaithal SHO Shiv Kumar said police found the judge's beacon and they were trying to establish how many others were involved in the case.The case dates back to May 18, 2015, when Munish Mittal, a commission agent was murdered at the new grain market. Commission agents blocked the road in protest against the murder. Rocky Mittal blocked the way when a judge was travelling through Jind during the protest. It was alleged that Rocky had not only misbehaved with the judge but also assaulted him. Kaithal City police had registered a case against Rocky  and others.Rocky Mittal had opened a front against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The Haryana government later removed him from the chairman of the Special Publicity Cell. After being removed from the post, Rocky had not only questioned the functioning of the officers of the Chief Minister’s Office, but was also constantly attacking Khattar.Rocky, a self-acclaimed Narendra Modi bhakt came into limelight for his song series ‘Modi Amritwani’ on YouTube. He had gained popularity in the saffron party circles by singing paeans to Modi in the run-up to the 2014 Lok Sabha election, performing at his political rallies in Gujarat and some other places and distributing free CDs of his songs across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-chairman-of-haryanas-special-publicity-cell-arrested-in-panchkula-222799
10-03-2021||New Delhi||India summons British envoy over discussion on agriculture reforms in UK Parliament||India made its extreme displeasure known over the Monday evening debate on farm bills in British Parliament by summoning the British High Commissioner Alexander Ellis to the South Block.Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla conveyed to Ellis strong opposition to the “unwarranted and tendentious discussion on agricultural reforms in India in the British Parliament”.Also read: UK to raise concerns on farm stir with Modi governmentThe Foreign Secretary made clear that this represented a gross interference in the politics of another democratic country and advised that British MPs should refrain from practising vote bank politics bymisrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy”, according to a MEA statement.On Monday, responding to a two-hour debate in the Westminster Hall of the House of Commons, UK Minister of State Nigel Adams had said some issues of concern to London will be on the agenda at all high-level UK-India interactions including an upcoming one between PMs Boris Johnson and Narendra Modi.During the two-hour debate, barring backbencher Theresa Villiers, none of the other dozen MPs were in sympathy with the Indian Government’s position. The Indian High Commission in London had reacted immediately by dismissing the debate as “without substantiation or facts” and “casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy in the world and its institutions”.The British Minister of State had said, “Where we have serious and specific concerns, we will raise them directly with the Indian Government, as would be expected of a friend and neighbour. Candid discussions are an important part of our mature and wide-ranging relationship with the Indian Government”.Indicating that it did not concur with the application of force and other measures on the farmers’ stir, the Minister said, “We look to the Indian Government to uphold the freedoms and rights guaranteed to the Indian people by the constitution and by the international instruments to which India is party”.Labour and Scottish Nationalist Party stalwarts such as Jeremy Corbyn, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, Martyn Day and Stephen Kinnock were joined in their criticism of New Delhi’s handling of farmers’ protests by MPs from across parties including Khalid Mehmood, Nadia Whittome, Paul Bristow, Pat McFadden, Virendra Sharma, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, Layla Moran, Seema Malhotra, John McDonell and Brendon O’Hara.The Indian High Commission described their observations over farmers’ protest as “a false narrative” even though it had tried to inform all concerned about the issues raised in the petition. The e-petition that the High Commission was referring to was initiated by a local councilor. It quickly garnered over one lakh signatures that made the topic eligible for a debate.The High Commission also dismissed claims of affinity with India by some MPs. “When aspersions are cast on India by anyone, irrespective of their claims of friendship and love for India or domestic political compulsions, there is a need to set the record straight,” it stated in a statement.The British Minister was noncommittal on the demand by a MP to impose sanctions on officials who committed serious human rights violations or abuses. “It is not appropriate to speculate on who may be designated under the regime in future, as to do so could very well reduce their impact,” said Adams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/india-summons-british-envoy-over-discussion-on-agriculture-reforms-in-uk-parliament-222759
10-03-2021||New Delhi||UK to raise concerns on farm stir with Modi government||The UK Government said it would directly raise “serious and specific concerns” over human rights and freedom to peaceful protests with the Indian Government, especially when Prime Minister Boris Johnson meets PM Narendra Modi on several occasions during the year.Also read: India summons British envoy over discussion on agriculture reforms in UK ParliamentResponding to a discussion in parliament on issues relating to Press freedom and safety of protesters in India in which all dozen speakers, barring one, criticised New Delhi for its handling of farmers’ protests, the UK Government’s Minister of State for Asia Nigel Adams said London had also asked New Delhi to permit Amnesty International to function since it has an important role in a democracy.Also read: India condemns UK lawmakers’ debate on farmers’ stirThe UK Government conceded that India’s handling of the protests had caused alarm. At the same time, it said agriculture policy is a domestic matter for the Indian Government.MPs Khalid Mehmood, Teresa Villiers, Virendra Sharma, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, Naz Shah, Layla Moran, Seema Malhotra, John McDonell and Brendon O’Hara were among those who sought accountability.Car-borne youths fire shots at SinghuFour youths in a car bearing Chandigarh number allegedly fired shots into the air after a brawl at langar over water at Singhu on Sunday night. No one was injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uk-to-raise-concerns-on-farm-stir-with-modi-government-222591
