11-03-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram reports 81 COVID-19 cases; Health dept suggests 14 new containment zones||Amid a surge in COVID-19 cases, Gurugram administration and Health Department have increased testing and curbs. The city reported 81 positive cases on Thursday.Seeing this, the Health Department suggested sealing and containing 14 new areas. This would take the total number of containment zones to 18. Movement would be restricted and random testing would be done as well.These 14 areas report more than five active cases each.Areas:Floors in Sushant Estate Society (Sector 52), Microtek Greenburg Society (Sector 86), Skyland Apartments (Sector 56), Woodstock Floors Society in Nirvana Country (Sector 50), M3M Golf Estate Society (Sector 65), Tulip White Society (Sector 69), Paras Irene Society (Sector 70A), Magnolias Society (DLF-5), Ansal Sushant Estate (Sector 52); blocks in Greenwood City Society (Sector 45); house no. 1350 to 1420 (Sector 10A); house no. 1580 to 1590, block C, Sushant Lok-1; house no. 57/1 to 57/10, block A, DLF-1; and gali no. 9 in Shivpuri (Sector 7).“We have made the recommendations to the district administration after our task force meeting. We have asked Gurugram police to step up mask vigil and impose penalties on those who don’t wear masks,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.Currently, the positivity rate stands at 1.8%, and the city has 500 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-reports-81-covid-19-cases-health-dept-suggests-14-new-containment-zones-223772
11-03-2021||New Delhi||Smriti Irani attacks Cong over Hooda riding tractor pulled by women, BJP's women wing seeks his apology||The BJP on Thursday attacked the Congress over its leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda riding a tractor being pulled its women legislators to protest the rise in fuel prices and asked if women in a political organisation be treated as "bonded labourers".Union minister and BJP leader Smriti Irani said it was "absolutely shocking" to see the former Haryana chief minister sitting calmly on a tractor while having woman members of his party pull it physically.In a separate statement, BJP Mahila Morcha (women wing) chief Vanathi Srinivasan said they are organising a nationwide agitation against the "mistreatment" of women by Congress leaders and sought Hooda's unconditional apology for his alleged misconduct.Irani said here, "I understand he wants to protest. I understand he wants to make a political statement but should that be done at the cost of women? This is irrespective of our politics. Can women in political organisations, especially the scene we saw in this protest by the Congress, be treated as bonded labourers. It is shocking no male member of the Congress even intervened to stop that." Hooda had earlier defended this, saying it was women who were feeling the pinch of the rising prices of cooking gas and other essentials.Taking a swipe at Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Irani, who is the women and child development minister, said her silence also speaks volumes about how the women in her party are reduced to tasks that even men refuse to do.Noting that Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar expressed his anguish at the protest on the floor of the Assembly, Irani said it was ironical that on the one hand Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for celebrating female potential and enterprise on International Women's Day and on the other, Hooda reduced their stature and compelled them to pull a tractor atop which he sat for a "political stunt".He did this for a "family enterprise" called the Congress, she said, noting that the incident had happened on International Women's Day on March 8.Echoing Khattar's view, she asked couldn't Hooda have extended the courtesy of allowing the women to ride the tractor, that too on International Women's Day.Asked if she had any demand, Irani quipped, "Should not they (Congress) have been conscientious enough to act on their own." Describing Hooda's conduct as "shocking and deeply distressing", Srinivasan said "such cruel, irresponsible behaviour does not befit someone who has held positions of great influence and power for considerable amount of time." She said Modi has introduced and implemented several programmes in Haryana state in which woman empowerment has been given top priority.Khattar has also done commendable work towards woman empowerment but, sadly, Hooda's behaviour negates the positive impact.The Haryana chief minister had turned emotional while criticising the protest, saying he could not sleep all night due to the visuals."This treatment to women MLAs was worse than bonded labour,” he had said in the state Assembly on Tuesday.Htting back, Hooda had said it was women who were feeling the pinch of the rising prices of cooking gas and other essentials.However, Khattar said if he had to protest, he should have pulled the tractor.On this, Hooda said, "The government has turned a blind eye to the pain of women who are sitting with farmers protesting on borders against farm laws. Power connections were cut at the protest site, you cannot see their pain." — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/smriti-irani-attacks-cong-over-hooda-riding-tractor-pulled-by-women-bjps-women-wing-seeks-his-apology-223757
11-03-2021||Sriti Jha recently presented her new avatar on Zee TV’s Kumkum Bhagya. She is donning the Haryanvi look for the show and left the viewers surprised as she entered the house as a new character||Grasping the Haryanvi diction has been difficult, says Sriti Jha||Talking about her new avatar, Sriti said, “Pragya has taken up this new avatar of Gayatri and I have to say it has been very challenging. Her diction, the Haryanvi language and all the nuances have been difficult to grasp, but I am trying very hard to get it right. The creative team, the production team as well as my co-stars have been very supportive.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/grasping-the-haryanvi-diction-has-been-difficult-says-sriti-jha-223413
11-03-2021||---||Akali MLAs confront Haryana CM||Chandigarh, March 10Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) legislators today confronted Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar in the Vidhan Sabha and raised slogans demanding that the Haryana Government should pass a resolution repealing the three farm laws besides making the entire state a single “mandi” so that the farm laws could not be implemented there.SAD legislators raised slogans “Khattar, Modi kisan virodhi”, “Kisana nu insaaf davao” and “Haryana-Punjab bhai bhai”, even as they condemned the BJP government for its “anti-farmer” stance.They also condemned the Khattar government for allegedly indulging in atrocities against human rights activists, including Nodeep Kaur and Shiv Kumar, saying the torture inflicted on them was unimaginable in a democratic society.They demanded that all cases against human right activists and farmers should be withdrawn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/akali-mlas-confront-haryana-cm-223518
11-03-2021||Rewari||Sainik School felicitates faculty||School principal awardedKurukshetra: Ismailabad Manish Papneja Memorial Public School Principal Rachna Batra was conferred Swaavlambika Award-2021 for being an innovative school Principal. The ceremony was held in New Delhi in which chief guest Ram Niwas Goel, Speaker in Legislative Assembly, Delhi, and guest of honour Sanjeev Patjoshi, ADG, Ministry of Panchayat Raj, presented the awards. Jagdish Papneja appreciated her efforts and said she deserved it because she was the role model for the staff and students too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sainik-school-felicitates-faculty-223381
11-03-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Ambala roads still in a shambles||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Ambala roads still in a shamblesDespite raising the issue on several occasions, roads are in a pathetic condition. Nobody listens, cares and acts. We, harassed residents, don't know whom to approach. The authorities should wake up and work towards improving Ambala roads. MS Tandan, Ambala CanttWrong side entry poses threat to commuters in PanchkulaA few days ago, in this very column, I had reported about wrong entry of vehicles in Sector 20, Panchkula, while commuting under the Shimla-Kalka flyover. Now, people are entering from a temporary road divider. Nobody checks, no challan, it is free for all. This will definitely lead to accidents and mishaps. It's high time the traffic police take charge. Kanwar Lakhan Bir Singh, PanchkulaShortage of doctors in HaryanaIt is extremely shocking to learn that there is a shortage of doctors in Haryana, which is affecting the healthcare system here. No doubt, 200 doctors are working in the union territory as per ratio of 60:40 in Punjab and Haryana. As a matter of fact this deficiency must be completed at the earliest as no compromise can be made on this from during the Covid times. Subhash C Taneja, Gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-roads-still-in-a-shambles-223382
11-03-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: 24x7 vaccination at 5 Gurugram hospitals||Rumblings in JJPChandigarh: The defeat of the no-confidence motion may have come as a breather for the BJP, but seems to have opened a Pandora's box for the JJP. The JJP seemed to be in damage-control mode on Wednesday, keeping its vocal MLAs Devinder Babli, Ram Kumar Gautam and Jogi Ram Sihag away from discussion on the motion. TNSDJB moves SC to avert crisisNew Delhi: The Delhi Jal Board on Monday moved the SC against Haryana to avert a water crisis in Delhil. Raghav Chadha, DJB vice-chairman, said Haryana had reduced the supply of water to Delhi.  TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-24x7-vaccination-at-5-gurugram-hospitals-223377
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Not named as accused, firm director summoned||Though the CBI has not named Krrish Buildtech director Amit Katyal as an accused in individual capacity in the Gurugram land release case, the CBI Special Court has summoned him as an accused.“It has been held that a prima facie case to summon additional accused Amit Katyal, director of M/s Krrish Buildtech Private Limited (now M/s Brahma City Private Limited), is also made out,” said the court in its order dated March 9. On February 11, CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh had questioned whether there was specific mention in the chargesheet that Katyal had not been arrayed as accused.Investigating officer Kailash Sahu had been asked to file an affidavit in this regard. Sahu told the court on March 1 that the CBI stood by its challan and the “competent authority” had decided on it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/not-named-as-accused-firm-director-summoned-223378
11-03-2021||---||4 rice mills sealed in Karnal||Karnal, March 10The Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department has sealed four rice mills allegedly for not delivering the custom milled rice (CMR) to the government in the past six to seven years. They had not delivered the CMR worth Rs 18.87 crore to the government.Giving details, Nishant Kumar Rathi, DFSC, said they had sealed Ashirwad Food, Karnal, which had failed to deliver the rice worth Rs 7,52,24,098 since 2013-14, while Chaudhary Food, Kunjpura, had not delivered rice worth Rs 3,60,99,074 since 2015-16. He said similarly, Aanpurna Agro Food, Karnal, had failed to deliver rice worth Rs 5,05,76,298 since 2014-15.The DFSC further stated that Krishna Food had not delivered rice worth Rs 2,68,11,617 since 2014-15.“We had served them notices, but they did not show interest in the delivering the rice to the government, forcing us to take this step,” said the DFSC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-rice-mills-sealed-in-karnal-223379
11-03-2021||Yamunanagar||Villager gets 10-year jail Yamunanagar district||A court in Yamunanagar district yesterday awarded 10-year imprisonment to a person for sexually abusing a teenage girl. It also imposed a fine of Rs 12,000 on the convict, Rashid (22), a resident of a village in the district.The victim, in her police complaint, stated that after the death of her parents, she was living with her grandparents in a village of the district. On the complaint of the victim, Rashid was booked under POCSO Act and Section 506 at Chhachhrauli. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villager-gets-10-year-jail-yamunanagar-district-223361
11-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Set up safe homes for runaway couples in all districts: HC to Punjab, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 10Couples tying the knot after parting ways with their families will soon get shelter and legal aid at their doorstep. For, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that safe houses were required to be made available to the runaway couples in each district of Punjab and Haryana, along with the UT of Chandigarh.Justice Avneesh Jhingan has also made it clear that the Legal Services Authorities (LSA) in the two states and UT were required to set up 24x7 helpdesks for the couples with telephone service and Internet connectivity at the local level.Court flooded with petitionsThe directions come at a time when the High Court is flooded with petitions from runaway couples, seeking protection of life and liberty. Rough estimates suggest 70 per cent of the petitions being taken up during the current period are filed by couples in a live-in relationship or performing marriage against family wishes.The directions come at a time when the High Court is flooded with petitions seeking protection of life and liberty from such couples. Rough estimates suggest 70 per cent of the petitions being taken during the current period of restrictive functioning following the Covid outbreak are filed by couples in a live-in relationship or performing marriage against family wishes.Justice Jhingan added a website or an online module was required to be provided for the couples to raise grievances without being physically present, in addition to round-the-clock helpdesk at the tehsil-level by the LSA for filing representations directly or through someone. An existing cell in the Police Department could be dedicated, or a new one created, for dealing with the representation within 48 hours.“The entire endeavour is that some sort of workable mechanism is put in motion to ensure the protection of life and personal liberty as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.Further, that only in exceptional cases, the couples have to take trouble to approach this court alleging infringement of the rights,” Justice Jhingan asserted.Considering the “volume of such petitions”, Justice Jhingan also askedPunjab and Haryana Advocate Generals Atul Nanda and BR Mahajan, respectively, along with UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain, and LSA member-secretaries, to be present for discussion and suggestion.Justice Jhingan asked them to give inputs for dealing with the issue. The Additional Chief Secretaries (Home) and Director Generals of Police of both the states were also asked to provide full assistance and co-operation. Justice Jhingan also called for a report in March last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/set-up-safe-homes-for-runaway-couples-in-all-districts-hc-to-punjab-haryana-223549
11-03-2021||Karnal||Three killed in road mishap in Karnal||Three persons were killed as a speeding car crushed them to death on Rattak road in Assandh on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as Gurdeep Singh, Satpal Singh and Pala Ram, all residents of Assandh.The incident took place when the trio were walking on Assandh to Rattak road and a car hit them. Satpal and Pala died on spot, while Gurdeep died in the hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-killed-in-road-mishap-in-karnal-223359
11-03-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||55 vs 32: Khattar government easily sails through no-trust vote||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 10The Congress’ no-trust vote against the BJP-JJP government was today defeated, with 55 members polling against the motion and 32 backing it even as there was consensus on ending the stalemate and resumption of talks between farmers’ unions and the government. The motion, moved by Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, was taken up immediately after the question hour.The legislators voted along the party lines in the 90-member House. All 39 MLAs of the BJP, 10 JJP, five Independents and one of the Haryana Lokhit Party voted against the motion. The 30 Congress MLAs and two Independents — Balraj Kundu and Sombir Sangwan —backed the motion. Two seats are vacant, while Speaker Gian Chand Gupta was presiding over the proceedings.Middle path mustThe farmers should resume talks and reach a middle-ground with the Centre. The agitation is in no one’s interest. It is causing lots of losses. — Manohar Lal Khattar, Haryana CMRain trouble at TikriJhajjar: Farmers camping at Tikri on the Haryana-Delhi border spent a sleepless night on Tuesday following rain. Water entered their camps, soaking their mats and other belongings, while high-velocity winds damaged their makeshift abode, it is learnt. TNSJJP legislator Devinder Babli, who wanted the party to sever ties with the BJP, toed the party line as did Ram Kumar Gautam. Both have been proactively supporting the farmers. The two, however, did lodge a protest for not being given a chance to participate in the discussion, which lasted six hours and was followed by a voting on the motion by the Speaker.The consensus of the discussion was the talks with farmers must resume even as CM ML Khattar clearly said the laws won’t be repealed.Hooda said: “We managed to put public sentiment in the spotlight and exposed the government’s ill-intention on the farm protests.” 2 more arrested for Red Fort violenceThe Crime Branch of the Delhi Police has arrested two more accused — Maninderjit Singh and Khempreet Singh — for role in Red Fort violence. Maninderjit, a Dutch national, was arrested from the IGI Airport while trying to flee the country. Khempreet, 21, was arrested on Tuesday after a raid in Delhi. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/55-vs-32-khattar-government-easily-sails-through-no-trust-vote-223506
11-03-2021||Gurugram||Mystery shrouds death of Karni Sena chief’s son||The 32-year-old son of Karni Sena national president Suraj Pal Singh Ammu was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his Ghaziabad residence last night. The police suspect it to be a case of suicide as investigation is underway.The deceased identified as Aniruddh Raghav was living at a rented accommodation in Land Craft Society of Ghaziabad for the past three months with his wife Shalu Raghav. He was found dead in his house.“While his wife was at home at the time of death, she was found in a sedated state and is not in a condition to make any statement yet. She has been admitted to a hospital. Prima facie, it seems like a case of suicide and we are waiting for the post-mortem report,” said Nipun Agarawal, SP (City), Ghaziabad. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mystery-shrouds-death-of-karni-sena-chiefs-son-223362
11-03-2021||---||Covid-19: 91 students, 2 teachers test positive in Haryana||Karnal, March 10As many as 91 students, including 83 rom Kunjpura Sainik School, have tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. Earlier, 57 students had tested positive for the virus.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said the students had tested negative earlier but after the test was repeated after seven days, they tested positive on Wednesday.“Almost all students are asymptomatic and their health is being monitored,” said the Civil Surgeon, adding that two teachers, one from the same school, also tested positive. Besides, a doctor and three drivers of a school have also tested positive for the virus, he said.Meanwhile, DC Nishant Kumar Yadav directed the officials to increase testing and also ensure strict enforcement to Covid guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-91-students-2-teachers-test-positive-in-haryana-223364
11-03-2021||---||2 killed in road mishap in Mullana near Ambala||Ambala, March 10Two men were killed while four got injured in an accident involving four heavy vehicles (a truck and three tractor-trailers) in Mullana on Wednesday.The deceased have been identified as Rajesh, a resident of Ambala, and Virender Singh, a resident of Yamunanagar, while the injured have been identified as Pankaj, Uday, Ramakesh and truck driver Nizam.They were rushed to MM Hospital, Mullana, where Rajesh and Virender Singh were declared brought dead. Uday and Ramakesh had also suffered serious injuries. The suspect truck driver, Nizam, has also suffered leg injuries. A case has been registered under Sections 279, 337, 338, 304-A and 427 of the IPC at the Mullana police station.SHO Mullana police station Chander Bhan said, “Two men were killed and their bodies have been handed over to their respective families. The injured, including the accused truck driver, are undergoing treatment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-killed-in-road-mishap-in-mullana-near-ambala-223380
11-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||In 3 years, 49,197 sale deeds in violation of law||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 10The registry scam was raised in the Assembly on Wednesday where it came out that 49,197 sale deeds were registered in the state in violation of Section 7-A of Haryana Development and Regulation Act, 1975 from 2017 to October 2020.Out of 49,197 sale deeds, 14,228 got registered in Gurugram, which is 28.9 per cent of the total. It is followed by Sonepat where 4,954 such sale deeds took place and Palwal where the scam took place in 4,040 registries. Substantial registries also took place in Mahendragarh (3,950) and Rewari (3,118).In reply to a question raised by Rohtak MLA BB Batra during Question Hour, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala replied that 6,223 sale deeds violating Section 7-A were registered from February 1, 2020, to December 31, 2020.“The registered sale deeds violating Section 7-A of the said law cannot be cancelled. There is neither any provision for cancellation of such deeds in the Haryana Urban Development Regulation Act, 1975, nor any such provision in the Registration Act, 1908,” he said.Also, 1,127 FIRs were registered concerning unauthorised colonies in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-3-years-49-197-sale-deeds-in-violation-of-law-223383
11-03-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana CM takes potshots at Congress, counts losses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 10Comforted by the thought that the numbers were behind him, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was in his element on Wednesday as he took potshots at the Congress for “instigating” farmers before conceding a little by way of announcing a committee to look into the aspect of civil court jurisdiction under the APMC Act.Participating in the discussion on the no-confidence motion, Khattar said the farmers’ agitation was in nobody’s interest and resumption of talks was the only way forward.“We have no official figures, but the agitation has already caused a tentative loss of Rs 8,000 crore to the state between November 27 last and February 9, of which Rs 212 crore was due to toll-free highways. This also includes loss of revenue and income of industrialists during the agitation,” he stated.Mentioning that farmers were destroying their standing crop, he said not even 1 litre of milk was bought at the proposed price of Rs 100 per litre.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda stated that the Congress was strongly opposed to destroying of crops and suicide by farmers.Khattar explained that a law on MSP would mean an expenditure of Rs 17 lakh crore, which was not possible. Listing out the many schemes rolled out by his government, Khattar and other speakers from the treasury benches gave comparative statistics to prove that theirs was a “pro-farmer” government.Taking a dig at the Congress, he said the party had a tradition of mistrust and doubt and mentioned Congress leader PC Chako’s departure from the party.“There is mistrust between Hooda and Randeep Surjewala and Kumari Selja and Surjewala. The Congress doubted the Swachhta Abhiyan and surgical strikes. It doubts EVMs and Covid vaccines. When something good happens, it must be appreciated,” he said.Stating that the no-confidence motion was “meaningless” when the Congress did not have the numbers, Khattar said the Opposition had been “instigating” farmers. “The Opposition should not be seen pouring oil when the house is burning,” he said.Khattar urged the Opposition to persuade farmers to end the agitation since the matter has been stayed by court. He mentioned that this government’s strength lay in the restraint shown in dealing with the farmers marching to Delhi.Earlier, Hooda, moving the no-confidence motion, claimed that people had lost faith in the government. He requested the Chair to consider secret voting on the motion.“When choppers of the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister cannot land in their constituencies, it shows that the government has lost the trust of the people. When MLAs of the ruling party cannot go to their constituencies, the government has no right to continue.Demanding inclusion of 250 “martyr” farmers who had died during the agitation in obituary references made in the House, Hooda said the JJP and its leaders had joined hands with the very party they had fought elections against.He said the BJP-JJP government had stopped farmers, used water cannons and dug up roads so that they could not march to Delhi in November. “The government should know that it cannot break farmers by such tactics,” he maintained.He listed other “failures” of the government, including law and order situation, rising drug addiction, increasing unemployment and “scams”.Congress leader Raghuvir Singh Kadian said this motion would clarify who was with farmers and who was against them. “Boards have been put up outside villages, banning the entry of BJP and JJP leaders. Khap panchayats have given social boycott calls. Never before has it happened that helicopters of the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister are not allowed to land in villages,” he said. He urged JJP MLA Naina Chautala to rise like “Jhansi ki Rani” for farmers’ cause and support the motion.Dushyant Chautala said the JJP and BJP were “natural allies” and hit out at the Congress for its 10-year rule, during which farmers had been “looted” of their land.Assembly passes 3 BillsThree Bills were passed today in the Budget session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha. These Bills were the Haryana Rural Development (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Haryana Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area (Amendment) Bill, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-takes-potshots-at-congress-counts-losses-223365
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Purpose of no-confidence motion achieved: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said the purpose of the no-confidence motion had been achieved as the government was exposed before the people.“The JJP and Independent MLAs had the chance to vote for farmers and fulfil their responsibility to be people’s representatives. Though the Congress had limited strength, we stood firmly with farmers and fulfilled our responsibility,” he said.“We voted against the government which lathi-charged farmers, fired tear gas shells, used water cannons and implicated them in false cases. The Congress will continue to stand firmly in support of farmers,” he said. The Congress had demanded secret voting, but the Speaker turned down this demand, he stated. “This clearly shows that the government feared that many of its MLAs might vote in support of the motion,” he added.State Congress chief Kumari Selja said voting on the no-confidence motion had exposed the MLAs who used to claim that they were standing with farmers. “People of the state will never forget them,” she said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/purpose-of-no-confidence-motion-achieved-bhupinder-singh-hooda-223366
11-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rain spells trouble at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 10Farmers camping at the Tikri border spent a sleepless night on Tuesday following rain. Water entered their camps, soaking their mats and other belongings, while high-velocity winds damaged their makeshift abode.Elderly women spent the night sitting in trailers. Farmers remained busy on Wednesday drying their mats, clothes and other belongings. They said rain could not dampen their spirits.“Thirteen women was about to go to bed in a tent when rain and strong winds started. Water entered the tent, forcing us to move out. We had to take shelter in a trolley covered with a tarpaulin sheet. We had a sleepless night and helped men face the situation,” said Jarnail Kaur, an elderly protester from Sangrur district.She said farmers in other camps faced a similar situation. “This morning, farmers cleaned their tents and made arrangements for such a situation in the future,” she added.Gurbhej Singh Rohiwala from Fazilka said though rain caused extensive damage, they were not bothered and were ready for the battle ahead with the same zeal. “Strong winds uprooted temporarily pitched tents. We put up the tents again in a permanent manner. Rain and winds will not be damage these now,” he said.“Our stage has been damaged in rain, but repair work is going on. ‘Sewa’ is continuing and people are rallying around us. We thank everyone for helping restore the site and contributing from near and far,” said the BKU Ekta (Ugrahan) on social media.Women sit through nightElderly women spent the night sitting in tractor- trailers. Farmers remained busy on Wednesday drying their mats, clothes and other belongings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-spells-trouble-at-tikri-border-223352
11-03-2021||Hisar||Samyukta Kisan Morcha holds mahapanchayat in Jind||As the farmers’ agitation completed 105 days, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) organised a ‘Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Mahapanchayat’ at Alewa in Jind today.The meeting was attended by the All-India Kisan Sabha national president Ashok Dhawale, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan, CITU Haryana state president Surekha, AIKS Haryana state president Phool Singh Sheokand and other leaders.Lashing out at the Centre, the speakers alleged that there was a corrupt nexus between the government and corporates. “It is because of this nexus and neoliberal policies that the three farm laws, four labour codes, the electricity Bill were made and also is the reason behind the government’s refusal to enact MSP law,” said Ashok Dhawale. He castigated the BJP regime for doubling the prices of diesel, petrol and cooking gas over the last seven years, when international oil prices had in fact halved. The speakers flayed the government for allegedly selling off almost all sections of the public sector to corporates under the hypocritical slogan of ‘atmanirbharta’. — TNSNexus at workLashing out at the Centre, the speakers alleged that there was a corrupt nexus between the government and corporates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukta-kisan-morcha-holds-mahapanchayat-in-jind-223353
11-03-2021||---||Karnal Municipal Corporation tightens noose around property tax defaulters||Karnal, March 10Tightening the noose around property tax defaulters, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) has started sealing properties of house/property tax defaulters in the city on Wednesday.It has sealed one industry in Kambopura allegedly for not paying Rs 17 lakh (without rebate) and displayed notices outside 25 shops on Railway road of SD Girls School, which have outstanding dues of Rs 1.53 crore (without rebate). The authorities have given two-day duration to deposit the dues, otherwise the shops will be sealed.Some shopkeepers opposed the process and closed their shops in a protest and threatened to keep them shut on Thursday too if the authorities continued to ‘harass’ them. “There are several establishments and government institutes which have pending dues worth crores, but instead of taking action against them, the authorities are harassing the shopkeepers,” said Dinesh Narula, a trader.Suresh Jain, another trader, said they had taken a shop on rent from the management of SD Girls School. Instead of taking action against the management, the authorities are taking action against the shopkeepers who are paying their rent on time.“In this drive, we have taken those properties which have outstanding dues worth Rs 5 lakh or above,” said Vikram Singh, Municipal Commissioner, adding that on the first day they had sealed one industry and notices had been pasted outside 25 shops.In another category, they had identified 380 defaulters who had dues between Rs 3 lakh to 5 lakh. These defaulters have outstanding dues worth Rs 15 crore, he said, adding that final notices had been served on Wednesday.152 defaulting units sealed in FaridabadFaridabad: Launching a drive against property tax defaulters, the authorities of the Municipal Corporation (MC), Faridabad, sealed 152 units in the city. However, owners of 26 units deposited Rs 41. 25 lakh. Revealing this, a spokesperson of the MC said the commercial units sealed Tuesday had failed to pay Rs 13.58 crore as property(house) tax for the past many years. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-municipal-corporation-tightens-noose-around-property-tax-defaulters-223354
11-03-2021||---||Police seize 520 litres of illicit liquor from Ambala village||Ambala, March 10The CIA-1 unit and Excise Department in a joint raid seized 520 litres of country-made illicit liquor, 1,350 litres spirit, chemical and other packing material, including lids and labels, from a godown in Durana village of Ambala on Wednesday.The suspects have been identified as Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Durana village of Ambala, Prahlad Singh, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, and Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Shahabad. They will be produced in court on Thursday. They were reportedly active for the past month and had supplied liquor to Uttar Pradesh. As per the information available, the anti-vehicle theft cell of the Ambala police had received information about the illicit liquor. Acting on the information, CIA-1 in charge Sandeep Singh and sub-inspector Gurdarshan Singh, along with officials of the Excise Department, conducted the raid. An SIT led by DSP headquarters Sultan Singh has been formed to investigate the matter.DETC Excise Alok Pasi said, “A case has been registered at Ambala Sadar police station.”399 illicit liquor cartons seized||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-seize-520-litres-of-illicit-liquor-from-ambala-village-223355
11-03-2021||---||Clear cane dues or face stir: Farmers to mill||Ambala, March 10Sugarcane farmers on Wednesday held a mahapanchayat outside the gate of Naraingarh sugarmill over the delay in payment of sugarcane, held the mill officials captive for a couple of hours and served an ultimatum of 10 days to clear their dues. Otherwise, they would launch a stir, they warned.The farmers gathered under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) and Ganna Sangharsh Samiti have called the next mahapanchayat on March 22.BKU(Charuni) spokesman Rajiv Sharma said, “Payments of around Rs 102 crore of the ongoing season and around Rs 6 crore in the form of post-dated cheques of the previous season are pending. The mill has a sugar stock of over Rs 40 crore. The mill authorities have been giving assurances only and but the payments are not being cleared on time. The farmers are being forced to take harsh steps by the mill authorities and the government.”BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The authorities have assured that they will clear the payments up to January 20 by March 20. If the payments are not cleared, we will hold the next mahapanchayat on March 22 and may give a call to not allow the sugarmill to function and also block the road. The next strategy will be chalked out during the mahapanchayat.”Chief Executive Officer, Naraingarh Sugarmills, Narender Malik said, “We have talked to the higher authorities to pledge the sugar stocks available. We will get the pledge money and we will try to clear the payments up to January 20 by March 20. We are trying our level best to clear the dues of the sugarcane farmers at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clear-cane-dues-or-face-stir-farmers-to-mill-223356
11-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmer unions call for Bharat bandh on March 26 as protests complete 4 months||Farmer unions on Wednesday called for a Bharat bandh on March 26, when their protest at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s three new farm laws completes four months.Farmer leader Buta Singh Burjgill said farmers along with trade unions will protest the hike in fuel prices and privatisation of railways on March 15.“We will observe a complete Bharat bandh on March 26, when our protest against the three farm laws completes four months. The peaceful bandh will remain effective from morning till evening,” he told reporters at the Singhu border.On March 19, the farmers will observe “Mandi Bachao-Kheti Bachao” day, he said.The farmer unions have also decided to celebrate ‘Shaheedi divas’ of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev, Burjgill added.Farmers’ leaders also said that copies of the new farm laws will be burnt during ‘Holika Dahan’ on March 28.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points—Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur—for over four months, demanding the repeal of farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-unions-call-for-bharat-bandh-on-march-26-as-protests-complete-4-months-223326
11-03-2021||---||BJP-JJP government in Haryana wins trust vote||Chandigarh, March 10The Congress' motion of no confidence against the BJP-JJP government in Haryana was defeated on Wednesday with 55 members of the assembly voting against the motion while 32 members from the opposition camp backed it.The motion was defeated following a division of votes.At the end of a marathon six-hour discussion on the motion, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta announced the 55-32 break up in the House.The 55 members who voted against the motion included 39 from the BJP, 10 of ally Jannayak Janta Party, five Independents and one from the Haryana Lokhit Party.Thirty members of Congress and two Independents, who had earlier withdrawn support, backed the motion.In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, currently having an effective strength of 88 members, the ruling BJP has 40 members, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents, five of whom are supporting the government, while one member is of the Haryana Lokhit Party, who has also extended support to the government.During the motion of no-confidence brought by main opposition Congress, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda claimed the ruling dispensation has lost people's trust.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while speaking against no-confidence motion, said the Congress had tradition of "distrusting" every good initiative of the BJP government.Khattar said the Congress was a habitual “no confidence” party. He said:  “We will never earn the trust of the Opposition.”He said: “The Congress has a culture of mistrust. Doubts everything from surgical strikes, EVMs  to vaccine,” adding that, “No confidence is meaningless because the Congress MLAs knows that we have the numbers.”Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala attacked former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda for extending undue favours to the big corporates at the cost of farmers.He alleged that farmers were forced to sell their land to the corporates at cheap rates under the threat of land acquisition during Hooda's 10-year-old regime.After the end of the Question Hour, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta admitted the notice of no-confidence motion against the Council of Ministers and reserved two-hour for discussion on it."I have received a no confidence motion from the Leader of Opposition (Hooda) and 27 other Congress MLAs," the Speaker said.Moving the motion, Hooda, former chief minister and senior Congress leader, expressed want of confidence in the Haryana Ministry headed by Chief Minister M L Khattar.He said in the House that the state government has "lost" trust of people.Hooda requested the Chair that secret voting should be allowed on the no-confidence motion.Touching upon the issue of farmers who are protesting against the Centre's new farm laws, Hooda said the situation is such that ruling dispensation MLAs cannot even visit their constituencies."This government has lost the confidence of people. Their MLAs cannot go in their constituencies," said Hooda, speaking on the motion.On the farmers' issue, Hooda demanded inclusion of nearly 250 farmers, who have died during their ongoing agitation, in the obituary references of the Haryana Assembly.He said farmers from several states including Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are sitting on various border points of Delhi.2 JJP MLAs speak against farm laws Also read: Ahead of Haryana trust vote, JJP MLA ‘breaks ranks’CM to speak on agri laws during no-trust motion todayHooda said it was the BJP-JJP government which stopped farmers, used water cannons and even dug roads so that they could not march towards Delhi in November."The government should know it cannot break farmers by such tactics," he said.Senior Congress leader Raghuvir Singh Kadian said this no-confidence motion will make it clear who stands with farmers and who is against them."Entry boards have been put up outside villages banning entry of BJP and JJP leaders while Khap Panchayats have given social boycott calls. Never before in history has it happened before that the chief minister and deputy CM's helicopters are not being allowed to land in villages," said Kadian."Farmers are sitting on borders, but the government is not inviting them for talks," he alleged.Kadian said MLAs of JJP, which had fought the 2019 assembly polls against the BJP before forging alliance with the saffron party, should look into their inner conscience and support the no-confidence motion.Pointing towards JJP MLA Naina Chautala, who is also mother of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, Kadian asked her to rise like "Jhansi ki Rani" for farmers' cause and support the no-confidence motion."Chaudhary Devi Lal dedicated his entire life for farmers' cause. The JJP leaders should look in their inner conscience before voting," he said, adding that the Deputy CM should withdraw support from the government and stand with farmers.Haryana's Education and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal hit out at the Opposition, saying they were misleading farmers and doing politics in their name.He gave details of several steps which have been taken by the government for the welfare of farmers.JJP senior leader Ishwar Singh said the government has taken several steps for welfare of farmers and brought many schemes for them.He said adequate arrangements are made by the government to ensure smooth procurement of farmers' crops.Taking a dig at Congress leaders, he said they were potraying themselves as if they were the only sympathisers of farmers.Ishwar Singh's speech was frequently interrupted by Congress members who asked him to make his stand clear whether he stood in support of farmers or was against them.Independent MLA Nayan Pal Rawat, who is supporting the government, hit out at the Congress, alleging "everyone knows that in the name of Change of Land Use the land of farmers was snatched. They looted farmers with both hands. It is Narendra Modi and M L Khattar who took steps for peasants welfare and in this context these farm laws were brought."            Congress MLA Jagbir Singh Malik sought an apology from Agriculture Minister J P Dalal over his alleged controversial remark over farmers' death at various protest sites.Dalal has already expressed regret over his remark.In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, currently having an effective strength of 88 members, the ruling BJP has 40 members, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents, five of whom are supporting the government, while one member is of the Haryana Lokhit Party, who has also extended support to the government.Talking to reporters after the day's proceedings in the state assembly ended on Friday, Hooda had said, "The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers."            He said the party needed to move a no-confidence motion because the BJP-JJP government has "lost public confidence" and the coalition government, "betraying public opinion, is taking anti-people decisions one after the other". with PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-jjp-government-in-haryana-wins-trust-vote-223237
