12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Vietnam envoy seeks better business ties with Punjab, Haryana||Vietnam Ambassador to India, Pham Sanh Chau, on Friday sought increased cooperation with industries and the travel community based in Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.Both Punjab and Haryana have emerged as significant markets sharing economic and touristic potential with Vietnam, he told the media here.“Punjab is a key hub for textile-based industries, including yarn, readymade garments and hosiery, pharmaceutical and agricultural products, whose exports feature Vietnam among India’s top 15 trading partners in 2019,” he said.“Vietnam is also an ideal honeymoon destination for couples in the region and fast becoming popular as a perfect destination to celebrate dream weddings.”Chau said: “We aspire to forge a positive relationship between India and Vietnam across a wide number of sectors. From developing Indian business interests in Vietnam to working closely with travel agencies in northern India to  boost tourism, we work to create a favourable image of Vietnam by developing economic and touristic activities in the region.”In contrast to other ASEAN economies, Vietnam has succeeded in keeping the coronavirus under control.Vietnam has till date reported 1,300 coronavirus cases, keeping the economic impact of the outbreak to a minimum.“Today (post-coronavirus), Vietnam is looking at becoming Southeast Asia’s single economic success with the country rising to fourth in nominal GDP in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) this year, surpassing Singapore  and Malaysia and gaining on the Philippines (IMF). Rising exports have also helped to drive growth, as companies relocate production from China,” said the Ambassador.Vietnam has also surpassed its regional rivals Indonesia and Thailand and is the EU’s second-most important trading partner in ASEAN.The European Union-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement (EVFTA) is the second FTA between the EU and an ASEAN country, after Singapore. Vietnam is the second country to sign trade and investment agreements in the region, he added.Since Punjab, together with Haryana is a major hub of SMEs encompassing industries that include food processing, tractors and auto components, agro-based parts, bicycle and bicycle parts, sports goods, light engineering goods, metal and alloys, chemical products and textiles, they become good trading partners to Vietnam. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vietnam-envoy-seeks-better-business-ties-with-punjab-haryana-224209
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Projects for revival of Saraswati river under consideration: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said that that his government was considering several projects for the "revival of the holy Saraswati river".Also read: Unearthing the Saraswati mysteryKhattar said a projects for the construction of Adi Badri Dam, Somb Saraswati Barrage and Somb Saraswati Reservoir, with a net live storage capacity of 1680 hectare meters post-monsoon, was under consideration.Also read: Haryana govt presents Rs 1.55 lakh crore budget with focus on health, agricultureKhattar made the statements will presenting the Haryana Budget for the financial year 2021-2022 in the state Assembly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/projects-for-revival-of-saraswati-river-under-consideration-khattar-224171
12-03-2021||---||2 ‘wanted’ gangsters nabbed from Mohali||Karnal, March 11Two gangsters — Krishan of Dadupur and Sunny of Ladwa — both carrying a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh and Rs 2 lakh, respectively, were arrested from Mohali.The police have recovered a stolen SUV, three pistols, 200 cartridges, four mobile phones, a Wi-Fi dongle and Rs 8 lakh from their possession.The accused were wanted in over 24 cases of snatching, murder and other crimes registered in Karnal, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Jhajjar and Kurukshetra. They were allegedly involved in the killing of former sarpanch of Anjathali village Suresh alias Babli and one Vikas alias Pintu of Dadupur Khurd village.Ganga Ram Punia, SP, said following a tip-off, the CIA-1 team led by Inspector Depender Rana laid a trap near Mohali and arrested the gangsters. During preliminary investigation, it came to the fore that they were planning to kill Babli’s brother Naresh, who is presently behind bars in a case of attempt to murder, and his son-in-law, the SP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-wanted-gangsters-nabbed-from-mohali-223991
12-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Process to identify land for rapid transit system begins||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 11The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) has started the process to prepare the Detailed Project Report (DPR) of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor in a bid to expand the proposed corridor from Delhi to Karnal from Delhi to Panipat.NCRTC, an executing agency, is identifying land parallel to NH-44 for the corridor.“The NCRTC has been given nod to conduct the drone survey to prepare the DPR. I had had a meeting with the officials of the NCRTC. I have assured cooperation from the district administration to the executing agency,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.“We are hopeful the DPR will be finalised by the end of June. After passing by the state government, it will be sent to the Union Government,” said the DC.Earlier, the corridor was planned up to Panipat from Delhi and the length of the project was 103 km with 17 stations at an estimated cost of Rs 29,000 crore. But after the intervention of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, now the project has been extended to Karnal, taking the length to 130 km.Under the new plan, three new stations including Gharaunda, Karnal South near Madhuban and Karnal North near new bus stand have been added, taking the number of proposed stations to 20.Most parts of this project would be elevated. It would be underground at some places, said the DC.As per the authorities, the project will provide comfortable and fast transit between Delhi and Karnal. Once constructed, the corridor is expected to bring down the travel time between Delhi and Karnal.“It will not only cut down the travel time but will also bring environmental and economic benefits to the National Capital Region (NCR),” said Yadav, adding that it would also reduce the burden on the NH-44 and Railways.He informed that earlier the expansion to Karnal was to be taken in the second phase, but now it is being taken in the first phase.It was a long-pending demand of the residents, who had raised it at several platforms including with the CM and with former Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/process-to-identify-land-for-rapid-transit-system-begins-223873
12-03-2021||---||Six-year-old molested in Panipat||Panipat, March 11A six-year-old girl was molested in a temple in the Tehsil Camp area here today. The incident was captured by the CCTV camera installed in the temple. The incident has gone viral on social media.The police have registered a case under various Sections of the IPC and POCSO Act and have begun a probe.As per the information available, the girl child along with her mother on Thursday came to a temple in the Tehsil Camp area for worship. The girl was playing with another child in the temple.Meanwhile, a 35-year-old man came there and sat on the chair where the girl was playing. He caught the girl and started molesting her. The girl tried to free herself but to no avail. However, a youth, who was nearby, saw him and he freed the girl from his clutches. People gathered there and beat up the miscreant. Anjali Sharma, councillor, also reached the spot after getting information.Sub-Inspector Jaibir Singh, in charge, Tehsil Camp police post, said that a case has been registered under relevant Sections of the POCSO Act. The accused has been taken into custody, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-year-old-molested-in-panipat-223875
12-03-2021||---||Yamunanagar man awarded life term in rape case||Yamunanagar, March 11Additional Sessions Judge Vijayant Sehgal has sentenced a man to life imprisonment under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in a rape case.The judge, who delivered the verdict yesterday, also imposed a fine of Rs 31,000 on the convict, identified as Vikas of Ambala district.Public prosecutor Dinesh Sabharwal said the convict was awarded rigorous imprisonment for a year under Section 342 of the IPC, rigorous imprisonment for five years under Section 365 and rigorous imprisonment for seven years under Section 366.“Under Section 376 (2) (n) of the IPC, the convict shall undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and life term under Section 3 (2) (v) of the SC and ST Act,” said Sabharwal.As per the court verdict, all sentences will run concurrently.On April 29, 2019, the victim, a resident of Yamunanagar district, had lodged a police complaint, in which she had accused Vikas of raping her on the pretext of marriage.She had said the accused took her to a tubewell room in his village on April 27, 2019, and raped her for two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-man-awarded-life-term-in-rape-case-223876
12-03-2021||---||Minor sexually assaulted in Bhiwani district||Hisar, March 11A minor girl (16), who is a student of class IX, was allegedly repeatedly raped by eight persons, including a father-son duo, in a village in Bhiwani district.The matter came to light as the victim got pregnant after which her father lodged a complaint with the police.The police spokesperson said that accused had lured the girl and sexually assaulted her for nearly six months. The accused include seven residents of the same village and another member of a neighbouring village. The police have registered a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-sexually-assaulted-in-bhiwani-district-223877
12-03-2021||---||Shopkeepers down shutters to protest against MC action in Karnal||Karnal, March 11 Shopkeepers of Timber Market on Thursday kept their shops closed in protest against the action by the municipal corporation (MC) of pasting notices outside their shops, warning them to deposit the property tax, or else sealing would be done. Under its sealing drive against the property tax defaulters, the MC on Wednesday sealed one industry and pasted notices outside 25 shops of SD Senior Secondary School (Girls) market, following which the shopkeepers protested and closed the market. On the call of the SD School Market Association, the shopkeepers on Thursday also kept their shops closed. They alleged that around 45 shopkeepers were tenants in the market and they paid rent to the school management. The property tax is supposed to be paid by the school management, but the MC was forcing them to pay it, said Dinesh Narula, president of the association. He along with other shopkeepers alleged that they were not aware that the school was not paying the property tax. “We request the MC not to harass the shopkeepers, otherwise, we will continue our protest and will not open our shops,” said Narula and others. Vikram Singh, Municipal Commissioner, said they had served final notices to all  property tax defaulters and action was being taken accordingly. “We are not harassing anyone, but proper procedure is being adopted,” said the Municipal Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shopkeepers-down-shutters-to-protest-against-mc-action-in-karnal-223878
12-03-2021||---||Rain, hailstorm damage crops on 35K hectares of Jhajjar dist||Jhajjar, March 11Rain coupled with hailstorm and strong winds that lashed the region on Tuesday night caused damage to the standing crop of wheat and mustard in 130 villages in the district. As per sources, the Agriculture Department has assessed a total loss on 35,904 hectares.The worst affected villages include Dujana, Dhaur, Beri Khas, Bishan, Wazirpur, Baghpur, Bakra, Gochhi, Dubaldhan (K), Dubaldhan (B), Dharana, Majra D, Barhana, Malikpur, Madana Kalan, Sheria, Madana Khurd, Dighal, Dhandhlan, Gangtan, Lakria, Safipur, Bhambhewa, Chochhi and Dimana villages. The loss in these villages has been reported at over 50 per cent.Sources informed the crop loss has been estimated 25 per cent or less on around 29,100 hectares, from 26 per cent to 50 per cent in 6,364 hectares and from 51 per cent to 75 per cent on 440 hectares. The farmers are approaching the Agriculture Department and are demanding adequate compensation.“I was expecting good yield of wheat this season, but the hailstorm flattened the crop spread over 20 acres causing a loss of more than 60 per cent. Other farmers in the village are also facing a similar situation,” said Balwan Singh, a farmer from Wazirpur village.Ashok of Dhaur said his wheat crop was flourishing but the rain coupled with strong winds damaged it extensively. “I have filed a complaint at the Agriculture Office for getting compensation,” he added.Inder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), confirmed that wheat and mustard crop in 130 villages of the district had been affected by the rain accompanied with hailstorm and high velocity winds.“We have called upon the affected farmers to file their complaint about the losses within 72 hours for getting compensation under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana (PMFBY). Those who are not enrolled under the scheme are given compensation on the basis of crop cutting experiments’ report,” Singh added.In Rohtak, a loss up to 25 per cent to the wheat crop has been reported in Kultana village due to rain accompanied by high velocity winds. “No complaint of loss has so far has been received from other villages except Kultana in Rohtak district,” said Rohtas, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Rohtak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-hailstorm-damage-crops-on-35k-hectares-of-jhajjar-dist-223879
12-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||CAG: Power users overburdened by Rs 168 cr in 2014-19||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 11The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has found that due to “inefficiencies” on the part of Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL), consumers had to bear a burden of Rs 168.54 crore between 2014 and 2019. The report was tabled during the ongoing Assembly session.What report saysThe HVPNL could not ensure synchronous completion of substations and associated transmission lines, which resulted in overburdening consumers by Rs 67.33 crore and due to delay in repair of transformers and under-utilisation of substations, a burden of Rs 6.71 crore had to be borne by people.Profitability of the HVPNL was adversely affected by Rs 70.08 crore between 2014 and 2019 due to inefficiencies with regard to transmission cost, availing mid-term loan against government guarantee without carrying out cost-benefit analysis, delayed filing of aggregate revenue requirement and non-adherence to working capital norms.The HVPNL did not fully avail World Bank loans available at low rates due to poor pace of project implementation and resorted to costlier funding arrangement with the Rural Electrification Corporation, which cost it Rs 24.63 crore. It had to bear costs of Rs 31.32 lakh on account of front-end fee on an unavailed portion of a World Bank loan.Thirty of the 32 projects commissioned between 2014 and 2019 were delayed by between three months and over eight years.On Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited, the CAG said it paid Rs 27.29 crore as compensation for short lifting of coal during 2016-17 as it did not initiate timely action for reduction of annual contracted quantity of coal with Coal India Limited for its Panipat thermal power station.The CAG also pointed out that Uttar Haryana Vitran Nigam had to bear charges of Rs 59.83 crore due to inadequacy of functional automatic power factor capacitors, meant for improvement by regulating current flow and voltage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cag-power-users-overburdened-by-rs-168-cr-in-2014-19-223880
12-03-2021||---||No staff transfer in Haryana till month-end||Chandigarh, March 11The Haryana Government has imposed a ban on government transfers till March 31. The ban will be applicable in all government departments, boards and corporations.According to an order, there may be heavy workload in government departments till the end of the current financial year on March 31.“Under these circumstances, it will not be in public interest to transfer a government employee from one station to another,” read the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-staff-transfer-in-haryana-till-month-end-223881
12-03-2021||Karnal||Man booked for killing wife in Pundri||A man allegedly killed his wife with a sharp-edged weapon at their residence in Pundri, Kaithal district, on Wednesday night. The victim was identified as Munesh alias Manisha (32). Accused Jai Parkash, Sanskrit teacher at a school in Pai, was absconding. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-killing-wife-in-pundri-223882
12-03-2021||Rohtak||Arhtiya shot in Rohtak||Ajay Kumar, an arhtiya, was shot while he was on way to a temple in Kharawar village on the Rohtak-Delhi highway on Thursday morning. The police sent the body for postmortem examination. Deceased’s family members denied enmity which could have led to the murder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arhtiya-shot-in-rohtak-223883
12-03-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Day after security breach, Haryana Speaker calls urgent meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 11Taking serious view of the security lapse on the premises of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on Wednesday, where legislators of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) confronted Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar over the farm laws, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta called an urgent meeting of the security committee on Friday, while especially requesting the presence of a senior Punjab Police officer as special invitee.“This kind of behaviour cannot be tolerated and needs to be handled with an iron hand. The police top brass of Haryana, including the DGP and CID chief, as well as the Chandigarh IG will be there. An IG from Punjab has also been called for the meeting to review security at the Vidhan Sabha premises in the light of the unpleasant incident involving Punjab MLAs,” Gupta said.Budget today Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who is also the Finance Minister, will present the Budget in the Vidhan Sabha at noon on Friday.He said while the meeting would explore the possibilities of having more checks in place to ensure that a repeat of the incident did not take place, it would also look into the incident. Haryana had already issued a notification banning the carrying of placards beyond the barricaded entry leading to the Vidhan Sabha and termed the action of Punjab MLAs a violation of that order.Gupta had already sent a letter to the Punjab Speaker, stating that such incidents could create bad blood and bitterness between Punjab and Haryana since the two states shared the Vidhan Sabha premises.Sources said since the Punjab MLAs responsible for the incident were identifiable, Haryana was not likely to let them get away easily and could ask the police to initiate action against those responsible.The SAD legislators gheraoed the vehicle of the Chief Minister while he was leaving the premises after the no-confidence motion and raised slogans, demanding that the Haryana Government should pass a resolution for repealing the three farm laws. They raised anti-PM and anti-Khattar slogans even as they condemned the BJP government for its “anti-farmer” stance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-after-security-breach-haryana-speaker-calls-urgent-meet-223884
12-03-2021||---||Farmers burn MLAs’ effigies||Ambala/Hisar, March 11 Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) activists on Thursday protested and burnt the effigy of Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel here today in protest against his, what they described as, “anti-farmer” remarks during his speech in the Assembly yesterday. They claimed the MLA had termed farmers “anti-nationals”. Malkeet Singh, district BKU (Charuni) chief, said: “We had appealed to the MLA to vote in favour of the no-confidence motion, but he didn’t support us. Moreover, he termed farmers anti-nationals.”  The MLA, however, later issued a clarification that he had not said anything against the farmers. “I can never use words such as ‘traitors’ and ‘anti-nationals’ for farmers. It was said in the context of slogans raised in the JNU and support extended by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to people who have been working against the country. I request farmers to watch the video (of my speech in the Assembly). If they still feel that I have hurt their sentiments, I have no objection in apologising,” he added. Farmers also staged demonstrations at Khatkar in Jind district and Kitlana village in Bhiwani district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-burn-mlas-effigies-223885
12-03-2021||---||Oppn didn’t put up farmers’ case properly: Abhay Chautala||Chandigarh, March 11 Senior INLD leader Abhay Chautala today alleged legislators of the Congress and JJP, and the Independents did not plead farmers’ cause properly during the debate on the no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government which was defeated in the Assembly yesterday. “Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who had moved the motion, spoke for only eight minutes on farmers in his 22-minute speech,” he told the media here today. Abhay, who resigned from the Assembly in protest against, termed Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s response to the no-trust motion as “arrogant”. “The Chief Minister should have restrained himself from saying that the farm laws would not be taken back when the legislations were under the scrutiny of the SC,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oppn-didnt-put-up-farmers-case-properly-abhay-chautala-223886
12-03-2021||New Delhi||Smriti Irani attacks Bhupinder Hooda over women pulling tractor||Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani on Thursday attacked Haryana Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda for riding a tractor pulled by women MLAs of his party.“I understand that he wants to protest. I also understand that he wants to make a political statement, but should that be done at the cost of women? Can women in political organisations be treated like bonded labour? It is shocking that no male member of the Congress tried to stop that,” Irani said.She said the silence of Congress president Sonia Gandhi on the issue spoke volumes about the way the “Congress treats women”.BJP Mahila Morcha chief Vanathi Srinivasan issued a statement, announcing a nationwide agitation against the “mistreatment” of women by Congress leaders. It sought an unconditional apology from Hooda, who said women were involved because they were the most hurt by rising fuel prices. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/smriti-irani-attacks-bhupinder-hooda-over-women-pulling-tractor-223888
12-03-2021||---||2 murdered in separate cases in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, March 11Two persons were allegedly murdered in two separate cases in Yamunanagar district following property disputes.The deceased have been identified as Kedarnath (70) of Naharpur village and Mubarak (25) of Bibipur village of the district.The police have registered cases of murder and have begun investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-murdered-in-separate-cases-in-yamunanagar-223889
12-03-2021||---||RS MP Deepender Hooda meets dead farmer’s kin in Karnal village||Karnal, March 11Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Thursday visited the residence of farmer Harinder Singh (32) in Thari village who died at Singhu border this week during the farmers' protest. Deepender expressed his condolences to the family members.He assured the admission of Harinder’s son and nephew in Kendriya Vidyalaya Karnal. Also, he extended financial support of Rs 2 lakh to the family.While interacting with mediapersons, he said that the no-confidence motion has exposed anti-farmer faces in the Haryana Assembly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-mp-deepender-hooda-meets-dead-farmers-kin-in-karnal-village-223899
12-03-2021||A trend of installing extra white and glittering lights on vehicles which affects commuters and riders coming from the opposite side by curtailing their visibility to see objects||Traffic police should take action against violators||RK Garg, TohanaNehru Park in Narwana in deplorable conditionIn Narwana, Nehru Park is the only place where a lot of people from adjoining localities, come in the evening and morning for relaxation. But over the years, the upkeep of this park has gone from bad to worse. The toilets are stinking and anti-social elements have stolen the fittings, rendering them useless. The swings for children are lying broken. The library building has become haven for drunkards. The greenery needs pruning as it look more like a jungle. The administration should once again try to develop it as a model park as it used to be earlier.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaTricity needs metro as roads overcrowdedThe ever increasing traffic on roads in the tricity paints a grim future. Administrators of the tricity should chalk out a mutually acceptable route plan for metro implementation covering tricity and nearby areas which will make our environment less polluted and roads less crowded, as we are already running behind time in traffic, pollution, roads upkeep, infrastructure development and management.Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traffic-police-should-take-action-against-violators-223900
12-03-2021||Ambala||Students shine in IIT-JEE Mains||Advertisement making contestYamunanagar: Sigma, the mathematical society of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, organised an online national-level advertisement making competition on the topic 'ad mad show- math and success add up'. Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college, said Aditi Anand of SD College, Ambala Cantonment, got first position. He further said M Jemima and S Angel Kiruba of Kamraj College of Arts and Science, Thoothukudi (Tamil Nadu) bagged second position. He added that Prabhu Murugan of the New College, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) and Shubham Kumar Sharma of CRM Jat College, Hisar, got third position.Another feather in GJUST capHisar: Adding another feather in its cap, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar (GJUST), ranked 301-350 in The Times Higher Education Emerging Economies University Rankings 2021. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Dr Avnesh Verma, Registrar of the university, congratulated the university fraternity for this achievement. The VC said the ranking was based on five key indicators grouped into five areas: teaching 30 per cent (the learning environment); research 30 per cent (volume, income and reputation); citations 20 per cent (research influence); international outlook 10 per cent (staff, students and research); and industry income 10 per cent (knowledge transfer). The VC further stated that ranking used the same 13 carefully calibrated performance indicators to provide the most comprehensive and balanced comparisons, trusted by students, academics, university leaders, industry and governments – but the weightings are specially recalibrated to reflect the characteristics of the emerging economy universities.Personality development workshopHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology Department of Applied Psychology organised a workshop on the topic “Personality Development and Assessment” at Ch Ranbir Singh Auditorium of the University. Mussorie Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration HR Prof Sunita Rani was the keynote speaker at the workshop. Prof Rakesh Behmani, Chairperson of the Department, presided over the workshop. Prof Sunita started the workshop by discussing human behaviour and personality in detail. She emphasised on the importance of understanding our behaviour for grooming our personality. She illustrated how personality development plays an essential role not only in an individual’s professional but also in personal life. She also introduced students to psychological tools for personality assessment which are helpful to students in understanding themselves as well as others.Talk on investor awarenessFaridabad: A webinar on the topic of ‘Investor awareness’ was held at Aggarwal College at Ballabgarh here recently. It was jointly organised by the Commerce Department of the college and the investor protection fund of the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). Raghunandan Patnaik, national-level trainer from the BSE, enumerated risks and safety measures which needed to be considered while investing in various avenues. He emphasised the need to read the guidelines issued by the SEBI and RBI so that investment frauds may be prevented.Skill varsity signs pactPalwal: Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU), Dudhola, has signed a MoU with IIHMR University, Jaipur. “The purpose of the MoU is to promote mutual cooperation between SVSU and IIHMR University for skill development in public health management programmes and establish a framework for programmes of exchange and collaboration in the area of management and skill development,” said VC Raj Nehru. The key areas of cooperation include joint MDP, skill development, development of entrepreneurial skills, promoting start-ups, joint holding of conference/seminar/workshop/training/symposia/short term courses etc., industry exchange programme, exchange of knowledge resource, exchange of faculty resource, he said.Legal literacy campFaridabad: To mark International Women’s Day, a legal literacy camp on the topic “Women Right, Domestic Violence Act 498 (A)” was organised by the women cell of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, recently. Adv Uma Singh Chauhan, who was the guest speaker, presented a detailed description of the Act, which she said included not only physical violence but also emotional, verbal, sexual and economic abuse. She opined that the society must break down the deep-rooted social and economic barriers which hinder the progress of women. Principal of the college, Dr Krishan Kant Gupta, stressed upon spreading awareness and sensitising students as he said cases of domestic violence had increased manifold during the Covid pandemic. In-charges of the Women Cell Dr Shobhna Goyal, Dr Geeta Gupta and around 150 students attended the talk.Students win laurels for collegeKarnal: Students of MA Economics of the evening session of RKSD College, Kaithal, brought laurels to the college by getting six out of the first 10 places in the second and fourth semester exams of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. Dinky, MA II, secured second place in the merit list, Ekta and Riya secured fourth, Shruti fifth, Jyoti secured the ninth rank. Similarly, Priyanka, student of fourth semester, secured seventh place in the merit list. Principal Sanjay Goyal, Principal in-charge evening session Harinder Gupta, Prof Manika Gupta and other teachers honoured these students with cash prizes. President Saket Mangal and Convener Evening Session Navneet Goyal congratulated them.e-campus placement driveHisar: Two students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Gurugram-based Decimal Technologies Private Limited organised by the Training and Placement Cell of the university. Vice-Chancellor Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Dr Avnesh Verma congratulated the selected students. Placement Director Pratap Singh said the e-campus placement drive was organised through online mode. Three students of BTech.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-shine-in-iit-jee-mains-223903
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Live-in relationship deeds not morally acceptable: High Court||Marriages may be made in heaven, but live-in relationship deeds are being solemnised in “presence of witnesses” by “male” and “female” partners with clauses that enable the signatories to terminate the charter after giving a month’s notice. The documents, making it clear that the relationship is not ‘marital’, also give the partners the right to approach a competent court of law for its implementation, if any of the parties backs out of the deed.‘Misuse of the process of law’Live-in relationship deeds have failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Ruling that the terms and conditions in the deeds were a “misuse of the process of law”, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has asserted “it cannot be morally accepted in society”.But such deeds have failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Ruling that the terms and conditions in the deeds were a “misuse of the process of law”, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has asserted “it cannot be morally accepted in society”.The “new concept of contractual live-in-relationship” was brought to Justice Sangwan’s notice after an 18-year-old girl and 19-year-old boy filed a petition seeking protection of life and liberty. Their counsel told Justice Sangwan’s Bench that certain terms and conditions had been settled by way of mutual consent in the “deed of live-in relationship” executed between the petitioners.Justice Sangwan observed the deed made it clear that both parties had agreed to fully cooperate with each other without any dispute or issues and would not claim anything against each other. In the end, it was stated that the parties agreed to solemnise marriage on attaining marriageable age.Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, the state counsel submitted that Section 26 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, provided that an agreement in restraint of marriage was void. As such, it could not be enforced as per Section 14 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963.Even otherwise, the petitioner “male partner” was not competent to perform marriage under the provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. He was not even competent to have a live-in relationship with the petitioner “woman partner” as he had not attained the age of marriage. After hearing the arguments, Justice Sangwan dismissed the petition while asserting that the court did not find merit in the matter. The clauses, especially stating that it is not a ‘marital relationship’, were nothing but abuse of the legal process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/live-in-relationship-deeds-not-morally-acceptable-high-court-223810
12-03-2021||New Delhi||Daily new COVID-19 cases in Punjab rose 4.5 times in 1 month||Active COVID-19 cases in India rose from a low of 1.35 lakh on February 12 to a high of 1.89 lakh on Thursday, with Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala mainly fuelling the burden.The daily new cases in Punjab grew 4.5 times between February 11 and March 11. The cases rose from 2,112 to 9,402.Likewise, Maharashtra witnessed a rise from 36,917 daily cases on February 11 to 10,0240 cases on March 11.The government on Thursday said, that India has seen active cases as high as 10 lakh on September 18 last, and the COVID-19 situation nationally was overall in control except in six states with eight of India’s ten highest active case burden districts in Maharashtra and one each in Kerala and Karnataka.The government is also closely watching Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, and Gujarat as case surges here remain on tipping point. In Madhya Pradesh daily cases have risen from 1951 on February 11 to 3915 on March 11.“Haryana, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh are at a tipping point, and yet to go to a surge but looking at early signs of surge we have had three meetings with these states, and asked them to improve testing, tracking abs treatment besides adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviours”.Haryana witnessed a rise of 824 to 2,440 cases in a month while Gujarat from 1,800 to 3,529.The vaccination speed is satisfactory, said the government, adding that with 71 per cent vaccinations of 2.53 crore doses were so far delivered at government facilities.India is second only to the US in terms of speed and scale of the inoculation.As of March 9, Today (March 9) US had delivered 9.36 crore doses followed by India 2.43 and UK 2.37 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/daily-new-covid-19-cases-in-punjab-rose-4-5-times-in-1-month-223741
12-03-2021||Chandigarh||Devotees throng temples on Mahashivratri in Punjab and Haryana; story in pictures||A large number of devotees on Thursday thronged temples across Punjab and Haryana, including Chandigarh, on the occasion of Mahashivratri.The devotees thronged the temples since early morning to offer prayers and perform special ‘pujas’.Lord Shiva temples were decorated for the occasion.The famous Saketri temple, near here, was bedecked for the celebrations.Panchkula: Devotees pay worship on the occasion of Maha Shivratri at Saketri Shiv temple on Thursday. Tribune Photo: Ravi KumarPunjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar have extended greetings to the people on the sacred occasion of Mahashivratri. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/devotees-throng-temples-on-mahashivratri-in-punjab-and-haryana-story-in-pictures-223710
