14-03-2021||Chandigarh||One death, 440 new COVID-19 cases in Haryana||Haryana reported one more COVID-19 fatality on Sunday, taking the death toll to 3,074, while the infection count rose to 2,75,137 with 440 new cases, a health department bulletin said.The death was reported from Karnal district, it stated.The fresh cases were reported from districts including Karnal (100), Gurgaon (65), Kurukshetra (54) and Panchkula (47).The number of active cases in the state is 3,095. The recovery rate is 97.76 percent, as per the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-death-440-new-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-225184
14-03-2021||Lt Col Dilbag Singh Dabas (retd)||3 MVCs for Dera Baba Nanak battle in 1971||The community hall in Beri village in present-day Jhajjar district of Haryana has an old black marble stone on which are engraved in golden letters the names of the bravehearts from the villages around who laid down their lives in the service of the nation during World War I and II. A close look at the long list reveals that Gochhi village has the maximum number of names. It also has the maximum number of families with a military background, some even going back to five generations.Captain Devinder Singh Ahlawat was a third generation soldier; his grandfather fought in World War I and his father was part of live action in World War II and also during India’s wars in 1947-48, and 1962. Devinder, son of Lieutenant Colonel Subha Chand Ahlawat, was born on July 4, 1947 at Gochhi village in Rohtak district of then undivided Punjab.After a year in Government College, Rohtak, he joined the National Defence Academy and was commissioned into 10th Battalion of The Dogra Infantry Regiment on December 15, 1967. The battalion was raised by Lt Col Kapur Singh Ahlawat on June 1, 1966.Dogras have throughout outperformed themselves in all the wars fought since World War I, but a battalion earning two Maha Vir Chakras within just about five years of its raising speaks volumes of the training, commitment and dedication of its men and officers. 10 Dogra is proudly referred to as ‘Terrific Tenth’.While raising 10 Dogra, Lt Col Ahlawat, also incidentally from Gochhi, never imagined that his own bhatija (nephew) would join it and make his battalion proud.The India-Pakistan border in Punjab generally follows the Ravi river between Gurdaspur and Attari and Sutlej between Ferozepur and Fazilka. There are three bridges over these two rivers at Dera Baba Nanak (DBN), Hussainiwala and Sulemanke. Of these, the bridges at DBN and Sulemanke were under Pakistani control. The areas east of these two bridges gave the Pakistan army readymade bridgeheads where from it could launch its strike formations across the border into Indian territory.It was necessary to eliminate the Pakistani enclaves at DBN and Sulemanke to prevent Pakistan from using them as launch pads for any offensive. 10 Dogra and 71 Armoured Regiment were tasked to capture the east-end of DBN bridge near the enclave, which was heavily fortified by the enemy with concrete pillboxes and bunkers.In the first phase, ‘Alpha’ and ‘Bravo’ companies of 10 Dogra were to capture the depth bundh, bundh junction and river bundh. In the next phase, ‘Delta’ company commanded by Major Inder Singh and ‘Charlie’ company by Devinder Ahlawat, now a Captain, were tasked to capture the link bundh, rail bundh and road bundh.The companies made steady progress in decimating the Pakistanis and clearing the bundhs allotted to them. Devinder’s company was to follow ‘Bravo’ and clear the most formidable link bundh in the second phase. And the intrepid Ahlawat led his company from the front and cleared the supposedly impregnable bundh which cost him his life, but for the ultimate cause and in the best traditions of the Indian Army. The grateful nation recognised the conspicuous bravery of Captain Devinder Singh Ahlawat and awarded him the Maha Vir Chakra, posthumously. The battle account reads:“During the 1971 India-Pakistan war, 10 Dogra was tasked to capture Dera Baba Nanak bridgehead on the night of December 5/6. As per the battalion attack plan, ‘C’ company led by Captain Devinder Singh Ahlawat was to capture east-end of the bridge on which the enemy defences were based on a series of concrete embankments with anti-tank guns and heavy automatic weapons. The company, led by Captain Ahlawat, came under heavy machine gun fire from a concrete pillbox. With complete disregard to his life, Captain Ahlawat charged onto the pillbox, grabbed the burning hot machine gun barrel with his right hand and threw a grenade into the pillbox with his left, killing the firing crew, thus making it possible to continue the momentum of the attack and capture of the objective soon thereafter. In this action, Captain Ahlawat lost his life and his body was found with six bullet wounds on his chest, and his hand still clutching the machine-gun barrel.”Captain Devinder Singh Ahlawat met his date with fate unmarried but not unsung — the black marble sacred stone in Beri Community Hall has his name, too, engraved in golden letters. In his honour, the Army Welfare Housing Complex in Sector 56 in Gurugram, is also named after this braveheart.From the battle for Dera Baba Nanak emerged two more Maha Virs: Lieutenant Colonel Narinder Singh Sandhu, Commanding Officer of 10 Dogra, and Brigadier K Gowrishankar, Commander of 86 Infantry Brigade.Having taken over 10 Dogra just a few months before the war, Lt Col Sandhu, an alumnus of Khalsa College, Amritsar, for his dynamic leadership and bold execution of the attack plan, was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra. The battle account reads:“On December 5, 1971, 86 Infantry Brigade Group was ordered to eliminate the Pakistan bridgehead across river Ravi, north of Dera Baba Nanak. The area consisted of a series of embankments defended by an elaborate system of concrete defence works housing machine guns, anti-tank weapons and other small arms. 10 Dogra battalion, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Narinder Singh Sandhu, was allotted the task of capturing the east-end of the bridgehead, which was the hub of the enemy defences in the area. Lieutenant Colonel Sandhu led his battalion most skillfully when the men fought from bunker to bunker to capture the objective. In the bitter fighting, he was seriously wounded in his leg; however, with complete disregard to his own safety, he continued to lead his men with cool courage and determination. His exemplary conduct and inspiring leadership so enthused his men that the vital objective was captured with minimum casualties to the battalion.”The conspicuous courage and outstanding leadership of Brigadier Krishnaswamy Gowrishankar, Commander of 86 Infantry Brigade, originally from Corps of Signals, too, did not go unnoticed. For his boldness and originality in planning and execution of the offensive, he was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-mvcs-for-dera-baba-nanak-battle-in-1971-224925
14-03-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Post ‘heckling’, Haryana to review CM’s safety code||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 13After filing a police complaint against the alleged heckling of CM Manohar Lal Khattar by Punjab Akali MLAs, the Haryana Vidhan Sabha Secretariat now plans to review the CM security’s standard operating procedures so that such incidents don’t recur.Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said they also planned to table a resolution in the House on March 15 condemning the alleged action by the Punjab MLAs.“It’s my duty to inform the House that such an incident occurred. I will seek suggestions from the members on how to proceed further. Whatever happened can’t be taken lightly,” said Gupta. Besides, the DGP has been told to submit a report on the alleged security lapse by Wednesday.The Vidhan Sabha Secretariat today lodged the complaint with the Chandigarh Police against the Punjab MLAs for allegedly heckling the CM on the Assembly premises on March 10.Naming the MLAs, the complaint, filed by a Vidhan Sabha marshal, has sought action against the MLAs and six-seven other persons. The complainant alleged the MLAs misbehaved with the CM, tried to attack him and disrupted his press briefing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-heckling-haryana-to-review-cms-safety-code-224889
14-03-2021||---||Farmers' dharna near college, Deputy CM, BJP, JJP leaders cancel visit||Jhajjar, March 13Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, other Cabinet ministers, MPs and BJP and JJP leaders cancelled their visit to Mahavidyalaya Gurukul situated on the outskirts of the city following a protest by local Chahar khap farmers, who today pitched a tent near the college to stop leaders from entering the premises.The college has organised a two-day annual function that commenced today. The dharna would continue till tomorrow evening.The college had invited Dushyant, ministers JP Dalal, Ranjeet Chautala and Om Prakash Yadav, MPs Arvind Sharma (Rohtak) and Swami Sumedhanand Shastri (Sikar) and state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar.Farmer leader Rajender said, “We have been peacefully protesting at the Dhansa border for more than three months against the three farm laws. A couple of days ago, we learnt that Gurukul had invited BJP and JJP leaders to the college. Subsequently, a delegation of farmers contacted the college administration and urged it to cancel the invitation to the leaders, but it ignored our request. This forced us to shift the dharna outside the college.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-dharna-near-college-deputy-cm-bjp-jjp-leaders-cancel-visit-224857
14-03-2021||Karnal||In face of protest by farmers, Nilokheri MLA skips function||Scores of farmers today opposed the visit of Nilokheri legislator Dharampal Gonder to Nissing Gaushala, where he was scheduled to chair a programme. They said the MLA had betrayed farmers by voting against the no-confidence motion in the Assembly on Wednesday.Farmers called off the protest after the event organisers had assured them that Gonder would not attend the event.Gonder is an Independent MLA who supports the Khattar government. He is the chairman of the Haryana Forest Development Corporation.The protesters said the BJP had denied ticket to Gonder in the last Assembly elections, but he still won the elections as an Independent candidate on the back farmers’ support.Gonder said he had to skip the event because he had a meeting with the CM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-face-of-protest-by-farmers-nilokheri-mla-skips-function-224858
14-03-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat---||22 months on, 385 in Faridabad await flat occupancy certificate||Tribune News Service Faridabad, March 13 In all, 385 residents of BPTP Ltd in Sector 84 here have been awaiting occupation certificate of their flats for the past 22 months though they have paid all dues. “We have been running from pillar to post for the certificate, but without success. Both builder and Town and Country Planning Department claim that the issue on their side stands clear,” said Awnindra Tiwari , president of the RWA of the Park Elite Premium Society.  “The licence of the project (BPTP Park Elite Premium Society) expired and the failure or delay to deposit the EDC and the IDC has held up the issuance of occupancy certificate,” it is claimed in the complaint lodged by the RWA with the authorities.  The RWA has also claimed that all unit holders (flat owners) have already deposited the EDC and the IDC with the builder. “The families are in a catch-22 situation, as they cannot get their properties registered to become owners, till they get the certificate,” it is stated in a letter written to the Director General, Town and Country Planning, and the Deputy Chief Minister, who is also the Chairperson of the District Grievances Committee. Rohit Mohan, vice-president of the BPTP group, said:“We have complied with all conditions and are awaiting the occupancy certificates from the department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/22-months-on-385-in-faridabad-await-flat-occupancy-certificate-224859
14-03-2021||Hisar||Hisar man gets life term for murder||The local court held Kuldeep of Hisar guilty of murdering a youth three years ago and awarded him a life term. It also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000.  The complainant in the case, Gautam, said Kuldeep had come to their place to attend a family function. At night, his brother Pradeep went to drop Kuldeep at the Agroha turn after the party. The next day, Pradeep’s body was found near Siwani Bolan village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-man-gets-life-term-for-murder-224860
14-03-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak village sarpanch, kin booked for fraud||The Mokhra Khas village sarpanch has been booked for allegedly forging documents and contesting for the post of sarpanch, reserved for Schedule Castes, in 2016. Her husband, brother-in-law, then tehsildar/naib tehsildar of Meham, and the management of a private school in MP have also been booked on the orders of a local court. The case has been registered under Sections 406, 420, 467, 468, 471, 120-B, 506 and 34 of the IPC on the basis of a complaint lodged by two residents of the village. The complainants had moved an application before the court, submitting that Somvir, a general category resident of Mokhra village, had married Chanda of MP. “Chanda’s in-laws got her name changed to Lakshmi Devi. They had claimed she belonged to the SC community and had studied up to Class VIII. To back their claims, they had made forged documents. On the basis of these documents, Chanda had contested the sarpanch elections in 2016,” the complaint stated. “Sarpanch’s husband Somvir and his brother Anil made the forged school education and caste certificates in connivance with the management of a school in Tikamgarh district in Madhya Pradesh and then tehsildar/naib tehsildar of Meham,” one of the complainants alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-village-sarpanch-kin-booked-for-fraud-224861
14-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Farmers' protest: School time at Tikri for kids of migrants||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 13A group of activists supporting the protesting farmers has opened a “kisan school” at the Tikri border to teach the children of migrant labourers living nearby.Two retired teachers of Haryana, and one each from Rajasthan and Punjab teach Hindi, English, mathematics and science every day. About 40 students attend the school from 4 pm to 6 pm.Anil Malik of Kisan Social Army said, “Children of migrant labourers visited the protest site to partake of langar and to play. When we talked to them, we found out that many of them did not go to school. As the farmers’ agitation was not ending anytime soon, a few activists thought of starting a school for these children.”Soon, notebooks, books, school bags, blackboards, study charts and other items were arranged.After the programme at the main stage conclude at 3 pm, two retired teachers from Haryana, one each from Rajasthan and Punjab start preparing for the classes. They have been associated with the agitation since November. At 4 pm, the students start coming.One of the retired teachers Shamsher Singh Krantikari said, “After having learnt about the ‘kisan school’, I felt the need to contribute to this noble initiative. I feel satisfied by teaching these children mathematics.”Sometimes, youths, who visit the Tikri border for a short stay, pitch in and teach students voluntarily, Malik said. “We are planning to get these students enrolled in nearby government schools.”Anoop Singh, a biomedical engineer camping at Tikri, said: “These students have a good grasping power. They can excel in studies if given a proper setting.”Besides studies, the children play cricket and badminton with the equipment provided by the activists. Studies and sports go hand in hand at the farmers’ protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-school-time-at-tikri-for-kids-of-migrants-224862
14-03-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Protesting farmers raise structures at Singhu, booked||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, March 13The police have booked agitating farmers for allegedly constructing concrete structures at the Singhu border along the National Highway No-44 and digging a borewell in the Kundli area despite a ban. The police have registered two cases against the farmers under various sections of the IPC and the National Highways Act.Farmers are protesting at Delhi borders against the three farm laws for more than three months. They have now started constructing concrete structures along the highway at the Singhu border, where they are camping since November 26.Some farmers have constructed permanent structures with iron bars and bamboos while others are using bricks to construct pucca structures at various spots along the highway. Masons and labourers can be seen working at various spots on the roadside building permanent structures.“We are staying at the Delhi borders for the past over 100 days, but the Central Government does not want to pay heed to our demand of repealing the three farm laws. That’s why we have decided to construct special structures and have also brought solar panels. We are ready to stay here for a long time,” said Gurpreet Singh Sahabana, a farmer leader from Ludhiana.“We have constructed a permanent structure for our union office and are ready to fight till our last breath. We will go back only after winning the fight,” said Gian Singh Mand, block president of the BKU (Lakhowal), Ludhiana.“The farmers have no option but to build concrete structures to stay for a long fight and save our protesting brethren from the summer,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of the BKU (Lakhowal)“We are prepared for a long haul and will not go back till the government repeals the laws. We have come at the Centre’s door to save our land and our future generations,” he said.“Not only permanent structures, but we have also installed solar panels. We are also constructing offices at the site,” he added.Anand Sharma, Project Director, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), in a complaint to the police, said that constructions were underway along the NH-44. “Unidentified people have erected illegal structures along the NH-44 in front of Malwa Motors. These illegal constructions are causing damage to the NH-44”. The NHAI officials also sent pictures of the illegal constructions to the police.Following the complaint, the Kundli police registered a case under the National Highways Act and Sections 283 and 431 of the IPC.In another complaint, Pawan Kumar, Secretary of the Municipal Committee, Kundli, said despite a ban, Karam Singh, a protesting farmer from Bathinda, was digging a borewell in a field near KFC Mall, near the NH-44. The Municipal Engineer had tried to stop the digging but it was still “continuing”. The police have booked Karam Singh under the National Highways Act and Section 188 of the IPC.Inspector Ravi Kumar, SHO, Kundli, said two cases had been registered against the farmers for constructing illegal structures and digging a borewell, on the complaints of the Project Director, NHAI, and the Secretary, Municipal Committee, Kundli. A probe into the matter was underway, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmers-raise-structures-at-singhu-booked-224863
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||Women panel seeks Hooda’s explanation on tractor episode||The Haryana State Women Commission has sought an explanation from Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda for riding a tractor that was pulled by his party’s women legislators to protest the rise in fuel prices earlier this week.Commission chairperson (officiating) Preeti Bhardwaj shot off a letter to Hooda, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly, citing news reports.Hooda on Monday rode a tractor pulled by party legislators on the way to the state Assembly here to protest the rise in fuel prices. Monday happened to be International Women’s Day and on the occasion, the women MLAs from across the parties had presided over the day’s proceedings in the Assembly.Hooda along with some party legislators sat on the tractor while other Congress MLAs pulled it with ropes. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had expressed his anguish over the incident.As known to the whole world, the day is celebrated as International Women’s Day and the instance shocked the entire nation, Bhardwaj wrote in the letter.Bhardwaj sought a “strict written explanation” from Hooda within three days (by Sunday) and asked why strict penal action under relevant provisions of law may not be taken against him. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-panel-seeks-hoodas-explanation-on-tractor-episode-224864
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker forms panel||Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta has constituted a five-member committee to share its valuable suggestions/ recommendations to the House during the course of the present Budget session whether there is need to repeal or amend the sub-section 7 of Section 8A and Section 42 of Haryana Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961.MLAs Kiran Choudhry, Dr Abhe Singh Yadav, Ram Kumar Gautam, BB Batra, and Sudhir Kumar Singla are the members of the committee. The Haryana Vidhan Sabha Secretariat has issued a notification in this regard.As per the notification, the committee will share its suggestions regarding disputes between farmers and contract farming sponsors arising out of contract farming agreements, which bar the jurisdiction of civil courts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-vidhan-sabha-speaker-forms-panel-224865
14-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||30K litres of biodiesel seized at Manesar firm||Gurugram, March 13 The CM flying squad has busted a Manesar company that was illegally storing and selling biodiesel without a valid licence. The team seized over 30,000 litres of oil and also took samples. An FIR has been registered at IMT industrial police station, Manesar.  According to Inspector Krishna Kumar of the CM flying squad, the company was running by the name of Arohi Petrochem at Plot No. 61 in Sector 7 of the IMT, Manesar. It stored biodiesel in very large tanks without government permission or a valid licence.  During investigation, about 30,000 litres of oil was seized. Company owner Lokesh Kumar was asked to show documents, but he could not produced any. Following a tip-off, DSP Inderjeet Yadav formed a special team led by Inspector Krishan Kumar, which conducted the raid along with the officials of food and supply, fire and measurement departments.   “We came to know that they bring oil from Gujarat to Gurugram and sold it in Delhi-NCR. Biodiesel is made from flora and is used in elevators and generators. They had started the racket a month ago. Action will be taken against them after the sample report is received,” said Inspector Yashwant, SHO of IMT industrial police station, Manesar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/30k-litres-of-biodiesel-seized-at-manesar-firm-224866
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sainik sadans to come up in 7 dists f Haryana||The state plans to construct integrated sainik sadans in seven districts, which will include a Zila Sainik Board office, Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme clinics, sainik rest houses, canteens and common halls.Chief Minister Manohar Lal, who also holds the finance portfolio, made this announcement in his Budget speech yesterday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sainik-sadans-to-come-up-in-7-dists-f-haryana-224867
14-03-2021||---||Lift produce in 48 hours or face fine, transporters told||Chandigarh, March 13Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has said the state government has made all arrangements in mandis for the procurement of rabi crops at the Minimum Support Price (MSP). The procurement of wheat and mustard will start on April 1, while the purchase of barley, gram and pulses will commence on April 10.“If a transporter does not lift the crop from the mandi within 48 hours of purchase, he will be fined,” Dushyant said at a meeting with senior officers associated with the procurement process here today.V Umashankar, Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister; PK Das, Additional Chief Secretary; and other senior officers attended the meeting.The Deputy Chief Minister, who also holds charge of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, gave directions regarding the timely lifting of the crop and smooth functioning of the procurement process. “No arhatiya or farmer should face any problem during the procurement process.”The Deputy Chief Minister said the state government would procure every grain of wheat, mustard, barley, pulses and gram at the MSP grown by farmers who had registered themselves on the Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal.So far, 7.5 lakh farmers have registered themselves on the portal. They will be informed in advance when to bring their produce to the mandis.The JJP leader directed officers that the payment should be credited to the farmers’ bank accounts within 48 hours of the submission of J-form. “Ensure an adequate number of gunny bags and sewing machines in mandis,” he told the officers.Procurement of wheat, mustard to start on April 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lift-produce-in-48-hours-or-face-fine-transporters-told-224868
14-03-2021||Rewari||College prof held for vulgar talk with student in Rewari||The police have arrested an associate professor of Government Women College in the city on the charges of having a vulgar talk with a girl student over the phone.The action comes after students under the aegis of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarathi Parishad staged a dharna outside the college yesterday.A police spokesman said following the complaint the accused was arrested. A case was registered against him under the IPC earlier. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/college-prof-held-for-vulgar-talk-with-student-in-rewari-224869
14-03-2021||Our Corresondent---||12 Bhondsi jail inmates injured in group clash||Gurugram, March 13 As many as 12 prisoners were injured in a group clash in the canteen of the Bhondsi jail here yesterday. The two groups were having enmity for a long time and had been involved in frequent clashes. An FIR was registered after the jail authorities lodged a complaint at Bhondsi police station.  According to the complaint filed by Charan Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Jail, on Friday, inmate Johny returned from a court hearing and was in the canteen. In the meantime, Hari Om along with other other inmates Salim, Rohit, Dilawar, Chetan and Brijesh came there and attacked Johny. Soon, Johny’s group members, namely Sandeep, Vicky, Ajay, Arjun and Anshul, reached the canteen and a fight broke out between the two groups.  On getting information, the jail warders and officials arrived there and the fighting inmates were separated. Twelve inmates were reportedly injured in the clash; Johny, Vedpal, Arjun and Salim sustained serious injuries and were admitted to the Gurugram Civil Hospital.  An FIR was registered against the inmates under various sections of the IPC and the Prisoners Act at Bhondsi police station. “We are investigating the matter and have started the proceedings to question them,” said Inspector Jagbir Singh, SHO of Bhondsi police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-bhondsi-jail-inmates-injured-in-group-clash-224870
14-03-2021||---||10 phones, opium seized||Mahendragarh, March 13 A police team carried out a search at the District Jail in Nasibpur village on Thursday and recovered 10 mobile phones and opium. Sources said the mobile phones were hidden in the barrack and toilets. A case was registered against 10 prisoners on the complaint of the Jail Superintendent. “Sachin and Devi Lal of Behror, Balbir of Kharkara, Devender and Pradeep of Ateli, Devender of Patikra, Amit of Surana, Vipul and Rahul of Rewari and Manish of Nangal Mala have been booked,” said a police spokesman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-phones-opium-seized-224871
14-03-2021||ibune News Service---||Six vintage ammunition shells found in Ambala dist, defused||Ambala, March 13 Six old vintage unidentified ammunition shells weighing around 1.5 kg each were recovered from the Markanda riverbed near Panjail village of Saha block in Ambala district Saturday morning. A bomb disposal squad defused them with controlled explosions.  Local residents reportedly spotted ammunition shells early this morning and informed the police. They alerted Army officers and the bomb disposal squad as well.  Prateek Kumar, SHO, Shahabad police station, and Balkar Singh, SHO, Saha police station, reached the spot. The ammunition shells seem to be very old and rusted. The bomb disposal squad defused two ammunition shells with controlled explosions. But as the officials were about to leave, four more shells were recovered. The Saha SHO said, “Initially, we were told about two ammunition shells and the bomb disposal squad defused them. Later, four more shells were found around 200 metres from the spot where two shells were recovered ealier. They were also defused. There were no markings on the shells, as these were very old and quite rusted”. It is being presumed that the shells may have been left there unexploded during an Army training session in the area years ago.  The police officers said that the area was combed and no other shell was found. They appealed to local residents to inform the police if they find a shell. SDM, Ambala Cantonment, Satinder Siwach said, “There are fields on both sides of the river and the field owners spotted the shells this morning and alerted the police. A few shells were partially damaged. At present, it is being presumed that the shells might have been left there during an Army training session held around 20 to 25 years ago. However, as the shells were recovered from the riverbed, there was also a possibility that these might have travelled from any other location.  All shells were defused by the team”.  According to Army sources, these are old vintage unidentified ammunition shells weighing around 1.5 kg each and are quite old. The Army never carries out live firing in civilian areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-vintage-ammunition-shells-found-in-ambala-dist-defused-224872
14-03-2021||---||Faridabad DC seeks official’s suspension for corruption||Faridabad, March 13 Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav has recommended suspension of an official of the District Development and Panchayats Department under the government service rules for alleged financial irregularities, misconduct, corruption and dereliction of duty. The action has been recommended after an enquiry into five different cases, it is reported. In a letter dated March 9, addressed to the Principal Secretary, Development and Panchayats Department, Haryana, Yadav highlighted some financial ‘irregularities’ and dereliction of duty on the part of the official concerned and recommended action under the provisions of the Government Employees Conduct Rules-1966 and Haryana Civil Services (Government Employee Conduct Rules-2016 (Sub-Rule 7 and 8). The letter cited a case of the withdrawal of Rs 2.32 crore from the account of Mujheri village gram panchayat between January and May 2020, claiming that the money was withdrawn without the permission of a competent authority. A probe conducted into the matter by senior officials of the Panchayati Raj Department found a total financial loss of Rs 1.38 crore. The probe held the block-level officer of the area responsible for the irregularity. The second major ‘embezzlement’ reported was in the purchase of sanitisers and masks worth Rs 62.24 lakh from the funds of the gram panchayat of Mujheri village last year. Though a show-cause notice was issued, no satisfactory response was received, it is claimed.  The third case pertains to the release of a payments to the tune of lakhs of rupees to a contractor prior to the completion of work in a village and the production of bills in June last year. The gram sachiv was suspended in the case. The DC in his letter has also highlighted the sale of panchayat land at Mothuka village and the failure of the official concerned to get encroachments removed from government land to seek his immediate suspension.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-dc-seeks-officials-suspension-for-corruption-224873
14-03-2021||---||Site museums will be vital assets: Minister||Chandigarh, March 13 Haryana Archaeology and Museums Minister Anoop Dhanak has expressed gratitude to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala for making a provision  in the Budget for developing important historical buildings. He said that the site museum of Interpretation Centre at Rakhigarhi, which was under construction, and the setting up of a site museum at the pre-Harappan site in Fatehabad would prove to be vital assets to the state. The minister said that this year’s Budget had surpassed everyone’s expectations and it would pave the way for the state’s development and progress. He said that the proposal to increase the amount provided to the Scheduled Castes persons to meet the expenditure on defending their cases related to property, agricultural land, rent and reservation, etc., in courts under the Legal Aid Scheme from Rs 11,000 to Rs 22,000 also came as a huge relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/site-museums-will-be-vital-assets-minister-224874
