15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt tables Bill to recover damages to property during protests, riots||The Haryana government on Monday tabled in the state assembly a Bill seeking recovery of damages to public properties from rioters, triggering a walkout by the Opposition Congress on the refusal of their demand for a division on the Bill.Haryana’s Home and Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij tabled the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property during Disturbance to Public Order Bill, 2021 in the House this evening.It will be taken up for discussion and passage later during the ongoing budget session of the assembly.Soon after the Bill was introduced, senior Congress member R S Kadian questioned the timing of bringing in the bill, saying it will send a “wrong signal” amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Vij, however, said some members were trying to mislead the House.Former Chief Minister B S Hooda, who is the Leader of the Opposition, said the state authorities had dug up roads to prevent farmers from reaching the national capital and wondered who will be held responsible in this case “for damage to public property”.Congress MLA B B Batra sought division on the Bill and was supported by other members of his party, but Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said the Bill has been introduced and there was no provision of division at this stage.“Which rule provides for the division of voting at this stage?” Speaker Gupta asked the Congress legislators.Making an intervention, Minister Vij asked Congress members to clarify whether they were in support of “rioters, destruction of public and private properties, burning of buses and, if not, why were they opposing the Bill then.”   Speaker asked the Congress members why they were running away from a discussion.At this, Hooda asserted, “Asking for the division is our right.” Then pointing towards the treasury benches, Hooda said, “We will not allow you to run road roller (and not let the opposition have its say).”  The Bill provides for recovery of damages to properties caused by people during disturbance to public order by an assembly, lawful or unlawful, including riots and violent disorder.It also provides for the setting up of a Claims Tribunal to assess the damages caused and to determine the liability to award the compensation in Haryana.The Collector shall have the power to issue an order of attachment of property or bank account of any person against whom an award has been passed by the Claims Tribunal to pay compensation.The Bill provides that such property or bank account shall remain attached till the person makes the payment of the amount due. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-tables-bill-to-recover-damages-to-property-during-protests-riots-225626
15-03-2021||Hisar||MBBS student commits suicide in Agroha medical college||An MBBS student of the Maharaja Agrasen medical college in Agroha town of the district committed suicide in his hostel room Monday afternoon.The victim has been identified as Ashish, a resident of Jagadhari in Yamunanagar district.The victim has also written a suicide note which was recovered from his room. The student mentioned his “mental problem” as the reason behind him taking the extreme step.The police said Ashish was a first-year student in the college and was staying in the hostel room along with another student. He was scheduled to appear in a practical examination today.While his roommate left the room for the examination centre, Ashish told him that he would follow him to the centre soon.However, when the students returned after examination, they found the hostel room closed from inside. Later, the students peeped inside from a ventilator window and spotted the body hanging from a ceiling fan inside the room. They broke open the room and rushed the body to the hospital where he was declared dead. The police have started investigation into the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mbbs-student-commits-suicide-in-agroha-medical-college-225625
15-03-2021||New Delhi||Haryana Rajya Sabha MP Lt General Vats appeals to soldierly magnanimity of Capt Amarinder Singh||BJP MP in Rajya Sabha from Haryana Lt General (retd) Dr DP Vats on Monday appealed to the inherent virtues of “benevolence and magnanimity” of a military veteran in Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in allowing Haryana’s share of rivers’ waters.Taking part in a discussion on the working of Jal Shakti Ministry in Rajya Sabha, Lt General Vats said that although commissions and the Supreme Court have upheld the cause of Haryana with regard to its share of 3.5 MAF of rivers’ waters through SYL from Punjab, the state was not receiving the same.A lot many issues between Haryana and Punjab are unsettled, including the state capital.He said that after Haryana was carved out of Punjab in 1966, it did not have any river allocated to it.However, bulk of the allocated share of Haryana’s share of waters flow into the seas.He said that the waters to be drawn vide SYL to Haryana are to cater to the southern region of the state, which is a home of the ex-servicemen.He referred to iconic Major Shaitan Singh of Kumao Regiment, who led a successful counter to the aggression of the Chinese Army during 1962 Sino-India conflict at Rezang La pass along LAC at the expense of his life, was a native of the Ahirwal belt in south Haryana.It is often the case that mortal remains of soldiers from the region often return draped in Tricolour.“The Punjab government is headed by a military veteran. I hope that  in the tradition of benevolence and large-heartedness of a soldier, he would facilitate the flow of Haryana’s share of waters.”He was critical of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for speaking in forked tongue on the issue of SYL and Haryana’s share of waters from Punjab.Without naming the Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, he said the former is a native of Haryana.However, during elections in Punjab he says Haryana has no share.But in Delhi, he accuses Haryana of not providing water to Delhi, Lt General Vats added.He further said that AAP indulges in double standards with regard to Haryana’s interest on the water issue even though two of its sitting three Rajya Sabha MPs are natives of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-rajya-sabha-mp-lt-general-vats-appeals-to-soldierly-magnanimity-of-capt-amarinder-singh-225618
15-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmers’ protest: HC asks authorities to consider representation to remove barriers on Delhi borders||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the authorities to treat as representation a plea seeking direction to remove barricading on various routes connecting the neighbouring states with the national capital due to the over 3-month long farmers’ protest against the new agri laws passed by the Centre.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh disposed of the petition and asked the authorities, including the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Police, to decide the representation in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case.Petitioner Himanshu Kaushik, a practicing advocate, sought to remove unnecessary barricading and obstructions on various routes which have been blocked due to the protesters’ presence there.The plea sought direction to make separate lanes and routes for heavy vehicles and also direct the authorities concerned to allow free movement of vehicles for public convenience.It also sought to direct the administration to deploy efficient manpower on the alternative routes/ routes suffering from heavy congestion on peak hours.The pleas said from the very beginning of the protest on November 26, 2020, the protesters are haggling over the law which has created a sombre environment in the capital and the adjacent cities.It said Delhi’s seven borders—Singhu, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri, Jharoda are disturbed and the traffic in the national capital its bordering areas continue to remain affected due to the farmers’ protest.“The Ghazipur border on NH-24 is closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to Farmer’s protest. People are advised to avoid NH-24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/ DND for coming to Delhi. The Chilla border on Noida Link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to protest near Gautam Budh Nagar. People are advised to avoid Noida Link road for coming to Delhi and use DND,” it said.The plea added that the scenario is becoming worst and in order to protect the right of peaceful protest of farmers, the right of free movement throughout the territory of India under the Constitution is being violated since the day the protest has started.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over three months now against the three laws—the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-hc-asks-authorities-to-consider-representation-to-remove-barriers-on-delhi-borders-225613
15-03-2021||Rohtak||Country’s first elevated railway track gets operational at Rohtak||The country’s first elevated railway track at Rohtak has finally become operational almost three years after its formal launch.The green signal was granted after a special high-speed train of the Commissioner of Railway Safety was passed through the track on Sunday evening.“A team of senior Railway officers carried out the final inspection of the project yesterday and gave the go-ahead. The trains are now being operated through the elevated railway track,” said Rohtak Railway Station Superintendent BS Meena.With the commissioning of the project, the residents and commuters have got rid of the nagging traffic jams which used to occur at railway crossings on Delhi road, Sonepat road and outer bypass road in Rohtak city during the passage of trains on the Rohtak-Gohana line several times daily.“It is big relief. The long traffic jams have gone as the trains now run on the elevated track and the other vehicles on the road beneath it. We hope that the situation will improve further with the construction of a road in place of the existing railway track,” stated Joginder Kumar, a resident of Gandhi Nagar locality situated along the railway track.The foundation stone of the 4.8-km elevated railway track project costing Rs 315.71 crore was laid in March 2018. It was slated to be completed by September 2019 but got delayed due to techno-legal issues and Covid-induced lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/countrys-first-elevated-railway-track-gets-operational-at-rohtak-225597
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly to condemn bodies calling for boycott of politicians||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday brought a motion before the assembly, saying if any section of the society or organisation announces a boycott of any political leader, the House would condemn such a decision.Khattar also proposed that if necessary, voting should be done on the motion. Later, the motion was passed by a voice vote.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Independent members supported the motion.The Chief Minister said for the protection of democracy, both the ruling and the opposition parties must share a collective responsibility.The Leader of Opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, clarified that no Congress Legislator was inciting or urging any organisation or section of society to boycott political leaders. However, during the voting, the Congress members staged a walkout. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-assembly-to-condemn-bodies-calling-for-boycott-of-politicians-225592
15-03-2021||Gurugram||22-year-old woman lured with job offer, raped in Manesar||A 22-year-old woman was allegedly lured and raped in Manesar in Gurugram district by a man on the pretext of finding her a job.The medical examination of the woman has confirmed rape, the police said on Monday. The accused is absconding.The woman is a native of Chamoli district in Uttarakhand and currently resides in Aliyar village in Gurugram.The woman in her complaint told the police that nearly 4-5 days ago, she had come into contact with the accused, Amit Kaushik, a Delhi resident, on Facebook messenger.“During the online chat, Amit told me that he was a Delhi resident and used to commute to and from Gurugram. After this, he promised me a job at a reputed company in Manesar,” she told the police.“On Sunday, Amit called me and told me he had arranged a ‘good job’ for me. He asked me to reach Manesar immediately,” the girl said.“Trusting Amit, I went to Manesar where he took me to a hotel there and offered some soft drink laced with sedatives. After consuming the drink, I lost my senses and then he raped me,” the victim told the police.“After committing the crime, Amit threatened me with dire consequences if I narrated the incident to anyone. Later, I filed a complaint at Manesar women police station,” the woman added.“An FIR has been lodged against Amit under sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and a hunt is on to nab him,” Pinki Devi, the Investigating Official, told IANS. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/22-year-old-woman-lured-with-job-offer-raped-in-manesar-225583
15-03-2021||---||No let-up in farmers' protests against government||Hisar, March 14The protest against BJP and JJP leaders continue in the state following the defeat of the no-confidence motion in the Assembly last week. In Jind district’s Narwana town today, farmers staged demonstration and raised anti-government slogans outside the venue for the BJP’s “prashikshan shivir” (training camp).In view of the protest, BJP workers escorted by the police left the venue midway through the session.The district administration deployed the paramilitary and police force to maintain law and order as farmers, including women, gathered outside a school, where the camp was organised.The protesters alleged the BJP was trying to vitiate the social fabric by organising such meetings and inviting selected party workers.UnwarrantedThe ‘prashikshan shivir’ was a district-level training camp for workers, and not a public event. Farmers should not oppose the event meant for party workers. I visited the venue, but returned shortly in view of the protest. —Raj Kumar Mor, Jind BJP PresidentFarmer leader Satbir Singh said the BJP-JJP government was ignoring the interests of farmers and thus deserved no support from them in particular and the society in general.Sunil, another farmer, said: “If BJP and JJP leaders have to organise a meeting in the protection of central and state forces, this shows the state of affairs in the state. this means they have lost people’s trust.”Kurukshetra: Activists of the BKU (Charuni) today protested against Shahabad JJP MLA Ramkaran Kala and Sports Minister and Pehowa MLA Sandeep Singh for not supporting the no-confidence motion in the Assembly.The farmers also burnt the effigies of BJP and JJP MLAs in Shahabad. The farmers reached outside a Gurukul at Chhapra village of Shahabad where the Sports Minister had attended an event on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-let-up-in-farmers-protests-against-government-225192
15-03-2021||Ravi S Singh||Farm laws: BJP will pay heavy price in polls, says Cong leader||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 14Former national president of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) and senior Haryana Congress leader Subhash Chaudhary on Sunday said here his party would not allow the BJP government in the state to be at ease until the three farm laws were rolled back.He cautioned the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government that its celebration on the defeat of the Congress’ no-confidence motion against it in the Assembly would be short-lived.“The Congress is pledged to upholding the welfare of the farmers who represent every section of society, except the BJP,” Chaudhary said.He said the MLAs of the ruling BJP-JJP alliance would be hard-pressed to explain to the farmers their opposition to the no-confidence motion against the government.He said the BJP would have to pay a heavy price in the elections, including in the states going to poll, for antagonising the farmers.Chaudhary flayed the Haryana Government for the snowballing unemployment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-laws-bjp-will-pay-heavy-price-in-polls-says-cong-leader-225193
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bill to replace the word ‘Punjab’ with ‘Haryana’ in||The BJP-JJP government will bring a Bill in the Haryana Assembly tomorrow for replacing the word ‘Punjab’ with ‘Haryana’ in 154 laws.The Haryana Short Titles Amendment Bill-2021 will be introduced in the state Assembly tomorrow by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar.Earlier, a panel was formed in this regard on the initiative of Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta. The panel has presented its recommendations. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved the recommendations, which has cleared the way for passing the Bill in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bill-to-replace-the-word-punjab-with-haryana-in-225194
15-03-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Top farmer leaders canvass in Bengal, second line holds fort at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, March 14In all, 22 farmer leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the protesting farmer unions, which are spearheading anti-farm laws’ movement, are campaigning against the BJP in West Bengal. In the absence of the senior farmer leaders, the second-line leadership is maintaining the protest at the Singhu border.The SKM had decided in the meeting held on March 1 at the Singhu border to campaign against the BJP and its alliance in five poll-bound states and it started the campaign from Kolkata in West Bengal two days ago.As per the scheduled programme, 22 farmer leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Charuni and Medha Patkar, are on a tour of poll-bound West Bengal.These leaders are holding panchayats in in Bengal. The SKM delegation addressed mahapanchayats in Singur and Asansol in the state on Sunday.Darshan Pal Singh, president, Krantikari Kisan Union, said: “I am at the Singhu border and the second line of some farmer union groups are with me and we are managing all the things well at the dharna site. Some leaders would come back late at night today, while some others will arrive tomorrow.”22 touring WBAs per the SKM programme, 22 farmer leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Charuni and Medha Patkar, are touring the poll-bound West Bengal to campaign against the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/top-farmer-leaders-canvass-in-bengal-second-line-holds-fort-at-singhu-225195
15-03-2021||---||Independent MLA from Pundri betrayed us: Karnal farmers||Karnal, March 14A day after farmers of the district’s Pai village banned the entry of Independent MLA from Pundri Randhir Golan, those of Karora village followed suit today. They burnt his effigy in protest against his decision to vote against the no-confidence motion in the Assembly last week.Feeling betrayed, the farmers said they would not invite Golan, who is the chairman of Haryana Tourism Corporation, to weddings, religious functions, and “rasam kriya”.Adding fuel to fire was a video that did the rounds on social media after the no-trust motion. In that, Golan was purportedly heard saying that protesting farmers were part of the Opposition and that their stir was a sponsored one.“Just for a few farmers of Pai, Bhana and Karora villages, I could not have voted against the government as the no-confidence motion was moved by the Congress. People of 54 villages in my segment had elected me,” Golan could be heard saying in the video.Farmer leader Manjeet Karora said: “Golan came to us for support when the BJP denied him the ticket in the Assembly poll. Farmers voted for him, but he has betrayed us.”Dharna near jhajjar’s Gurukul continuesJhajjar: Farmers of nearby villages continued their dharna near Mahavidyalaya Gurukul on the second day on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. They protested to stop BJP-JJP leaders from attending the college annual function. The farmers went home in the evening after no leader turned up. The college had invited Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, ministers Ranjit Chautala, Om Prakash Yadav and JP Dalal, and MPs Arvind Sharma (Rohtak) and Swami Sumedhanand Shastri (Sikar) for the function. It had requested the leaders not to come following the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/independent-mla-from-pundri-betrayed-us-karnal-farmers-225196
15-03-2021||Chandigarh||Abhay, Digvijay in verbal spat over Devi Lal’s legacy||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala and Jannayak Janta Party leader Digvijay Chautala today indulged in a verbal spat over family patriarch Devi Lal’s legacy. Digvijay reacted strongly to a statement by Abhay saying that his desire to become political heir of Devi Lal had destroyed him and his party INLD. Earlier, Abhay asserted they would not let the JJP leaders enter the villages in the farmers’ agitation over farm laws. However, Digvijay said in a democratic setup, everyone had the right to contest elections and to go among people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abhay-digvijay-in-verbal-spat-over-devi-lals-legacy-225197
15-03-2021||---||Covid-19: Haryana Health Department to hold massive vaccination drive today||Chandigarh, March 14To ensure substantial reach of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Haryana Health Department has decided to hold a massive vaccination drive on Monday (March 15).For this, the Health Department has coordinated with the ASHA workers and anganwadi workers, other than officers of the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Urban Local Bodies (ULB) and Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) so as to motivate the beneficiaries above 60 years of age and those with co-morbidities falling within the age group of 45 years to 60 years.Sharing information in this regard, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora said the main objective of the department was to ensure maximum reach of the Covid-19 vaccine as it would contain the further spread of the highly contagious Covid-19 virus. Elaborating on it, Arora said, “We have one ASHA worker and anganwadi worker for every 200 households. Thus, these ASHA workers and anganwadi workers will be moving from door-to-door to motivate the beneficiaries to get the doses of the vaccine administered. Besides this, the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment has several schemes running for the senior citizens and already have a database in this regard. Likewise, the officers of ULB and PRIs have also been asked to mobilise the beneficiaries.”He added that the Department has taken extensive steps to ensure that the Covid-19 vaccine reaches the people who reside in villages across the state in order to contain the spread of the virus. Also, the vaccination is even being administered at Health Sub Centres which are located in the villages across the state so that the vaccine is administered to each and every eligible beneficiary, he added.On the success of the vaccine rollout, he said at present, 5.20 lakh doses (both first and second dose) have been administered to the beneficiaries across the state.Divulging details of the present status of the ongoing vaccination drive, Mission Director, National Health Mission, Haryana, Prabhjot Singh said till March 13, 2021, the Health Department has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 1.68 lakh healthcare workers (HCWs) and 97,410 HCWs have been administered the second dose. He said 83,338 frontline workers (FLWs) have been given the first dose. In all, a total of 2.51 lakh HCWs and FLWs have been vaccinated with the first dose. Sharing details of the third phase of vaccine rollout, Prabhjot Singh said from March 1, 2021, the vaccination of population above 60 years of age and citizens above 45 years with co-morbidities was started and till March 13, 2021, 1,56,299 beneficiaries have been covered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-health-department-to-hold-massive-vaccination-drive-today-225198
15-03-2021||Yamunanagar||Nephew booked for raping widow||A local woman was allegedly raped by a man of Jind district more than five months ago.The woman is a widow and now four-month pregnant. After the rape, the accused promised to marry the victim, but he didn’t keep his promise.On the complaint of the victim, a case was registered against the accused, Munish, resident of Jind district, under Sections 376, 328 and 506 of the IPC at the City police station on March 12.The complainant said Munish was her nephew.“Munish came to my house on September 20, 2020. He took me to Jagadhri on the pretext of discussing some issue. He took me to an unknown place where he had drinks. He also gave me liquor in cold drink without telling me. I got intoxicated. After drinking liquor, he raped me,” alleged the victim.She said the next day, she told her family members about the incident. “That day, Munish was called to our home. He apologised and assured to marry me, but didn’t keep his word,” she alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nephew-booked-for-raping-widow-225199
15-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Teachers’ efforts pay off, flowers bloom on Karnal school campus||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 14With the efforts of teachers, the premises of Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu, has been transformed with lush green lawns and blooming flowers. Greenery and educational paintings on walls welcome students.Besides holding classes online, the teachers led by Principal Dharampal worked hard to beautify the otherwise barren premises. Their persistent efforts and commitment brought about a positive outcome.The teachers also encouraged students, who had joined offline classes in September 2020 after six months, and the students are not only taking care of the greenery on the school premises, but also planting saplings in their vicinity to make the environment clean and green.Since, the post of gardner is lying vacant for the past one year, the staff members hired a private person and are paying his salary through their pockets.Staff members have worked very hardIt is the effort of all staff members, due to which the school has got a new look. I thank all teachers for their contributions. It is because of them that flowers are blooming on the school premises. —Dharampal, Principal“It is the effort of all staff members, due to which the school has got a new look. I thank all teachers for their contributions. It is because of them that flowers are blooming on the school premises,” said Dharampal.Dinesh Chaudhary, postgraduate teacher of physical education, was given an award for his contributions at the Republic Day function. He said that he used to come early in the morning to water the plants during the Covid lockdown. He utilised waste items lying in the store to beautify the school premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teachers-efforts-pay-off-flowers-bloom-on-karnal-school-campus-225200
15-03-2021||---||101 women honoured in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, March 14 The Sarvajatiya Sarvakhap Mahila Mahapanchayat on Sunday honoured 101 women for their contribution to the society, during an event organised in Kurukshetra.  Dr Santosh Dahiya, national president of the Mahapanchayt, also appointed district and state-level office-bearers. Dahiya said no one could imagine the world without women, their role is so important everywhere. The women, who participated in the event, were apprised of their legal rights. Women from different states, including Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and Himachal Pradesh attended the event. Santosh Dahiya said, “Today, women are financially independent. From holding positions as the panchayat representative or an MLA, women are doing well. Girls are doing well in studies and they should be constantly encouraged.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/101-women-honoured-in-kurukshetra-225201
15-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Nod to foot overbridge near college, ITI in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 14Concerned over the safety of the students of Government College for Women and Government ITI, Bastara, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has given its nod for the construction of a foot overbridge on the National Highway-44 in Bastara.Citing the threat of accidents to students while crossing the national highway, the college authorities had requested for the construction of a foot overbridge near the college. The issue was also highlighted in the monthly road safety meeting by the members. “The NHAI has given approval for the construction of the foot overbridge near the ITI and women college in Bastara, so that the students can easily cross the highway,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC.Besides, a bus queue shelter will also be constructed there by the district administration to facilitate the students of both the institutes. “We will also construct a bus queue shelter near both the institutes, so that the students would not have to face any bus stoppage-related problem,” the DC asserted. As per the sources the foot overbridge will be constructed at a cost of Rs 3 crore.After the approval, the college authorities are also happy. “We had requested the district administration and the NHAI authorities. We are happy that our request has been accepted by the NHAI and students will not face any kind of difficulty now. We are hopeful that the work on the project will start soon,” said Dr Piyush Kumar, Principal of Government College for Women, Bastara. He said the step would help increasing the number of students in the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-foot-overbridge-near-college-iti-in-karnal-225202
15-03-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Sewage overflows into street at Faridabad village||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, March 14Residents of the Mujesar village and adjoining areas falling in the jurisdiction of Ward 2 of the Municipal Corporation (MC), Faridabad, are a harassed lot for the past several days. The civic authorities have failed to address the problem of sewage flowing into street number two of the locality.Claiming this, Kiran, a housewife, said the residents of the street have been at the receiving end due to the overflowing sewage waste for the past about a week. “Though a complaint has been lodged with the officials concerned, no action has been taken by the authorities. The sewage emanates foul smell posing health risk to residents living there. The residents living in the street are unable to move out and are confined to their houses. Those who want to go out have to do so on a cycle or a rickshaw and have to pay for it”, she said. Naresh, a local resident said, the issue of the sewage flowing out has been raised with the local councillor and the MCF officials, but no action has been taken so far.However, claiming that the work of repair of the choked sewer on street number two of Mujesar village had been started, Priyanka Chaudhary, Councillor, Ward 2, said the repair work was expected to be complete by Tuesday.“Such conditions expose the tall claims mad by the MC about the ongoing Smart City project, the problem of overflowing sewage has been common in almost all 40 wards of the cit”, says Anand Kaushik, a former MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sewage-overflows-into-street-at-faridabad-village-225203
15-03-2021||Nitish Sharma||45.2% women in Ambala Cantt have mild anaemia||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, March 14During the first phase of screening under the ‘Anaemia Mukt Ambala’ campaign launched recently, 45.25 per cent women and young girls were found to be suffering from mild anaemia, 31.4 per cent moderate and 3.41 per cent from severe anaemia.The normal value of the HB level is considered to be above 12, while the value between 10 and 12 comes under mild anaemia, between eight and 10 under moderate and below eight comes under the severe category.As many as 12,698 women and girls participated in the first phase of screening conducted in the rural areas of Ambala Cantonment.As per the results, 39 participants had the HB level of less than six, 395 participants had the HB level between six and eight, 3,992 between eight and 10, 5,746 between 10 and 12, while 2,463 participants had the HB level above 12. The HB level of 63 participants was unreadable (was not recorded properly).The health officials observed that dietary habits of women were not good and were more carbohydrate and fat-rich instead of being iron and protein-rich.Under the first phase, 20 teams were deputed at 42 villages of Ambala Cantonment.Ambala Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Wrong dietary habits have been observed among a number of women. The intake of tea along with food, lower consumption of green-leafy vegetables, consumption of junk food and some mistakes during cooking that stop iron absorption are the reasons behind iron deficiency. The Health Department has started providing supplements to the participants. We will also identify the reason behind severe anaemia among women and they will be treated accordingly.”Ambala City Sub-Divisional Magistrate Sachin Gupta, who has been monitoring the campaign, said, “Following the directions of Ambala Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma, the ‘Anaemia Mukt Ambala’ campaign was launched. The first phase has been completed and soon the second phase will be started from Ambala City.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/45-2-women-in-ambala-cantt-have-mild-anaemia-225204
15-03-2021||Parveen Arora||In Karnal, 35% frontline workers still to get vaccine||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 14Notwithstanding the district authorities’ awareness campaign on the Covid vaccine, some frontline workers seem to be “reluctant” in getting the jab.Information gathered from the Civil Surgeon’s office has shown that about 35 per cent of them are still to get themselves vaccinated. Of the 8,600 frontline workers, comprising employees working in the Municipal Corporation, police, Panchayati Raj Institution, Revenue Department and Mini-Secretariat, around 5,500 have received the jab.Sources say there still exists some misconceptions regarding the side-effects of the vaccine.Misconceptions about side effects existHealth workers, on the contrary, have showed enthusiasm in getting themselves vaccinated. Around 88 per cent of 12,000 workers have received the jab so far.On differentiating between frontline workers and health workers, Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said: “No doubt, health workers were at the frontline when the pandemic was its peak last year. For the vaccination purpose, health workers and other employees who worked during the lockdown have been put in different categories.”With the regard to elderly persons, around 8,800 of them out of 1 lakh received the first jab of the vaccine till Friday.Dr Sharma said, “The Health Department has informed the departments concerned about the lack of enthusiasm among employees to get themselves vaccinated.”The department would conduct a special drive for elderly persons tomorrow, for which it had roped in NGOs and staff members of the BDPOs and PRIs, the Civil Surgeon said, adding “all old people will be vaccinated soon”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-35-frontline-workers-still-to-get-vaccine-225205
15-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Bogus admission record surfaces at PGIMS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, March 14A case of fraud involving bogus admission and discharge of a patient supposedly with an intention to take some undue benefit has come to the fore at Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here.The counterfeit signature of a senior doctor and his stamp has been used on the discharge and follow-up card to show it as authentic.A two-member inquiry committee of senior doctors set up by the PGIMS authorities does not rule out the involvement of insiders in this illegal act.Though the case pertains to 2019, it surfaced on Sunday after the local police filed a criminal case against unidentified persons on the complaint of Dr Sandeep, Deputy Medical Superintendent (DMS)-cum-Nodal Officer (Litigation) of the PGIMS.“A man in police uniform came to the PGIMS and requested a doctor to verify a patient’s documents pleading that these are needed for a court case. The man sneaked off when the doctor — on suspicion – started questioning him. Later, the doctor informed the higher authorities who constituted a committee on January 23, 2020 to look into the matter,” said a doctor on anonymity.He maintained that as per forged documents, a patient namely Phoolpati, aged 76 years, got registered as OPD patient on October 3, 2019 and got admitted in a unit of the medicine department a day after. She remained admitted there for three days and was discharged on October 6, 2019, he added.“The inquiry committee comprising Dr SK Singhal of anesthesia department and Dr Kundan Mittal of paediatrics department scrutinised the office record of admitted patients and recorded the statement of the doctor concerned who denied that no patient with that name was admitted or treated by his unit during the period mentioned on her discharge card. The committee submitted its report to the authorities in December 2020,” he added.Dr Sandeep told The Tribune everything, including admission, discharge and follow-up cards, signature and the doctor’s stamp, had been found bogus in the inquiry. Hence, the case was sent to the police for investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bogus-admission-record-surfaces-at-pgims-225206
15-03-2021||---||Employees seek pay parity with Punjab||Karnal, March 14Demanding pay parity with Punjab, abolishing privatisation and not to transfer the services of water to civic bodies, restoration of old pension, etc, hundreds of employees under the banner of the Haryana Government PWD Mechanical Workers Union on Sunday held a state-level protest rally here.They tried to gherao the Chief Minister’s camp office in Prem Nagar, but were stopped by the police, where after handing over the memorandum to SDM Indri Sumit Sihag, the employees announced to stage a dharna in Karnal from Monday to press for their demands.Virender Singh, former state president of the union, said the government was going to privatise most of the services of irrigation, PWD (B&R) and public health or transferring the services to the civic bodies, which was not a good sign. “We are discharging our duty with utmost dedication, but the government is trying to privatise the services or transferring them to civic bodies,” said the former president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/employees-seek-pay-parity-with-punjab-225207
15-03-2021||Hisar||Three booked for schoolgirl’s rape||The police have registered a case against three persons in a case of rape of a 13-year-old girl in Fatehabad district.The police said the accused had been taking the girl to a secluded place during school time and raping her for past some days. The girl revealed the incident to her mother after which a case was filed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-booked-for-schoolgirls-rape-225208
15-03-2021||Rewari||Investiture ceremony at sainik school||KU to offer 4 online coursesKurukshetra:The University Grants Commission has granted permission to Kurukshetra University (KU) to start four full-fledged online courses from the 2021-2022 session. These courses are bachelor of arts, bachelor of commerce, master of arts (mass communication) and master of commerce. A letter in this regard has been received from UGC. "It is a major decision which will enhance access to higher education and will help in increasing gross enrolment ratio of students in higher education institutions, '' said Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, KU.Five students shine in JEE (Main)Karnal: Five students of the city have excelled in the JEE (Main), the result of which was declared recently. Anmol has scored 99.74 per cent, while Pardeep Chahal got 99.49 per cent, Adhya Shukla (99.44 pe cent), Anjali (99.31 per cent), Lakshya (99.11 per cent). Congratulating the students Aakash Chaudhary of Aakash Institute, Karnal, said that it was a proud moment for the family, city and institute that the students excelled in the JEE (Main). He gave credit to the students and staff members' for their dedication and hard work.Seminar on 'sustainable future'Mahendragarh: Central University of Haryana (CUH), organised a webinar on "sustainable future" wherein students and faculty members from various institutions across the country and industry experts also participated. Thamilselvan SK, Executive Director of ONGC Videsh and former CEO of Imperial Energies, Russia, as the key speaker, emphasised on understanding of the topic while Prof RC Kuhad, Vice Chancellor, said such webinars had proved helpful for students in knowing about industrial requirements.Biz school offers scholarshipsGurugram: Sunstone Eduversity has announced over 100 scholarships for aspirants of the 2021-23 batch. These scholarships will be applicable across all MBA programmes offered by Sunstone Eduversity. To avail the scholarship, students must take the sunstone scholarship test which will be a mix of quantitative aptitude, verbal reasoning and LRDI. Students can win scholarships worth of Rs 30,000, Rs 60,000 and Rs 1,00,000, depending on their test score. The eligibility for the test is the same as that of the MBA/PGDM programmes offered by Sunstone Eduversity.Seminar on freedom struggleHisar: The Dean Students Welfare office and National Service Scheme Unit of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, organised a seminar on "India's freedom struggle" on the occasion to mark 75 years of India's Independence. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, was the chief guest of the seminar. Dr Jitender Bhardwaj, Registrar Ch Bansi Lal University, Bhiwani and Dr Mahender Singh, associate professor of Dayanand College, Hisar, were the speakers of the seminar.Webinar on womanhoodYamunanagar: Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, SDG Lab and DIAS, New Delhi, held a two day webinar on womanhood (stritav). The seminar was marked by a discussion, in which eminent speakers from varied fields of life, across the globe participated to celebrate all facets of women's life. Indrani Sharma, founder of Indrani Sharma and Company, Chennai; Divya Prabha from International Chandramauli Trust, Kashi; Prerna Kumar, founder of Chaiveda, New Delhi. and Sudhir, social protection officer of International Labour Organisation based in Mexico City, Mexico, shared their views.School honours cricketer, parentsAmbala: Lord Mahavir Jain Public School welcomed Vaibhav Arora who is scheduled to play in the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL). The members of the school managing committee, Principal Ruchi Sharma and mentors presented a bouquet to Vaibhav and his parents who were the special guests for the day. Vaibhav answered all queries regarding his career and his path to success. The principal praised Vaibhav for his persistence and applauded the support of his parents.Internal quality cell meetingFaridabad: The 28th internal quality assurance (IQAC) meeting of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, was organised on the college premises. The objective of the meeting was holistic development of students by improving teaching and learning methods in the college, said principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta, Chairperson, IQAC. In this meeting, five new initiatives were taken up and approved.Workshop on intellectual propertyKurukshetra: KU Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said intellectual property helped in enhancing the competitiveness of technology-based enterprises. Universities and public research institutions are among the major contributors towards innovation and research, particularly in emerging economies. He was addressing a three-day workshop on ‘Intellectual property rights’ organised by the department of computer science & applications, Kurukshetra University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/investiture-ceremony-at-sainik-school-225214
15-03-2021||This refers to news report '55 fresh cases in Panchkula district' (Chandigarh Tribune||Panchkula residents need to follow MHA guidelines||Cattle roam freely in Kurukshetra sectorBuffaloes/cattle roam freely in Sector 3, Kurukshetra, from nearby Rampura village causing a lot of inconvenience to people commuting . The roads, particularly the market road, is always dirty with cattle dung all around, giving an ugly look to the sector. The authorities concerned seem to have turned a blind eye to this problem. —Naib Singh, KurukshetraResidents suffer as street in bad conditionThe MC in Bawani Khera town of Bhiwani district has failed to take up any development project in ward number 4 for the past many months. Owning to the negligent attitude of the authorities, residents are suffering as the streets are in a deplorable condition while the sewerage system is also not up to the mark. There will be dharna if the municipal committee chairperson and secretary fail to take note of the demands submitted in memorandums to them repeatedly.. —Meena Chopra, BhiwaniViolation of Covid advisory at templeDespite advisory from the temple management committee that all devotees should come with sanitisers and wear masks, a serious breach was seen during the Maha Shivratri celebrations in Sector 9, Ambala City. Though the committee had made arrangements , yet many turned up without these. It is high time the government in coordination with residents’ welfare associations should show some strictness and austerity throughout the state. —Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityCorrect misleading enhancement schemeIn a bid to sort out the long-standing dispute on enhancement the HSVP has, by effecting reduction in enhancement amount, asked the plot holders to cash in on the opportunity to deposit the revised amount by April 30 under the one-time settlement scheme. But the liability created against the allottees under the breather scheme has put the holders in a state of quandary. The plots of the same size and location in the same sector have dissimilar liability, as learnt. An error has been reported in respect of a plot situated in Sector 3 of Hisar, where the allottee has been asked to deposit Rs 21,00,000 under the lately declared respite scheme in supersession to his earlier original liability of Rs 14,00,000. In all, the allottees are at a loss to understand as to what parameters have been adopted by the HSVP while arriving at the finality of dues. In order to dispel the misgivings the HSVP should declassify the yardsticks of computation of revised enhancement. —Baljeet S Deep, HisarWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-residents-need-to-follow-mha-guidelines-225215
15-03-2021||Jhajjar||Medical facility for police personnel||20-yr-old entrepreneur to get awardHisar: A young entrepreneur from Bhiwani, Mohit Kumar, who is the founder and CEO of MK App Creatives Private Limited, will be awarded the prestigious Entrepreneur Award 2021 at Goa on April 18. Twenty-year-old Mohit owns six startups and has got 24 patents. His company is one of the leading players in the artificial intelligence industry. A leading magazine ‘India Excellence Award’, along with Franchise USA, will host the event.Lifts not functional at Jhajjar hospitalJhajjar: Doctors at Civil Hospital in the city faced an embarrassing situation when MP from Sirsa, Sunita Duggal, asked them about the non-functional lifts at the hospital following a complaint. Duggal, who was on a surprise visit, told the doctors to make the lifts functional at the earliest. She told them to administer the Covid vaccine to elderly people on the ground floor. Notably, the lift has been lying non-functional for the past several days, forcing patients to reach the first floor using the ramps or stairs.Breastfeeding centre opened at PanipatPanipat: Mayor Avneet Kaur and DC Panipat Dharmender Singh inaugurated the state’s first breastfeeding centre at the ground floor of the mini secretariat on International Women’s Day. The centre has been established by the Women and Child Development Department. Chief Minister Good Governance Associate (CMGGA) Ambalika Khanna had proposed the idea to establish a breastfeeding centre in the mini secretariat, said Rajni Gupta, District Women Protection cum Child Marriage Prohibition Officer. Scores of women come to the mini secretariat in their day-to-day work with their children and feel very odd feeding their children there, she added. Ambalika said a creche would also be set up soon in the women police station.Bullock-cart protest against bumpy roadFaridabad: Local residents resorted to staging a demonstration by using bullock carts to protest against the alleged unusual delay of several years in the repair of the all-important Hardware-Pali Chowk road in the city on Sunday. “The 1.5-km-long passage, which has been awaiting repairs for the past over six years, has proved deadly due to accidents. It has resulted in acute inconvenience to taxpaying commuters due to potholes,” says Baba Ram Kewal, who has also been staging a dharna on the issue for the past 11 days. “Though Municipal Corporation Faridabad and other authorities have been claiming the approval of a budget of Rs 6 crore for the road for the past year, no work has been done on the ground so far,” says Varun Sheokand, a social activist.Social workers clean chowkAmbala: A group of social workers under their campaign ‘Chowk Hamara Sabse Pyara’ on Sunday cleaned Vijay Rattan Chowk, named after Shaheed Major Vijay Rattan Chaudhry, in Ambala Cantonment. Atul Mahajan, a social worker, said, “A campaign was started by a group of social workers, who have been working with different NGOs, to keep the chowks in Ambala City and Cantonment clean.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/medical-facility-for-police-personnel-225218
15-03-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana to make agitators pay for loss, Bill today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 14The BJP-JJP government in Haryana will on Monday introduce a Bill, which will make protesters pay for the damage caused to public property.The Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property during Disturbance of Public Order Bill, 2021, is in line with a Supreme Court judgment on a similar matter.No link with farm stirThe law has been in pipeline for quite some time. It has nothing to do with the farm agitation.—Anil Vij, Haryana Home Minister Sources said the Bill was being brought in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws at Singhu and Tikri, state Home Minister Anil Vij claimed otherwise. He said the law had been in the pipeline for quite some time and it had nothing to do with the farmers' stir.A recent report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) stated of 14,876 pending cases of damage to public property, nearly 6,300 pertained to Haryana, UP and Tamil Nadu. Except Haryana, the two other states already have such Acts.Haryana has, in the recent past, witnessed violent protests, resulting in extensive damage to public property. During the 2016 Jat quota agitation, the loss was pegged at Rs 34,000 crore. Similar was the case during a protest by Dera Sachha Sauda followers in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-make-agitators-pay-for-loss-bill-today-225285
