16-03-2021||Chandigarh||2 deaths, 523 new COVID-19 cases in Haryana||Two more people died from coronavirus in Haryana on Tuesday as 523 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection count to 2,76,080, according to a health bulletin.So far, the disease has killed 3,079 people in the state.A fatality each was reported from Karnal and Panipat on Tuesday.The fresh cases were reported from districts, including Panchkula (96), Karnal (93) and Gurgaon (84).The number of active cases in the state stands at 3,484, according to the bulletin. The recovery rate was 97.62 per cent, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-deaths-523-new-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-226144
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Aadhar manipulation, bogus certificates and General category grabbing scholarships: CAG confirms scam in PMS scheme||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has confirmed a multi-crore scam in Post Matric Scholarship (PMS) scheme in Haryana while pointing out that Aadhar numbers were manipulated, bogus certificates were submitted and even General Category students got the scholarships meant for SCs and OBCs.  The State Vigilance Bureau is also investigating the case and has registered multiple FIRs so far. Earlier, it was The Tribune that broke the story on the scam in April 2019.  In its report, ‘Social, General and Economic Sectors for the year ended March 31, 2019’, tabled today in Haryana Assembly, the CAG says that name and Aadhaar of beneficiaries mentioned in the sanction files maintained in the department did not match with the bank response files in respect of 1,690 cases involving Rs 13.80 crore.The audit looked into the cases from 2014-19.  In 756 cases, incorrect Aadhaar numbers were mentioned against the name of beneficiaries. Also, the names of beneficiaries did not match with those who got the payments from the banks. Here, a suspected fraudulent payment of Rs 5.11 crore was made.  The scrutiny of 313 response files in respect of the sanctions for students of IIET, Samani (Kurukshetra) in 2014-15, revealed that 17 Aadhaar numbers were used twice for claiming payment of 34 different scholars.  “Thus, suspected fraudulent payment of Rs 18.98 crore was made by manipulating Aadhaar numbers,” said the CAG.  It was found that Rohitash Degree College, Ateli, and Rohitash Institute of Management, Ateli, during 2014-18, received payment of scholarship of Rs 7.36 crore for 2,490 students who were not registered with their affiliating universities.  “Further, 12 students of General Category had claimed scholarship of OBC category amounting to Rs 7 lakh and 182 students of General and OBC category had claimed scholarship of SC category resulting in an excess claim of Rs 52 lakh,” said CAG.  However, 102 students who were of SC category had claimed a scholarship of OBC category.  The details of 532 students for whom payment of Rs 1.70 crore was made to the colleges matched with the university data, but their courses did not match with the record.  Here, the payment of Rs 9.65 crore of scholarship in respect of 3,216 students were suspected to be fraudulent, said the CAG.  The cases of excess and double payments of scholarships were also part of modus operandi. Cases of bogus certificates were also found.  A suspected “fraudulent” payment of Rs 4.74 crore was made to those studying outside the state. The CAG found that only 52.24 per cent of applicants were paid scholarships during 2015-19, and 37 per cent of approved cases were not paid. The technical education department did not pay 7,757 students though the amount was sanctioned and drawn from the treasury.  The number of SC beneficiaries under this scheme during the years 2013-14 to 2018-19 in Haryana declined. There were 1.4 lakh and 1.38 lakh in 2013-14 and 2014-15 respectively, but it fell to 17,894 in 2015-16. There were 37,827, 45,903 and 37,658 beneficiaries in 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19 respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aadhar-manipulation-bogus-certificates-and-general-category-grabbing-scholarships-cag-confirms-scam-in-pms-scheme-226141
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hockey Haryana to face UP in semifinal||Hockey Odisha overpowered Hockey Punjab by 5-1 in the first quarterfinal match of the 11th Hockey India Sub-Junior Women National Championship 2021 in Simdega today.Dipika Barwa netted twice, while Nisha Dadel, Rambha Kujur and Kanika Kerketta scored one goal each to ensure win. Hockey Punjab skipper Sukhveer Kaur bagged a consolation late goal for her side.Meanwhile, Hockey Haryana lads defeated Hockey Unit of Tamil Nadu by a resounding 23-0 margin. Kanika Siwach scored five goals, while Sakshi Rana scored four goals. Tamanna Yadav scored three goals while Shashi Khasa, Manisha, Saavi and Bhateri scored two goals each. Ishika, Nandni and Sejal scored one goal each for the defending champions.Uttar Pradesh Hockey registered a commanding 11-0 win against Hockey Bihar, while Hockey Jharkhand marched to a 16-0 win against Delhi Hockey. The semi-final will be played on March 17. Hockey Haryana will face Uttar Pradesh in the first semi-final, while Hockey Odisha will clash with hosts Hockey Jharkhand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hockey-haryana-to-face-up-in-semifinal-225651
16-03-2021||Jhajjar||Farmers warned against building pucca structures at Tikri||The Bahadurgarh administration has warned the protesting farmers at Tikri not to build concrete huts and install submersible pumps on and along the national highway, failing which stern action may be taken against them.The warning was issued at a meeting between SDM Hitendra Sharma and a four-member delegation of farmer organisations from Punjab here on Monday. The farmers assured the administration that they will not build concrete huts and install submersible pumps, provided they be ensured the supply of adequate potable water and the round-the-clock deployment of fire-fighting vehicles at Tikri.‘Anti-corporate day’“At present, 25 tanks of water are being supplied at Tikri daily. The SDM has assured us of increasing the number to 50 tanks from tomorrow, besides the deployment of four fire-fighting vehicles to meet any emergency,” said Purushottam Singh Gill, a BKU (Lakhowal) leader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-warned-against-building-pucca-structures-at-tikri-225688
16-03-2021||Rohtak||Nation’s 1st elevated rail track now operational in Rohtak||The nation’s first elevated rail track in the city became operational on Monday after getting clearance from the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS). Two goods trains chugged off on the track with usual speed while the old rail line was disconnected.The track is 4.8-km long and it has done away with four-level crossings in the city, thus reducing traffic jams. The foundation stone of the Rs 350-crore project was laid by Chief Minister Monohar Lal Khattar in March 2018, and it was scheduled to be completed in 18 months. However, the project missed several dealines and it took 36 months to become operational.“A team, led by the CRS, inspected the track from the safety angle and gave its nod for starting the operations after the successful trial of a goods train on Sunday evening. The first goods train from Gohana reached Rohtak at 23:32 pm on Sunday,” said a railway officer.Pradeep Ranjan, technical advisor of the project, said the old rail line had been disconnected. The old track would be replaced with a 34-ft wide road between Sector-6 and the railway station, he added.“The state government has approved Rs 16 crore for the road project, which will benefit residents of more than 30 nearby colonies. Tenders will soon be invited,” Ranjan added.Balbir Rathi, Traffic Inspector (Railways), said all goods and passenger trains would now run on the new track. Those found roaming or sitting on the track would be penalised,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nations-1st-elevated-rail-track-now-operational-in-rohtak-225689
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||50% rise in Covid cases in week in Haryana||With 2,617 new cases of Covid from March 7 to 14, Haryana has witnessed over 50 per cent surge in the infection in a week.This is for the first time after December last that the state has seen more than 2,000 new cases of the virus in a week indicating towards another wave of Covid-19 in the state.Even the total active cases in the state have witnessed an increase of 50 per cent in a week from 2,031 last week to 3,095 on Sunday. Karnal has the highest 651 active cases, followed by Gurugram 570, Kurukshetra 396, Panchkula 355 and Ambala 290.1.5L jabbed in a dayHaryana on Monday administered the Covid vaccine to around 1.5 lakh persons. Considering the overwhelming response, the Health Department decided to observe every Monday as ‘mega vaccination day’.The daily positivity rate, which had come down to 1 per cent or even less in January and February, is now hovering between 2 and 3 per cent now.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said the behaviour of the virus could never be predicted and hence it was important that people followed Covid protocols religiously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-rise-in-covid-cases-in-week-in-haryana-225691
16-03-2021||Ambala||Illicit liquor: 2 more arrested||The police have arrested two more accused in connection with the illicit liquor and spirit recovered from Durana village last week.The accused have been identified as Vipin, alias Sandeep Singh, and Ramsharan, both from UP.They were produced before a court which sent them to five-day police remand, today.SI Gurdarshan Singh said, “Two more accused have been arrested. Vipin is a partner in the illicit liquor business, while Ramsharan used to supply stickers and lids for the bottles. Further investigation is on.”The police had earlier arrested three accused, including Rakesh Kumar, Prahlad Singh, and Kuldeep Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illicit-liquor-2-more-arrested-225692
16-03-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Facebook friend booked on rape charge||A 22-year-old woman, native of Uttarakhand, was allegedly raped in the Manesar area by her social media friend on the pretext of getting her a job.After the medical examination, which has confirmed rape, an FIR was registered at the Women police station, Manesar, today. The police said the accused, Amit Kaushik, was absconding.The victim, who is residing in a nearby village near the IMT, Manesar, in her complaint, told the police that she had come into contact with the accused, Amit Kaushik, through Facebook.“I was earlier working in the IMT, Manesar, but lost job. I met him on Facebook and we became good friends. During online chat, he promised me a job in a reputed company in Manesar. On Sunday, Amit asked me to reach Manesar immediately for job. Trusting him, I went to Manesar where he took me to a hotel, offered some soft drink, laced with sedatives, and raped me. He also threatened me with dire consequences if I tell someone about the incident,” the victim told the police.Following the complaint and medical report, an FIR has been registered against Amit Kaushik under Sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the Women police station, Manesar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/facebook-friend-booked-on-rape-charge-225693
16-03-2021||Hisar||MBBS student ends life in hostel room||A first-year MBBS student at Maharaja Agrasen Medical College in Agroha town of the district allegedly died by suicide in his hostel room this afternoon.The deceased has been identified as Ashish, a resident of Jagadhri. He left behind a suicide note in which he mentioned his mental illness as the reason behind taking the extreme step.According to information, Ashish was to appear for a practical examination today. While his roommate left for the examination centre, he stayed back. When other students returned after the exam, they found his room bolted from inside.They peeped into the room through a window only to find him hanging from a ceiling fan. They broke open the door and rushed him to hospital, where doctors declared him as “brought dead”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mbbs-student-ends-life-in-hostel-room-225694
16-03-2021||Rewari||Dharuhera MC chief removed for invalid certificate||The State Election Commissioner (SEC) on Monday removed Kanwar Singh, newly elected president of Municipal Committee, Dharuhera, with immediate effect after finding his matriculation certificate ‘invalid’.As an independent candidate Singh had won municipal poll held in December last year by defeating his nearest rival Sandeep Bohra by a margin of 632 votes.Had won as Independent candidateOn January 4, Bohra had filed a complaint with the SEC demanding cancellation of his election and registration of a criminal case against him alleging that his matric certificate was fake, as the Central Board of Higher Education (CBHE), which had issued the certificate was not recognised.Later, the case was probed by the Kosli SDM, who in his report stated that any exam conducted by the CBHE was neither equivalent to any exam held by the HBSE nor the CBHE was included in the equivalent list of the HBSE, hence the matric certificate presented by Kanwar Singh could not be deemed as valid.“Kanwar Singh submitted a certificate of an un-recognised board/ institutes and deemed to be disqualified for the post. He is removed with immediate effect and his office will become vacant immediately,” states the order issued by Dalip Singh, the State Election Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dharuhera-mc-chief-removed-for-invalid-certificate-225695
16-03-2021||Karnal||Mobile pumps to reclaim waterlogged saline soils||To replace the diesel pumps in reclamation of the waterlogged saline soils, Scientists of the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI), Karnal, have developed a trolley-mounted solar-powered mobile pumping system of sub-surface drainage (SSD) effluents.As per the scientists, it is not only cost-effective, but also easy to operate. They claim that it will also overcome the issues between the farmers’ groups over the expenditure on operating diesel pumps as the solar pump will have no running cost. This initiative is being taken under the CSSRI’s farmers’ first project and the first testing and demonstration will be given to farmers in April at Kathura village of Sonepat district and later other waterlogged saline soil-affected districts will be covered. If all goes as per the plan, then the institute will recommend the policymakers to take the initiative for large-scale reclamation, said Dr PC Sharma, Director, CSSRI.It is a portable trolley-based solar pumping system and it can be brought to the pumping site during the need and can be moved to safe place after drainage. After reclamation of one site, this can be moved to another site for pumping. It has the provision for folding the solar panels for easy transportation, the Director added.Claiming that salinity is a big challenge, the Director said saline soils are those soils having higher concentration of soluble salts than critical levels. These soils are recognised by electrical conductivity of soil saturation paste. The saline soils are reclaimed through removal of excess soluble salts through leaching with good quality irrigation water. Around 1.5 lakh hectares soil is saline in Haryana and so far around 11,000 hectares have been reclaimed.Dr DS Bundela, Principal Scientist and Head, Division of Irrigation Drainage and Engineering, CSSRI, said for pumping the saline water from the sump close to open drain, diesel is to be collected from all the beneficiaries of that particular area, but the farmers whose lands are far from the drain are mostly reluctant to contribute diesel in the assumption that their soils would reclaim if the farmer nearest to the drain pump the water. Some farmers are also of the belief that the technology would not benefit them. This type of social conflict of beneficiary farmers has led ineffective reclamation of soils, he added.To overcome these challenges, they have developed this mobile solar pump, he said.Dr Parvender Sheoran, Principal Scientist, CSSRI, said in the present technique for reclamation of such lands, sub-surface drainage (SSD) technology has been evolved by the CSSRI, which is being implemented in Haryana in collaborative mode by the CSSRI and Haryana Operational Pilot Project (HOPP). “CSSRI is providing site selection, design, monitoring and evaluation support, while the HOPP is implementing installation of SSD in selected areas free of cost,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mobile-pumps-to-reclaim-waterlogged-saline-soils-225697
16-03-2021||CLeanlinesS||Multiple problems plague Ambala Sector||Smart signals good for easing traffic in G’gramIt is interesting to note that the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is planning to set up smart signals at new junctions across the city and convert the existing signals into smart ones and the move is likely to ease traffic movement and keep constant vigil over the functioning of traffic signals. GMDA is checking the system where smart signals have been installed. This is a good move made by the authorities concerned. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramUnderground drain pipes being laid without surveyThe work of laying underground drainage system is going on in the lane of Mahesh Nagar police station. In the narrow lane, underground telephone cables and drinking water supply pipe have already been laid on both sides. Just above the drinking water pipe, new underground drain pipe is being laid, which is wrong from the health point of view. Pipes are being laid without any proper survey, planning and feasibility study. The contractor with semi-skilled masons are laying the pipes throwing all engineering and sanitation norms to the wind. Hope the Municipal authorities will take note and act at once. — Dr Vinay Kumar Malhotra, Ambala CanttMust stop Loud music late at nightPlaying music is allowed up to 10 o'clock at night, but people do not follow the law and create noise pollution at night in the name of marriage and religious functions. One can celebrate up to an extent, till rights of others are not breached, otherwise it is trespassing. Such activities must be stopped by the authorities concerned. — RK Garg, TohanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/multiple-problems-plague-ambala-sector-225725
16-03-2021||Rohtak||Developing critical legal thinking||Improving students' employabilityFaridabad: The Community College of Skill Development (CCSD) and the alumni and corporate affairs (A&CA) cell of the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has signed an MoU with Shigan Evoltz Limited, a leading manufacturer of electric vehicles (EVs), in Manesar. “The agreement would focus on providing workforce in the area of EVs and supporting innovative ideas of BTech students,'' says VC Dinesh Kumar. Principal, CCSD, and director, (alumni & corporate Affairs, Dr Sanjeev Goyal, and MD, Shigan Evoltz Limited, Gagan Agarwal signed the MoU in the presence of the VC.Intellectual property rightsFaridabad: The research promotion cell of the DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad, in association with its internal quality assurance cell, organised an e-workshop for students of MBA and MCA. A spokesperson for the institute said the topic was the fundamentals of intellectual property rights. Dr Suvarna S Nilakh, Assistant Professor, ILS Law College, Pune, was the key speaker. She highlighted the importance of intellectual property rights for businesses and why it need to be protected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/developing-critical-legal-thinking-225744
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Uproar in Haryana Assembly over ‘protesters to pay’ Bill, Congress stages walkout||The introduction of a Bill making protesters pay for the damage to public property caused an uproar in the Assembly today, with the Congress staging a walkout.Also readAs soon as Home Minister Anil Vij introduced the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property During Disturbance to Public Order Bill, 2021, Congress members got on their feet, demanding voting on the introduction the Bill.Why the BillCongress’ chargeAssembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, however, ruled that there was no provision of division (voting) while introducing the Bill, and the Opposition could debate and demand voting when it would be taken up for discussion during the Budget session. Congress MLA Raghubir Kadian alleged the BJP-JJP government’s intentions in introducing the Bill were “wrong” and alleged the Bill had been brought in the wake of the farmers’ agitation at the Delhi borders. Terming the introduction of the Bill as a “hasty decision”, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the demand for voting on the introduction of the Bill was the “fundamental right” of the Opposition.Voting ruled outAssembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta ruled that there was no provision of voting while introducing the Bill, and the Opposition could debate and demand voting when it would be taken up for discussion during the session.Vij alleged the Congress was supporting the farmers’ stir, and dared the Opposition to debate and press for voting when the Bill would be taken up for discussion.Noisy scenes were witnessed with several Congress members, including Aftab Ahmed, BB Batra, Rabhubir Kadian and Jagbir Malik, storming the Well of the House, insisting on voting on the introduction of the Bill.The Speaker, however, ruled out voting at the introduction stage and said the Bill had already been introduced in the House by a voice vote. Dissatisfied, the Congress members staged a walkout.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uproar-in-haryana-assembly-over-protesters-to-pay-bill-congress-stages-walkout-225745
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM’s resolution criticising boycott of BJP and JJP leaders passed||The Assembly on Monday passed a resolution condemning the boycott of BJP and JJP leaders across the state in view of the ongoing farmers’ protest. The House called the act a “murder of democracy” and a “dangerous trend” that was against the principle of democracy.The resolution was moved by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who claimed that some Congress leaders were behind those instigating people to give boycott calls. Congress MLAs led by Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda staged a walkout when the resolution was passed.SAD MLAs’ move ‘premeditated’Khattar raised the issue of boycott of BJP and JJP leaders after Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel told the House that people had demonstrated outside his residence after his speech in the Assembly on the no-confidence motion.“They used filthy language which they would not like to listen in the presence of their family members,” he said. Goel accused the Congress of instigating those responsible for the demonstration outside his house even as Congress MLAs, led by former Speaker Raghubir Singh Kadian, objected to the allegation.At this point, Khattar proposed that the House should move a resolution condemning any act of boycotting political leaders. The proposal was strongly opposed by Congress MLAs.“I will like to clarify on the floor of the House that nobody from my party is instigating people to boycott any political leader. We are supporting farmers on their demands, but this does not mean that we are instigating them, ” said Hooda.He said if Goel or any other political leader had been wronged, he should lodge an FIR and the law would take its course, but there was no need to pass such a resolution.An argument ensued, which saw ministers Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Ranjit Singh Chautala and JP Dalal from the ruling party and Hooda, Kiran Choudhry, Kadian and Geeta Bhukkal from the Congress joining in.A visibly angry Khattar said he did not want to name anyone, but several persons, including those from the Congress, had been instigating those boycotting political leaders.“I want to repeat that our decency should not be taken as our weakness,” Khattar said, adding boycott of political persons amounted to “murder of democracy” and was a “dangerous trend” that was against the principles of democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cms-resolution-criticising-boycott-of-bjp-and-jjp-leaders-passed-225746
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Congress MLAs quit MSP Bill panel||Congress MLAs Kiran Choudhry and Bharat Bhushan Batra on Monday withdrew from the committee set up to look into an amendment to the APMC Act.“The CM spoke on the floor of the House that the laws would not be withdrawn and no recommendation would be conveyed to the Centre to repeal the laws,” they pointed out in a letter to Speaker Gian Chand Gupta. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mlas-quit-msp-bill-panel-225747
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Congress lashes out at Khattar govt over finances||Congress leaders on Monday lashed out at the government over rising debt and revenue deficit and falling per capita income during a discussion on the Budget.They pointed out that 2 per cent surcharge on stamp duty in rural areas and 2 per cent panchayat duty on power consumption had been mentioned in the Budget.Leading the attack, former minister Kiran Choudhry said sanctity of the Budget had not been maintained and pointed out differences in figures in the Hindi speech read by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and its English translation. “You should find out the officials who misled the Chief Minister,” she said.Congress chief whip Bharat Bhushan Batra said that there was a lot of repetition. The capital expenditure projected was so little that it was difficult to imagine a medical college in every district, he said.Independent MLA Sombir Sangwan said the share of the agricultural sector had been reduced from 12.42 per cent in 2020-21 to 10.33 per cent in the 2021-22 Budget.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-lashes-out-at-khattar-govt-over-finances-225748
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||5 Bills passed||The Haryana Yog Aayog Bill was passed on Monday to establish the Haryana Yog Aayog for promotion, management, regulation and training of yoga in the state.The Haryana Enterprises Promotion (Amendment) Bill was passed to amend the Haryana Enterprise Promotion Act 2016 for strengthening the prospects of Haryana in evaluation of state rankings by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of Industry and Commerce.The Haryana Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill was passed to amend the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act 1994 for integrating the cadre of employees of municipal corporations.The Haryana Municipal (Amendment) Bill was passed to further amend the Haryana Municipal Act 1973.The Haryana Appropriation (No. 1) Bill was passed to authorise payment and appropriation of Rs 89,66,65,26,981 out of the Consolidated Fund for services during the financial year ending on March 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-bills-passed-225749
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bhiwani medical college to be named after freedom fighter Pt Neki Ram||The proposed medical college in Bhiwani will be named after Pt Neki Ram, a freedom fighter and former MP, and not after Dr Mangal Sein, as stated by CM Manohar Lal Khattar in his Budget speech on March 12.Khattar informed the House on Monday there was an error in his Budget speech.Congress’ Kiran Choudhry said she had no objection to a medical college being named after Pt Neki Ram, but the government must tell people that it was upgrading a government hospital named after Bansi Lal, her father-in-law, and renaming it after the late freedom fighter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-medical-college-to-be-named-after-freedom-fighter-pt-neki-ram-225750
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||78 posts of doctors vacant in Sonepat medical college||The Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat, has 78 posts of doctor out of 171 sanctioned ones vacant. As regards to the posts of paramedic, 185 out of 267 sanctioned ones are vacant.Health Minister Anil Vij gave this information during the Question Hour in the Assembly today while replying to a question by Congress legislator Jagbir Singh Malik.“The government is on the job to fill the posts in BPS Women’s Medical College as per norms of the National Medical Commission. Some posts have been lying vacant because of pending court cases. Once the cases are settled, the vacancies will be filled,” he said.To a question about medical institutions for paramedics in the state, the Health Minister said that as compared to the first term of the Khattar government, MBBS seats had increased to 1,685, BDS seats to 850 and MDS seats to 258.The minister also said that during the first term of the BJP government, six Government Nursing Colleges were opened. “I want that nursing colleges should be opened in every district of the state.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/78-posts-of-doctors-vacant-in-sonepat-medical-college-225751
16-03-2021||Hisar||Bhiwani farmers oppose electricity poles in fields||A panchayat of farmers at Prahladgarh village in Bhiwani district today opposed the installation of electricity poles for the transmission of high power lines in their fields.The farmers alleged that the agencies erecting the electricity poles were not giving adequate compensation to the landowners. The meeting unanimously decided not to allow the agencies to install electricity poles in their fields until the affected farmers were given compensation as per the market rate.Former sarpanch of Prahladgarh village Sube Singh said that the work to erect poles would remain suspended till a mutually agreeable compensation for the farmers was not settled.District BKU chief Rakesh Arya said, “Several farmers have small landholdings. If electricity poles are installed in the fields of farmers having small landholdings, their produce will decrease.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-farmers-oppose-electricity-poles-in-fields-225752
