17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mega vaccination drive to be run every Monday, Tuesday in Haryana: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said taking cognisance of the recent surge in coronavirus cases, the state has already ramped up its COVID-19 management preparations.This includes aggressive surveillance, stringent containment, swift contact tracing, focused clinical management along with proactive Information Education and Communication (IEC) activities, he said.The chief minister said that the state has already launched a mega vaccination drive across Haryana. “So far, 7.50 lakh people have been vaccinated and on Monday, a record 1.59 lakh people were vaccinated in a single day in Haryana. The state has planned to launch such mega drives on every Monday and Tuesday to ensure that every beneficiary receives vaccination doses”, Khattar said during a virtual interaction, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi had with state chief ministers over the pandemic situation and the ongoing vaccination drive.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and state Health Minister Anil Vij were also present in the meeting, an official statement said.Khattar informed that under the mega vaccination campaign launched across the state, so far, 80 per cent of healthcare workers and 67 per cent of frontline workers have been vaccinated.         Also, 3.5 lakh people above the age of 60 years and people in the age group of 45 to 60 having comorbidities have been vaccinated. He said last Tuesday 65,000 people were vaccinated under the ‘Mega Tuesday’ drive. Besides this, the vaccination drive would also be carried out in the rest of the days too.Divulging details about the steps taken by the Haryana government for containment of COVID-19 spread, Khattar said that more emphasis has been laid on the meticulous implementation of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.The chief minister informed that in a bid to once again encourage people to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, a drive of imposing a fine on those who are found without masks is being run. “Apart from this, various awareness campaigns regarding COVID-19 guidelines like wearing masks, sanitising hands and social distancing are being launched across the state along with enforcement of COVID-19 precautions and guidelines at public places like malls, eating joints, bus stands, schools, colleges,” he said.Sharing the clinical management strategy adopted by Haryana, Khattar said that the daily testing rate is also to be increased to 25,000 to 30,000 tests per day as it was being done before. He said that the state’s RTPCR rate is about 93 per cent.  He informed that Haryana’s performance in several parameters as set by the central government is better than the national average and the state would further leave no stone unturned to implement the required parameters to contain COVID-19.Notably, in the recent days, coronavirus cases, which had fallen under 100 over a month ago, have once again started to increase.The chief minister further informed that the cluster approach for vaccination is being adopted to ensure that vaccination of every beneficiary is done.He said that as schools have been reopened, therefore, extensive screening and testing of every student is being done in every district.      Khattar informed that an appeal has also been made to the people of the state to wear masks whenever they venture out. Besides this, eligible beneficiaries in the state have been urged to get themselves vaccinated from both the government and private hospitals empanelled with the government. “Though vaccination for COVID-19 has been rolled out, we all should religiously follow all the guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing to stay safe and to ensure containment of the virus spread,” said the chief minister. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mega-vaccination-drive-to-be-run-every-monday-tuesday-in-haryana-khattar-226621
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 4 more fatalities, 555 fresh COVID-19 cases||Haryana reported four more coronavirus-related fatalities on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 3,083 while the infection count rose to 2,76,635 with 555 fresh cases, a bulletin by the Health Department said.While two fatalities were reported from Ambala, a fatality each was reported from Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar districts.Of the new COVID-19 infections, Gurgaon reported 97 cases, Kurukshetra 86, Karnal 81, Ambala 66 and Panchkula 60.At present, there are 3,740 active cases in the state, while the recovery rate is 97.53 per cent, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-4-more-fatalities-555-fresh-covid-19-cases-226619
17-03-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Auction of gangster’s property fails for second consecutive time in Gurugram||Gurugram police’s plans to make wanted criminals surrender by attaching their property has failed consecutively for the second time as it failed to auction gangster Sube Gujjar’s property.In a stern step, police had attached and put up property worth crores for auction but no bidder turned up owing to the gangster’s terror.Prior to the plot put up for auction today, police had put up a piece of his land in Bar Gujjar and IMT, Manesar for sale.The officials and cops were waiting for the bidders but finally no one turned up. It may be noted that Gujjar’s property is first to have been attached by police as per their ambitious plan to attach properties of gangsters to urge them to surrender.Police Commissioner KK Rao, then chief of STF, had constructed a police chowki at gangster’s land near his village, which was reportedly grabbed by Sube from a builder.“We cannot dare to bid. The gangsters manage to run extortion and killings from jail in the city so who will save us from one of the biggest gangsters currently on the run. Police should first assure security,” said a realtor.Meanwhile, police and administration plan to fix another date of auction soon.The Gurugram police along with the revenue department reached in Bar Gujjar village today to auction two properties of proclaimed offender and most wanted gangster Sube Gujjar.But the auction failed again as no bidder turned up while police sources said that three people had shown interest.“Not many people had information about the auction. We plan to fix another auction date soon. Meanwhile, the property will be with administration till no buyer turns up,” said KK Rao.It may be noted that Sube Singh alias Gujjar is a member of dreaded gangster Kaushal’s gang.Gujjar who has a total reward of Rs 5 lakh announced by Gurugram and Rewari police is wanted for over a dozen murders and numerous extortions and attempt to murders across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/auction-of-gangsters-property-fails-for-second-consecutive-time-in-gurugram-226608
17-03-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||15-year-old nanny detained for brutally assaulting toddler||A teenager employed as a nanny has been accused of brutally assaulting a toddler leading to her hospitalisation, police said on Wednesday.The child is currently on ventilator in an Intensive Care Unit at a private hospital, police said.The teenager, a 15-year-old girl, was detained and brought before a juvenile justice board. She’s now been sent to a correction home, police said.The toddler’s family said in a complaint that it hired the teenager, who’s from West Bengal, two months ago.The toddler’s father Nikhil Bhatia, who’s originally from Patiala but lives with his family in an apartment complex in Gurugram’s Sector 56, said he and his wife had gone to the market on March 15, leaving their 13-month-old daughter in the care of the teenager.“When we came back, we found a crying uncontrollably and the nanny wouldn’t answer our questions satisfactorily. We ran to a hospital with our daughter and found, to our horror, that she had multiple fractures and wounded organs,” Bhatia told the policeThe child had four broken ribs. Four organs---pancreas, Kidney, Liver and Spleen---were injured, the complaint said.A senior investigator said that the toddler’s constant crying lead the teenager to beat her up.Sector 56 SHO Inspector Pawan Kumar said that the toddler is still being treated at the hospital.  “We’re still investigating,” he said.\Police have booked the teenager for attempted murder (section 307) causing hurt (323) and grievous hurt (325) of the Indian Penal Code after the doctor who treated the toddler gave a statement.The toddler’s parents meanwhile have been booked under the Juvenile Justice Act for employing an underage person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-year-old-nanny-detained-for-brutally-assaulting-toddler-226592
17-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||14-km road built, but ends unconnected; CAG calls for fixing responsibility||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, March 17  The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has called for fixing responsibility in Public Works Department (PWD) for constructing a 14-km long link road in Yamunanagar whose ends remain unconnected, as there is a patch of 3.43 km private land in the middle of the road.  It has resulted in an unfruitful expenditure of Rs 6.30 crore, but the road couldn’t be utilised by commuters, said the CAG.  According to the CAG report on ‘Social, General and Economic Sectors’, for the year ending March 2019, the PWD had constructed a 14-km long link road from Sadhaura to Mugalwali village via Rattuwala and Safilpur villages in Yamunanagar district in 1992.  As per the PWD code, the land on which construction is to be carried out should be in the possession of the department. Despite that, the road was covering 3.43 km of private land too without acquiring it and paying compensation to landowners.  A landowner filed a civil suit in the court in November 2010 for getting the land vacated and got relief in January 2014 where possession was given to the owner.  The department filed an appeal in the District Courts, which was dismissed in March 2017, and further appeal in the Punjab and Haryana High Court was also dismissed in September 2017. Though the litigation was going on, the department prepared an estimate for widening and strengthening of the total 14-km length of the link road which was administratively approved by the state government in May 2016. The contractor executed the work by December 2017. But no work could be carried out on 3.43 km of private land. The department paid Rs 6.25 crore to the contractor in January 2019.  During physical verification in February 2019 along with departmental officers, it was observed that the road was not through as both the ends remained separate due to the non-existence of the road for 3.43 km.  Double disbursal of scholarships The CAG has recommended fixing responsibility of officers in the Department of Elementary Education and Department of Secondary Education for double disbursal of scholarships worth Rs 30.76 crore meant for SC and BPL category students The CAG also recommended for fixing responsibility on District Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Controllers for not claiming driage charges of Rs 101.59 crore from Food Corporation of India in regular bills at the time of supply of custom milled rice, resulting in delayed receipt between 22 and 1,577 days which caused an interest burden of Rs 13.45 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-km-road-built-but-ends-unconnected-cag-calls-for-fixing-responsibility-226586
17-03-2021||Somnath||Gujarat Police detain man in Haryana for hailing Somnath Temple plunderer||Gujarat Police on Wednesday detained a man at Panipat in Haryana for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by hailing Mahmud of Ghazni, known for plundering the Somnath Temple in Gujarat, and Arab invader Mohammad bin Qasim, an official said.A video recently surfaced on social media in which the accused, identified as Irshad Rashid, was purportedly heard recalling the temple's plunder by Mahmud, and praising him and bin Qasim, said Prabhas Patan police station's in-charge inspector D D Parmar.The video was shot more than a year ago on a mobile phone from about half-a-kilometre away from the renowned Somnath Temple in the Gir Somnath district of Gujarat.A Gir Somnath police team detained Rashid in Panipat early Wednesday morning, Parmar said.Rashid's location was traced through technical surveillance and the police rushed there on Tuesday, he said, adding that the police team will be back to Somnath with his custody.An FIR was lodged against Rashid on Monday under IPC Sections 153 (A) promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion and race) and 295 (A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings), on the basis of a complaint filed by the Shree Somnath Trust's general manager Vijaysinh Chavda.Rashid had recorded the video at a beach near the temple over a year ago during his visit to Somnath.The Somnath Temple, which was the target of repeated attacks by Mahmud of Ghazni, was rebuilt and renovated after the country's Independence. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gujarat-police-detain-man-in-haryana-for-hailing-somnath-temple-plunderer-226516
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Vij: Ordered audit of Faridabad, Gurugram MCs||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-ordered-audit-of-faridabad-gurugram-mcs-226363
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Tax on farmland in urban areas relaxed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tax-on-farmland-in-urban-areas-relaxed-226360
17-03-2021||Karnal||Kaithal girl brings laurels to college||Alumni association constitutedKarnal: A new body of the Dyal Singh College Alumni Association has been constituted unanimously. Educationist Kuljinder Mohan Singh Batth has been nominated as the president, while Aditya Bansal as vice-president, Dr Rajan Lamba as secretary, Dinesh Gulati as public relation officer, and Rajesh Grover as the treasurer. The new body took over the charge in presence of Principal Sanjay Sharma, outgoing president Pankaj Aneja, outgoing secretary Sandeep Arora and other officer bearers. They paid tributes to former Principal Dr Chandershekhar Bhardwaj, who had died of Covid. Batth said they would organise an alumni meet on April 11 and the theme of it will be ‘Let’s lead the world’.PhD viva on virtual life conductedSirsa: The Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa, conducted a PhD viva on Tuesday. Research scholar Chitra Tanwar defended her work under the supervision of Dr Amit Sangwan. Dr Amit said the work was based on a contemporary topic. The focus of the work, titled ‘Projections of virtual self in social media: A select study’, is how people look on and construct a virtual identity online. He also said the findings of the study would help researchers to understand negotiations between real and virtual lives of people. The study proposes a model of virtual lifecycle of social media users. Dr Vikram Kaushik from GJUS&T, Hisar, acted as the external expert for the viva. Chairman Dr SS Bajwa and faculty Dr Ravinder Dhillon along with other PhD scholars were present at the viva.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-girl-brings-laurels-to-college-226357
17-03-2021||As many as four ultrasound machines||Ultrasound machines lying unutilised at 3 civil hospitals||Illegal colonies mushroom in stateDEVELOPMENT of 586 illegal colonies and registration of 6,223 documents in violation of the rules from January to December 2020 and development of 2,337 unauthorised colonies in the state from 2014 to 2019, is a matter of concern. The government needs to make a meaningful change in the existing “Town Planning Policy” in the state. There is no doubt that after the development of such unauthorised colonies, in a democratic system, the government has no other option but to legalise them. Demolition of buildings built by poor people at unauthorised colony is also not justified. But, if the government had taken stern action against the violators during the initial stage then the situation would not have been this bad and there would have been a lesser number of illegal colonies in the state. The government needs to look into the issue and take concrete effective steps.Shakti Singh, KARNALAgitators liable for loss to public propertyAS Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property during Disturbance of Public Order Bill, 2021, to make the agitators pay for the loss to public property during protests is in tune with a Supreme Court judgement in similar context. The Parliament should include such a provision in the Indian Penal Code for quick action across the nation.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaAir ambulance for organ donationAS the air connectivity across the country has improved, the government and private airlines, even private aircrafts owned by rich people, should be encouraged to use their aircraft for charity as air ambulance for organ donation or critically ill patients requiring emergency care, especially in the cities that lack advanced medical care.Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ultrasound-machines-lying-unutilised-at-3-civil-hospitals-226352
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||SAD flays case against its MLAs by Haryana Govt||The SAD today condemned the registration of case against its nine MLAs, saying the action smacked of the Emergency imposed by former PM Indira Gandhi.Former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said it was condemnable that Sections like 323, which indicated SAD legislators had resorted to violence and caused hurt during their peaceful demonstration against Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar were thrust against the legislative party members. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sad-flays-case-against-its-mlas-by-haryana-govt-226351
17-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal’s green belt along NH-44 to be redesigned||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 16The green belt between Nirmal Kutia Chowk and Tau Devi Lal Chowk here will soon be redeveloped Karnal Smart City Limited has started preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for the purpose.The green belt on both sides of the National Highway-44 is 3.8-km long.Parks will be redesigned under the Smart City project. There will be a play area for children, an open-air theatre, seating spaces, plazas, pathways, a jogging track, a place for meditation and a yoga deck. Besides, landscape interventions, a cycle track, tree seating and other attractions will be added.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, who is also the Karnal Smart City Limited CEO, said: “Not only both sides of the green belt will be redeveloped, but also public parks will be beautified with pathways and gazebos. More space will be used by striking a balance between the ecology and recreational activities.”Apart from redeveloping the parks, markets in Sectors 6 and 14 will be given a facelift under the Smart City project. The need for this arose after the administration received numerous complaints about stinking public toilets and a lack of space for hawkers. Another problem is haphazard parking.The DC said haphazard parking would be a thing of the past, as planned parking spaces would be constructed. “Broken pavements and railings will be replaced. The vehicular movement will be channelled through road markings. Besides, there will be table tops to ensure continuous pedestrian connections along with shaded seating spaces,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnals-green-belt-along-nh-44-to-be-redesigned-226185
17-03-2021||---||Shift godowns out of town: Thanesar MLA||Kurukshetra, March 16 The Thanesar MLA has sought the shifting of godowns of government agencies out of the town to avert accidents and traffic jams due to the  movement of heavy vehicles, especially during the  procurement season. The government has sought a proposal regarding the shifting of the godowns located in residential areas. According to information, the godowns of the Haryana State Warehousing Corporation and the Food and Civil Supplies Department are situated in residential areas at Mohan Nagar and 7-B colony, respectively, in Thanesar. The vehicles pass through congested roads to reach the godowns, and lead to traffic jams and accidents. The MLA has requested the government to shift these godowns, auction the land and utilise the money for constructing new godowns and other development projects. Directions have been issued to the officials concerned to prepare a report regarding the land on which the godowns are situated, their collector rates and the land available outside the city area where the new godowns can be constructed. Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha said, “The matter has been raised and the government has sought a proposal for the shifting of the godowns. Soon, the proposal will be sent to the government and we are hopeful that action will be taken in public interest”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shift-godowns-out-of-town-thanesar-mla-226186
17-03-2021||Ambala||10 booked in Shahzadpur murder case||The police have booked 10 persons in connection with the murder of Paras, who died after being thrashed over a petty dispute in Shahzadpur on Monday evening.  A case was registered under the IPC at Shahzadpur police station. On the other hand, alleging police inaction, the kin of the deceased held a protest and blocked the Panchkula-Yamunanagar road for a brief period. After getting information, Sultan Singh, DSP, headquarters, reached the spot and managed to pacify the protesters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-booked-in-shahzadpur-murder-case-226187
17-03-2021||Karnal||4 Delhi men held for selling fake gold coins in Haryana, Punjab, other states||The police have busted an inter-state gang of fraudsters, who used to sell fake gold coins at cheaper rates, and arrested four Delhi residents. The accused have admitted to having duped around 50 persons in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Delhi. They were today produced in a local court that sent them to seven-day police remand.The police have recovered 95 counterfeit gold coins, four fake silver coins, 12 mobile phones, 20 sim cards, and Rs 50,000 from their possession, said Harjinder Singh, in-charge of detective staff of the Karnal police.The fraudsters used to target villagers by telling them that they had found gold coins while digging old structures but they could not sell them in the open market. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-delhi-men-held-for-selling-fake-gold-coins-in-haryana-punjab-other-states-226188
17-03-2021||Deepender Deswal||Post firing incident, Hisar Mayor promises security in markets||Tribune News ServiceHisar, March 16The incident of firing at a shopkeeper has created a scare in the Patel Nagar locality of the town. The incident occurred in the Patel Nagar market last night after which the shopkeepers have demanded security and the arrest of the accused. The shopkeepers have threatened to down their shutters from tomorrow if the police failed to arrest the accused.Mayor Gautam Sardana reached the locality today and assured that that the police had started investigation and the accused would be behind bars soon. He said he would ask the district police to enhance security in the markets.A showroom owner, Sumit Kumar, complained to the police that two motorcycle-borne youths opened fire on him on Monday night, though he escaped unhurt.The PLA police chowki in-charge, Ramesh Kumar, informed that two accused were also seen in a CCTV footage of the market. He said an attempt to murder case was registered by the police.The shopkeepers kept their shops closed today in protest against the incident. Haryana Vyapar Mandal president Bajrang Dass Garg said the incident revealed that the law and order condition in the town was getting from bad to worse. The police have failed to ensure safety of the traders and the common people in the town. The law and order has deteriorated resulting in a sense of insecurity among people, he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-firing-incident-hisar-mayor-promises-security-in-markets-226189
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Probe ‘illegal detention’ of labour activist Shiv Kumar: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the Faridabad District and Sessions Judge to hold an inquiry into the allegations of illegal detention and custodial torture of labour activist Shiv Kumar, who was arrested along with Nodeep Kaur.“In a democratic set-up, there cannot be even a thought on compromising the life and liberty of a citizen,” Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted after taking on record four medical reports submitted by the state.Nodeep Kaur case: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail bedsThe direction and observation came after senior advocate RS Cheema and Arshdeep Singh Cheema contended on the petitioner’s behalf that the comparison of the initial MLR and the subsequent MLR dated February 22 spoke for itself. The subsequent report was submitted to the court after it directed the Medical Superintendent of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, to get Shiv Kumar medically examined.Cheema also requested the ordering of an inquiry and staying the investigation in the cases against Shiv Kumar.Justice Jhingan refused to comment on the comparison of the two sets of medical reports lest it affected further proceedings or inquiry, but added it would be suffice for the court to say that a probe was required.Justice Jhingan added Part-III of Constitution deal with the Fundamental Rights. Article 21 guaranteed protection to life and personal liberty, which could not be deprived except as per the procedure established by law.Justice Jhingan added that there was nothing before the court to doubt the investigation being carried out by a Special Investigation Team. But there could be an occasion that the conclusion arrived at by the SIT, and inquiry report with regard to two sets of medical reports, may cast shadow on each other. Justice Jhingan said: “In the meantime, SIT may continue with the investigation, but shall not submit its final report without seeking permission from this court.”The case will now come up on May 11 for the submission of the status report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-illegal-detention-of-labour-activist-shiv-kumar-high-court-226190
17-03-2021||Faridabad||Student jumps from school building, dies||A 19-year-old student of Government Senior Secondary School in the Sarai Khawaja locality of Sector 37 here allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the second floor of the institution this morning. The reason behind his taking the extreme step was still not known. Dipesh Kumar, a BA-I student, died of his injuries at a nearby hospital. School staff members found him lying unconscious on the ground on the school premises around 8.40 am. He was seen standing on the rooftop of the second floor before he jumped from there, claimed sources. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-jumps-from-school-building-dies-226191
17-03-2021||Karnal||Former Civil Surgeon of Kaithal chargesheeted||The Health Department has chargesheeted former Civil Surgeon of Kaithal Dr SK Nain on the recommendation of the Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, over alleged irregularities in the recruitment of outsourcing employees in 2013. Director General Health Services Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj said that the ACS Health had recommended disciplinary action against the then Civil Surgeon of Kaithal, Dr SK Nain, under Section 7 of the  Haryana Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules 2016. The action was taken on a report by an arbitrator, Dr AS Gupta, who was assigned the inquiry in April 2014 after the irregularities came to fore in 2013 during Dr Nain’s tenure. The action has been initiated against the former Civil Surgeon on a complaint filed by Jaipal Rasulpur at the CM Window in November last year. He alleged that no action was taken against Dr Nain even after he was found guilty in the report of the arbitrator for causing a loss to the exchequer. He alleged that an excess payment of Rs 10.94 lakh was made to the outsourcing company by increasing the required manpower strength from 84 to 113. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-civil-surgeon-of-kaithal-chargesheeted-226192
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||523 fresh cases, 2 dead in Haryana||With 523 fresh cases and two deaths, the Covid tally of the state reached 2.76 lakh today.One death each was reported from Karnal and Panipat.At present the state has 3,484 active cases.On the vaccination front, 63,921 got the first dose, while 3,711 received the second dose. So far, 7.49 lakh doses have been administered to people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/523-fresh-cases-2-dead-in-haryana-226193
17-03-2021||Sushil Manav||Heated debate over farm stir, SYL in Haryana Assembly||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 16An acrimonious debate was witnessed during a discussion on the Budget in the Haryana Legislative Assembly here today. Congress MLAs described the Budget as directionless, and raised the issues of protesting farmers and the SYL canal etc while the BJP again accused the Opposition of instigating farmers.BJP MLA from Nangal Chaudhary Abhe Singh Yadav’s remarks that though farmers were agitating in other states, too, in Haryana, the situation was different “because some sections of society have a propensity to indulge in disruptive activities” triggered an acrimonious debate with the Congress MLAs accusing him of singling out a particular caste.Congress MLAs Kiran Choudhry, Raghubir Singh Kadian and others alleged that Yadav was trying to malign the image of a particular caste and divide society. Yadav vehemently denied the charge that he had made caste-based remarks.An angry exchange of words between the treasury and opposition benches was witnessed again when Induraj Narwal, Congress MLA from Baroda, referred to the lack of drinking water and toilet facilities for farmers sitting on dharna at the Tikri border, prompting Parliamentary Affairs Minister Krishan Pal Gujjar to accuse the Opposition of instigating farmers.Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said that no one from his party was instigating farmers.He had already said that no one has the right to take law into one’s hands and it was for the government to deal with law and order issues, he added. Hooda accused the government of being insensitive and said that over 300 farmers had died during the protests, but not a word of sympathy had come from those in power. Responding to Gujjar’s statement, Choudhry said the boycott of BJP and JJP legislators was a manifestation of people’s anger against the state government.The discussion on the Budget also saw a debate on the SYL canal when Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said that the Congress’ manifesto in Punjab clearly stated that the canal would never be built. Upon this, Kiran Choudhry said that the SYL canal had been delayed due to the lackadaisical attitude of the government as the Chief Minister could not even arrange a meeting with the Prime Minister after a decision was taken in the all-party meeting.Power Minister Ranjit Singh said that while most of the work on the SYL canal was done when his father Chaudhary Devi Lal was the Chief Minister, the work stopped once the Congress government led by Bhajan Lal took charge.Upon this, Hooda said the latest impediment to the project came when Punjab abrogated accords. He added the ball was now in the Central Government’s court as it was to build the canal.Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal described the Budget as directionless and hopeless. Rewari MLA Chiranjeev Rao said the Budget was poor, as it included a debt of Rs 2 lakh crore.The TriggerFarmers are agitating in other states also, but the situation in Haryana is different because some sections of society have a propensity to indulge in disruptive activities. — Abhe Singh Yadav, BJP MLAThe responseRow over canal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/heated-debate-over-farm-stir-syl-in-haryana-assembly-226194
17-03-2021||Ambala||Centre wants to make farmers labourers: Kumari Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja said the farmers have made the country ‘atmanirbhar’ but the Central Government wanted to make them bonded labourers. “The Congress is committed to supporting the farmers in the ongoing agitation and no one can stop it from doing so,” she said. She was addressing farmers and Congress workers at the Shambhu toll plaza, where farmers have been protesting against the new farm laws. Selja said, “The world is watching how the farmers have been struggling. Three anti-agricultural laws of the BJP government have been introduced to destroy the farm sector.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-wants-to-make-farmers-labourers-kumari-selja-226195
17-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||CAG report affirms multi-crore scholarship scam in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 16The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has confirmed a multi-crore scam in the Post Matric Scholarship (PMS) scheme in Haryana while pointing out that Aadhaar card numbers were manipulated, bogus certificates were submitted and even general category students got scholarships meant for SC or OBC students.The State Vigilance Bureau is also investigating the case and has registered multiple FIRs. The Tribune had broken the story on the scam in April 2019.In its report, ‘Social, General and Economic Sectors for the year ended March 31, 2019’, tabled in the Assembly today, the CAG says that names and Aadhaar card numbers of the beneficiaries mentioned in the sanction files maintained in the department did not match with the bank response files in respect of 1,690 cases involving Rs 13.80 crore. The audit looked into the cases from 2014-19.In the case of 756 cases, incorrect Aadhaar card numbers were mentioned against the names of the beneficiaries. Also, the names of the beneficiaries did not match with those who got the payments from the banks. Here, a suspected fraudulent payment of Rs 5.11 crore was made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cag-report-affirms-multi-crore-scholarship-scam-in-haryana-226196
17-03-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana CM: State better placed fiscally than Punjab, Rajasthan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 16Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today claimed that Haryana was fiscally better managed than the neighbouring Congress-ruled Punjab and Rajasthan though Covid-19 had taken its toll on the state’s economy. He was replying to a discussion on the Budget estimates for 2021-22 in the Assembly this evening.Khattar claimed that despite a shortfall in the gross state domestic product (GSDP) of Rs 16,000 crore (from Rs 7.80 lakh crore in 2020-21 to Rs 7.64 lakh crore in 2021-22), Haryana fared much better than the neighbouring states and the Central Government on different fiscal parameters. He said that Haryana’s debt calculated at the percentage of the GSDP was pegged at around 23.27% as compared to Punab’s 41.25% and Rajasthan’s 42.7%. Besides, the state’s fiscal deficit of 2.9% for 2020-21 was much lower than Punjab’s 6.1% and Rajasthan’s 6.2%.New initiativesTo former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s allegation that the state was headed for a “debt trap”, he said that the state’s debt doubled every five years. “The state’s debt was pegged at around Rs 96,000 crore in 2014-15, which is now nearly Rs 2 lakh crore but it is well within the fiscal parameters set by the Central Government,” he said.Enhancement issue: New scheme till AprilCM Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said the Full and Final Settlement Scheme to resolve the enhancement issue in HSVP sectors would continue till April 30. The scheme was started on March 3 this year. While replying to a calling attention motion of Congress Chief Whip BB Batra, he said a benefit of Rs 31.1 crore had been given to 762 plot holders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-state-better-placed-fiscally-than-punjab-rajasthan-226197
17-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||3K farmers claim relief for crop losses in Jhajjar, Mahendragarh||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 16As many as 3,000 farmers have approached the offices of the Agriculture Department in Mahendragarh and Jhajjar districts for compensation under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana (PMFBY) for their crops damaged due to rain, hailstorm and winds last week.As many as 2,050 farmers are from Mahendragarh and 950 from Jhajjar district. The standing crops of wheat and mustard spread over 40,000 hectares have been damaged in both districts. More than 35,500 hectares in Jhajjar district have been affected while the loss of crops over 4,500 hectares has been estimated in Mahendragarh.All these farmers are enrolled under the PMFBY while those who do not have an insurance cover are in trouble, as they will get compensation only if the state government announces a special girdwari to assess the losses. Hence, the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has demanded a special girdawari for uninsured farmers and the cancellation of their crop loans, besides putting on hold their power bills.“Rain accompanied by a hailstorm has dashed the farmers’ hopes of bumper rabi crops. Heavy crop losses were suffered when it was at the maturity stage and they had made the maximum investment. Past experience has shown that private companies make super profits under the PMFBY by arbitrarily enhancing the rates of premium while they reject farmers’ compensation claims for losses suffered,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president of the AIKS. He added that a special girdawari was needed to bail out uninsured farmers.Inder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Jhajjar, said that officials of the Agriculture Department and an insurance company would soon conduct a joint survey to assess the actual losses. The compensation would be released to the farmers, as per the assessment, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3k-farmers-claim-relief-for-crop-losses-in-jhajjar-mahendragarh-226198
17-03-2021||Hisar||All Charkhi Dadri police stations to have CCTVs||The Charkhi Dadri administration has decided to install CCTVs at all 10 police stations in the district. The Deputy Commissioner, Rajesh Jogpal, said today the cameras would be installed at an estimated cost of Rs 25 lakh. The DC said the administration would soon start the process for the allotment of tenders for the CCTV cameras as per the directions of the Supreme Court. He said the apex court had ordered the Centre to install CCTV with night vision cameras at all police stations across the country. The move is aimed at checking the alleged brutality of the police at the police stations. Jogpal said the SP, Charkhi Dadri, Vinod Kumar, had prepared a detailed plan for the project and a district-level committee would be constituted soon to implement the project. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-charkhi-dadri-police-stations-to-have-cctvs-226199
17-03-2021||---||Building sealed for not depositing property tax||Karnal, March 16In continuation of its drive against property tax defaulters, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) sealed a building on the Kunjpura road in the city on Monday. Besides, it pasted notices outside 45 shops on the Railway road, giving their owners a three-day ultimatum to deposit property tax of around Rs 1.15 crore.Vikram Kumar, KMC Commissioner, said that under their ongoing campaign against property tax defaulters, they sealed a building on the Kunjpura road that has outstanding dues of Rs 13 lakh.As many as 45 shops on the Railway road of Digamber Jain Society Market had outstanding dues of Rs 1.15 crore, due to which notices were pasted outside the shops. “The shopkeepers can avail of the benefit of interest waiver till March 31, as their dues will reduce to Rs 56 lakh after the waiver,” said the Commissioner.Last week, the KMC had sealed two establishments and also served notices on 25 shops for not depositing their dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/building-sealed-for-not-depositing-property-tax-226200
17-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||To claim insurance, kin furnish fake document||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, March 16A couple of days after a case in connection with forged admission and discharge cards surfaced in the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), another fraud related to the fake transport certificate surfaced in the hospital.The transport certificate is meant for transporting patient’s body from the hospital. Dr Sandeep, Deputy Medical Superintendent-Cum-Nodal Officer (Litigation), PGIMS, has recommended to the police to register an FIR in the matter.Register FIR: PGIMSThe incident relates to Agra native Aman (28), who was shown dead on papers. Last year, his family had presented a transport certificate to the Life Corporation of India (LIC) to claim the insurance money.As per the certificate, Aman was brought dead to the Accident and Emergency Department of the PGIMS on August 2, 2020, sources say. The format of the certificate was no different to the one issued by the PGIMS and it even bore the department’s stamp.In November 2020, the LIC had sent the certificate to the PGIMS for verification. The hospital, in its reply, said Aman was neither admitted to the hospital nor the transport certificate was issued by the hospital. To ensure no mistake was made at its end, the hospital had re-verified the certificate and found it to be fake. Dr Sandeep told The Tribune, “The matter is serious. It seems a criminal conspiracy is at work here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-claim-insurance-kin-furnish-fake-document-226201
17-03-2021||---||9 Akali MLAs from Punjab booked for ‘heckling’ Haryana CM||Chandigarh, March 16The Chandigarh Police today booked nine Punjab Akali MLAs and several others for their alleged attempt to heckle Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar.‘Move uncalled for’SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema dubbed the FIR an ‘unfortunate and undemocratic’ step. He claimed the MLAs had protested outside the Assembly.The legislators had confronted Khattar on the premises of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on March 10, seeking a resolution by his government in favour of repeal of the three farm laws.The MLAs are Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Bikram Majithia, Baldev Singh Khaira, Sukhwinder Kumar, Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra, Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi, Manpreet Singh Ayali, Gurpartap Singh Wadala and NK Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-akali-mlas-from-punjab-booked-for-heckling-haryana-cm-226333
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC directs probe into 'torture' of labour activist Shiv Kumar||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday directed Faridabad’s District and Sessions Judge to hold an inquiry into allegations of illegal detention and custodial torture of labour activist Shiv Kumar by Sonepat police.The directions from the court of Justice Avneesh Jhingan came on a plea filed by Shiv Kumar’s father.Read also | Nodeep Kaur case: Dalit activist Shiv Kumar's medical report reveals 2 fractures, broken toenail bedsIn his plea, Shiv Kumar’s father sought issuance of direction to transfer the investigations in three different FIRs registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code against Shiv Kumar to an independent agency.The petitioner also pleaded for an independent inquiry into the alleged illegal detention and torture of Shiv Kumar.The bench also directed the special investigation team constituted by the Haryana Police in Shiv Kumar’s case to continue with the investigation, but shall not submit its final report without seeking permission from this court.The case was adjourned for May 11 for submission of status report.The court also directed all parties concerned to lend their full cooperation to the Faridabad Sessions Judge so that the inquiry report is submitted at the earliest.Earlier last month, a medical examination of labour activist Shiv Kumar conducted by Chandigarh-based Government Medical College and Hospital has found some injuries, including two fractures, on his hand and foot and also broken nail beds of some of his toes.Kumar, president of Majdoor Adhikar Sanghathan, was held a few days after the arrest of labour rights activist Naudeep Kaur.Kaur was arrested for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company in Haryana’s Sonipat on January 12. Police had booked Shiv Kumar under various sections of the IPC in three different FIRs registered against him at police station Kundli at Sonepat.Kumar is a co-accused with Naudeep Kaur in criminal cases registered by Sonepat police.The Punjab and Haryana High Court on February 19 had directed Superintendent, Sonepat Jail to get the medical examination of Kumar conducted by GMCH after Kumar’s father alleged that his son was brutally tortured by Sonepat police.According to 24-year-old Kumar, who provided information about his case to the five-member medical board of GMCH formed for his medical examination, he was picked up on January 16 from a protest site at Kundli and was taken to old Kacheri, Sonipat where the CI (police) staff assaulted him. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-directs-probe-into-torture-of-labour-activist-shiv-kumar-226113
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||9 SAD MLAs from Punjab booked for trying to confront Haryana CM outside Assembly||The Chandigarh Police has booked nine Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) legislators from Punjab for their alleged attempt to gherao and confront Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar outside the assembly here last week, officials said on Tuesday.Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Bikram Singh Majithia are among the SAD legislators named in the FIR.Read also | SAD condemns false case registered against its MLAs at the instance of Haryana SpeakerThe Chandigarh Police registered a case against the SAD MLAs under relevant IPC sections including 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), according to a copy of the FIR.The SAD legislators had confronted Khattar outside the assembly hall on March 10 and had demanded that a resolution be passed in the state assembly against the Centre's three new farm laws.Thereafter, the Haryana assembly secretariat had decided to lodge an FIR against the group of Punjab MLAs for allegedly misbehaving with Khattar.Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Monday had condemned the incident and had informed the House that a group of SAD MLAs from Punjab allegedly tried to gherao and attack the Haryana chief minister outside the assembly hall last week when he was interacting with the media. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-sad-mlas-from-punjab-booked-for-trying-to-confront-haryana-cm-outside-assembly-226068
