20-03-2021||New Delhi||Academicians write open letter to Ashoka University over Pratap Bhanu Mehta’s resignation||Over 150 academicians from prestigious universities across the globe like Harvard, Yale, Columbia, London School of Economics and MIT, have written an open letter to trustees of Ashoka University, expressing distress over political commentator Pratap Bhanu Mehta’s resignation from the varsity under “political pressure”.Also read: Ashoka University founders have bartered away its ‘soul’: Rahguram Rajan on resignation rowThe university in Haryana’s Sonepat became the centre of controversy earlier this week, when Mehta, who had resigned as its vice chancellor two years back, chose to step down as professor, saying that the founders made it “abundantly clear” that his association with the institution was a “political liability”.Arvind Subramanian, the former chief economic adviser, had also resigned from the university, two days later, in solidarity with Mehta.Students, alumni and faculty members of the varsity have been staging protests and demanding answers from the administration about whether Mehta’s exit has been a “direct consequence of him being a public intellectual and critic of the government”.Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan on Saturday took to social media to say that Mehta and Subramanian’s resignation is a “grievous blow to free speech and the founders have bartered away the varsity’s soul”.“We are distressed to learn of Pratap Bhanu Mehta’s resignation under political pressure from Ashoka University. A prominent critic of the current Indian government and defender of academic freedom, he had become a target for his writings. It seems that Ashoka’s Trustees, who should have treated defending him as their institutional duty, instead all but forced his resignation,” the open letter by the academicians read.“In political life, these are free argument, tolerance, and a democratic spirit of equal citizenship. In the university, they are free inquiry, candour, and a rigorous distinction between the demands of intellectual honesty and the pressure of politicians, funders, or ideological animus. These values come under assault whenever a scholar is punished for the content of public speech.“When that speech is in defense of precisely these values, the assault is especially shameful. The university must be a home for fearless inquiry and criticism. We support Pratap Bhanu Mehta in his practice of the highest values of intellectual inquiry and public life,” it added.The signatories to the letter include academicians from the New York University, University of Oxford, Stanford University, Princeton University, Cambridge University, University of Pennsylvania and University of California, among others.Rajan said Mehta is a “thorn in the side of the establishment” as he “skewers those in government and in high offices like the Supreme Court with vivid prose and though provoking arguments”.“Free speech is the soul of a great university. By compromising on it, the founders have bartered away its soul. And if you show a willingness to barter your soul, is there any chance the pressures will go away?” he wrote in a Linkedin post.While the administration at Ashoka University has been tight-lipped about the development, Vice Chancellor Malika Sarabhai told students in a virtual townhall on Saturday that Mehta was asked to reconsider his decision, but “he has asked to be left alone”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/academicians-write-open-letter-to-ashoka-university-over-pratap-bhanu-mehtas-resignation-228040
20-03-2021||New Delhi||Free speech in India suffered ‘grievous blow’, says Raghuram Rajan on Ashoka University developments||Eminent economist Raghuram Rajan has said free speech suffered a “grievous blow” in India with the resignations of Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian from the Ashoka University and that the varsity’s founders have bartered away its "soul".Earlier this week, the Sonepat-based Ashoka University—a leading varsity that offers courses in liberal arts and sciences—found itself at the centre of a controversy after political commentator Mehta and economist Subramanian resigned.Also read: Academicians write open letter to Ashoka University over Pratap Bhanu Mehta’s resignationIn a Linkedin post, former RBI governor Rajan said that free speech has suffered a “grievous blow” in India this week as professor Mehta, one of India’s finest political scientists, resigned from the Ashoka University.“The reality is that professor Mehta is a thorn in the side of the establishment. He is no ordinary thorn because he skewers those in government and in high offices like the Supreme Court with vivid prose and thought-provoking arguments,” he said.  On the recent developments at the varsity, Rajan—who is a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business—said, “Free speech is the soul of a great university. By compromising on it, the founders have bartered away its soul.”     He further said, “And if you show a willingness to barter your soul, is there any chance the pressures will go away? This is indeed a sad development for India,” Rajan said.  Mehta’s exit from the varsity was followed by the resignation of professor Subramanian, also a former chief economic advisor of the Narendra Modi government. Rajan also quoted a few lines from Subramanian’s resignation letter which said, “That even Ashoka – with its private status and backing by private capital – can no longer provide a space for academic expression and freedom is ominously disturbing.  “Above all, that the University’s commitment to fight for and sustain the Ashoka vision is now open to question makes it difficult for me to continue being part of Ashoka.”          Rajan noted that if Ashoka’s founders believe “they have compromised with the powers that be in the greater interests of the university, they are wrong”.According to Rajan, it is not that Mehta has much sympathy for the opposition either. “As a true academic, he is an equal opportunity critic. He is, and I hope will continue to be, one of the intellectual leaders of liberalism in India,” the former RBI governor said.Rajan also quoted Mehta from his resignation letter that said, “After a meeting with founders it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the university may be considered a political liability.”            Rajan opined that Mehta and Subramanian’s statements suggest that Ashoka’s founders have succumbed to outside pressure to get rid of “troublesome” critics.  He added that  Ashoka’s founders should have realised that their mission was indeed not to take political sides but to continue to protect the right of people like professor Mehta to speak.  According to Rajan, a good university creates an environment where ideas for progress and change arise.“Static societies where criticism is silenced are doomed societies, which eventually succumb to the weight of their authoritarianism and groupthink,” the former RBI governor noted.He further said Ashoka University, till this week, was considered India’s likely competitor to Cambridge, Harvard, and Oxford in coming decades. “Unfortunately, its actions this week make that less probable.”      He also opined that as an institution, the university should not take political sides.A query sent to the varsity on the recent developments remained unanswered till the filing of the story.   The faculty members at the university on March 18 had written to the vice chancellor and board members, expressing anguish over Mehta’s resignation.    The alumni council of the university had also released a separate statement on March 18 expressing solidarity with Mehta, who stepped down as the VC two years ago and resigned as a professor earlier this week.   The faculty members have noted that Mehta’s exit has set a “chilling precedent for future removals of faculty” and is a “matter of great anguish.The leadership team of Ashoka University includes Dhruv Agarwala (Co-founder and CEO PropTiger), Sanjeev Aggarwal (Co-Founder Fundamental Partnership and Helion Ventures), Vishwavir Ahuja (MD and CEO, RBL Bank), Pramod Bhasin (Founder Genpact, Chairman Clix Capital), Amit Chandra (MD, Bain Capital), Ramesh Damani (Investor and Chairman, DMart), Nirmal Jain (Founder and Chairman, IIFL Holdings) and Gautam Kumra (Managing Partner, McKinsey India). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-speech-in-india-suffered-grievous-blow-says-raghuram-rajan-on-ashoka-university-developments-228035
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||CBI mulls contesting home dept's prosecution sanction order in schoolboy murder case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday informed CBI Special Magistrate, Haryana, that it was "considering challenging" a Home Department's order of denying prosecution sanction against four police personnel for implicating a school bus conductor in the alleged murder of the seven-year-old boy in Gurguram back in 2017. CBI counsel Amit Jindal told the CBI court in Panchkula, that “their file for challenging the sanction order of Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, is under process, and suitable time be given to them”.The victim’s father had approached the High Court against the denial of prosecution sanction.The CBI court posted the matter for July 28.The CBI, in its charge sheet, has blamed DSP Birem Singh— the then Gurugram ACP—Inspector Narinder Khatana, Inspector Shamsher Singh (then a Sub-inspector), and Exemptee Sub Inspector Subhash Chand for implicating bus conductor, Ashok Kumar, for the murder of a schoolboy. But, now the state has refused the prosecution sanction, claiming that there was "no medical evidence" on record to suggest, that the conductor was "tortured", and added that it was an “error of judgment” on the part of the police personnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-mulls-contesting-home-depts-prosecution-sanction-order-in-schoolboy-murder-case-227998
20-03-2021||Panaji||Vijender Singh's unbeaten run ends, loses to Russian opponent in 'Battle on Ship'||The unbeaten run of star Indian boxer Vijender Singh in the professional circuit ended on Friday night after he was defeated by his Russian opponent Artysh Lopsan in the 'Battle on Ship' here.Vijender, a bronze medallist at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games and who had turned professional in 2015, entered the bout with a 12-0 record. In the opening round, Vijender was cautious in his approach as the Russian outplayed the Haryana boxer and used his height to perfection.The Russian, who was fighting his seventh bout, out-punched Vijender on the rooftop of the 'Majestic Pride Casino' ship on the waters of the Mandovi River, which resulted in a heart-break for the partisan crowd.The referee, after one minute and nine seconds in the fifth round, declared the Russian as the winner as the eight-round game ended in a knockout.In the second round, the 26-year-old Lopsan gave an exhibition of his class during and matched Vijender's oodles of experience. He had better exchanges and made optimum use of his punches -- hooks and straight punches—and tired the Haryana boxer.The Indian continued to face stiff competition as the 6 feet four inches tall Russian managed to squeeze every ounce of his opponent's energy.Vijender was visibly troubled and also looked tired in the next two rounds as he was continuously punched by the Russian, who was a tad better on the given day.In the co-main event, seasoned campaigner and pugilist Neeraj Goyat defeated his rival Sandeep Kumar in the welterweight division by a knockout.In the other fights of the evening, Chennai's Sabari J out-punched Amey Kalambe 60-54 in the lightweight category. Then Haryana's Kuldeep Dhanda suffered at the hands of Digari Mahesh from Uttarakhand in the super lightweight category.Karthik Satish Kumar won against Jayapal Jaganadhan in the lightweight category. Dharmendra Grewal was declared as the unanimous winner against Ashish Ahalawat in the cruiserweight category.Glad to end Vijender’s unbeaten record, says Lopsan     Meanwhile, Lopsan said he was glad to become the first person to stop the Indian’s juggernaut. “My strategy worked against Vijender, he is a good fighter. I want to thank everyone who arranged this bout, it was a wonderful experience. I’m glad to become the first one to break the unbeaten record of Vijender Singh,” Lopsan said after the fight.Though dejected, Vijender put up a brace face, saying he would come back stronger.“It was a good fight. He is a young and strong fighter,” said Vijender, a 2008 Beijing Olympics bronze medallist.“But I will surely come back stronger and beat him in Moscow,” the boxer from Bhiwani said.— PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vijender-singhs-unbeaten-run-ends-loses-to-russian-opponent-in-battle-on-ship-227982
20-03-2021||IT seems to be a Herculean task for Shahabad residents to get relief from the foul smell emanating from heaps of garbage. The attached picture of the Shri Hanuman Murti Mohalla Saidan Chowk taken on Tuesday speaks volumes about the careless behaviour of caretakers in this area. Garbage is not lifted for several weeks||Heaps of garbage irk residents||Toilets in pathetic conditionLIKE other cities, public toilets were also constructed in Kurukshetra, but due to poor maintenance, these are now in a pathetic condition. The enclosed picture is of a public toilet at the Sector 17 main market shopping complex. The authorities concerned should look into the matter and ensure proper cleanliness of the toilets for the convenience of the public. VK Gupta, sector 2, KurukshetraDon’t lower your guard against covidTHE government has withdrawn most the restrictions imposed to check the spread of Covid owing to decline in the number of infections in the state. But it is not the time to lower our guard, instead maintain our vigilance and follow Covid norms strictly as the number of cases are again on the rise in the nation. It is due to this defiant conduct of the people only that we are witnessing Covid resurgence. We need to act responsibly and follow the government-issued Covid-preventive norms strictly to contain the spread of the virus. Baljeet Singh Deep, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/heaps-of-garbage-irk-residents-227682
20-03-2021||Ambala||7-day NSS camp commences||Research committee meeting heldRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University Vice-Chancellor Rajbir Singh said the university would promote inter-disciplinary research and develop enabling research ecosystem for research scholars and faculty members. He stated this at the research committee meeting held recently. The VC exhorted the research scholars to publish insightful research articles in quality national and international journals. He said quality research, beneficial to society and the nation, must be a priority with the research scholars and the faculty members. As many as 25 research scholars from various university teaching departments shared their research findings during the meeting.2-day international conferenceFaridabad: A two-day international conference on “Trends and advances in mechanical engineering” was organised by YMCA JC Bose University of Science and Technology Department of Mechanical Engineering. As many as 100 participants from across the country and abroad attended the conference. Bathinda Central University of Punjab Vice-Chancellor Prof RP Tiwari was the chief guest of the session which was presided over by VC Prof Dinesh Kumar. Faridabad Steel Mongers Private Limited managing director and alumnus of the university Yogesh Gupta was the keynote speaker on the occasion. Prof Dinesh said mechanical engineers of the institute had played a significant role in industrial growth of Faridabad. He also urged engineers to ensure their role for the development of the society through research and innovation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-day-nss-camp-commences-227845
20-03-2021||Sunit Dhawan---||10 years on, X-ray machine not installed at Rohtak vet hospital||Tribune News Service Rohtak, March 19 An X-ray machine, which was purchased more than a decade ago, is yet to be installed at the Government Veterinary Hospital in Rohtak. As per sources, the machine has not been installed for the want of requisite power connection and/or a generator set. The sources said that an ultrasound machine was also lying non-functional at the hospital for a long time.  Cattle-owners as well as other animal-rearers continue to face inconvenience due the delay in the installation of the X-ray machine and non-functional ultrasound equipment. “If a government veterinary hospital located at the district headquarters is lying unused, the condition of the veterinary hospitals located in far-flung villages can be imagined,” said Ramesh Kumar, a local cattle owner. Several other aggrieved residents also lamented that they face difficulties in getting their animals treated due to the unavailability of diagnostic facilities at the government veterinary hospital. Despite repeated requests to the officials concerned, no action has been taken.  Rohtak Deputy Director (Animal Husbandry) Dr Surya Khatkar admitted that the X-ray machine had not been installed for several years. “A high-power electricity connection, required for the machine, entails a heavy expenditure. We have written to the authorities concerned in this regard and sought a generator set as well. I will try to get the installation work expedited,” he said, adding that two new ultrasound machines would arrive soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-years-on-x-ray-machine-not-installed-at-rohtak-vet-hospital-227658
20-03-2021||---||Gurugram’s Sadar Bazaar to become vehicle-free zone for week||Gurugram, March 19Gurugram’s oldest and busiest market, Sadar Bazaar, will be vehicle-free for the first time.The Municipal Corporation has planned to revamp the Bazaar on the lines of Chandni Chowk, by conducting a week-long “Pedestrianisation Trial” in its Market Street, and a school zone in the neighbourhood. This would mean cordoning off a 600-m stretch, along with an adjoining school-zone.The week-long trial begins with Raahgiri Day on March 20. Suitable arrangements are being made for comfortable access and travel of market users, including the elderly, children, and people with disabilities.Parking management and mobility plans have been prepared for the area. Keeping the needs of shop owners, and visitors — on parallel streets — in consideration, designated parking locations, both reserved and unreserved, have been made for two-wheelers and four-wheelers.For a successful trial, drivers will need to refer and follow the updated parking plan.“The transformation of the area would be beneficial for every stakeholder, from visitors and shoppers to residents, and those for whom the market is a workplace. All citizens are invited to join their city’s initiative for a street experience like never before,” said MCG Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugrams-sadar-bazaar-to-become-vehicle-free-zone-for-week-227659
20-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||CRPF celebrates 82nd anniversary in Gurugram||Gurugram, March 19 Union minister Nityanand Rai chaired the 82nd anniversary parade celebrations of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) at the CRPF camp in Kadarpur in Gurugram today.  He paid tributes to martyrs and also honoured their family members. “The people of the country know that the sacrifice of our brave officers and soldiers strengthens the unity of the nation. I pay tributes to more than 2,200 martyrs who laid down their lives for the pride of the country,” said the minister. He added that the CRPF had lost 40 of its personnel in the terrorist attack in Pulwama in 2019. CRPF DG Kuldeep Singh said the force has 247 battalions and was the largest police force in the world with a strength of 3,25,000. Whenever there is a law and order problem in the country, when the central security forces are needed in elections or any other type of duty, the state first demands CRPF deployment.  “Incidents of stone pelting in the Kashmir Valley have reduced but not stopped. As many as 215 terrorists were killed in 2020 and 11 have been killed this year so far,” added Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crpf-celebrates-82nd-anniversary-in-gurugram-227660
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t finalise selection result of art and craft teachers: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the finalisation of the result of the posts of art and craft teacher in Haryana. The direction by the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh came on an appeal filed by the applicants for the posts in the general, BC-A and BC-B categories.  “It is directed that the result pursuant to the selection process, which is underway, shall not be finalised till then. It is further directed that in case the interview process is still going on, the appellants be provisionally interviewed. However, their result be kept in a sealed cover....” the Bench asserted. The direction came on an appeal filed against the Haryana Staff Selection Commission and other respondents by Virender Singh and other appellants through counsel Ravinder Malik Ravi. The appeal was preferred against the order passed by a Single Judge on March 17, whereby the interim prayer of the appellants to appear for the interview provisionally was declined on the ground that they had not scored the minimum qualifying marks, as per the criteria fixed in the examination notice. Ravi, however, referred to another order passed in a petition by a coordinate Bench, wherein the candidates were allowed to appear provisionally for the interview with a further direction that their result would be kept in a sealed cover.  The counsel stated that the conflicting orders passed by two Benches were likely to create an anomalous situation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-finalise-selection-result-of-art-and-craft-teachers-high-court-227661
20-03-2021||---||Farmers, khaps protest teacher’s suspension||Hisar, March 19 Villagers, farmer organisations and khap panchayats have opposed the suspension of Satish Kumar, a teacher at Government Primary School, Budera village of Bhiwani district, for attending a meeting of the protesting farmers recently.  According to information, the teacher was not served a show-cause notice and was directly suspended by the Education Department for his “involvement in political activities”. The villagers have threatened to gherao the Agriculture Minister during his visit to Siwani on Sunday to demand the revocation of the suspension order.  During a meeting at the Kitlana toll plaza, the protesters said the teacher’s suspension showed the “repressive attitude” of the government towards those raising their voice in a democratic way.  The teacher was honoured with the state award in 2017. The state government has also nominated him as one of the eight members of an expert committee formed to give suggestions on the new education policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-khaps-protest-teachers-suspension-227662
20-03-2021||Faridabad||Girl’s father, uncle held for ‘honour killing’||The police have arrested the father and an uncle of a 26-year-old girl in a suspected honour killing case. The accused are policemen. The girl, identified as Komal, was found dead under mysterious circumstances a couple of days ago.  The police said Sohan Lal, a sub-inspector with the GRP, and his younger brother Shiv Kumar, a constable with the Haryana Police, allegedly cremated the girl at Sahrola village without getting a post-mortem examination done. The family claimed that she had died by suicide due to unknown reasons. However, Sagar (25), who had reportedly married the girl against the wishes of her family at a temple on February 8, later lodged a complaint in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girls-father-uncle-held-for-honour-killing-227663
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Women panel takes back case against Hooda||The Haryana State Women Commission today closed the case against former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda after he expressed regret over Congress women legislators pulling a tractor  during a protest march on March 8.  Hooda was driving the tractor while all Congress legislators were pulling it with ropes to protest rising fuel prices. The women commission had issued him a notice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-panel-takes-back-case-against-hooda-227664
20-03-2021||---||PAC recommends Vigilance probe into Gurugram projects||Chandigarh, March 19 The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the Assembly has called for a Vigilance inquiry into the construction of a multipurpose hall at Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex and roads in Gurugram. The CAG, in its 2019 report, has pointed out that the HSVP had allotted the construction of the multipurpose hall at Rs 14.06 crore in July 2015 without having prepared the structural design and a detailed estimate. It was after 21 months when Rs 21.5 crore had already been spent on the project that a detailed estimate was prepared in May 2017. In another case, the HSVP had in April 2015 allotted the construction of a road separating Sectors 101 and 104 to a contractor for Rs 9.54 crore. But before the work could be completed, three more roads were allotted to the same contractor. This enhanced the project cost to Rs 52.15 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pac-recommends-vigilance-probe-into-gurugram-projects-227665
20-03-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri---||Vote on no-trust motion ‘exposes’ rumblings in JJP||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 19 The BJP-JJP government won the trust vote comfortably, while the Opposition scored brownie points by bringing protesting farmers in the spotlight and even made the government a tad defensive on legislative matters in the Budget session of the Vidhan Sabha, which concluded here yesterday. The no-trust motion brought by the Congress saw long speeches on the plight of farmers protesting. No doubt, the numbers were never on the Congress’ side but it achieved its purpose of hitting out at the JJP for “failing the farmers”.  “The fall of the government was never our agenda. Our sole purpose was to expose those who claimed to be farmer leaders but acted otherwise,” said Aftab Ahmed, deputy leader of the Congress in the House. While the government was marked “safe”, the critical statements made by JJP legislators against their own government “exposed” the rumblings within the party, putting Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala on the back foot. In a session, which turned out to be a direct contest between the treasury benches and the Congress (with the sole INLD MLA Abhay Chautala resigning earlier this year in solidarity with farmers), nine SAD MLAs of Punjab were booked for trying to “confront” CM Manohar Lal Khattar on the Assembly premises. While a Bill on the proposed sports university in Rai from the last session was withdrawn and tabled afresh, the government was clearly on the defensive and referred the Bill to a select committee. Another legislation on recovering damages to public and private property from protesters saw vociferous protests from the Opposition. The government, despite its intention and preparation, decided against tabling a Bill on “love jihad”. No MLAwas named and the House was not adjourned even once though a number of heated exchanges were witnessed during the proceedings. Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta came to the rescue of “ill-prepared” ministers and saved the day for the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vote-on-no-trust-motion-exposes-rumblings-in-jjp-227666
20-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||CAG: Tax under-assessed, Rs 2,279-crore revenue loss||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has found under-assessment of sales tax/Value Added Tax (VAT), state excise duty, stamp duty and registration fees and taxes on vehicles, resulting in a revenue loss of Rs 2,279 crore in 9,836 cases.In its report on the revenue of Haryana for 2018-19 tabled in the Assembly, the CAG revealed 1,800 cases of short levy of stamp duty and registration fees and other irregularities of Rs 72.57 crore.Key takeawaysThe CAG also carried out a performance audit of computerisation initiatives for property registration. The deficiency in the mapping of business rules in the system resulted in a short levy of stamp duty and registration fees to the tune of Rs 22.56 crore.The checking of records revealed that 282 sale deeds of immovable properties, registered between August 2015 and January 2019, having area less than 1,000 sq yards per purchaser, were liable to be assessed for Rs 175.18 crore. However, they were valued at Rs 51.19 crore based on rates fixed for agricultural land rather than residential rates in violation of rules.The department didn’t formulate any password policy. In the absence of this, 3,981 transactions were accessed in an unauthorised way by using the user IDs allotted to the departmental official or personnel on the days of their absence due to leave, said the CAG.The checking of records of the sales tax/VAT revealed irregularities involving Rs 1,730 crore in 1,442 cases.Seventeen dealers in 19 cases in the office of eight Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioners (DETC) — Ambala, Faridabad (East), Faridabad (South), Gurugram (North), Gurugram (South), Karnal, Mewat and Panipat — had not shown the sales of Rs 1,151 crore in their returns for the year 2013-14 to 2015-16, even though they had claimed input tax credit (ITC).“This resulted in evasion of tax of Rs 60.06 crore. Also, penalty of Rs 180.17 crore was leviable,” said the CAG.In another case of 10 dealers, the DETC offices in Gurugram (North), Jind, and Rohtak let off a penalty of Rs 14.27 crore. These dealers had understated their purchases of Rs 45.57 crore and evaded tax of Rs 4.76 crore by claiming inadmissible ITC, suppressing stock.In the checking of records of excise collection, the CAG found short realisation of Rs 45.72 crore of excise duty, licence fee, penalty, interest, and other irregularities in 576 cases.Irregularities related to taxes on vehicles resulted in a loss of Rs 53.31 crore in the Transport Department. It included 1,136 cases of overloaded vehicles from which Rs 1.92 crore was to be realised and non-recovery of permit fees in 2,029 cases involving Rs 4.26 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cag-tax-under-assessed-rs-2-279-crore-revenue-loss-227667
20-03-2021||---||Panel dissatisfied with officers’ replies on quota in AG office||Chandigarh, March 19The Haryana Legislative Assembly’s Committee on Welfare of SCs, STs and Backward Classes expressed dissatisfaction over replies of the Advocate General (AG) and the Home Secretary, who said that as the reservation policy was not being followed in contractual jobs there couldn’t be a quota in the recruitment of law officers in the AG office.What they saidAs per the report of a House panel tabled in the Assembly, the AG and the Home Secretary stated that as the “reservation policy has not been implemented in the appointment on a contract basis, the reservation cannot be provided in the appointment of law officers”.On December 4, 2019, the committee had taken suo motu congnisance of advertisements in newspapers for the appointment of law officers as there was no representation from reserved categories.The committee took a “serious” view and recommended that the recruitment process be put on hold. The replies were called from the AG and the Home Secretary.The AG, Baldev Raj Mahajan, furnished the reply on December 16, 2019, but the committee termed it unsatisfactory. Subsequently, the AG and the Home Secretary were asked to appear before the committee on December 24, 2019. As per the 44th report of the committee tabled in the Assembly, they stated that as the “reservation policy has not been implemented in the appointment on contract basis, the reservation cannot be provided in the appointment of law officers”.Not satisfied with the replies, it decided to bring the matter to the notice of CM Manohar Lal Khattar. The meeting with the CM, however, couldn’t take place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-dissatisfied-with-officers-replies-on-quota-in-ag-office-227668
20-03-2021||Kurukshetra/karnal||Revoke ‘protesters to pay’ Bill: Bhupinder Hooda||Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said that the Property Damage Recovery Bill passed in the Vidhan Sabha would “strangle democracy” and asked the government to take it back. Hooda, while speaking to mediapersons here, said that the Bill also provides for the recovery of damages from peaceful protesters, which is an attempt to violate the fundamental right of every citizen to hold a peaceful protest in a democracy. The government wanted to instill a sense of fear among people, he alleged. “The recovery will not only be made from those who indulge in violence but also from those who want to lead the protest, the organisers, those involved in its planning, those who provide encouragement and the participants. The government will take action by placing every protester in the category of guilty,” he said. Hooda also objected to the decision to close government schools and said it was the job of the government to build schools, and not to shut them.  Later, Hooda visited Butana village in Karnal district to express condolences to senior Congress leader Lalit Butana on the death of his aunt Bimla Devi. He also attended a couple of other social functions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/revoke-protesters-to-pay-bill-bhupinder-hooda-227669
20-03-2021||Chandigarh||Fee for layout plans doubled||The government has revised the scrutiny fee  for layout plans in plotted residential colonies. According to an order by the Director, Town and Country Planning, the scrutiny fee for the area that is proposed to be amended in the existing layout plan has been revised to Rs 20 per square metre. The earlier rate was Rs 10. However, the scrutiny fee applied for additional  licence provided  there is no revision in the layout plan of the existing licence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fee-for-layout-plans-doubled-227670
20-03-2021||Rohtak||Artistes thank Rohtak MLA||Local dramatists and other artistes have thanked MLA BB Batra for raising the issue of Pt Shri Ram Rangshala, an open-air theatre complex here being used by the MC to park impounded and other vehicles, during the Budget session. “We are grateful to Batra, who took up the issue in the Vidhan Sabha. We also thank The Tribune and  other media organisations that have highlighted our cause,” said Vishv Deepak Trikha, a theatre artiste.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/artistes-thank-rohtak-mla-227671
20-03-2021||---||100% direct online payment to farmers from April 1: Haryana CM||Chandigarh, March 19Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced that there would be “100 per cent transfer of direct online payments to the banks accounts of farmers” from April 1 this year.Last year, the state had transferred more than 50 per cent of the payments directly to the bank accounts of the farmers and the remaining were made through arhtiyas, said Khattar. The officers concerned should hold timely talks with the arhtiyas regarding it, he added.Khattar presided over a meeting to review Covid-19 vaccination, procurement and other issues with administrative secretaries, deputy commissioners and Health Department officers through video-conferencing from here.“In view of the increasing Covid-19 cases, health safety arrangements should be made to minimise risk to those engaged in procurement operations. The deputy commissioners should ensure that Covid safety protocols are strictly followed at every procurement centre,” he said.The Chief Minister also directed the officers to strengthen the mandi system along with making timely arrangements for the availability of labourers, ensure an adequate number of weighing scales, gunny bags, and sewing machines in the mandis.“Suitable transportation arrangements should be made to lift crops from the mandis on time. If any transporter fails to lift the crops within 48 hours, the Deputy Commissioner concerned should be ready with an alternative transport arrangement, Khattar said.He directed that all deputy commissioners to ensure 100 percent crop registration, including the registration of vacant agricultural land on the Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal.DC: 23 centres set up for wheat procurementKarnal, March 19The district authorities have geared up for wheat procurement from April 1 and have established 23 procurement centres in the district. The crop of Uttar Pradesh farmers will not be procured in the initial days. Those who have the domicile of Haryana and have cultivated crop in Uttar Pradesh will be given a schedule for selling their crop.“We have established 23 centres, including 10 grain markets and 13 sub-yards,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, while interacting with mediapersons at the mini-secretariat here today.The administration has also roped in other departments to check any kind of discrepancy in the procurement process. “We have assigned the duty to keep vigil in the grain markets to different departments,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/100-direct-online-payment-to-farmers-from-april-1-haryana-cm-227672
20-03-2021||Saurabh Malik ---||High Court seeks details in cases of bogus input tax credit claims||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 19 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today sought the details of action taken for registering FIRs against persons who allegedly registered bogus transport companies with the GST Department and issued fake invoices and “bilties” (waybills) in the name of such firms and forged waybills in the name of genuine ones. The directions came after Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi made it clear that the mere arrest, detention, prosecution and punishment of offenders without recovering tax and penalty would not serve the purpose of saving the business and the national economy from the consequences of fraudulent claims of input tax credit. Justice Tyagi fixed the case for further hearing in the second week of May after senior standing counsel Sourabh Goel sought time to file an additional reply.  The judge said the delay and inaction on the part of the agencies concerned in taking steps for the assessment of liability and realisation of the amount helped none, but the offenders. It enabled the offenders to not only intimidate the witnesses and tamper with or destroy the evidence, but also allowed them to transfer their properties to others to avoid the realisation of tax and penalty. For underscoring the magnitude of the matter, Justice Tyagi referred to an answer given by the Union Finance Minister  in the Lok Sabha. In 2018-19, 1,620 cases involving Rs 11,251.23 crore were registered by the Central GST alone for fake invoices involving fraudulent input tax credit. Justice Tyagi sought an affidavit from the Additional Director General, Gurugram Zonal Unit, asking for information on steps taken for assessing tax liability and recovering dues from firms, which issued invoices, on the basis of which fraudulent claims of input tax credit were made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-seeks-details-in-cases-of-bogus-input-tax-credit-claims-227673
20-03-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Row over offering of namaz at park in Gurugram||Gurugram, March 19A controversy erupted after members of the Jai Bharat Mata Vahini today objected to the offering of namaz at a park in Sector 40 here and raised slogans against it. However, policemen managed to control the situation and detained the national president of the organisation. The Vahini members had approached the administration seeking the discontinuation of offering of namaz at the park.Dinesh Thakur, national president of the Jai Bharat Mata Vahini, said that the offering of namaz at open places was not allowed but the police instead detained him illegally. “I had informed the Deputy Commissioner and the Police Commissioner through a memorandum that our organisation members would today gather at the park where namaz was being offered in the open. I had filed complaints earlier also about the issue but no action was taken. When I reached there the police detained me illegally. Our team members called a meeting and decided a strategy about the offering of namaz at an open place,” added Thakur.Around 12.30 pm, the members of the Hindu organisation reached the park in Sector 40 where namaz is offered. Soon, a maulvi came there and the police were called who detained Thakur and others and took them to Sadar police station.“The organisation had informed us and to maintain peace, and law and order, we detained Thakur for some time and later let him off. As per the complaint, we are verifying the facts,” said Inspector Virender Khatri, SHO of Sector 40 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/row-over-offering-of-namaz-at-park-in-gurugram-227674
20-03-2021||---||872 Covid cases, one death in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 19As many as 872 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 2.78 lakh. Besides, and one persons died of the virus in Kurukshetra in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases rose to 4,380. As many as 57,510 first doses and 3,434 second doses were administered. So far, 8.93 lakh doses have been given in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/872-covid-cases-one-death-in-haryana-227675
20-03-2021||---||Four held for Shahzad youth's murder||Ambala, March 19The Ambala police have arrested four persons, including a girl, in connection with the murder of Shahzadpur resident Anil Kumar (23), whose body was recovered from a jungle on March 16.The suspects have been identified as Himanshu and Kamaldeep, both residents of Patvi village; Sumit, a resident of Tasdoli village; and Aman, a resident of Dhanana village in Ambala. They were today produced before a court that sent the three boys to four-day police remand and the girl to judicial custody.As per information, Anil, a resident of Dhanana village, used to work at a hospital in Panchkula. He didn’t return home from the hospital on March 14, and his body was recovered from a jungle in Shahzadpur on March 16. He was chatting with Aman on Whatsapp on the night he went missing. His mobile phone was found damaged near his body.A special investigation team led by DSP Ambala Cantonment Ram Kumar was constituted by the SSP, Ambala, to investigate the case. The DSP said “The girl was having an affair with Himanshu while Anil used to blackmail her with a photograph in his mobile phone. He was chatting with her the night he went missing. The girl had informed Himanshu about the same. She asked Anil to meet her in Dhanana village. Himanshu along with his two friends caught him, asked Anil to delete the photograph. They took him to a jungle and killed him. The involvement of only four persons has come to light during investigation and all of them have been arrested”.CIA-1 in-charge Inspector Sandeep said, “Aman had affection for Anil and he was having a picture of her. He had been bothering the girl for over a year. Aman wanted to get the photograph deleted. The sharp-edged weapon used to kill Anil is yet to be recovered.  Their past records are being verified and the investigation is still on”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-held-for-shahzad-youths-murder-227676
20-03-2021||Yamunanagar||Woman duped of Rs 12 lakh||Around Rs 12,41,921 was allegedly withdrawn illegally from the saving bank account of a retired government schoolteacher here. On the complaint of Usha Rani of Saraswati Colony, Jagadhri, a case was registered against unknown persons under Sections 406, 420 and 120-B of the IPC at Radaur police station on March 17.The complainant said she had a savings account in a private bank in Radaur town and said Rs 12,41,921 were deposited in her bank account on July 8, 2020. Radaur police station SHO Sukhvinder Sharma said a case had been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-duped-of-rs-12-lakh-227679
