21-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmer unions condemn parliamentary panel’s demand for implementation of ECAA||Farmer unions on Sunday condemned the demand for immediate implementation of the Essential Commodities Amendment Act (ECAA) by a parliamentary committee.The ECAA is one of the three laws against which farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders.The parliamentary panel, which also has members from opposition parties, including the Congress, TMC and the AAP, asked the government to implement in “letter and spirit” the ECAA.These parties have been demanding repeal of all three farm laws enacted by the Centre recently.“It is insensitive to the food security of poor people and the demand to increase the procurement of farmers’ crops,” the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a joint front of the protesting farmer unions, said in a statement.“We appeal to farmers, labourers and common citizens to intensify their struggle for the repeal of the three laws and legal right of minimum support price,” the SKM said.The Morcha said it is clear from the overwhelming support from “Kisan Mahapanchayats” against the agricultural laws that the proposed “Bharat Bandh” on March 26 will be successful.It said all services, other than emergency services, will remain suspended from 6 am to 6 pm on that day. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-unions-condemn-parliamentary-panels-demand-for-implementation-of-ecaa-228539
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar inaugurates development projects worth Rs 1,411 crore||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday underlined the state government’s commitment of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas” as he inaugurated development projects worth Rs 1,411 crore in all 22 districts in the state.The projects are related to education, health, sports, road connectivity, water, power and other sectors.The chief minister inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of as many as 163 projects through video conferencing at a programme here, an official statement said.This includes the inauguration of 80 projects worth Rs 475 crore and laying the foundation stones of 83 projects worth over Rs 935 crore, it said.Speaking on the occasion, Khattar reiterated the government’s commitment of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’ (With all, for everyone’s development).As many as 18 projects worth Rs 132 crore were dedicated by the CM to the people of Rohtak district. He inaugurated 10 projects worth Rs 16.55 crore in Nuh district of the state, the statement said.Five projects worth Rs 15.72 crore were dedicated to the people of Karnal district and five projects worth Rs 72.72 crore to those of Gurugram.The chief minister dedicated three projects worth Rs 332.34 crore to Jhajjar district, while as many as 33 development projects worth Rs 145.73 crore were dedicated to the people of Jind district, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-inaugurates-development-projects-worth-rs-1-411-crore-228535
21-03-2021||Jhajjar||Guard caught taking Rs 1 lakh bribe||The police on Friday booked a guard, working on a contractual basis at the Department of Mining, for accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh. The accused, identified as Manjeet of Raiya village, was held taking the bribe from a Delhi-based transporter in lieu of not issuing a challan for overloading. He has been taken on remand for four days as the police suspect a racket and the involvement of some other officials as well.The transporter, Ashok Kumar, complained to the police that the guard demanded Rs 2.5 lakh from him. A case has been registered, said DSP Rahul Dev. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/guard-caught-taking-rs-1-lakh-bribe-228194
21-03-2021||Panipat||Bhagat Singh’s niece flags off padyatra||Gurjeet Kaur, niece of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, and Krishna Prasad, national finance secretary of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), jointly flagged off the Shaheed Yadgar Kisan Mazdoor Padyatra at the Kisan Bhawan here on Saturday. Scores of volunteers from Haryana joined the march organised by the Kisan Sabha, CITU and the Agriculture Worker’s Union.The padyatra started from Khatkar Kalan, native village of Shaheed Bhagat Singh in Punjab, and will reach the Singhu border on March 23. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhagat-singhs-niece-flags-off-padyatra-228195
21-03-2021||---||Kaithal farmers protest MP Nayab Saini’s visit, detained||Kaithal, March 20Some farmers were detained in Pundri allegedly for protesting against the visit of Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini. However, the police released them later. The MP attended an awareness programme on Covid-19 vaccination at the community health centre (CHC) at Pundri.Farmers reached the CHC early and started shouting slogans demanding the cancellation of the MP’s visit. They first assembled at the Kisan Bhawan and started a procession towards the CHC, where the police stopped them. The police personnel tried to pacify the farmers, but the latter continued to protest. They were adamant on their demand for the cancellation of the MP’s visit. They sat on a dharna near the gate of the CHC. The police detained them. Following the incident, farmers held protests at Pai and Karora in the district.Farmer leaders Randeep, and Gurnam said that they would not allow the entry of BJP and JJP leaders, MLAs, MPs and ministers in their areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-farmers-protest-mp-nayab-sainis-visit-detained-228196
21-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Hi-tech police station opens in New Gurugram||Gurugram, March 20Police Commissioner KK Rao has inaugurated a hi-tech police station in Sector 83 here. The police station has been developed by the Vatika Group, as part of its master plan for the INXT project. Kherki Daula police station will now be operational from here.“On Thursday, the Vatika Group handed over the operational police station to us. Earlier, we were operating from a rented private building, as the construction was delayed due to Covid. This building is equipped with all necessary and modern amenities and will be a huge relief for the residents of nearby areas,” Rao said.Gaurav Bhalla, MD, Vatika Group, said, “The police station in the township will go a long way in further strengthening law and order and assisting the Gurugram police in making Vatika India Next a safe neighbourhood”.The double-storey police station is spread over 10k sq ft and offers a modern set-up with a reception area, reporting area along with fully furnished and dedicated rooms for the SHO, MHC, duty officers, women and children, IT, storage, library, kitchen and a pantry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hi-tech-police-station-opens-in-new-gurugram-228197
21-03-2021||Sonepat||Special Investigation Team to probe Sonepat shooting||SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa has formed a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the case involving constable Mahesh, who shot at gangster Ajay, a resident of Barona village at the local court complex on Thursday.The SIT will also probe into the alleged nexus between the police and criminals leading to rising crime incidents in the district.Meanwhile, other gang members shot dead Ajay’s father the same day at Barona village in Kharkhoda. Ajay, a sharpshooter of Sandeep Badwasnia gang, was earlier admitted to the PGIMS, Rohtak, and is at present admitted to a private hospital. The police nabbed the accused and recovered the pistol used in the crime. They took him on a three-day remand.An Inspector-level officer has also been booked in connection with the murder of Ajay’s father on her mother’s complaint.The SP said the preliminary probe revealed that Mahesh had shot at Ajay, alias Bittu, on the direction of another gangster Ramkaran, a resident of Baiyanpur village, who supplied him the pistol on Thursday.After getting a search warrant from a local court, the police on Saturday raided the house of Ramkaran in Baiyanpur village. “The police have recovered around 700 cartridges, a 315 bore rifle, a broken pistol, 1.5 kg of gold worth Rs 75 lakh and two vehicles — an Audi Q5 car and an Endeavour SUV,” the SP added.“An SIT has been formed under the supervision of ASP Nikita Khattar to break the nexus between poliecmen and criminals. Four teams have also been constituted to investigate the case from all possible angles,” he said. “We will also write to the Income Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate to investigate the case”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-investigation-team-to-probe-sonepat-shooting-228198
21-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Gangsters got funds from abroad for two murders, says SP||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 20After the eight-day police remand, gangsters Krishan Dadupur and Sunny were yesterday produced in a local court that sent them to a five-day police remand.The accused were arrested last week on the charges of killing Suresh, aka Babli, a former sarpanch of Anjanthali village, and his relative and liquor contractor Vikas, aka Pintu, a resident of Dadpur Khurd.Both gangsters carried cash rewards of Rs 5 lakh and Rs 2 lakh, respectively, on their heads for the twin murders. While Suresh was allegedly shot dead at his village on July 29, 2018, Vikas was allegedly murdered in a car outside a dhaba near Shamgarh village on the National Highway No-44 on January 17, 2019.Earlier, the accused had revealed that they were receiving funds regularly from the USA, Australia and Canada. SP Ganga Ram Punia said Jagga, a native of Sunderpur in the district and currently living in Australia, and Sahil, a resident of Bibipur village and currently settled in the USA, and three or four other persons were sending funds to the accused.He said that Jagga and Dilbag Singh were partners in the liquor business. Dilbag was allegedly killed by Babli, Naresh and others in October 2014, due to which Jagga had an enmity with Naresh and his family.“We are investigating the reasons behind funding by other persons,” the SP said, adding that the gangsters used the funds to procure the latest weapons. The SP said that they had arrested Sandeep, alias Deepak, of Rampur in Uttar Pradesh, and Bunty of Bhilwara in Rajasthan, for conducting a recce of Naresh’s family.The gangsters had earlier disclosed that they wanted to kill Naresh and his son-in law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gangsters-got-funds-from-abroad-for-two-murders-says-sp-228200
21-03-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad records ‘poorest’ air quality in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, March 20The industrial city recorded the ‘poorest’ air quality in the state, as particulate matter (PM)-2.5 shot up to 365 Friday morning — six times higher than the acceptable limit. Officials blame it on the increased dust level and dry weather conditions in the past 48 hours.Manesar in Gurugram and Dharuhera in Rewari districts recorded PM-2.5 above 300, categorised as ‘very poor’. The level is measured by a laboratory of the Haryana Pollution Control Board (HPCB) office and is uploaded on the Sameer App at an hourly interval.As per data, it is after more than three weeks that the air quality in the industrial city has been recorded this bad. On February 21, PM-2.5 had touched the level of 311, though such conditions prevailed for nine days.Samita Kanodia, regional officer, Pollution Control Department, said activities that could violate the GRAP (graded response action plan) measures were being closely monitored. Meanwhile, air quality of Delhi, Greater Noida, Noida and Ghaziabad in the NCR also remained ‘very poor’ in the past 48 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-records-poorest-air-quality-in-haryana-228173
21-03-2021||---||Woman dies three days after taking Covid jab in Haryana, doctor says vaccine safe||Karnal, March 20A 63-year-old woman of Bijna village in the district died today three days after taking a Covid vaccine. Her family members alleged that Munesh Devi died of the side-effects of the vaccine, while the Civil Surgeon claimed that she was a hypertensive patient having irregular treatment. She had also suffered a stroke around four years ago. The distraught family members allegedly misbehaved with the doctor on duty.Munesh Devi’s son Rajbir said that his mother was administered the Covid jab on March 17 and soon she complained of fever and cold. “We informed Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma about her condition and they gave her a tablet. She took the tablet but her health condition continued to deteriorate, and she died today,” he added.On the other hand, the Civil Surgeon denied the allegation and said that the vaccine is safe. “She was a hypertensive patient having irregular treatment. She had also suffered a stroke around four years ago. On Saturday morning, she again suffered a stroke. Her family members took her to an occultist for a ‘jhada’. After her condition deteriorated, she was taken to a local sub-centre, where an ANM recorded her blood pressure as 240/110. The ANM took her to the trauma centre in an ambulance, where she died on arrival. Even after the CPR, she could be revived,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma.The kin took the body with them though the police were being informed about the post-mortem. “To clarify the doubts of the family members, we have asked them to get a post-mortem done, but they took the body with them,” said the Civil Surgeon. “We have also informed SP Ganga Ram Punia and the body is being brought back for the post-mortem,” he added.Was hypertensive patient: Civil SurgeonHer family members alleged that Munesh Devi died of the side-effects of the vaccine, while the Civil Surgeon claimed that she was a hypertensive patient having irregular treatment.State reports 821 Covid cases, 3 deathsChandigarh: As many as 821 Covid cases were reported in the state on Saturday, taking the tally to 2.79 lakh. Besides, three persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. One death each was recorded in Ambala, Karnal and Yamunanagar. The total number of active cases rose to 4,830. As many as 13,492 persons took the first dose of the Covid vaccine while 1,089 took the second dose. The number of doses administered increased to 9.07 lakh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-dies-three-days-after-taking-covid-jab-in-haryana-doctor-says-vaccine-safe-228174
21-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Deadlock ends, AIIMS to come up at Majra village||Tribune News ServiceRewari, March 20Cooperative Minister Banwari Lal today announced that AIIMS would be established at Majra village adjacent to Manethi village where it was to come up earlier, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February 2019, ending months-old deadlock over the site for the prestigious project.Over 30 villagers sign consent formThe minister’s announcement came after residents of Majra village today reached an agreement with the state government to sell their land for Rs 40 lakh per acre and a shop-cum-office (SCO). More than 30 villagers signed the consent form at a meeting held at the mini-secretariat here in the presence of Banwari Lal, said sources.“Chief Minister Manohar Lal has also agreed upon the formula, paving the way for the execution of the project. Union minister Rao Inderjit has been making sincere efforts to break the deadlock and he succeeded. The project will ensure ultramodern healthcare facilities and the residents of Rewari, Mahendragarh, Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani, Jhunjhunu and Alwar districts will benefit the most. It will also generate new employment opportunities for locals,” said the minister.A team of the Central Government had during an inspection in October 2019 found 300 acres in Majra and Bhakli villages suitable for the project; adequate land was not available at Manethi village. Residents of Majra-Bhakli villages were earlier adamant on not selling their land for less than Rs 50 lakh per acre while the government was not ready to pay more than Rs 30 lakh per acre, leading to a deadlock.Rajendra Nimoth, a spokesman for the AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti, said that their long struggle had finally borne fruit. The government should lay the foundation stone of the project at the earliest, he added.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh has directed Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav to prepare all necessary papers within two days after getting the consent of all landowners, who had uploaded their land records on the government portal for the project. “The consent letters signed by the Majra villagers and the uploaded land records will be sent to the state government on Monday for further action,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deadlock-ends-aiims-to-come-up-at-majra-village-228201
21-03-2021||---||‘200 cops die of lifestyle diseases, mishaps every year’||Karnal, March 20Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava today said that 200 police personnel die due to lifestyle diseases and in road accidents every year, and there was need to monitor their health on a regular basis.He said this while chairing a state-level police welfare meeting at the Haryana Police Academy at Madhuban, Karnal, in which senior police officers from across the state participated.The DGP said the welfare of the police personnel was their top priority and all genuine issues were being taken up with the government.He emphasised the need to increase health awareness among policemen. “We have to reduce the death rate among personnel due to due to lifestyle diseases and in road accidents by at least 50 per cent. For this, we have accorded permission to prepare gymnasium and sports facility at every district headquarters and to prepare and implement an action plan for a high-level annual health checkup,” the DGP said. He added that an App would be made to monitor the health of cops. Through this App, employees, as well as officers, would be able to view the health records of their subordinates on their mobile phones. With this, preventive measures would be possible before a serious health problem arises, he added.“The state government is equally concerned and sympathetic to all genuine requirements put forth by the police which are considered on priority basis,” said the DGP while chairing a state-level welfare meeting at the Haryana Police Academy, Madhuban.Referring to the CM’s announcement concerning promotion in the rank of honorary inspector one month before retirement, he said formalities were almost complete and it would be implemented in the coming few months. Regarding disparity in promotion from constable to the post of head constable, he said the proposal regarding this was expected to be approved by the government soon.He said the number of women in the Haryana Police was more than eight per cent. The police headquarters is quite concerned about having a women-friendly workplace. The DGP also provided a cheque for Rs 30 lakh to the wife of late HC Sushil Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/200-cops-die-of-lifestyle-diseases-mishaps-every-year-228166
21-03-2021||Gurugram||60 natural ponds to be revived in Gurugram||The Gurugram administration has tied up with local firms to revive 60 natural ponds to deal with the alarming dip in the water table in many villages. The firms will take up the project under the company social responsibility (CSR) programme and a blueprint for the revival project has been prepared.The administration has identified 320 reservoirs in Gurugram for revival. By the year-end, the administration along with the Haryana Pond and Waste Water Management Authority will jointly rejuvenate 60 reservoirs.DC Yash Garg said so far, the district administration had revived six ponds in collaboration with gram panchayats and firms under the CSR programme. “Besides, the rejuvenation of 11 ponds in various villages is in progress,” he said. — OC1,969 polluted||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-natural-ponds-to-be-revived-in-gurugram-228202
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Kiran Choudhary: Haryana Govt purposely delayed tabling CAG reports||Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhary today slammed the state over the delay in tabling CAG reports highlighting the post-matric scholarship scam and irregularities in the Excise and Taxation Department.In a press note, Kiran said it was done in a planned way to ensure that the Opposition couldn’t raise the issues during the Budget session. The CAG reports were tabled on March 16, while the Budget session ended on March 18.“By delaying the reports, the government had tried to suppress the Opposition’s voice so that its wrongdoings were not revealed to people.”Kiran said Rs 18.98 crore was fraudulently distributed as post-matric scholarship, and in the case of the Technical Education Department, the money meant for 7,757 students was sanctioned and drawn from the treasury but not given to students.She said 1,800 cases of short levy of stamp duty and registration fee to the tune of Rs 72.57 crore had been cited while irregularities to the tune of Rs 1,730 crore in 1,442 cases of sales tax had been revealed in the reports. “The government should bring a White Paper explaining its position on the scams mentioned in the CAG reports, as these caused loss of crores of rupees to the exchequer.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kiran-choudhary-haryana-govt-purposely-delayed-tabling-cag-reports-228178
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Schoolboy Murder: CBI likely to contest order||The CBI on Friday told its Special Magistrate, Haryana, that it was considering challenging a Home Department order to deny prosecution sanction against four cops for implicating a schoolbus conductor for the murder of a seven-year-old boy in Gurugram in 2017.CBI counsel Amit Jindal told the court that “their file for challenging the sanction order of Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, is under process and suitable time be given to them”. The victim’s father had moved the HC against the denial of prosecution sanction. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schoolboy-murder-cbi-likely-to-contest-order-228182
21-03-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Four Faridabad Municipal Corporation employees cause Rs 4.78 crore loss, sacked||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, March 20Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner Yash Pal Yadav has issued orders to sack four contractual employees of the civic body on the charges of releasing a payment of Rs 4.78 crore for development works found ‘missing’ on the ground.According to MC officials, the order comes after a probe conducted by two committees set up by the authorities concerned in November last year. While the committees submitted their final report recently, the Commissioner passed the order to sack Junior Engineer Rajan Tewatia and clerks Pankaj, Tasleem and Pradeep Kumar. They were working on the outsourced basis in the MC.According to the order, the involvement of the four staffers has been found not only in the preparation of fake vouchers of 113 different works with the help of a contractor, but also in releasing funds on the basis of bogus bills, causing a financial loss of Rs 4.78 crore to the civic body. Moreover, the accused did not cooperate with the probe committees and refused to give a written statement regarding their response.The probe ordered last year also found the involvement of some senior officials, including a former Chief Engineer, a Superintending Engineer and an Assistant Engineer, besides a contractor in the alleged scam. The enquiry was launched after four elected councillors representing various wards lodged a formal complaint with the Commissioner’s office on July 7, 2020.Seeking a probe by a sitting Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Deepak Chaudhary, councillor, claimed that the scam could be to the tune of Rs 200 crore. “Sacking just four junior employees will not serve the purpose,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-faridabad-municipal-corporation-employees-cause-rs-4-78-crore-loss-sacked-228179
21-03-2021||Ambala||Complaints pour in at Anil Vij’s Janta Darbar||Complainants from across the state reached Ambala Cantonment today to take up their issues with Home and Health Minister Anil Vij. They alleged police inaction in cases of murder, rape, attempt to murder, NDPS Act, immigration and matrimonial disputes.Vij listened to public grievances at the PWD rest house in Ambala Cantt for the first time after he recently decided to resume his weekly Janta Darbar instead of hearing complaints daily at his house due to his health condition.People from Panipat, Sonepat, Jind, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Mewat, Jhajjar, Faridabad, Yamunanagar and other districts submitted their complaints related to the Departments of Police, Urban Local Bodies, Education, Health and Sports. Vij directed the officials concerned to examine and resolve the complaints. Some people sought financial assistance for medical treatment and house repairs and jobs.Vij said, “As I am Home Minister, a majority of the complaints I receive are related to the police. Even today there were cases related to the Police Department and I ordered the SPs concerned to take necessary action within the stipulated time and submit reports. Some cases were also marked to the officials of other districts after the complainants expressed dissatisfaction with the probes by the officials of their areas”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/complaints-pour-in-at-anil-vijs-janta-darbar-228203
21-03-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Day 1: Traders in Gurugram keep shops shut against Municipal Corporation trial||Gurugram, March 20Traders kept their shops closed in protest against the ambitious vehicle-free Sadar Bazaar plan of the Municipal Corporation Gurugram (MCG) on the day one of the trail today. They were irked that their employees and even delivery vehicles were not allowed to enter the market. However, they were pacified following a meeting with MC Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh. They said that the move caused them inconvenience and would affect the already slack sales.“We understand if they close the thoroughfare for the vehicles of other people but how can they stop traders from parking their vehicles in front their own shops. They should allow the vehicles of traders, their employees, and senior citizens and delivery vans to enter the market,” said a representative of the shopkeepers after the meeting with the MC Commissioner.The traders reportedly agreed to park their vehicles at a designated parking slot while the corporation announced a special e-rickshaw feeder service. Delivery vehicles would be allowed entry till 12 noon and would be allotted special passes.“The transformation of Sadar Bazaar is beneficial for everybody and the traders need to support the move. We have taken this decision drawing inspiration from such plans in other cities where trade has picked up. We are doing the trial for a week and soon it will become a permanent feature. The interests of the traders is our top priority,” said the Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-1-traders-in-gurugram-keep-shops-shut-against-municipal-corporation-trial-228204
21-03-2021||---||Observation homes to be set up in all districts of Haryana: HHRC||Karnal, March 20Justice SK Mittal, chairperson, Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC), on Saturday visited the state’s lone Nari Niketan in Karnal city and the Place of Safety in Madhuban.He listened to the grievances of the inmates and reviewed the facilities being extended to them. Mittal also sought suggestions from the inmates for the betterment of these institutions.Interacting with mediapersons, Mittal said safety and observation homes would be established at each district headquarters. “We inspected the Nari Niketan in Karnal city and the Place of Safety in Madhuban. We interacted with inmates and are satisfied with the facilities being given to them,” he added.Meanwhile, Justice Mittal directed the authorities concerned to ensure the inmates are imparted handicraft training and are given sewing machines, so that they can become independent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/observation-homes-to-be-set-up-in-all-districts-of-haryana-hhrc-228170
