22-03-2021||Hisar||67-year-old man dies one hour after taking COVID-19 vaccine in Hisar||A 67-year-old man reportedly died one hour after taking the COVID-19 vaccine in Badala village of Hansi in Hisar district.Family members alleged that he died due to side-effects of the vaccination.However, the district health authority said the actual cause of death would be ascertained after the post-mortem examination.The deceased’s cousin Ramesh Pandit and nephew Vikas Sharma said that the vaccination team reached the village on Monday and said that the person who does not get vaccinated, his pension will be discontinued.Because of this, Ramphal Sharma got vaccinated, he said.“For a while he stayed in the observation of the health department team and then on his way home on foot, his health deteriorated and he fell unconscious. After this, the health department team reached the spot and they gave him first aid and then brought him to Hansi general hospital where doctors declared him dead,” they said.Civil Surgeon Dr Ratna Bharti said the autopsy of the body would be done only after that it would be clear what caused his death.She said that people were getting vaccinated in the village even without persuasion by the team and no department employees spread rumours about the pension being discontinued.For the time being, an inquiry will also be conducted on this, Dr Bharti said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/67-year-old-man-dies-one-hour-after-taking-covid-19-vaccine-in-hisar-228973
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 97 crore fine on Sonepat industrial units for illegal groundwater extraction and pollution||It is raining fines in Barhi industrial area in Sonepat as 24 units have been asked to pay environmental compensation worth Rs 96.01 crore, for illegal groundwater extraction, while one unit has been asked to pay Rs 1.05 crore for failing to meet pollution norms.The action has been taken in compliance with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directions.An application was filed in the NGT in 2020 against 29 industrial units of Barhi, Sonepat. It was claimed that the units were discharging effluents in open drains resulting in diseases but no action was being taken by the statutory authorities including Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and Central Ground Water Board (CGWB).The NGT sought a report from HSPCB.The HSPCB informed the NGT this year, first on January 7 and then on March 4, that out of 29 units, 24 were found complying with pollution norms, and two units, M/s New Garment and M/s Generous Textile were non-compliant. Three units were found closed.The closure order against M/s New Garment, which is involved in the washing of jeans, was issued on February 11.Against M/s New Garment, Rs 1.04 crore environmental compensation was imposed, and HSPCB headquarters was informed on March 3 for the issuance of the order, while a show-cause notice was issued to M/s Generous Textile on the same date.Also, show-cause notices were issued to 28 units for drawing groundwater without permission of the CGWB.Against 24 units, the environmental compensation was calculated at Rs 96.01 crore and has been sent to Deputy Commissioner, Sonepat on March 3 for the issuance of orders and sealing of the borewell inside these units.The compensation has been calculated as per a notification of CGWB, dated September 28, 2020, which was brought in compliance of directions given in NGT’s order in Shailesh Singh’s case on July 20, 2020.The compensation against M/s Modern Dyeing Private Limited is Rs 17.89 crore, M/s Shadex Creations is Rs 15.17 crore, M/s Shri Sidhi Vinayak Tex Colour is Rs 8.70 crore, M/s Flora Dyeing House is Rs 8.68 crore and M/s Addingo Knit Creations is Rs 8.67 crore.One unit has an exemption from the CGWB as their use is just 10KLD while three units were found closed.On March 5, while disposing of the matter, the NGT directed, HSPCB to ensure regulation of groundwater extraction and cleanliness of the drain receiving the effluents.Member Secretary HSPCB S. Narayanan explained, “It is DC who has to execute the environmental compensation orders regarding illegal groundwater extraction. Permission from CGWB is required for groundwater use by the units.”“The process of taking compensation is on,” said DC Sonepat Shyam Lal Punia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-97-crore-fine-on-sonepat-industrial-units-for-illegal-groundwater-extraction-and-pollution-228965
22-03-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Armed men gun down rival’s brother, abduct his friends to settle score||Gurugram, March 22To settle an old enmity with a Farukhnagar resident, five armed men abducted his friends and brother and killed his brother. One of the abductees, Mohan, a local Dhaba owner, managed to flee and called police. According to police, the main accused identified as Ravi nursed an enmity with one Mahesh. Ravi was out on parole and was desperately looking for Mahesh.Ravi along with his accomplices went to Mahesh’s friend Mohan in a Verna car and kidnapped him on gunpoint in his own Scorpio.They asked Mohan to lead them to Mahesh. While they were looking for him they got chance upon Mahesh’s brother Ravinder and his friend Amit. They abducted them as well and the trio to a secluded spot. The dhaba owner managed to flee and contacted a PCR.They searched for other two and found Ravinder shot dead while Amit missing along with the vehicle used in abduction.“They held me hostage on my own car and took me along to find Mahesh. When they reached near Bawdi, they saw Ravinder alias Binder, brother of Mahesh, with his friend Amit. They abducted them also. They took us to secluded spot and started beating us. I somehow managed to flee. It was around 3.30 am when I saw a PCR vehicle and narrated the incident to cops,” Mohan said in his complaint.Following the complaint an FIR has been registered against Ravi and his associates under Sections 302 (murder), 365 (kidnap), 379-B (snatching with force), 34 (common intention) of IPC and Section 25-54-59 of Arms Act at Farruknagar police station.Police said the main accused Ravi had shot dead a RMP doctor around four years ago and he was lodged in jail.“A special team has been formed into the matter. Personal rivalry is behind this. We are conducting raids to nab the accused,” said inspector Suresh Phogat, SHO of Farrukhnagar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/armed-men-gun-down-rivals-brother-abduct-his-friends-to-settle-score-228964
22-03-2021||New Delhi||SC to hear fresh plea of Delhi Jal Board seeking directions to Haryana on release of Yamuna water||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear on March 25 a fresh plea of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) seeking directions to the Haryana government to cease the discharge of untreated pollutants into the Yamuna and release sufficient water to the national capital.A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian agreed to list the matter for Thursday, after advocate Shadan Farasat mentioned for urgent listing of a fresh interlocutory application (IA) filed by the DJB, in the pending plea. He said water supply in the river had reduced substantially and demand had been increasing in the national capital. The bench listed the matter for hearing for March 25. In the fresh IA, the DJB has said that direction be issued by the top court to the Haryana government to release the water to avert a potential severe crisis in the national capital.It has claimed that the Haryana government has reduced the supply of raw water to Delhi, resulting in shortage of water supply in the national capital. Delhi Jal Board chairman Raghav Chadha, in a statement issued earlier this month, had said that the regular fall in the level of Yamuna, especially during summers, along with the discharge of pollutants that cause rise in ammonia levels, is a matter of grave concern.The DJB had said that Delhi is facing a potential severe water crisis due to high ammonia levels in the Yamuna and the continuously depleting water level at Wazirabad barrage, which supplies drinking water to the Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants.Raw water is sourced from the Yamuna and is drawn at Wazirabad barrage, it had said, adding that the quantity and quality of raw water at Wazirabad Barrage is dependent on the release of water by the Haryana government.Haryana supplies water to Delhi through the Carrier-Lined Channel (CLC), Delhi Sub-Branch (DSB) and the Yamuna. The CLC and DSB supply water from Hathni Kund via Munak canal and Bhakra Beas Management Board.At present, Delhi receives 479 million gallons water a day (MGD) against 609 MGD from Haryana. Besides, Delhi draws 90 MGD groundwater and receives 250 MGD from the Upper Ganga Canal.The normal level of the Yamuna near Wazirabad Pond should be 674.5 feet but it has dropped to 670.9 feet.The drastic fall in the water level at Wazirabad pond has affected water production at Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants which supply drinking water to central, north, west and south Delhi.As per the DJB, currently, Haryana through CLC canal is supplying only 549.16 cusecs against 683 cusecs and Delhi Sub-Branch canal is supplying 306.63 cusecs against 330 cusecs.The treatment capacity at Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants has dipped by 30 per cent. The same has reduced by 15 per cent at Okhla WTP, he had said. On January 19, the top court had sought a report from a committee, set up by the NGT, regarding the recommendations made by the panel for improving the water quality of the Yamuna and the extent to which authorities have implemented them. The National Green Tribunal had on July 26, 2018 constituted the monitoring committee comprising its former expert member BS Sajwan and former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra on the cleaning of the Yamuna and had directed it to submit an action plan in this regard.The apex court had on January 13 said that pollution-free water is a fundamental right which a welfare state is “bound to ensure”, and issued notices to the Centre, CPCB and five states including Delhi and Haryana on the issue.The top court, while appointing senior advocate Meenakshi Arora as amicus curiae, had directed its registry to register the suo motu case as 'Remediation of polluted rivers', and said it would first take up the issue of contamination of the Yamuna river. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-to-hear-fresh-plea-of-delhi-jal-board-seeking-directions-to-haryana-on-release-of-yamuna-water-228891
22-03-2021||---||Not invited to CM event, MLA miffed||Rewari, March 21Congress MLA from Rewari, Chiranjeev Rao, has accused the state government of not inviting him for the inauguration and foundation laying of various development projects in his constituency in the district by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday through video-conferencing.“By not inviting me, the government has disrespected the people of Rewari, who elected me as their representative. I shall write to the Speaker of Vidhan Sabha to register my protest as it has happened with me for the second time,” said Rao.The CM inaugurated eight developmental projects worth Rs 117.42 crore.Will write to speakerBy not inviting me, the state government has disrespected the people of Rewari. I shall write to the Vidhan Sabha Speaker to register my protest. —Chiranjeev Rao, Congress MLA“All legislators are public representatives and they are elected by the people to raise their voice in the Assembly, hence MLA concerned whether he/she belongs to any party should be invited for such programmes, but the BJP government did not do so while I raised the people’s voice for some of the projects in the Assembly,” said Rao.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/not-invited-to-cm-event-mla-miffed-228573
22-03-2021||---||Jind gets Rs145-cr projects||Chandigarh, March 21Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today dedicated 33 projects worth Rs 145.73 crore to the people of Jind district, reiterating his government’s vision of “sabka saath, sabka vikas”.He announced this at a state-level programme held through video conferencing here. He inaugurated and laid foundation stones of 163 projects worth Rs 1,411 crore in all 22 districts.The Chief Minister underlined his government’s vision of making every person self-reliant. For this, he said the “Parivar Pehchan Patra” scheme would play an important role.“Of the 60 lakh families registered under the scheme, 1 lakh families having the lowest income will be identified in the first phase. They will be provided with first-class facilities in health, education and employment efforts will be made to uplift them,” Khattar said.On govt’s priority: optimum use of waterThe economic use of water is government’s priority. We have announced that the next two years will be marked as the ‘Water Biennial 2021-23’ of the Irrigation and Water Resources Department. —Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterMeanwhile, he dedicated 18 projects worth Rs 132 crore to the people of Rohtak and 15 projects worth Rs 52.59 crore to Fatehabad residents. Sirsa was given 11 projects worth Rs 41.96 crore and Nuh 10 projects worth Rs 16.55 crore.In all, eight projects worth Rs 117.42 crore were dedicated to the people of Rewari, seven projects worth Rs 47.58 crore to Sonepat, six projects worth Rs 9.88 crore to Bhiwani, six projects worth Rs 25.53 crore to Charkhi Dadri and six projects worth Rs 20.84 core to Kaithal.Kurukshetra got six projects worth Rs 43.02 crore, while seven projects worth Rs 59.86 fell into the Panipat’s kitty.Khattar’s home district Karnal got five projects worth Rs 15.72 crore. Gurugram got five projects worth Rs 72.72 crore, while Palwal received five projects worth Rs 88.42 crore.Besides, Hisar got five projects worth Rs. 87.71 crore and Jhajjar three projects worth Rs. 332.34 crore. Panchkula and Yamunanagar got two projects worth Rs 42.41 crore.Mahendragarh, Ambala and Faridabad were given three projects worth Rs 59.19 crore.In Yamunanagar, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar, local MLA Ghanshyam Dass Arora, Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar, Superintendent of Police Kamaldeep Goyal and district BJP president Rajesh Sapra attended the video conference.“The two projects that the district has got are new buildings of community health centre, Pratap Nagar (Khizrabad), and Government College at Aharwala village in Bilaspur sub-division,” said Gujjar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jind-gets-rs145-cr-projects-228574
22-03-2021||---||Farmers' agitation: Police foil protest against Dy CM’s visit to Faridabad||Faridabad, March 21More than 100 persons, including members of 52 khaps and Congress activists, who assembled to protest the Deputy Chief Minister’s visit to Nariyala village, were detained by the police on Sunday afternoon. They were released an hour later at Palwal.After the call given by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti of the 52 Pals (Khaps) to stage a demonstration during the Holi ‘milan samaroh’ at Nariyala village, around 150 members reached the event site around 12.30 pm. The protesters raised slogans against the government and the Deputy CM on the issue of the farmers’ agitation and were rounded up about 25 minutes before the arrival of Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who was the chief guest of the event.The protesters were taken away in four buses arranged by the police. The district administration had earlier appointed six Duty Magistrates to ensure law and order during the Deputy CM’s visit.“The police stopped us from moving towards the venue and detained us. They released us later at Palwal,” said former MLA Karan Dalal, who claimed that he was among hundreds of persons who had assembled to protest the farm laws. Charging the government of misusing the official machinery, he said the BJP government and its allies stand exposed.Mahender Verma, ACP (Law and Order), said he had no knowledge about the detention.Meanwhile, addressing the function, the Deputy CM claimed the MSP would stay. “Mandis are the spine of the procurement system and farmers selling their produce will receive the money within 48 hours,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-agitation-police-foil-protest-against-dy-cms-visit-to-faridabad-228575
22-03-2021||Palwal||Palwal farmers protesters dispersed too||An attempt by some persons to show black flags to Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal here yesterday did not materialise. The minister, who was here to chair a District Public Relations and Grievances Committee meeting at Mahatma Gandhi Community Centre, left before a group of protesters reached there this noon.The meeting started around 11.30 am and concluded at 12.30 pm and within the next five minutes, the minister left the venue, though around 50 to 60 persons reached there soon after to lodge their protest against the three farm laws.They could not show black flags to the minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-farmers-protesters-dispersed-too-228576
22-03-2021||---||Farm laws: Shun arrogance, Cong leader Deepender Hooda urges BJP||Hisar, March 21Condemning the alleged disgraceful comments by certain BJP leaders about the protesting farmers, the Rajya Sabha MP and Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda said the “arrogant behaviour of the BJP leaders would result in their political fall at the Centre and in Haryana”.Addressing the farmers at the Khatkar toll plaza in Jind today, the MP said the tone and tenor of certain BJP leaders had been disgraceful vis-à-vis the agitating farmers. He said it was the unsavoury language of the ruling party leaders that seemed to have invited the wrath of the farmers.Deepender visited the families of the two farmers who died at the Tikri border recently. Farmers Man Singh of Dindholi village and Karambir of Singhwal village had died of cardiac arrest. The MP handed over cheques for Rs 2 lakh to each of the families of the deceased and promised government job to one member of these families each.The Congress leader said though nearly 300 farmers had died during the ongoing agitation, the farmers had not lost their patience and were keeping the stir afloat. The farmer leaders also appreciated the MP for raising the voice of the farmers in Parliament and on other platforms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-laws-shun-arrogance-cong-leader-deepender-hooda-urges-bjp-228577
22-03-2021||---||Padyatra gets good response in Rohtak||Rohtak, March 21Locals, including students, social activists and women, joined the Kisan Mazdoor padyatra when it reached Rohtak town from Hansi (Hisar) on Sunday.They accorded a warm welcome to farmers and expressed solidarity with them, claiming that it is notonly their fight but of all sections of the society.A citizen solidarity committee also organised a reception at the Double Park in the Model Town locality to felicitate seven protesters who were booked in connection with the Republic Day parade in Delhi on January 26 and were out on bail. The committee also honoured women protesters with siropa, who were part of the padyatra from the beginning.“Flowers were showered by people when the farmers on padyatra reached Rohtak from Bahu Akbarpur village where they stayed on Saturday night. Even, people garlanded the marchers at various places and raised slogans against the BJP government as a gesture to support the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha.Singh maintained that the marchers paid homage to Shahid Bhagat Singh, Chaudhary Chhotu Ram, Dr Ambedkar and martyr Deepak Sharma by garlanding their statues en route. On reaching Kheri Sadh village, Yadvender Singh, a grandson of Shahid Bhagat Singh, greeted the marchers who will stay at Kharawar village tonight, he added.“Those on padyatra will reach the Tikri border on Monday and will participate in the Martyrs’ Day function to be marked by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on March 23,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/padyatra-gets-good-response-in-rohtak-228578
22-03-2021||---||On NGT order, panel to probe illegal mining in Charkhi Dadri||Hisar, March 21The Charkhi Dadri administration has set up a four-member committee to probe illegal mining in the district. The panel has been formed on the directions of the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) following complaints by villagers about the violation of mining norms in the area.The NGT monitoring committee comprising Chairperson Justice Pritam Pal (retd); member Arvashi Gulati, a retired Chief Secretary of Haryana; and technical expert Babu Ram inspected 23 spots in the district during a two-day visit on March 18. The committee has been tasked with submitting a status report regarding the mining zone and stone crushers in the district to the NGT.Justice Pritam Pal said they found laxities in measures to control pollution in stone crushers and the mining zone, including plantation of trees, four walls to cover dust and sprinkling of water to control the pollution level in the region. Residents of Mankawas village, however, complained that illegal felling of trees and installation of borewells in the mining zone were going on in the region.“Some steps have been taken but we are not satisfied. More measures need to be taken, as per the law. A number of affected villagers met us and complained about gross violations,” the NGT panel chairperson said. He added that the DC was told to set up a committee comprising officials of the Mining Department, Pollution Control Board, administration and the groundwater authority. The committee must submit its report to the DC by April 15.He said the monitoring committee would again make surprise visits and the Deputy Commissioner, too, would carry out random checks in the mining zone.Notably, Vinod Jangra of Jhojhu Kalan village has taken up the matter about the violation of the Mining Act with the NGT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-ngt-order-panel-to-probe-illegal-mining-in-charkhi-dadri-228579
22-03-2021||---||Vehicles without HSRPs ply in Karnal, Kaithal||Karnal, March 21Vehicles can be seen in Karnal and Kaithal districts plying without the mandatory high-security registration plates (HSRPs). According to information, 4,803 HSRPs are gathering dust in the registration offices of Kaithal. Similarly, 1,977 HSRPs are lying at Karnal offices.In Kaithal, as many as 17,500 vehicle owners had applied for the new number plate, but only 12,697 turned up to get these affixed.As many as 14,282 applications were received in Karnal, but 12,305 HSRPs had been affixed so far. The district authorities have started the online delivery facility, but not many have shown interest in it.Notices served on defaultersWe are serving notices on defaulters and action will be taken against them. —Sujan Singh, DC, KaithalPlates Mandatory to check crimeThe HSRP is mandatory to check crime. I will take stock of the situation in a couple of days. —Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, KarnalFor new vehicles, the HSRP is being affixed at the time of purchase, but for the old ones, the owners are supposed to contact the SDM or RTA offices.As per the orders of the Supreme Court and the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act-1988, the HSRP and colour-coded stickers are mandatory for both new and old vehicles, failing which the owner will be penalised.On the directions of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, the Karnal administration had started the process of affixing HSRPs in 2012. However, neither vehicle owners nor the administration took it seriously. Kaithal Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh said that they were serving notices on the defaulters and action would be taken against them.Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said that the HSRP was mandatory to check crime. “I will take stock of the situation in a couple of days,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vehicles-without-hsrps-ply-in-karnal-kaithal-228580
22-03-2021||Nitish Sharma||KDB proposes permanent craft bazaar at Kurukshetra museum||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, March 21To increase its revenue, the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) has proposed to set up a permanent craft bazaar in Shri Krishna Museum here.At present, a craft and saras fair is organised (for around 15 days) on the occasion of Gita Mahotsav at the Brahma Sarovar. The KDB allots stalls to craftsmen and traders, who reach Kurukshetra from over the country, for the festival. A large number of people attend the festival while craftsmen and traders do a brisk business.According to information, in 2019, over 40 lakh people visited the Brahma Sarovar and craftsmen sold crafts worth around Rs 20 crore during the mahotsav. But there is no other such fair to attract tourists in the remaining over 11 months.Sources say initially, there was a plan to set up a permanent craft bazaar at the Brahma Sarovar, on the pattern of ‘Dilli Haat’ in Delhi. The KDB wanted to allot a few shops on the rotational basis to craftsmen to attract tourists, but the plan did not materialise. Now, the KDB wants to set up five shops in the park of the museum and allot these to craftsmen on the rotational basis to attract tourists and increase the footfall at the museum.Five shops to be constructedThe KDB has proposed to construct five shops in the park of Shri Krishna Museum and allot these to craftsmen on a rotational basis on the pattern of ‘Dilli Haat’. The shops will be allotted to craftsmen for three or six months and will also help the KDB generate revenue. —Madan Mohan Chhabra, Honorary Secretary, KDBAn official at the museum says that the daily average footfall at the museum was over 1,000 earlier, but it dropped drastically due to the Covid pandemic. The footfall of tourists is still low; the daily average is over 500. The footfall is improving gradually and the KDB has been making efforts to attract more visitors to the museum. It will definitely attract more tourists if there is a permanent craft bazaar and souvenir shops.“Besides attracting tourists to Kurukshetra, the KDB has also been trying to create business opportunities for craftsmen. We have seen craftsmen getting a good response during the mahotsav”, says Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary of the KDB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kdb-proposes-permanent-craft-bazaar-at-kurukshetra-museum-228581
22-03-2021||Nitish Sharma||Modified mobike silencers a nuisance on Kurukshetra roads||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, March 21The thumping noise from modified silencers of motorcycles has become a cause of inconvenience for commuters and local residents in Kurukshetra. Several youths driving motorcycles causing noise can be seen in the city, especially around educational institutions.“It causes distraction and is done at times for eve-teasing. There should be a ban on the sale of modified silencers and action should be taken against spare part dealers who sell these,” says Prof Tejinder Sharma, a local resident.“This noise has become a nuisance in the city. The first thing youths do after getting a Enfield Bullet motorcycle is to get its silencer modified. The sole purpose is to attract the attention of passersby. Strict action should be taken against them,” says Sailesh, another local resident.“This noise scares commuters, especially children and the aged. The distraction sometimes causes accidents. The modification of silencers invites penalty and vehicles can be impounded. We have requested the Deputy Commissioner and the SP to take action,” says Naresh Bhardwaj, member of Green Earth, an NGO.The NGO had submitted a list of at least 35 motorcycles having modified silencers. The police say that a crackdown was launched against persons using modified silencers and 25 challans were issued.“We are gathering information about mechanics, who modify silencers and spare part dealers, who sell these. Action will be taken against these mechanics and dealers soon,” says SP Himanshu Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/modified-mobike-silencers-a-nuisance-on-kurukshetra-roads-228582
22-03-2021||---||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC develops app to keep streetlights’ record||Yamunanagar, March 21The Municipal Corporation of Yamunanagar-Jagadhri has developed an application named as streetlight installation and monitoring (SLIM), which will keep a record of all streetlights installed in the Municipal Corporation area.The purpose behind the installation of the new application is to provide better lighting system on the roads for the people According to information, as and when a new streetlight is installed in the Municipal Corporation area, the agency, which has been allotted this work, will have to upload its details with a photograph.“The details include location, ward number, wattage of the bulb/tubelight, name of the company of the tubelight, pole number and other related information. This app will be helpful in maintaining record of newly installed lights thereby helping in availing proper warranty of fixture,” said Mrinal Jaiswal, Municipal Engineer of Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri.He further said the MC teams would survey all the old streetlights also and maintain the data of all the fixtures with their photographs. “This is a unique initiative taken by our MC with the aim to provide better lighting system for residents,” said Mrinal Jaiswal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-mc-develops-app-to-keep-streetlights-record-228583
22-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Prison radio for Bhondsi jail inmates||Gurugram, March 21The Bhondsi jail in the district is among the four state jails selected for the second phase of the prison radio. As many as 26 inmates of these jails have been trained under the Radio Presentation Skill Programme conceptualised and executed by prison reformer Vartika Nanda. These inmates include five women and a transgender. The training programme that concluded at the Bhondsi jail recently was presided over by DGP (prisons) K Selvaraj.These inmates will prepare radio programmes themselves and run these on jail radio, meant only for the inmates, with its range limited to the prison premises.“Now, the jail inmates have been selected after auditions and have been trained to run the jail radio. Haryana has 19 jails and the state is planning to have jail radios for all of them,” said Vartika.Inmates to prepare programmesInmates will prepare radio programmes themselves and run these on the jail radio, meant only for the inmates, with its range limited to the prison premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prison-radio-for-bhondsi-jail-inmates-228584
22-03-2021||Palwal||17-yr-old girl found dead||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly stabbed to death at her house in the district’s Badoli village last night. The accused, identified as Satvir, is her cousin.Police sources say the incident took place at 8 pm. The girl identified as Shivani, was a Class XII student.In her complaint, Shivani’s mother said she was sitting outside the house when she heard the cries of her daughter from inside. As she rushed inside, she saw her daughter lying in the pool of blood with her throat slit. She saw Satvir fleeing. A case under IPC Section 302 has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-yr-old-girl-found-dead-228585
22-03-2021||---||Farmers threaten to gherao FCI offices on April 5||Sonepat, March 21 The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the protesting farmer unions, has decided to gherao the Food Corporation of India (FCI) offices in all districts across the country on April 5 from 11am to 5 pm. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has given a call for “Bharat Bandh’’ on March 26 and all services except emergency ones will be inactive from 6 am to 6 pm on the day. A spokesman of the morcha said road and rail transport would be blocked and the bandh’s influence would also be seen in Delhi. Meetings with public organisations at the district level would be organisedon March 22 across the country to make the bandh successful on March 26. Darshan Pal Singh, president, Krantikari Kisan Union, said “martyrdom day” would be observed, where youths would assemble and would be welcomed and copies of the three agricultural laws would be burnt on March 28 during the “Holika Dahan”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-threaten-to-gherao-fci-offices-on-april-5-228586
22-03-2021||Karnal||NCC cadets felicitated||4 students selected for internshipHisar: Two students of the department of printing and two students of department of computer science engineering have been selected for the last semester internship in the on-campus internship drive of Gurugram-based UrPrinters.com Company and e-pool campus placement drive of Chandigarh-based Signity Solutions Pvt. Ltd. respectively. The camp was organised by the training and placement cell of the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Dr Avnesh Verma, Registrar, congratulated the selected students Dhruv Grover and Ganapuram Vamshi Krishna of BTech printing 2021 batch and Himanshu Vats and Renu Poonia of BTech CSE 2021.Flower festival at MDURohtak: The captivating flower festival ‘Rang Bahar’ celebrating spring was organised on Sunday at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU). Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh inaugurated the festival with a clarion call to associate with nature, and support environmental causes. MDU VC said India had a rich culture of celebrating nature. The cultural team from the department of music sang songs heralding spring and Holi. Flower shows, selfie competition, photography contest, rangoli, etc were organised as part of Rang Bahar.Webinar on science and technologyKurukshetra: Faculty of sciences, Markanda National College, organised a national webinar on the topic, ‘new frontiers in Science and Technology’. Dr Ashok Kumar, principal of the College, emphasised on new boundaries of science and technology for the development of human race in the world. Dr Kuldeep Singh Dhindsa highlighted that in current pandemic situation the capacity building and training of human resource in science and technology was the need of the hour. He elaborated that research and innovation was being given more prominence. He stressed on creation of innovative minds with critical thinking and problem-solving approach. The webinar was attended by all the teaching and non-teaching staff members of the college along with more than 108 participants from five states, two UTs, 42 institutions, six universities and 2 NITs.Book fair at IG universityRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU), Meerpur, organised a book fair, wherein the publishers and distributors across the country participated. The fair was inaugurated by Vice Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar who said book played an important role in the lives of students. Library in-charge Aditi Sharma said this time the book publications had been invited and allotted place without any registration fees.Workshop on mathematical toolsMahendragarh: Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised a week-long online workshop focusing on mathematical and statistical tools wherein expert teachers working in the field of mathematics and statistics provided information about various useful tools used in research and practical use in science, technology, management, humanities, education and other study related areas. Vice Chancellor, Prof RC Kuhad, said data collection and evaluation was crucial in research to gain appropriate conclusions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ncc-cadets-felicitated-228587
22-03-2021||I went to Golden Lion CSD at Ambala Cantt to buy some grocery items. The very first look does not give a good impression about how the things are managed outside the canteen. The parking for cars and two-wheelers is haphazard. Then the condition of service trolleys is pathetic. The floor from the CSD building to the parking place is uneven and requires repair. Toilets are at the wrong place and stink. —Lt-Col Sarabjit Singh (Retd)||Parking an issue outside Ambala Cantt CSD||Consume water judiciouslyThis refers to "60 natural ponds to be revived in Gurugram" (The Tribune, March 21); it is heartening that the Haryana Pond and Waste Water Management Authority has identified 1969 polluted ponds for cleaning and rejuvenation. NGOs and big establishments should be roped in for the rain water conservation and harvesting since bulk of it goes waste unutilised. Value of water is realised when the wells and taps run dry. Onus is on one and all to consume water judiciously or we will feel the heat in the coming summer. —Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parking-an-issue-outside-ambala-cantt-csd-228588
22-03-2021||Chandigarh||523 more persons get jab||HisarNewborn’s body foundThe police recovered the body of a newborn baby from a canal near Shyahdwa village of Hisar on Sunday. The police said it was spotted floating by one Mahavir Singh, who informed them. A case has been registered under Section 318 of the IPC and the probe is under way, the police said. TNSGurugram17-yr-old held for rapeA 17-year-old boy has been arrested for raping his 16-year-old neighbour. An FIR has been registered against him under the POCSO Act at Sector 5 police station. The boy was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board that sent him to the correction home in Faridabad. The police said the boy confessed to the crime. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/523-more-persons-get-jab-228589
22-03-2021||Rohtak||Social outfits awarded for blood donation||Cleanliness a priority in police stationsJhajjar: Cleanliness is, these days, on the priority list at police stations/posts and other offices of the district police. Reason: Surprise inspection being carried out frequently by Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal who doesn’t forget to teach the lesson of sanitation to cops on finding trash and garbage in any nook or corner of the police stations. Duggal recently inspected the canteen of his office and spent time checking hygiene during the preparation and serving of food. “SP sahib can inspect anytime, hence we have to ensure cleanliness in our office all the time,” said a staffer.21-yr-old girl makes it to US varsityHisar: Shubhavi Arya (21), the daughter of Bhiwani DC Jaibir Singh Arya, has got admission in the computer science PhD programme of the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing and Engineering in Indiana University, US. It has offered her five years of financial support during her research work on the campus. It includes appointment as an associate instructor along with stipend, tuition fee remission, health insurance and travel allowance. Her scholarship and other benefits amount to Rs2.5 crore. Shubhavi has completed the dual bachelor of science degree in computer science and psychology from the University of Minnesota.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/social-outfits-awarded-for-blood-donation-228595
22-03-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Boycott threat by farmers, Haryana CM unveils projects virtually||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 21With the threat of BJP and JJP leaders’ boycott looming large in the wake of farmers’ agitation, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today went on a mega inauguration spree virtually, launching 163 projects worth Rs 1,411 crore in all 22 districts.While 80 of these projects (worth Rs 475 crore), which were completed months ago, were inaugurated through video-conferencing, foundation stones were laid for 83 other projects (worth Rs 935 crore). The projects pertained to education, health, sports, roads, power and water. Though local ministers, MPs and MLAs were present in districts, the functions were kept a low-key affair.Khattar claimed that by dedicating various projects, the state government had reinforced its resolve of “sab ka saath, sab ka vikas” aimed at taking Haryana on the development track.The Congress said Khattar and other BJP functionaries were afraid of venturing out in view of the boycott threat by farmers’ organisations.“It is unfortunate that CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who was quick to launch projects even at the height of Covid-19 crisis last year, has been forced to remain confined to Chandigarh and launch projects virtually in view of boycott threat by farmers,” said Aftab Ahmed, Nuh MLA and Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislature Party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boycott-threat-by-farmers-haryana-cm-unveils-projects-virtually-228612
22-03-2021||New Delhi||Ashoka University acknowledges 'lapses' in institutional processes over resignations of Mehta, Subramanian||Ashoka University on Sunday acknowledged "lapses in institutional processes" and expressed "deep regret" at the recent events surrounding the resignations of political commentator Pratap Bhanu Mehta and noted economist Arvind Subramanian from its faculty.Meanwhile, Mehta wrote a letter to students, urging them to not "press" for his return asserting that the circumstances that led to his resignation will not change in foreseeable future.The university in Haryana's Sonipat became the centre of a controversy earlier this week, when Mehta, who had resigned as its vice-chancellor two years back, chose to step down as professor, saying that the founders made it "abundantly clear" that his association with the institution was a "political liability".Subramanian, the former chief economic advisor to the government, had resigned from the university two days later in solidarity with Mehta."We acknowledge that there have been some lapses in institutional processes which we will work to rectify in consultation with all stakeholders. This will reaffirm our commitment to academic autonomy and freedom which have always been at the core of the Ashoka University ideals," the institution said in a statement."Ashoka has been privileged to have been led, guided and counselled by Pratap first as Vice Chancellor and then as senior faculty. Subramanian brought eminence, stature, fresh ideas and energy to the university and his exit leaves a void that will be hard to fill," it added.The statement has been jointly issued by the university chancellor, vice-chancellor and the chairman of the Board of Trustees, along with Mehta and Subramanian."Pratap and Arvind would like to emphasize that Ashoka University is one of the most important projects in Indian higher education. They are sad to be leaving Ashoka, especially its outstanding students and faculty. They continue to believe strongly that Ashoka University should embody a liberal vision and commitment to academic freedom and autonomy. "And they remain lifelong friends and well-wishers of the institution and are committed to its success wherever they are," the statement said, adding that the two professors will remain "available for advice and consultation to the university in the future".The students have called for a two-day boycott of classes from Monday in protest over the developments. Mehta, however, said he wants to close this chapter."The underlying circumstances that led to the resignation will not change for the foreseeable future, in my case, at any rate. So I must close this chapter. I urge you not to press on this matter. I know you will be disappointed. But if I may exercise one last bit of professorial discretion: your mission is larger than the fate of two Professors,” Mehta said in his letter addressed to the students."The poise and articulacy with which your defended important values and demanded accountability should make anyone want to associate with this university. You are its beating heart and soul and nothing can damage that," he said."Second, it is not for me to intercede in this matter. But I imagine your voice will, in the long run make Ashoka a better university and get it to recommit to its ideals and values. So your outpouring is already a victory of sorts. You have taught us by example, what we were badly trying to teach you by lectures," he added.Chancellor says founders never interfered         Meanwhile, Ashoka University Chancellor Rudrangshu Mukherjee has said the institution remains committed to academic freedom and intellectual independence, and its founders have never interfered with academic freedom.Days after Mehta chose to step down as professor, Mukherjee wrote to faculty and students clearing the air.“Today when the Founders are being attacked for trying to compromise and curtail academic autonomy and freedom of expression, I find it necessary as Chancellor and given my association with Ashoka from its inception, to state unambiguously that the Founders have never interfered with academic freedom: faculty members have been left free to construct their own courses, follow their own methods of teaching and their own methods of assessment,” he wrote.They, he said, have also been left free to carry out their own research and publications.“There are only two points that the Founders have insisted upon. One, that Ashoka should not compromise on intellectual standards; and two, that the Foundation Courses should be integral to Ashoka’s academic offering,” he wrote on March 20. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ashoka-university-acknowledges-lapses-in-institutional-processes-over-resignations-of-mehta-subramanian-228419
