23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Three human skeletons recovered from house in Panipat||Three human skeletons were found underneath the floor of a house in Haryana’s Panipat on Tuesday, according to police.According to police, these were recovered from a house in Panipat’s Shiv Nagar when its occupant undertook some construction work.“Three human skeletons were found from the house where present occupants, who had been living there for nearly two-and-a-half years, took up some construction work at the ground floor,” Deputy Superintendent of Police Satish Vats said.He said forensic tests will reveal how old the skeletons were.Asked what preliminary investigation has revealed, The DSP said, “One thing appears clear that the three people were murdered and buried at the ground floor. We have registered a case under IPC Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence).” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-human-skeletons-recovered-from-house-in-panipat-229426
23-03-2021||Jhajjar||65-year-old woman protester from Punjab dies at Tikri border||A 65-year-old woman protester from Punjab reportedly died of cardiac arrest at the Tikri border on Monday night.Balbir Kaur, of Mandi Kalan village (Bhatinda), had been actively participating in the farmers' agitation.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar, said she was brought dead to Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh town late on Monday night. The exact cause of death would be ascertained after the postmortem, he added.Balbir Kaur is the first woman protester to lose her life at Tikri during the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/65-year-old-woman-protester-from-punjab-dies-at-tikri-border-229325
23-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Sonepat units face Rs 97 cr fine for groundwater misuse, pollution||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 22It is raining fines in the Barhi industrial area in Sonepat as 24 units have been asked to pay environmental compensation worth Rs 96.01 crore for illegal groundwater extraction, while one unit has been asked to pay Rs 1.05 crore for failing to meet pollution norms.Were releasing effluents in drainsAn application was filed in the NGT in 2020 against 29 industrial units of Barhi. It was claimed that the units were discharging effluents in open drains resulting in diseases, but no action was being taken by the statutory authorities, including the Haryana State Pollution Control Board and the Central Ground Water Board. The National Green Tribunal sought a report from the HSPCB in this regardThe action has been taken in compliance with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directions.An application was filed in the NGT in 2020 against 29 industrial units of Barhi. It was claimed that the units were discharging effluents in open drains resulting in diseases, but no action was being taken by the statutory authorities, including the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB).The NGT sought a report from the HSPCB in this regard. The HSPCB informed the NGT this year, first on January 7 and then on March 4, that out of 29 units, 24 were found complying with pollution norms, and two units, M/s New Garment and M/s Generous Textile, were non-compliant. Three units were found closed.The closure order against M/s New Garment, which is involved in the washing of jeans, was issued on February 11.Against M/s New Garment, Rs 1.04 crore environmental compensation was imposed, and HSPCB headquarters was informed on March 3 for the issuance of the order, while a show-cause notice was issued to M/s Generous Textile on the same date.Also, show-cause notices were issued to 28 units for drawing groundwater without permission of the CGWB. Against 24 units, the environmental compensation was calculated at Rs 96.01 crore and was sent to Deputy Commissioner, Sonepat, on March 3 for the issuance of orders and sealing of the borewell inside these units.The compensation has been calculated as per a notification of the CGWB, dated September 28, 2020, which was brought in compliance of directions given in NGT’s order in Shailesh Singh’s case on July 20, 2020.The compensation against M/s Modern Dyeing Private Limited is Rs 17.89 crore, M/s Shadex Creations is Rs 15.17 crore, M/s Shri Sidhi Vinayak Tex Colour is Rs 8.70 crore, M/s Flora Dyeing House is Rs 8.68 crore and M/s Addingo Knit Creations is Rs 8.67 crore.One unit has an exemption from the CGWB as their use is just 10KLD, while three units were found closed.On March 5, while disposing of the matter, the NGT directed the HSPCB to ensure regulation of groundwater extraction and cleanliness of the drain receiving the effluents.Member Secretary HSPCB S. Narayanan said, “It is the DC who has to execute the environmental compensation orders regarding illegal groundwater extraction. Permission from the CGWB is required for groundwater use by the units.” “The process of taking compensation is on,” said DC, Sonepat, Shyam Lal Punia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-units-face-rs-97-cr-fine-for-groundwater-misuse-pollution-229146
23-03-2021||Pradeep Sharma||To check disputes, govt brings changes in land document||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 22The government has brought changes in the Haryana Land Records Manual to check land disputes across the state. Now, a note showing a complete list of ‘khasra’ numbers in various notifications issued from time to time under various land Acts shall be made in the remarks column of “jamabandi” (record of rights) by a patwari.AMENDMENTS“The note shall be made by the patwari concerned in his own copy and Web-HALRIS system (an official website to get land record documents) from the ‘roznamcha waquati’ (diary of daily incidents relating to land) or the online system of the department concerned,” says a notification issued by Sanjeev Kaushal, Financial Commissioner Revenue.To ensure a transparency in the preparation of land records, a field kanungo will verify 100 per cent of such entries while circle revenue officers will verify 25 per cent; SDM 5 per cent and the district revenue officer 2 per cent. A patwari has been made 100 per cent responsible for entering into the Web-HALRIS system all uncontested and contested sanctioned mutations, including appellate orders in mutations, sanctions, “farad badars” (error correction in jamabandis) and various orders of revenue officials and courts at least once a week.“Besides, changes made in kind of land and girdawari during the preceding five years of each revenue estate shall be 100 per cent entered in the Web-HALRIS up to June 15 of the year of ‘jamabandi’,” the notification added.Meanwhile, digitally signed copies of the “jamabandi”, mutations and “farad badars” having a reference in the remarks column can now be issued. The patwari concerned shall ensure to give a complete note of the sanctioned mutations and other documents in the remarks columns of his copy of “jamabandi” and Web-HALRIS system after a verification from revenue officials. “There will be no requirement to visit a patwari for the verification of these digitally signed copies of ‘jamabandis’, mutations and ‘farad badars’, the notification added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-check-disputes-govt-brings-changes-in-land-document-229147
23-03-2021||---||Unused sewing machines turn junk, DEO seeks probe||Faridabad, March 22The district Education Department has taken up the issue of unused sewing machines and books found dumped in one of their rooms with the higher authorities. While the cost of these machines and other items found in a locked room here is reported to be over Rs 5 lakh, these have now turned junk. Were procured for girl studentsAround 50 sewing machines, some of them motorised, and as many as 1,200 books were found in one of the rooms of the District Education Officer. These sewing machines are reported to have been purchased or procured in 2001-02 by the department to be distributed among girl students or to be used for their training, said sources. They said the machines had, however, been dumped and were never used or given to students.Rani Chaudhary, a retired government schoolteacher, said these machines might have been procured for a hands-on training of girl students of Classes XI and XII. She said a sewing machine training course of short duration was part of the curriculum of the home science course a couple of decades ago. She said this course had come to an end after the retirement of teachers and with no further recruitment of faculty since 2001-03, the machines became useless.Admitting to the recovery of sewing machines that have turned junk, District Education Officer Ritu Chowdhary said these were found during a routine check of some of the rooms that had been lying closed for many years at her office. Besides these, she said some items related to laboratories had also been found. She said while a detailed report of such items was being prepared, she had written to the higher authorities for a comprehensive inquiry into it, so that wastage of this kind could be curbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unused-sewing-machines-turn-junk-deo-seeks-probe-229148
23-03-2021||Panchkula||Ex-GM of BSNL gets 4-year RI in graft case||A Special CBI Court awarded four years’ rigorous imprisonment (RI) to a former general manager, Chandra Shekhar, of the Rohtak telecom circle of BSNL in a 17-year-old graft case. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the accused.Special Judge CBI Court Jagdeep Singh awarded three years’ RI to Chandra Shekhar under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and a fine of Rs 50,000 and in case of default imprisonment for a further period of four months. The court also awarded four years’ RI under Section 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the PC Act and a fine of Rs 50,000 and in case of default, imprisonment for four months. Both substantive sentences would run concurrently. On March 17, the CBI court had held Chander Shekhar guilty of taking bribe Rs 25,000 from a contractor in June 2004. Later, the CBI sleuths had also recovered unaccounted money of Rs 45 lakh during the search of his house. Shekhar is currently serving as the deputy director general in the Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Communications, Government of India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-gm-of-bsnl-gets-4-year-ri-in-graft-case-229149
23-03-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Breach of protocol by Haryana Govt: Cong MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, March 22Congress MLA from Rohtak Bharat Bhushan Batra has alleged breach of protocol at the yesterday’s state-level function held online, during which Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated and laid foundation stones of 163 projects worth Rs 1,411 crore in all 22 districts.“The government did not deem it fit to invite a sitting MLA to the state-level event. The irony is that a former BJP MLA (Manish Kumar Grover), who does not hold any constitutional post or authority, was invited. The Chief Minister should answer in what capacity the former MLA was invited to the event where government projects were launched,” Batra, who is the Congress chief whip in the Assembly, told The Tribune here today.When contacted, Rohtak DC Capt Manoj Kumar said: “The district administration always invites elected to official events. Congress MLAs Bharat Bhushan Batra and Shakuntala Khatak are invited to official meetings and they attend these. As for the yesterday’s function, I will check whether or not there was a slip-up.”In a statement issued later in the day, Batra said the Chief Minister launched projects online in view of people’s angst against his government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/breach-of-protocol-by-haryana-govt-cong-mla-bharat-bhushan-batra-229150
23-03-2021||New Delhi||SC to take up DJB’s plea against govt on March 25||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to take up on March 25 the Delhi Jal Board’s plea seeking directions to the Haryana Government to stop the discharge of untreated effluents into the Yamuna and release of sufficient water to the national capital.A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, said the matter would be heard on Thursday after DJB counsel Shadan Farasat mentioned it for urgent listing.He urged the top court to take up the matter this week, saying the demand for water increases during Holi and that water supply in the river had reduced substantially.Ahead of the scorching summer, the DJB had, on March 8 ,moved the Supreme Court against the Haryana Government to avert a potential water crisis in the national capital.DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha had accused the Haryana Government of reducing the supply of raw water to Delhi, resulting in the shortage of water supply in the national capital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-to-take-up-djbs-plea-against-govt-on-march-25-229151
23-03-2021||---||1 held for harassing woman IAS officer||Faridabad, March 22 A 28-year-old man has been arrested on the charge of molesting an IAS officer during a function attended by, among others, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala here yesterday. The function organised by local JJP leader Nalin Hooda at his house was in the honour of Dushyant. A case under Sections 354-A (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the IPC has been registered the accused, identified as Sahil Adhana of the district’s Tigaon village. He was sent to judicial custody today. Sources say Adhana allegedly touched the IAS officer inappropriately and made an indecent gesture. He was nabbed as soon as the officer raised the alarm.  A woman police officer is investigating the matter. Hooda clarified the accused was not a JJP worker and he came with someone. “I have apologised to the IAS officer for the unfortunate incident,” he said  A district official, who was present at the function, said the accused perhaps had no inkling who the woman was.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-for-harassing-woman-ias-officer-229152
23-03-2021||Jhajjar||Youth shot dead in Beri||A youth, identified as Amit of Farukhnagar (Gurugram), was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Beri town on Sunday night. His body was found lying in a pool of blood on the Beri-Jahajgarh road on Tuesday morning. The Beri police sent his photographs to police stations of nearby districts which led to his identification.  Jai Karan, investigating officer, said a case against unidentified persons had been registered for the murder while efforts were underway to identify and nab the killers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-shot-dead-in-beri-229153
23-03-2021||Ambala||Illegal liquor unit busted in Saha, 2 held||In a joint raid, the excise department and the police recovered around 400 litres of illicit country-made liquor filled in drums, 252 bottles of country-made liquor, chemical, empty bottles, holograms and other material from two houses at Shyam Colony in Saha late last night. This was the second such catch in Ambala in the last couple of weeks.  Prompt action by the police and excise officials, after a vehicle carrying illicit liquor was seized in Kurukshetra, led to the unearthing of the illicit liquor manufacturing unit here. The CIA-2 unit of Kurukshetra police had stopped a vehicle, arrested two men and recovered 56 boxes of illicit liquor from them last night.  DSP  (Headquarters), Kurukshetra, Subhash Chander said there was a tip-off that Sanjay, a resident of Panipat, had been preparing illicit liquor in Saha and a vehicle carrying the same was on its way from Saha to Karnal and Panipat. A naka was set up in Shahabad and 56 boxes labelled as ‘Malta Club’ were recovered.  The accused failed to produce any licence and disclosed Sanjay had been preparing illicit liquor in Saha. A case was registered at Shahabad police station. The suspects were sent to four-day police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-liquor-unit-busted-in-saha-2-held-229154
23-03-2021||---||Weekly Covid cases go up 7 times in Haryana||Chandigarh, March 22With weekly Covid cases multiplying seven times and a four-fold rise in the positivity rate in the state in the past one month, experts have said that the second wave of the infection is here and the cases are likely to rise further in the coming days. The bureaucracy top brass has also tested positive.hansi Man dies hour after vaccinationHisar: A 67-year-old man died an hour after taking the vaccine in Badala village of Hansi on Monday. His family alleged he died due to side-effects of the vaccine. However, the district health authority said the cause of the death would be ascertained after the post-mortem. TNSThe state witnessed 4,691 cases from March 15 to 21 against 684 reported from February 15 to 21.During the same period, the positivity rate has gone up from less than one per cent to 3.6 per cent. A total of 24,008 samples were taken on Sunday, of which 867 were found positive.According to information, after Chief Principal Secretary DS Dhesi and CID chief Alok Mittal tested positive last week, Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan and Additional Principal Secretary to the CM Amit Aggarwal, besides an OSD to the CM have also contracted the infection.Terming this as the “second wave”, Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, a nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “This was inevitable. We have seen the second wave coming after a lull of three to six months in the US, the UK and even in China.”Dr Chaudhary said that there was no official confirmation of mutant variants being active in the state, but its possibility was not ruled out since these had been detected in neighbouring states.“Last Monday, we sent some samples to Delhi to find out whether any mutant variant is active in the state, but we are yet to receive the report. As per the new protocol, we will be sending five per cent of positive samples to Delhi to check for mutant variants,” said Dr Chaudhary.Meanwhile, 24 deaths were reported in the last seven days against three fatalities witnessed in seven days a month ago. Besides Gurugram and Faridabad, Panchkula and Yamunanagar, the districts falling on NH 44 — Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Sonepat — have the maximum burden of active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weekly-covid-cases-go-up-7-times-in-haryana-229155
23-03-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Police functioning under HC lens||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 22 The functioning of the Haryana Police has come under scanner with the registration of multiple FIRs on the same day against a person in two police stations. Holding that the action gave rise to suspicion, the HC today directed Sirsa and Fatehabad SPs to verify the investigation in both cases. Directions for the submission of a status report were issued. The directions by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a petition filed by Chuni Ram against Haryana for the grant of interim bail in an FIR registered on February 22 under the provisions of the NDPS Act at the Nathusari Chopta police station in Sirsa district. The state counsel placed before Justice Sangwan’s Court the petitioner’s custody certificate, a perusal of which showed that he was also involved in another case registered on the same date under the same provisions of the NDPS Act at the Sadar police station in Fatehabad district. Referring to the details of one of the FIRs, Justice Sangwan observed that the allegations in the case were that the petitioner opted to be searched before a gazetted officer at the spot after the police officials gave him a notice.  The investigating officer called up Nathusari Chopta BDPO to come to the spot, but the officer stated that he was busy in his office. As such, the accused, along with a plastic bag and the motorcycle, be produced before him in his office. Thereafter, the investigating officer took the petitioner to the BDPO’s office, where further proceedings regarding the recovery were initiated. Justice Sangwan also took note of the submission by the petitioner’s counsel that proper procedure was not followed. The petitioner was implicated in the present case, as well as the other FIR, in which he was nominated on the disclosure statement made by another accused. “The registration of two FIRs on the same day in different police station raises  suspicion as the petitioner, aged about 31 as per custody certificate, is not having any previous history of involvement in any case under the NDPS Act…,” Justice Sangwan asserted before fixing the case for further hearing in April last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-functioning-under-hc-lens-229156
23-03-2021||Gurugram||Man killed in Gurugram||Out to settle an old score with a Farukhnagar resident, five men last night kidnapped his friends and brother, and killed his brother. One of the kidnapped persons, dhaba owner Mohan, managed to flee. The main accused, identified as Ravi, nursed enmity with one Mahesh. Ravi was out on parole and was searching for Mahesh.  They went to his friend Mohan and kidnapped him at gunpoint. They asked him to take them to Mahesh. While they were looking for him, they got Mahesh’s brother Ravinder and his friend Amit. They kidnapped them as well. They took the trio to a secluded spot, where the dhaba owner managed to flee and reached a PCR. They searched for other two and found Ravinder and shot him dead. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-killed-in-gurugram-229157
23-03-2021||---||All Karnal parks to have open-air gyms||Karnal, March 22Fitness freaks will get the facility of open-air gyms in all parks of the city which are maintained by the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC). Besides, the parks will also be The administration has identified 74 parks in the city, of them, around 20 already have the facility of an open air-gym.For the remaining parks, Karnal Smart City Ltd., a company looking after the Smart City project, had floated tenders and allotted the works of around Rs 6.4 crore to a company.To be installed in 20 parks in cityThe company has started work and at present open air-gyms are being installed in around 20 parks of the city, while in the remaining lot, the work will be started soon, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is the CEO of Karnal Smart City Ltd.The company has started work and at present open air-gyms are being installed in around 20 parks of the city, while in the remaining lot, the work will be started soon, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is the CEO of Karnal Smart City Ltd.As many as three parks have been identified in Ward 1, four in Ward 3, 6 each in Wards 4, 5 and 6, five parks in Ward 7, 14 in Ward 8, 13 in Ward 9, 3 each in Ward 10, 11, 2 in Ward 16, 1 in Ward-17, 4 in Ward 19, and 3 in Ward 20.He said three parks, including one at Sector 12 fountain park and one of Saini Colony have been earmarked where the open air-gyms have already been set up, but at these parks, they will also develop kabaddi ground and yoga platform.All gyms will have the latest equipment, so that the health freaks can enjoy doing all the exercises, the DC maintained.After the installation of these gyms in all the parks, people will be able to work out in lush green surroundings and fresh air. It will make the people more inclined towards health fitness. He said the damaged peripheral walls would also be repaired.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-karnal-parks-to-have-open-air-gyms-229158
23-03-2021||---||HBSE changes exam timings||Chandigarh, March 22  Haryana Board of School Education (HBSE), Bhiwani, chairman Dr Jagbir Singh has said the examination of Classes IX and XI would be conducted from 10 am to 12.30 pm in place of the earlier scheduled time of 8.30 am to 11 am. The Class XI examination will be held from March 26 to April 23, while that of Class IX will be from March 30 to April 17. The revised date sheet has been uploaded on the board’s website www.bseh.org.in.  “In view of the Covid pandemic, all students must maintain social distancing and wear masks at the examination centres. They will have to bring hand sanitiser in a transparent bottle and a water bottle,” Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hbse-changes-exam-timings-229160
23-03-2021||---||Gurugram admn begins vaccination at doorstep||Gurugram,March 21  With many of its vaccination centres, both government and private, getting lukewarm response, the Gurugram health authorities have started “Special vaccine at doorstep plan”.  The health authorities along with many private hospitals are setting up vaccination camps in various condominiums and societies. “With the rise in cases people are sceptical about going to hospitals or centres for fear of contracting the infection so we have started camps inside housing societies and we are sure this will boost the immunisation programme,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav. These camps are being set up at Cyber City, DLF-5, Vatika India Next, M3M, Tulip and BPTP, Ridgewood society, The Villas in DLF-2, Club5 DLF, Community Centre in Sectors 46, 47, 56 and 4. Due to relatively poor immunisation rate in villages, these camps will be set up at panchayat bhawans, chaupal and gram sachivalaya.  Addressing doubts about safety at these vaccination camps, Dr Yadav said the camps would have  observation room, verification room, vaccination room and facility of immediate addressing of any adverse reaction following immunisation Though the camps will allow people to walk in, but the residents are being asked to register before hand to help in better management of these camps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-admn-begins-vaccination-at-doorstep-229162
23-03-2021||Chandigarh||Registered gaushalas to get subsidised power||Registered cowsheds in the state will now get subsidised power at Rs 2 per unit while the government will pay the remaining amount to the power distribution companies.  As per a letter from the Chief Engineer Commercial, Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN), to all chief engineers, superintending engineers, XENs and other junior officials, dated March 8, the new order would supersede an earlier direction where Rs 2 per unit used to be charged subject to a maximum subsidy amount of Rs 2,000 per month per gaushala.  Now, gaushalas registered with the Haryana Gau Seva Aayog will be eligible for the subsidised tariff. President of the Gau Seva Aayog Sarvan Kumar Garg said there were 563 registered gaushalas in the state.   The necessary provisions in the billing software will be made for depicting the subsidy amount in each billing cycle and all such connections will be released on metered supply. “It was the government’s announcement to provide subsidised power. The Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has also approved it. The orders to field offices have also been issued,” said Additional Chief Secretary, Power, PK Das.  The HERC had approved the subsidised tariff order on March 2. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/registered-gaushalas-to-get-subsidised-power-229164
23-03-2021||Parveen Arora---||Karnal lab gets machine for water quality analysis||Tribune News Service Karnal, March 22 With the arrival of a machine “gas chromatography mass spectrometer”, the State Water Testing Laboratory, situated in the city, has got a boost. The machine will detect traces of pesticide in water resources, but is yet to be installed. The authorities are hopeful that it will become functional in the first week of April. In the first phase, around 12,000 water resources, including tubewells and borewells of the department that are supplying drinking water to consumers in the state, will be tested and analysed so that the canal and groundwater can be saved from being polluted or contaminated. In the second phase, the testing facility will be available for private persons also, who could get water tested by paying nominal charges to be fixed by the government, said Amit Singh, State Chemist at the  Water Testing Laboratory. “Samples from across the state will be tested here,” he added. Amit Singh said  the state government had purchased machine and equipment  for around Rs 2.5 crore, while the Chandigarh-based company had been assigned to maintain and operate the machine for five-year at the cost of Rs 1.5 crore. He said water pollution had become a challenge due to industrial activities and also haphazard use of pesticides in the agricultural sector. “To deal with the problem, the government had decided to test the traces of pesticides in drinking water. For it, the state lab has been provided this machine, which can easily detect the traces of pesticides,” he said, adding that this step would help in checking pesticide contamination in drinking water.  The state chemist said the government had established water testing labs at all district headquarters. Also, on October 2, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had dedicated a mobile water testing lab for rural areas. He added that around 10 per cent samples failed the purity test and for which recommendations were being given to the JEs and SDOs concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-lab-gets-machine-for-water-quality-analysis-229166
23-03-2021||Kurukshetra||Conference on smart grid systems||Communication, soft skill trainingFaridabad: The student welfare department and internal quality assurance cell of DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad (DAVIM), in association with the Faridabad chapter of cost accountants of India organised communication and soft skill training for the students of CMA, MBA and MCA course recently. Chairman of Faridabad chapter Sachin Kathuria, executive member Brijesh Goyal and Vineeta Nagpal, a finance and accounts professional were among the key speakers. They emphasised on resume writing, interviewing skills, personality development and life skills.Skill varsity to work with industriesPalwal: The Vice-Chancellor of the Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) has announced that the SVSU will collaborate with more industries to ensure proper skill development of its students. Speaking at the skill sphere round table meet held recently, he said the aim was to get more industries to collaborate with the university by understanding various skill-related opportunities and challenges of the respective sectors. Explaining the concept of dual education he said it was a win-win solution for educator, employer and future employees.He said the varsity has signed MOUs with more than 100 industries since its inception in 2016.Rejuvenation of old water bodiesKurukshetra: Rajendra Singh, Waterman of India, said rejuvenation of the old water bodies was very important sources of recharge. The water problems are such that they cannot be solved by science or technology alone. "What is required is community involvement, policy, leadership and use of local knowledge to arrive at local solutions," he said, while speaking as the chief guest on a two-day international online symposium organised by department of geophysics, Kurukshetra University, on "Valuing water: Groundwater sustainability and climate.Awareness on Covid vaccinationKarnal: Amidst reports of growing Covid cases and massive campaigns for vaccination, Delhi Public School, Kaithal, organised an awareness programme titled 'Be conscious in wellness'. It aimed at educating about the coronavirus and the effectiveness of vaccination. The programme was organised under by the Community Services Club of the school. The programme was chaired by Dr Jasjeet Singh, director, Signus Hospital, Kaithal. Navneet Kaur, principal, stressed on the need of learning and acquiring right knowledge to get rid of the fear of the virus.learning science of building robotsKurukshetra: TERii talk series of online webinars was launched with the "Workshop on robotics: Application, challenges and future". This was conducted by Imtiaz A Khan, founder, Novatech Robo. More than 200 students from schools across India participated in the workshop and learnt the science of building robots. TERii talks is a series of events for students from schools, designed to evangelise new-age technology and ignite the passion to "create" innovative technology related products. These workshops are designed and delivered by industry experts to empower the next generation of technocrats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/conference-on-smart-grid-systems-229224
23-03-2021||The halogen bulb in front of Saint Soldier Divine Public School||Bulb remains switched on during day in Panchkula||Ramit Ritu Bagga, PANCHKULAMushrooming illegal colonies a baneThe so called 'colonisers', in Narwana, usually buy cheap land on the outskirts of the city, chalkout small commercial and residential plots and sell it to people quickly at affordable rates. Politicians and government officials collude with them in this illegal trade. With the passage of time, houses and shops come up with proper electricity and water connections. Suddenly, the DTP staff starts demolishing these constructions. The question arises as to why nobody stopped them initially so that innocent people could be saved from this harassment?Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaGarbage not being lifted from houses in Y’nagarThe scheme of door-to-door garbage collection had been launched in the city under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Now, since February 2021 the said facility has been discontinued in Chopra Garden, B Block, Gali No. 3 behind Shiv Shakti School, Ward 22. The matter has been mailed to all designated authorities and complain centres (toll free) concerned, but in vain. Residents cannot keep the garbage at home for long as it will become hazardous to health. The department should act promptly and solve the matter.Rajinder Kumar, YamunanagarWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bulb-remains-switched-on-during-day-in-panchkula-229226
