24-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur   ||CBI calls for disciplinary action against TCPD officials for favouring Krrish Buildtech||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, March 24  The CBI has called for taking disciplinary action against five officials of the Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD) for lapses in land release and grant of licence in favour of M/s Krrish Buildtech Pvt Ltd (now M/s Brahma City Pvt Ltd).  As per the CBI chargesheet, filed before a Special Court in Panchkula, these officials included then District Town Planner (DTP) Devendra Nimbokar (now Senior Town Planner (STP), then DTP PP Singh (now STP), then STP Gurugram Kamal Kumar Saini (retired as Chief Town Planner), then DTP Gurugram Vijender Kumar (now STP), and then Kanoongo Chhotu Ram (now retired).     However, the TCPD has not taken any action against them. In this case, the CBI is pressing for criminal trial against three former TCPD officials-former Chief Town Planner JS Redhu, former Assistant Town Planner (ATP) SK Arora and former Deputy Superintendent Rajbir Singh for corruption, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. They were handed over the chargesheet on March 22. The case pertains to the release of notified land in favour of builders and grant of licences to them from 2009 to 2012 by cheating landowners and Haryana. Out of 1,417 acres, which was intended to be acquired, the award was announced for 85 acres only.      The CBI chargesheet reveals that licence application of Krrish Buildtech for plotted colony over 162 acres was processed at “abnormal speed” from April 20, 2010, to May 27, 2010, when Letter of Intent (LoI) was issued. The firm’s 130 acres was released before the issuance of section 6 under the Land Acquisition Act.     The CBI said that Redhu proposed for grant of licence by releasing notified land on May 26, 2010, which was endorsed by then Director, Town and Country Planning (TCP) TC Gupta and then Financial Commissioner TCP DS Dhesi on May 26, 2010. The same was approved by then CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on the same day, as conveyed by PS to CM Chattar Singh.  On the same day, the draft LOI was put up and the next day Gupta signed it.  The CBI has told the court that the investigation against Hooda, 13 other colonisers and others mentioned in the FIR is going on. TC Gupta’s name is mentioned in the FIR registered in 2019.    The CBI found that the application was processed despite that it didn’t have ITRs, details of immovable or movable properties, experience of developing colony, authority letter from the company to submit the application, revenue records, consent of landowners in submitting application and document related to the financial and technical capacity of the company to develop a colony.  Redhu gave seven days to the firm to remove discrepancies, said the chargesheet.     For site reports, the letters were addressed to DTP and STP of Gurugram on May 7, 2010, but the same was received by a representative of Krrish Buildtech from the office of DTCP and were delivered to DTP Gurugram the same day, says CBI. Though the DTCP office had sent the land schedule for 162 acres for verification but at the DTP office, a land schedule for 180 acres was received.    The agreements to sell with landowners were hidden from TCPD and instead, collaboration agreements were submitted, as ownership of land was not allowed to be changed for release of land and grant of licence as per the policy, dated October 26, 2007.   Farmers were forced to sell their land to colonisers at collector rate after notification for land acquisition whereas market rate was much higher.      The next date is April 1 in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-calls-for-disciplinary-action-against-tcpd-officials-for-favouring-krrish-buildtech-229932
24-03-2021|| Chandigarh||Haryana bans public celebrations on Holi as COVID cases swell||The Haryana government on Wednesday banned public celebrations of the upcoming Holi festival in the wake of the rise in the number of coronavirus cases in the recent weeks.During the past few days, Haryana has been reporting over 800 new cases daily."The Haryana government has banned public celebrations of Holi in view of (rise in number of cases of) corona..," Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said in a tweet.हरियाणा सरकार ने कोरोना के मद्देनजर होली का त्योहार सार्वजनिक तौर मनाने पर रोक लगाई ।  The death toll from the pandemic in Haryana stands at 3,104, as on Tuesday,  while the state has an infection count of 2,81,588. Among the worst-hit districts which are witnessing a surge in cases include Gurugram, Karnal, Ambala and Panchkula.This year, Holi falls on March 29. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-bans-public-celebrations-on-holi-as-covid-cases-swell-229883
24-03-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Cow dung piled near Kaithal grain market an irritant||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comCow dung piled near Kaithal grain market an irritantCow dung accumulated near the new grain market in Kaithal town has become a major irritant for residents of the area. After taking charge as the Deputy Commissioner, Sujan Singh, during the tour of the town a year ago, had directed Municipal Council authorities to arrange lifting of the accumulated cow dung. Surprisingly, no action had been taken by the administration so far. The area residents and poor people living in the vicinity in shanties have to bear the stink and fear of outbreak of diseases looms large. Steps must be taken to lift the accumulated cow dung at the earliest and develop this site as a park which would certainly add to the beauty of town. Satish Seth, KaithalLive wire a serious threatThe live wire in the court complex in front of the observation home, Ambala, poses serious threat to people moving around. The live wire crosses through leaves of a tree. During rain, it can cause loss to human lives and vehicles parked there. Actually, this kind of situation requires a special campaign by the UHBVN as many such cases are there especially in the HSVP, Sector 9, Ambala City, for which the application is pending for more than a year. To check any untoward incident, all three departments i.e the Municipal Corporation, UBHVN and HSVP should work together to check any loss. Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityKarnal residents expect more projects for districtHaryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has launched and laid 163 projects related to education, health, roads, water, sports, electricity etc. worth Rs 1,411 crore. On one hand, the Chief Minister has tried to make the people of each district happy by reiterating the commitment of "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas" in the state of Haryana, but on the other hand he has given only Rs 16 crore projects for his constituency, which is much less than what the people of his constituency expected. Shakti Singh, Karnal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cow-dung-piled-near-kaithal-grain-market-an-irritant-229473
24-03-2021||Kurukshetra||Martyrs remembered at Kurukshetra University||Martyrdom Day at JC Bose varsityFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised an event to mark the 90th Martyrdom Day of freedom fighters Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev. Floral tributes were paid to the martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the country on March 23, 1931. The programme was organised at the university park, which was coordinated by the faculty association of the university and attended by all teaching and non-teaching staff. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said Shaheed Bhagat Singh gave new direction to freedom struggle through his revolutionary ideas and supreme sacrifice.Tributes paid to martyrsYamunanagar: NCC cadets of Guru Nanak Khalsa College paid homage to Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru on martyrdom day, today. Principal of the college, Dr Major Harinder Singh Kang said the cadets made the people around them aware of the sacrifices of the martyrs. He said that on this occasion, tribute was also paid to the martyred Nishant Sharma of the college, who was martyred at Akhnoor in Jammu in January this year. The programme was organised under the guidance of Command Officer Colonel Ajaypal Kaushish and Administrative Officer Colonel APS Sandhu, in which Dr Ramanik and SM Zakir Hussain contributed significantly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/martyrs-remembered-at-kurukshetra-university-229474
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||HSSC gets new chief||The Haryana Government has appointed Bhopal Singh as the chairman of the Haryana State Selection Commission (HSSC). He has replaced BB Bharti.Bhopal Singh is a postgraduate in eight subjects, besides being a law graduate. He has RSS background and is considered close to CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Listing his priorities, he said transparency in selection would be his focus.Kanwal Jeet Saini, Vijay Kumar, Satyawan Shera, Vikash Dahiya and Sachin Jain have been appointed as members of the commission. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hssc-gets-new-chief-229453
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Tatkal deed registration service launched||Adding another feature in the registration of land deeds at its tehsils across the state, the Haryana Government has launched Tatkal Appointment Service.Financial Commissioner Revenue Sanjeev Kaushal said provision had been made to enable an applicant to book deed registration appointment on tatkal basis for getting the deed registered urgently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tatkal-deed-registration-service-launched-229454
24-03-2021||Gurugram||Meat sellers shut shops in Gurugram||Following the MC’s decision last week, Gurugram meat sellers shut shops today.The move, perceived to be aimed at respecting Hindu beliefs, had led to resentment, but no outward incident was reported on the first closure today. A majority of the meat shop owners kept their shops shut, while a few who tried opening their shops were shut by the inspection teams.Many, meat sellers, however, resented the move. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/meat-sellers-shut-shops-in-gurugram-229458
24-03-2021||Ambala||Salesman robbed of Rs 62K in Ambala||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/salesman-robbed-of-rs-62k-in-ambala-229475
24-03-2021||Yamunanagar||19-year-old raped on pretext of marriage||A married man allegedly raped a 19-year-old girl on the pretext of marriage on Sunday. She is a Class XI student.On her complaint, a case was registered against Saneef Khan of the district’s Hadauli village under Sections 328 and 376 of the IPC at the women’s police station here yesterday.She alleged she had befriended Saneef a couple of months ago and he promised to marry her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/19-year-old-raped-on-pretext-of-marriage-229476
24-03-2021||Karnal||President, Haryana CM exhort youth to donate blood||The National Integrated Forum of Artists and Activists (NIFAA), a Karnal-based socio-cultural organisation, in collaboration with various social and religious organisations, organised over 1,500 blood donation camps across the country on Tuesday to pay tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev.Through a video message, President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated this mega blood donation camp, while Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar too attended via videoconferencing from Chandigarh. The President and the CM encouraged the youth to donate blood so that there would be no scarcity.“On the martyrdom day, the ‘Samvedna’ campaign initiated by the NIFAA is for the welfare of the society. The youth should come forward to donate blood,” said the President in his address. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/president-haryana-cm-exhort-youth-to-donate-blood-229459
24-03-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Curbs lifted, tuberculosis (TB) cases may rise by 20%||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, March 23With more than 6,800 cases of tuberculosis (TB) detected or treated last year in the district, the number of such patients are expected to surge by around 20 per cent in view of the movement of people returning to normal after the pandemic, according to sources in the Health Department.“We are preparing to meet the requirement of treating more patients as 2,002 new patients have already reported at the District Tuberculosis Centre (DTC) and private hospitals here since January 1 this year,” said Dr Sheela Bhagat, incharge of the tuberculosis wing at the local Civil Hospital.Claiming that while adequate infrastructure was available, she said the hospital would be able to meet the surge if the need be.Admitting that the work of the detection or treatment of TB patients had been affected adversely by the lockdown and the pandemic, she said the number of patients could rise this year in view of the situation turning normal.A total of 6,870 patients were treated against a target of about 9,000 in 2020. This year, the target is expected to be a little over 10,000, it is claimed. An incentive of Rs 500 to the patient and Rs 1,000 is provided to the field volunteers, who help in ensuring that the patients are fed the drug on time, it is added. An average of 25 patients are reporting daily at private and government hospitals here at present.However, seeking the resumption of the treatment containing the inoculation of streptomycin injection to Category-Two patients (in whom TB has reoccurred), Dr Raman Kakar, a former medical officer and TB specialist, claimed that dropping this method since December 2018 had shown adverse impact on the success rate. Even the Category — One (first-timers) patients ought to be given the injection, besides the four types of basic medicines for better results.Two Indians killed every 3 minutesTB kills two Indians every three minutes. India bears 25 per cent of global-burden of the TB patients. The first national programme was from 1962 to 1992. The directly observed treatment short course was launched in 1997, with “three-doses-per-week” protocol. It was changed to a daily dose programme from October 2017 in the wake of an SC order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/curbs-lifted-tuberculosis-tb-cases-may-rise-by-20-229460
24-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Farmers at Tikri border pay tributes to martyrs||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 23A number of youths donning yellow turbans and women sporting “dupattas” today reached the Tikri and Singhu borders from Haryana and Punjab to pay tributes to martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev.They took a pledge of continuing the stir until the three farm laws were repealed. A “padyatra” by farmers and agricultural labourers joined the function in the honour of the martyrs at Tikri. Women wearing traditional Haryanvi attire and youths singing patriotic slogans added colour to the occasion.“Shaheed Bhagat Singh had once said independence was incomplete till farmers and labourers did not get equal rights. Youth have jumped into the battle for the rights of farmers and labourers. No one can stop them from winning this battle,” said Jaspreet Singh from Sangrur.Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha, said: “It was a massive show of strength at Tikri. It not only boosted the morale of protesting farmers, but also strengthened the protest.”Another farmer leader Virendra Hooda described today’s event as another “nail in the coffin of the Centre”.Local farmers took out a “Tiranga Yatra” from Bahadurgarh to Tikri.Meanwhile, a youth suffered bullet injuries in his leg when someone opened fire following a minor dispute during the yatra. He is at the PGIMS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-at-tikri-border-pay-tributes-to-martyrs-229463
24-03-2021||Rohtak||100-bed private ward for Rohtak PGIMS||The Rohtak PGIMS will have a new 250-bed block comprising a 100-bed special private ward which will have facilities like air-conditioning and a television set for each bed. The new block will be located near the modular operation theatre.Prof (Dr) OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, said with the creation of the special ward, local residents would not have to go to big private hospitals located in Delhi or elsewhere.Addressing a press conference here recently, Professor Kalra said a PET CT Scan facility would also be launched at the PGIMS in the near future. A proposal has been sent to the government to set up a State Institute of Virology at the PGIMS. “We have also sought a Post-Covid Centre and a gene-sequencer machine to determine whether a new strain of the corona virus is now affecting people. As of now, this machine is available in Delhi and Pune,” he stated.PGIMS Director Dr Rohtash Kanwar Yadav said jabs of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines were being given at the institute and any resident who was above 60 years of age (and those above 45 years of age suffering from a chronic disease) could get it administered at the PGIMS auditorium between 9 am and 4 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/100-bed-private-ward-for-rohtak-pgims-229465
24-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Record victim’s statement within month of cognisance by court: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 23In a direction liable to change the way a trial is conducted in theProtection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that the statement of the victims was required to be recorded within a month of the cognisance by the Special Courts.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan also ordered the circulation of instructions in this regard among all District Attorneys in the State of Haryana. The direction by Justice Sangwan came on a petition filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by an accused for regular bail in a case registered on May 22, 2019, at the Model Town police station in Panipat district.Justice Sangwan, on the previous date of hearing, had observed that the complainant/eyewitness or the victim were to be examined at the first instance as a matter of practice. But the statement of the victim and her mother had not been recorded, while the petitioner was continuing in judicial custody for more than one year and eight months.“In view of the same, the District Attorney, Panipat, is directed to submit an explanation as to why the statement of the victim and her mother was not recorded at the first instance when the trial started,” Justice Sangwan had asserted.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Panipat District Attorney submitted an affidavit stating that necessary instructions had been issued to all persons concerned/Special Public Prosecutors. The instructions made it clear that the victims in the POCSO Act, 2012, would be examined at the first instance of their presence before the trial Court. A request would also be made to the Special Courts to examine the victims within a month of the cognisance in accordance with the timeframe under Section 35(1) of the POCSO Act.Justice Sangwan asserted the show-cause notice issued to the Panipat District Attorney was dropped, considering among other things his undertaking that all-out effort would be made in future to comply with the provisions of Section 35(1).“A copy of this order be sent to the Director Prosecution, Haryana, for circulating amongst all District Attorneys in the State to comply with the mandate under Section 35(1) of the POCSO Act,” Justice Sangwan concluded.POCSO: Examine complainant at 1st instanceJustice Arvind Singh Sangwan, on the previous date of hearing, had observed that the complainant/eyewitness or the victim were to be examined at the first instance as a matter of practice. But the statement of the victim and her mother had not been recorded, while the petitioner was continuing in judicial custody for more than one year and eight months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/record-victims-statement-within-month-of-cognisance-by-court-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-229469
24-03-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana Govt not to impose curbs, but sampling, vaccination to rise||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 23Banking on ramped up sampling, coupled with increased vaccination, the Haryana Health Department is hoping to avert a fresh Covid wave in the state even as it has no immediate plans of stepping up restrictions, imposing partial curfew or temporarily closing down schools, institutions or establishments.While 90 per cent of the cases have come from six districts, the concentration is essentially along the GT road and the numbers are beginning to go up in Gurugram and Faridabad as well. District-level committees have been activated to ensure adherence to Covid protocol and the effort is to contain the spread of Covid rather than create panic by imposing restrictions.“Though the numbers are rising, these seem higher in percentage, especially in comparison to the February data when we came down to 60 cases. Sampling which was at 30,000 plus per day also dropped to an average of nearly 16,000 per day as the number of cases began to fall. We intend to take it back to 30,000 a day and are around the 25,000 mark for the last two days,” said ACS (Health), Rajeev Arora.Explaining the three-pronged approach to tackling Covid this time, Arora said the benefit of vaccination was not there when the virus first struck. “The availability of the vaccine will be an advantage in cutting off transmission. From vaccinating 5.22 lakh between January 16 and March 16, we have covered nearly an equal number in this last week and the number of those vaccinated stands at 12 lakh. This number will go up with the ‘catchment area’ growing to include all 45 years and above,” he explained.While the paraphernalia of Covid care centres, hospitals and labs is in place in all districts, it was lying “dormant”, with the number of patients fast falling. “The administration in every district has been asked to review the requirement and keep upscaling the facilities,” Arora stated.Relying on the RT-PCR test, which accounts for 98 per cent of the testing, Arora said the numbers reflected the exact ground situation. However, restrictions and partial closures were not on the government’s agenda though the total number of cases was regularly rising.43,126 more vaccinatedChandigarh: The Health Department administered 43,126 vaccine doses across the state on the second day of the ‘mega vaccination day’ on Tuesday. Additional Chief Secretary(Health) Rajeev Arora said that so far, 12,00,479 doses had been administered. In all, 895 cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the tally to 2,81,588. Three persons lost their lives, taking the toll to 3,104.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-not-to-impose-curbs-but-sampling-vaccination-to-rise-229455
24-03-2021||---||Mining officials in Jhajjar extorted money, says accused||Jhajjar, March 23The practice of extorting money from private transporters for letting their vehicles ply in violation of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) orders was on for a long time here and officials of the Mining Department also indulged in this illegal trade. The money recovered from the transporters was distributed among all those involved in the matter.This was revealed by Manjeet, a guard on contractual basis at the local office of the department, during police interrogation. He was caught by a team of district police four days ago while receiving Rs 1 lakh from a Delhi-based transporter for letting his two dumpers go without challan despite the violation of the NGT norms.Manjeet of Raiya village here disclosed that the job of his team was to check illegal mining, but they used to do illegal recovery from transporters for not imposing hefty penalty on them for plying the vehicles carrying construction materials in violations of the NGT orders. They stopped two dumpers of a Delhi-based transporter near Raiya village on March 18,” said sources in the police.The sources maintained that the team checked the documents from the drivers and then threatened them with impounding both dumpers, besides slapping a fine of Rs 5 to 6 lakh. Thereafter, the team struck a deal with a transporter for Rs 2.5 lakh for not challaning the dumpers. The transporter called Manjeet to a petrol pump and gave him Rs 1 lakh. He was immediately nabbed by a police team at the place.“All those officials whose names have been disclosed by Manjeet will be summoned,” said a police official.Manjeet was produced before court which sent him to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mining-officials-in-jhajjar-extorted-money-says-accused-229456
24-03-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Haryana Govt orders probe into faculty selection at Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, March 23In a curious case, the Department of Higher Education has ordered a probe into the selection of a faculty member at the Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU).Meanwhile, the university administration maintains that the said selection is in order.In January 2019, Sandeep Kumar Gupta, a resident of Hisar, wrote to the Director General of the State Vigilance Bureau, requesting him to probe the appointment of a lecturer of chemistry at the UIET against advertisement No. 03/2010.Gupta alleged the said appointment was illegal as the MDU authorities advertised one post, but filled two in a clear-cut case of backdoor entry. Frivolous and manipulated workload was created by the then director of the UIET in order to justify the appointment, he added.The Vigilance Department referred the matter to the Department of Higher Education, which forwarded the said complaint to the Department of Technical Education.Eventually, RC Bansal, a retired District and Sessions Judge, was appointed the enquiry officer in the matter. In June 2020, the Director General Higher Education (DGHE) wrote to the MDU Registrar, asking him to appoint the superintendent of the establishment branch at the university as a presenting officer regarding the case.However, the MDU administration did not take any action on the said communiqué, following which another letter was shot off to the Registrar in October 2020, reminding him to appoint the presenting officer without loss of further time.Replying to the said letter, the MDU administration said the university had already conducted an enquiry into the aforesaid complaint by a committee constituted by the Vice Chancellor, wherein “it has been found that the appointment is in order”.The MDU officials further asserted that their employees were governed by the Act, statutes, ordinances and regulations of the university, adding that “if the department finds any material fact in the complaint to be further looked into, the same may kindly be referred to the university for taking appropriate action in the matter”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-orders-probe-into-faculty-selection-at-maharshi-dayanand-university-rohtak-229449
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Govt  issues SOPs for ITIs||Alarmed by the rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the Haryana Government has directed the industrial training instiutes (ITIs) and Training Centre under Haryana Skill Development Mission and Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) who are imparting skill training while re-resuming their operations, to strictly adhere to the standard operating procedures (SOPs)/guidelines so that the spread of the infection could be contained.An official spokesperson said a letter in this regard had been issued to Administrative Secretaries, Director General of Police, Divisional Commissioner and deputy commissioners to ensure the strict compliance of the above directions.He said those institutes which were allowed to open would have to mandatorily follow the SOPs issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, on preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid .He said the deputy commissioners shall constitute joint inspection teams for enforcing the above instructions/directions and shall ensure extensive checking and action against the violators. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-issues-sops-for-itis-229450
24-03-2021||Jhajjar||Two held for murder in Jhajjar||The police on Tuesday arrested two youths and claimed to have cracked the murder case of a wrestler, Vikram, who was shot on March 19.The accused have been identified as Devender, alias Kalia, and Sandeep, alias Punga, of Bahu village. During interrogation, the duo revealed that wrestler Sumit of Tatla of Kasni village had opened fire on Vikram, alias Maddu, from a close range.SP Rajesh Duggal said as per the preliminary investigation, Vikram was a promising wrestler hence the main accused, Sumit, nursed a grudge against him. So he called Vikram to the wrestling ring on the pretext of a cocktail party where he along with Devender and Sandeep perpetrated the crime, he added.“The duo have been taken on a three-day police remand to find out about the other accused involved in the crime, while raids are being conducted at the possible hideouts of Sumit,” Duggal added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-for-murder-in-jhajjar-229477
24-03-2021||Yamunanagar||Girl student crushed under school bus in Yamunanagar district||A six-year-old girl student, Mannat, studying in nursery class in a private school of Kalawar village, was crushed under the tyre of a school bus in Yamunanagar district today.On the complaint of the father of the victim, Manish Kumar, a case was registered against the bus driver Satish Kumar of Kalawar village at the Chhappar police station.Meanwhile, sources said in violation of the rules, the school administration had called the students on the day of a gazetted holiday today. He said when the bus dropped her at the village at about 2 pm, she was crushed under the tyre of the bus. “My daughter was crushed to death, as there was no conductor present in the bus. She died on the spot,” said Manish in his complaint. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girl-student-crushed-under-school-bus-in-yamunanagar-district-229478
24-03-2021||---||Ambala residents ignore Covid protocol amid surge in cases||Ambala, March 23Despite continuous rise in the number of Covid cases and guidelines issued by the government to wear face masks at public places and maintain social distance, several people can be seen violating guidelines in the busy markets of Ambala City and Ambala Cantonment.Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon Norms not being followedThe number of Covid cases has risen in Ambala over the last few days and the prime reason behind the increase is hiding of symptoms and not following the covid protocol. During a visit to the cloth market of Ambala City and Sadar Bazaar in the cantonment, it was found that though a majority of the people wore masks, the social distancing rule was being ignored at almost every shop. Most masks covered the chin of the wearer instead of covering the mouth and nose.As per the data provided by the Health Department, on February 22, the doubling rate of Covid cases in Ambala had touched the mark of 500 days, but it has decreased to just 125 days on Tuesday (March 23). Only one death each was reported in January and February this year while eight deaths have already been reported in March. On Tuesday, 118 fresh cases have been reported while 61 persons discharged. There are 686 active cases in Ambala at present. As per the information, over 450 challans were issued by the police in Ambala on Monday.Ashok Sharma, Deputy Commissioner Officials told to get strictAll sub-divisional magistrates and officials of the municipal corporation and council have been directed to visit the markets on a regular basis for the strict implementation of Covid protocol.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The number of Covid cases has risen in Ambala over the last few days and the prime reason behind the increase is hiding of symptoms and not following the covid protocol. Covid cases in rural areas are on the rise.”DC Ashok Sharma said, “Covid cases are on the rise. It becomes our collective responsibility to ask everyone to wear masks and maintain social distance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-residents-ignore-covid-protocol-amid-surge-in-cases-229479
