25-03-2021||Sonepat||Sonepat police issue traffic advisory in view of ‘Bharat Bandh’||Keeping in view the “Bharat Bandh” call on March 26 from 6 am to 6 pm by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the Sonepat police has issued special guidelines regarding traffic advisory to divert the routes for the convenience of public to avoid any untoward circumstances or congestion.The public is advised to avoid unnecessary travel plans to avoid inconvenience.Giving detailed information in this regard, Sonepat police advised that in view of the Bharat Bandh by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the heavy vehicles coming from Ambala/Chandigarh on the national highway-44 may go towards North/East Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida via Karnal-Shamli-Baghpat-Khekra or from Panipat- Sanauli-Baghpat-Khekra to Ghaziabad and Noida.Similarly, they can enter South/West Delhi and Gurgaon via national highway-71A via Gohana, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari.Sonepat police have also informed that light vehicles coming from Ambala/Chandigarh can travel to North/East Delhi and Noida/Ghaziabad via Baghpat, Khekra, Loni border from Bahalgarh using national highway-44.Further, it is advised that light vehicles from Ambala to South/West Delhi and Gurgaon can take diversion from Bahalgarh to Sonepat city-Barota-Narela or Bahalgarh - Sonepat City- Barota-Lampur-Bawana.The following routes are identified for smooth flow of light traffic:North/ East Delhi and Ghaziabad.a)           Karnal- Shamli-Bhagpat-Khekrab)           Panipat- Sanauli-Bhagpat-Khekrac)           Bahalgarh- Bhagpat-KhekraWest/ South Delhi and Gurugram.a)           NH-71Ab)           Bahalgarh-Sonepat City-Lampur borderc)           Ganaur-Khubru double canal road.Daily commuters (Sonepat-Delhi)a)           Safiabad border/Narela border- Sonepat-Narela road.b)           Lampur border- Sonepat-Barota-Lampurc)           Ochandi border- Sonepat-Kharkhoda-Saidpur-Ochandi.d)           Dahisara border-Bahalgarh-Khewra-Jakholie)           Janti Kalan border-Manoli-Baira Bankepur-Dahisara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-police-issue-traffic-advisory-in-view-of-bharat-bandh-230410
25-03-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||For over 48 hours, no water services for 150 families at Gurugram society; case filed||For over 48 hours, more than 150 families claim to have not received water in the posh condominium ILD green resident society, sector 37. The residents have filed a complaint at Sector-10 police station.The families claimed that the builder has not taken any valid water connection despite taking all payments from them.The families have started a social media campaign, seeking the intervention of the DC and local MLA to get their persistent water woes sorted.As per the complaint, families have not received any water in the last 48 hours, and their tanks have gone dry as well. They claimed that the builder presented a plan of seven towers in society, and so far, three towers were completed, in which these 150 families reside."We moved here after the builder promised connections within a month, but he seems to have abandoned us. We get water tankers for water, and pay hefty charges for the same. The builder are not providing basic water and electricity even. We have even moved a complaint to Harera," said a local resident."The society has no legit water or power connection. We are dependent on tankers even though we pay a hefty maintenance fee. The builder has not paid the tankers despite taking regular payments from us and we do not have water to drink since 48 hours and have been buying our own bottles. This is harassment and builder should be penalized," said Vipin Kumar Senior, the Vice President of the RWA. The complaint is being looked into, said an investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/for-over-48-hours-no-water-services-for-150-families-at-gurugram-society-case-filed-230388
25-03-2021||Karnal||Farmers prepared for a long haul, will relent only when demands met: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said the agitating farmers were prepared for a long haul and will relent only when their demands are met.Tikait reiterated that the Centre must withdraw the farm laws and provide a legal guarantee on MSP.He said the farm laws were not only adversely affecting the farmers but will impact other sections as well.“This fight is not just of farmers but it is also for the poor, small traders..,” said Tikait while addressing a farmers' ‘mahapanchayat' at Assandh in this district.Asserting that farmers were prepared for a long haul, he said, “This agitation will go on for long. We have made preparations till November-December.”Referring to his late father Mahender Singh Tikait, he said, “Tikait sahib used to say that when Haryana stands in support of an agitation, government shivers.”“They tried to break our agitation by dividing it on lines of Punjab and Haryana and projecting it as specific to a particular state, but that did not work,” he said, hitting out at the government.Tikait said the government may try to impose restrictions in the garb of coronavirus pandemic at places where farmers are sitting in large numbers as part of the ongoing stir but that will not deter them.“There is the possibility that in the name of corona, restrictions may be imposed but our agitation will go on. We will follow all the guidelines, but we will not end our dharnas,” he asserted.He also said farmers have shown how to manage their time for the stir as well as for their crops.Tikait said the agitation was drawing good support from several states across the country including Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Hundreds of farmers are camping at Delhi's borders since November last year demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws.Enacted in September 2020, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have been insisting that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the minimum support price and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-prepared-for-a-long-haul-will-relent-only-when-demands-met-rakesh-tikait-230375
25-03-2021||Ambala||No end to stray cattle menace in Ambala||The stray cattle menace continues to haunt local residents. A large number of stray cattle can be seen squatting or wandering on roads of Ambala City and Ambala Cantonment. The presence of strays not only make roads unsafe for commuters but also for the cattle.The Ambala City and Sadar zones were declared stray-cattle free in September 2017. The presence of a large number of dairies in the Sadar zone is the prime reason behind stray cattle there.Asha Rani, a local resident, says, “Besides on roads, the cattle can be seen in residential colonies and busy markets, too. Sometimes they sit in the middle of the road, causing a traffic jam and inconvenience to people. The administration should take action against the dairy owners, who leave their animals after milking them”.Ajay Sharma, another local resident, says, “Stray cattle can be seen everywhere in the city and on the national highway. Sometimes, animals appear all of a sudden, jeopardising the lives of commuters. The animals roaming freely pose a threat to the lives of residents and commuters”.The district authorities claim that sincere efforts are being made to make roads safer but the shortage of space at gaushalas, and careless local dairy operators, who release their cattle on roads, make the task difficult.Municipal Commissioner Parth Gupta says, “Around 180 stray cattle have been shifted to a gaushala from Ambala City this month. Soon, another drive will be started to shift more stray cattle. A major hindrance in shifting the cattle is the lack of space at gaushalas that are full to capacity. We have asked the gaushala operators to inform the corporation if they have spare capacity so that more cattle can be shifted there. Similar efforts are being made in the Sadar zone also”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-end-to-stray-cattle-menace-in-ambala-230132
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Public celebration of Holi banned in Haryana||The Haryana Government today banned the public celebration of Holi festival in the wake of the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the recent weeks. This year, Holi falls on March 29.“The Haryana Government has banned the public celebration of Holi in view of the rise in the number of cases of coronavirus..,” Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said in a tweet.The state has witnessed a seven-fold rise in the weekly number of Covid-19 cases in a month. During the same period, the case positivity rate has also jumped from less than one per cent to 3.6 per cent. The cumulative positivity rate has also jumped to 4.64 per cent in the state.During the past few days, Haryana has been reporting over 800 new cases daily. As many as 3,104 persons lost their lives to the pandemic as on Tuesday. Gurugram, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Panchkula are among the worst-hit districts that are witnessing a surge in cases.Meanwhile, former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has announced that he wouldn’t celebrate Holi this year due to the death of 300 farmers during the ongoing agitation on the borders of the national capital. “More than 300 farmers have died in the fight against the anti-farmer laws. In such a situation, it is not appropriate to celebrate any festival. I once again appealed to the government to accept the demands of the farmers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/public-celebration-of-holi-banned-in-haryana-230133
25-03-2021||Ambala||Woman with daughter jumps into canal||A woman along with her three-year-old daughter jumped into the Narwana branch canal in Ambala City on Wednesday. While the body of the woman, identified as Jagdeep Kaur, was fished out, divers would resume the search for the girl tomorrow. A family dispute is said to be the reason behind the woman taking the extreme step. She belonged to Ambala and was married in Patiala.Dharamveer, SHO, Naggal police station, said, “A woman along with her daughter Husanpreet jumped into the Narwana branch canal today. Jagdeep’s body has been recovered and divers will again start the search for the girl tomorrow morning. She was married to Gurvinder Singh, a Patiala resident. A case of abetment of suicide has been registered against the husband and the in-laws of the woman on her brother’s complaint”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-with-daughter-jumps-into-canal-230134
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bhopal Singh sworn in as new HSSC Chairman||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today administered the oath of office to Bhopal Singh as the new Chairman of the Haryana State Selection Commission (HSSC) at a swearing-in ceremony here.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar was also present.Bhopal Singh took the pledge to uphold the commission’s dignity and ensure transparent and merit-based selections. “The new Chairman and Members of the commission are expected to carry out the recruitment process by making a suitable schedule in an appropriate manner and as per the requisition sent by the government. Besides, the new Chairman is also expected to uphold the dignity of the commission by following a merit-based and transparent recruitment process,” said the Chief Minister while interacting with mediapersons after the ceremony. He said the One Time Registration Portal for the group C and D category posts had been launched. The youth would be required to apply and submit fees on the portal only once. He added that the state government had already announced that the HSSC would conduct a Common Eligibility Test (CET) to fill different posts of group C and D categories. All these steps taken by the government would not only bring about more transparency but also speed up the recruitment process.Later, Bhopal Singh, in the presence of the Education Minister, also administered the oath of office to Vijay Kumar, Satywan Shera, Vikas Dahiya and Sachin Jain as the new Members of the commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhopal-singh-sworn-in-as-new-hssc-chairman-230135
25-03-2021||Rohtak||Coaching programme organised||Class XII gets farewell at DPSKarnal: A farewell party titled "ADIOS and AMIGOS" was organised at Delhi Public School, Kaithal, in which students of Class XII were given farewell. Madhu Dalal, member of the school management committee graced the function as the special guest. The DPSites participated in motley cultural activities comprising dance, and music showcasing their vast repository of skills. A spectacular ramp walk by the senior squad enthralled the gathering with their confidence. Master Karan Nain grabbed the title of DPS whereas the winsome, Siddak was also honoured. The another title winners were Kundan (Mr confident), Vineet (Mr dashing), Ankur (Mr dynamic) Tushar and Sara (choicest charisma), Armaan and Lavanya (elite regalia), Kirti (Ms traditional), Kanak (ravishing) and Tarini (Ms rapunzel). Reminiscing their adventurous journey at DPS, Kaithal, the students felt nostalgic and expressed their profound affection with every modest memory associated with the school.Symposiun on World Water DayKurukshetra: Prof AK Sinha, Vice-Chancellor, Chhatrapati Shivaji University, Mumbai, said there was global concern over continuously declining availability of fresh water for human needs. "We need to understand the importance of sustainable development goal number 7 of the United Nations which calls for access of dominant human population to clean water by 2030", Sinha said while speaking as the chief guest at the valedictory function of the two-day international symposium organised by Kurukshetra University on "valuing water: Groundwater sustainability and climate change" on the occasion of World Water Day 2021.Swachhta Pakhwada in villageKarnal: NSS students of RKSD College, Kaithal, participated in the Swachhta Pakhwada campaign run by the Centre and launched a cleanliness drive in Kultaran village. They cleaned dirty drains and garbage, thereby, motivating the villagers to contribute to the cleanliness drive.Street plays were organised at various places and posters were installed on the village walls to make the villagers aware of cleanliness. The campaign went on for about 15 days in which 21 students participated. Principal Sanjay Goyal awarded the volunteers with cash prizes and other stationery items and motivated them to continue such efforts in the near future also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coaching-programme-organised-230136
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Can’t assess fashion designer’s income as that of labourer: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has refused to accept a fashion designer’s plea to assess his income as that of a labourer while determining the interim maintenance. Justice Avneesh Jhingan also made it clear that the cost index and the status of the two parties were to be considered while fixing the interim maintenance.The ruling by Justice Jhingan came on a petition filed by the husband challenging an order dated February 12, 2020, fixing monthly interim maintenance of Rs 7, 000 under Section 125 of the CrPC.The Bench during the course of hearing was told that the respondent-wife had filed an application under Section 125, pleading that she was subjected to cruelty and forced to live separately after the marriage. She did not have a source of income, while the petitioner-husband was a management graduate working as a fashion designer in a private company and drawing a monthly salary of Rs 40,000.The fixing of interim maintenance was opposed by the husband on the ground that the respondent-wife was a qualified person and serving in a private school. The pleading with regard to qualification and income was merely “baldly denied”.Considering the facts of the matter and in the absence of income proof of the either side, the lower court fixed an interim maintenance from the date of filing the application and further awarded Rs 11, 000 as litigation expenses. The counsel for the petitioner “vehemently” argued that the interim maintenance fixed was on the higher side. In the absence of evidence, the petitioner’s income should have been assessed as that of a labourer. Justice Jhingan asserted the petitioner’s contention was that he was unemployed and was searching for a job. “The contention that the income of the petitioner should be considered as that of a labourer and thereafter interim maintenance should be fixed is noted to be rejected. The pleadings that the petitioner is a fashion designer and MBA have not been denied. It would not be appropriate to equate the petitioner with a labourer…,” Justice Jhingan added. Refusing to interfere, the Justice added the maintenance fixed was only an interim provision, subject to final decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cant-assess-fashion-designers-income-as-that-of-labourer-high-court-230137
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Bailable warrants against 2 ACPs||A Panchkula court has issued bailable warrants against ACP Purnima Singh and ACP Adarshdeep Singh after they failed to appear in the Haryana Staff Selection Commission’s (HSSC) cash-for-job scam of 2018.During a resumed hearing, Additional District and Sessions Judge Narender Sura observed that “ACP Purnima has not come to the court to get her statement recorded and on earlier dates, she did not appear due to the ongoing Assembly session”.“She is stated to be on leave. It appears that to avoid appearance, she has proceeded on leave and this court is of the view that without the issuance of warrants, her presence cannot be secured,” the Judge said.ACP Purnima Singh is a complainant in the case. ACP Adarshdeep Singh, who was a member of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) in the case, couldn’t appear before the court as he was busy in conducting a departmental clerical examination. In the last hearing too, bailable warrants were issued against him.The Chief Minister’s Flying Squad had busted the racket on April 5, 2018. The scam is linked to the appointment of drivers, clerks and nurses against posts advertised by the Commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bailable-warrants-against-2-acps-230138
25-03-2021||Ambala||Two held for carjacking||The CIA-2 unit of the Ambala police has arrested two men in connection with a carjacking incident that happened on August 24 last year. The accused have been identified as Ranjit Singh and Sanchit, both residents of Kurukshetra. They were today produced before a court that sent them to four-day police remand.Bharat, a civil engineer posted at Military Engineering Service (MES), Delhi, was travelling along with his wife when they were carjacked of their car at gunpoint outside NH-1 showroom on the Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway in Ambala Cantonment on August 24 last year. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-for-carjacking-230139
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t finalise selection of art and craft teachers: High Court||Flooded by a “similar kind of writ petitions on a daily basis” challenging the appointment of arts and craft teachers, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today restrained the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) from finalising the selections to the posts till further orders to “avoid further complications”.The directions by Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa came on a petition against the state of Haryana and other respondents by Punam Devi and 19 others through counsel Ravinder Bangar.In his detailed order, Justice Dhindsa observed that the grievance in the instant petition was that the respondent-commission was resorting to an arbitrary procedure to call candidates for the viva-voce/ interview, which could not stand the scrutiny of law.Justice Dhindsa asserted that it would be apposite to take note that this court was inundated with a similar kind of writ petitions and various interim orders had been passed for interviewing other petitioners on a provisional basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-finalise-selection-of-art-and-craft-teachers-high-court-230140
25-03-2021||After the request of the locals||Construction work of street in Yamnuanagar incomplete||Rajat Kaushish, YamunanagarNo registration done on 'Meri Fasal - Mera Byora'Despite over dozen visits, no registration has been done for the government scheme 'Meri Fasal - Mera Byora' due to non-uploading of revenue records/documents by the Patwari of Karnal Tehsil for the Karnal areas. — Dr Virender Singh Latherl, KarnalSignboard incorrectly installed in KarnalThe incorrect installation of a signboard indicating the directions of Ambala and Delhi cities has hidden the name of Sir Chhotu Ram, Namaste Chowk, written on the overbridge on National Highway 44 in Karnal. Similarly, the names of Jagadguru Swami Brahmanand Chowk of Sector 7, Sant Nikka Singh (Nirmal Kutia) Chowk of Sector13 and ITI Chowk have also been hidden due to such signboards. People are being inconvenienced due to this. — Shakti Singh, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/construction-work-of-street-in-yamnuanagar-incomplete-230141
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||CBI calls for action against TCP officials for ‘favouring’ builder||The CBI has called for disciplinary action against five officials of the Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department for alleged lapses in land release and grant of licence in favour of Krrish Buildtech Private Limited (now Brahma City Private Limited).THE CASE FILEThe CBI chargesheet states that the licence application of Krrish Buildtech for a plotted colony spread over 162 acres in Gurugram was processed at an “abnormal speed” from April 20, 2010, to May 27, 2010, when the Letter of Intent (LoI) was issued. The firm’s 130 acres were released before the issuance of Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act.As per the CBI chargesheet filed before a special court in Panchkula, these officials are the then District Town Planner (DTP) Devendra Nimbokar (now Senior Town Planner (STP)), former DTP PP Singh (now STP), former Gurugram STP Kamal Kumar Saini (retired as Chief Town Planner), former Gurugram DTP Vijender Kumar (now STP), and former kanungo Chhotu Ram (now retired).However, the department has not taken any action against them.The CBI is pressing for a criminal trial against three former officials — former Chief Town Planner JS Redhu, former Assistant Town Planner SK Arora and former Deputy Superintendent Rajbir Singh — for corruption, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. They were handed over the chargesheet on March 22.The case pertains to the release of notified land in favour of builders and grant of licences to them from 2009 to 2012 by cheating landowners and the state of Haryana.The CBI chargesheet states that the licence application of Krrish Buildtech for a plotted colony spread over 162 acres was processed at an “abnormal speed” from April 20, 2010, to May 27, 2010, when the Letter of Intent (LoI) was issued. The firm’s 130 acres were released before the issuance of Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act.The CBI said Redhu proposed the grant of licence by releasing the notified land on May 26, 2010, which was endorsed by then Director, Town and Country Planning (TCP) TC Gupta and then Financial Commissioner, TCP, DS Dhesi on May 26, 2010. It was approved by then Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda the same day, as conveyed by Chattar Singh, Principal Secretary to CM.The same day, the draft LOI was put up and, the next day, Gupta signed it.The CBI has told the court that the investigation against Hooda, 13 developers and others mentioned in the FIR is under way. Gupta’s name is mentioned in the FIR registered in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-calls-for-action-against-tcp-officials-for-favouring-builder-230142
25-03-2021||Rohtak||Stop pressuring supporters of farmers’ agitation: Rakesh Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait has asked the state government not to pressure leaders and other persons who are supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation by providing food and other materials. He was addressing a farmer mahapanchayat organised at the historical Chaubisi Chabutra in Meham town here on Wednesday.Tikait said, “Do not harass Independent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu through income tax raids. Otherwise, we will teach a lesson to the government departments whose officials go to Kundu’s house to pressure him”.“MLAs and others, whether a hotelier or a petrol station owner, are being served notices or penalised for supporting protesting farmers camping at Delhi borders. They need not to be scared as the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has taken the responsibility of guarding and taking care of them. We have taken a vow to help them in every situation,” he said.“The three farm laws will ruin the agriculture sector. The government wants industrial units to be established on agricultural land,” he said.He claimed that the government policies would force farmers to abandon their land so that industries could be established on it. He also appealed to the youth to join the agitation.Tikait said that instead of giving the minimum support price to the farmers, the government was providing credit cards with an intention to trap them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stop-pressuring-supporters-of-farmers-agitation-rakesh-tikait-230143
25-03-2021||Jhajjar||INLD sets up hospital at Tikri to aid protesting farmers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inld-sets-up-hospital-at-tikri-to-aid-protesting-farmers-230144
25-03-2021||Jhajjar||State-level meet of all trade unions on in Rohtak April 2||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-level-meet-of-all-trade-unions-on-in-rohtak-april-2-230145
25-03-2021||Jhajjar||HSPCB serves closure notice on five factories||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has served a closure notice on five cast iron casting manufacturing units operating without permission at Surya Nagar in Bahadurgarh industrial town in the district, asking these to file their replies within the next 15 days. Also, two such units were being established without approval.The five units were being run in violation of rules for the past three months, but the issue came to light recently when the board raided the units acting on a complaint by a local resident at the CM Window.Iron casting was being done in these units using coal, which is prohibited in the National Capital Region (NCR), as per the guidelines.As per the complaint, the units were earlier being run in Delhi but were shifted to Bahadurgarh on being not allowed to operate there due to pollution. None of the factories had obtained permission from the authorities concerned to operate and did not fulfil the mandatory parameters to check air pollution, hence action be taken against them.Sources said that the authorities, acting on the complaint, told the HSPCB to inspect the units and file a report for further action. “The factory operators failed to produce any permission document mandatory to run units when our team conducted raids, while the permission from the HSPCB, Department of Local Bodies/Town and Country Planning and the Forest Department is a must before establishing an industrial unit. Despite the ban, coal or diesel is being used in the factories. Such units can only use LPG or CNG,” said Ravinder Yadav, Sub-Divisional Officer, HSPCB.Yadav said that two of the five factories were operational when raids were conducted, but none of them had installed a chimney for smoke exit. Some other violations were also found. “The cases will be sent to the head office for initiating closure proceedings if the factories failed to give a satisfactory reply within the time limit,” said the SDO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hspcb-serves-closure-notice-on-five-factories-230146
25-03-2021||New Delhi||Deepender seeks jobs, relief for farmers’ kin||Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda today sought compensation and jobs for the families of farmers who died during the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws.Initiating a discussion on the Finance Bill, Deepender took on the government on unemployment, rising inflation, deteriorating economy, and increasing income inequality.He said the policies of the government had led to a collapse in demand, unemployment, inflation and increased income inequality. Direct tax collections had collapsed and the government was forced to put heavy taxes on petroleum products to make up for the revenue shortfall.“When our economy was struggling due to coronavirus, farmers saved the country’s economy but the government reduced the budget of agriculture,” he said.“You promised the country’s farmers to double their income by 2022 to win the 2019 elections. By 2022, the income of the farmer should be 16,000 per month. We have nine months left. How will the government double the income of farmers? The government does not have a breakup and clearly lacks a plan. The only way to double the income is for the farmer to get twice the price of his produce,” he said.2014 onwards, the MSP of crops increased by 30 per cent, and diesel price by 94 per cent.“India ranks second to Russia in income inequality and is going to take the first place as the wealth of India’s billionaires grew by 35 per cent even as the rest of the country was facing a serious economic crisis,” he said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deepender-seeks-jobs-relief-for-farmers-kin-230147
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Court allows accused-counsel meet before questioning by Enforcement Directorate||A Gurugram court has allowed two accused in judicial custody to meet their counsel for 20 minutes before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) starts interrogating them.The order by MM Dhonchak, Gurugram District and Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), balances the rights of an accused to legal aid and the investigating agency’s alleged requirement of recording their statement in judicial custody.20-minute meeting permittedThe court has allowed the ED to question the accused on the jail premises for four hours daily for a couple of days.The order is being seen as an extension of the principle that an accused cannot go unrepresented in a court. It is also significant as the Delhi HC, in another matter involving the ED, had disallowed the presence of a counsel during interrogation of the accused in jail.The matter was placed before Judge Dhonchak after the ED had moved applications, seeking permission to record the statements of the two accused in judicial custody under Section 50 of the PMLA.The special public prosecutor argued that some new facts and evidence emerged during the course of investigation and both accused were required to be questioned to trace the proceeds of crime.The counsel for the accused, on the other hand, argued that seeking directions to interrogate the accused after being denied custody amounted to review/recalling of an earlier order passed by the court.Judge Dhonchak asserted that the accused could be questioned by the investigating agency in the jail, if possible, in the room of the Gurugram district jail, Superintendent/Deputy Superintendent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-allows-accused-counsel-meet-before-questioning-by-enforcement-directorate-230148
25-03-2021||Yamunanagar||71 bags of subsidised urea seized||A team of the CM’s Flying Squad recovered 71 bags of subsidised agriculture grade urea from three utility vehicles from three different places in the district.The urea was being transported without bills and to be supplied illegally to plywood or glue factories here.On the complaint of Dinesh Kumar Sharma, CM’s Flying Squad incharge, two FIRs were registered at the Sadar police station and another case at the Chhachhrauli police station on Tuesday.He said the team caught a utility vehicle with 22 bags of agriculture grade urea illegally from near Pansara village. Another utility vehicle was caught near Ratanpura village and 18 bags of agriculture grade urea were seized and the third vehicle was caught from near Sherpur village area with 31 bags of agriculture grade urea.“These bags of the agriculture grade urea were without bills. They were being supplied illegally to plywood or glue factories,” said Satbir Singh, SDO, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, Yamunanagar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/71-bags-of-subsidised-urea-seized-230149
25-03-2021||Ambala||4 nabbed for sharing RTA team’s location||A Road Transport Authority (RTA) team has nabbed four youths for allegedly sharing their location in WhatsApp groups in the district’s Mullana area this morning.The suspects have been identified as Ali Ahmad, Isran, Ikram and Islam, all residents of Yamunanagar.Om Prakash, Motor Vehicle Officer, enforcement, RTA, said this morning, his team was at Holi Chowk to check overloaded vehicles when they saw four youths following them in a white car. On suspicion, the team signalled the youths to stop and they tried to flee but were nabbed. “During search, two phones were seized and Ali was found sharing the team’s location in a WhatsApp group.”RTA Secretary Gauri Midha said: “The officials have directions to nab suspicious persons and take strict action if any illegal activity is observed.”The accused have been booked under Sections 186 and 120B of the IPC and Section 67 of the IT Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-nabbed-for-sharing-rta-teams-location-230150
25-03-2021||Karnal||Judge inspects Panipat Sessions Division||One more arrested in illicit liquor caseAmbala: The police have arrested one more person in connection with the case of illicit liquor and spirit recovered Durana village of the district on March 10. The accused, Ram Bhagat of Durana village, was on Wednesday produced before a court that sent him to four-day police custody. Five men have already been arrested in the case. He was the driver of a tanker used to supply spirit. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/judge-inspects-panipat-sessions-division-230151
25-03-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Nikita killers convicted in 5 months||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, March 24The District and Sessions Court on Wednesday convicted Tausif and his aide Rehan in the Nikita Tomar murder case. The quantum of sentence will be pronounced on Friday.Nikita (21) was shot by Tausif (22) near her college in Ballabgarh on October 26 last year.Tausif, who had been pressuring the victim to marry him, his accomplice Rehan and one Arjuddin, who had supplied the weapon, were arrested soon after the incident.“While Tausif and Rehan have been convicted under Sections 302 (murder), 366 (kidnapping a woman to compel her into marriage) and 120-B/34 (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, Arjuddin has been held guilty under the Arms Act,” said Adal Singh Rawat, one of the prosecution lawyers.He said the prosecution produced 55 witnesses and the defence only two. A five-member SIT had submitted a 700-page chargseheet against the accused on November 6, 11 days after the crime. The chargesheet contained digital, forensic and material evidence and statements of the witnesses.Besides the CCTV footage, the dying declaration of the victim was one of the key pieces of evidence.“We are satisfied with the prosecution and hope that the accused get death penalty,’’ said Mool Chand Tomar, Nikita’s father.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-killers-convicted-in-5-months-230129
25-03-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Don’t harass supporters of farmers, Tikait warns government||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, March 24BKU leader Rakesh Tikait has warned the Haryana Government against harassing the people who supported the farmers’ agitation saying that the functionaries of the government agencies sent to raid the premises of farmers or their supporters would be held hostage.Addressing a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ at Meham town in Rohtak district today, Tikait reiterated that the ongoing agitation of the farmers would continue until their demands of repealing the recently enacted agriculture laws and enactment of a law to ensure the provision of MSP were fulfilled.Regarding the Recovery of Damage to Property Bill passed by the Haryana Vidhan Sabha recently, Tikait stated that first of all, recovery should be made from Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who got the state’s roads dug up and damaged during the farmers’ agitation.  He dared the Haryana Chief Minister to get down from his helicopter at any place in the state.Justifying the hoisting of a religious flag on the Red Fort in Delhi during farmers’ tractor-rally on January 26, Tikait questioned the government whether it was a sin to hoist a religious flag on a flagpole at Red Fort.“In any case, the government has already sold the Red Fort and the sale of 26 government enterprises, including airports and railway stations, is in process,” he remarked, adding that the government had plans to set up industrial units on agricultural land in the next 20 years and the farmers would be forced to work as labourers there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-harass-supporters-of-farmers-tikait-warns-government-229914
25-03-2021|| Chandigarh||Two convicted in Nikita Tomar murder case||A local court in Faridabad on Wednesday convicted the two key accused in the Nikita Tomar murder case—Tausif and his aide Rehan—for killing the 21-year-old girl in broad daylight in last October. The court of the District and Sessions Court in Faridabad on Wednesday delivered the verdict nearly four months after the trial began on December 1. Nikita Tomar, 21, was shot in broad daylight at Ballabhgarh in Faridabad district of Haryana on October 26 last year. The incident took place during an abduction attempt that was caught on camera. The two men had tried to abduct Nikita Tomar. When she resisted, Tausif pulled out a revolver and fired at her.  Tausif told the police after his arrest that that he shot Nikita as he wanted to marry her but she was about to get married to someone else. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) probed the case and submitted challan in a record time. The victim’s family had later given an application saying that this was a case of “love jihad”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-convicted-in-nikita-tomar-murder-case-229888
