26-03-2021||Chandigarh||COVID: Haryana reports 8 deaths, 1,322 new cases||Haryana reported eight COVID-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 3,125, while 1,322 fresh cases took the tally to 2,84,944, a health department bulletin said.While two deaths were from Panchkula and Kurukshetra districts, a fatality each was reported from Gurgaon, Panipat, Yamunanagar and Jind districts.Among the districts to report a big spike in cases included Gurgaon (269), Karnal (204), Panchkula (131), Panipat (119) and Ambala (105) districts.The number of active cases in the state were 7,795. The recovery rate was 96.17 per cent, according to the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-haryana-reports-8-deaths-1-322-new-cases-230846
26-03-2021||Hisar||Haryana Board announces Classes 10, 12 board exam schedule||Haryana’s Board of School Education in Bhiwani said board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 will begin on April 20.Class 12 exams will be held from April 20 to May 18, and Class 10’s from April 22 to May 18, a spokesperson of the board said. Exams will be held from 12.30 pm-3 pm, and students must reach their exam centres half an hour before exams start.Some 7.5 lakh are expected to take the exams at 2,100 centres across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-board-announces-classes-10-12-board-exam-schedule-230824
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab and Haryana High Court Acting Chief Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar passes away at 71||Former judge of Supreme Court, Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar, passed away on Friday morning, following a cardiac arrest. He was 71.The former Acting Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court was also the former Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-acting-chief-justice-surinder-singh-nijjar-passes-away-at-71-230775
26-03-2021||Ambala||'Don't stop sick, commuters, milkmen', advises BKU chief as farmers' block Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway||Amid the nationwide 'Bharat Bandh', the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) Gurnam Singh on Friday has advised the farmers—who have blocked National Highways—to not stop local commuters, milkmen, and water tankers.  "On the call given, you have actively participated in the 'Bharat Bandh' in Haryana, but there have been complaints, that even sick people are not being allowed to travel, and milkmen and water tankers are being stopped". "I request you don’t stop sick people, and those travelling in emergency cases such as in case of death. Don’t stop local commuters, milkmen, water tankers, army vehicles and other essential services. You are doing well. We are protesting against the government. We have been struggling for the common people, so I request you to don’t displease them,” said Gurnam Singh. Farmers in Ambala have blocked the Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway, and Railway Track near Shahpur village, has also blocked NH-344 near Hema Majra village in Mullana, and roads in Karasan, and Saini Majra besides blockade at toll plazas. Commuters are facing an inconvenience due to the blockades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-stop-sick-commuters-milkmen-advises-bku-chief-as-farmers-block-delhi-chandigarh-national-highway-230751
26-03-2021||---||Prof Malik is LUVASTA president||Hisar, March 25 Prof Ashok Malik has been unanimously elected as the president of the Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences Teachers Association (LUVASTA) today.  The election officer, Prof Sajjan Suhag said on the last day of filing of nomination, they had received sole nomination of Dr Ashok Malik for the post of president. He has also served as president of the LUVASTA once and secretary of the association twice. The election to the posts of vice-president and secretary will be held on March 27.  On getting elected, Prof Malik said he would take up the issues, including arrears of the Seventh Pay Commission, of the teaching fraternity with the university authorities and try for early resolution of the issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prof-malik-is-luvasta-president-230624
26-03-2021||Gurugram||3 ATM-card thieves held in Gurugram||The Gurugram police busted a gang of ATM thieves and nabbed three of them who would clone cards and rob people. The accused first exchanged the cards at ATM booth or read their secret PIN number and then withdrew money through swap machine. A Swift car has been recovered from their possession. The police said it was on Tuesday when Jai Singh, a resident of Dayanand Colony, filed a complaint that two boys followed him at  an SBI ATM booth . Offering him help, they exchanged his card and when he raised an alarm they fled in their car. On the complaint, an FIR was registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-atm-card-thieves-held-in-gurugram-230625
26-03-2021||Sumedha Sharma||60% of residential properties lying vacant in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, March 25The Gurugram rental realty market has over 60 per cent of its residential properties vacant since the onset of the Covid crisis last year. With the complete unlock being implemented, the market was expecting a revival. However, with the spike in the number of cases and work from home culture prevalent, the tenants who left the city for their native places may not return anytime soon.The worst hit are the areas in old Gurugram and HUDA sectors, especially the stand-alone houses or builder floors and PGs. There has been dip of over 15 per cent in average rentals.“Almost every second home in the sectors and old areas have put up ‘To let’ signs. The rates have come down as the homes which would be rented out for around Rs 35,000 are not getting any takers even for Rs25,000. There are hardly any tenants in the market now and not just landlords but small agents like us have also been hit severely,” said Surender Yadav, a local property agent.“I retired from private service and have no pension. I had built a PG on the first floor and rented rooms for Rs 8,000. It has been lying empty for a year and people are not ready to take it even for Rs 2,000. My wife and I dependent on the rental income and have even exhausted our savings,” says Jasveer Thareja, a landlordat Sector 17 C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-of-residential-properties-lying-vacant-in-gurugram-230626
26-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Society sans water for 48 hrs; complaint filed against builder||Gurugram, March 25Over 150 families of ILD Green Resident Society, Sector 37, have filed a complaint to the police against the builder after not being supplied water for 48 hours. The families alleged that the builder had not taken any valid water connection despite taking all charges from them. They have started a social media campaign seeking intervention of the DC and the local MLA to get their persistent water woes sorted.As per the complaint of residents, they have not got any water in the past 48 hours and their tanks too have gone dry.They alleged that the builder presented the plan of seven towers in the society and three towers were completed in which these 150 families resided.“We moved in here as the builder promised connections within a month, but he seems to have abandoned us. We get water tankers from outside and pay hefty charges for the same. The builder is not providing basic water and electricity even. We have even complained to Harera,” said a local resident.“The society has no legit water or power connection. We are dependent on tankers even though we pay hefty maintenance fee. The builder has not paid for the tankers despite taking regular payments from us and we do not have water to drink and have been buying our own bottles. This is harassment and the builder should be penalised,” said Vipin Kumar, senior vice-president of the RWA.The residents have filed a complaint at the Sector 10 police station.The complaint is being looked into said the investigating officer.No valid water connections||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/society-sans-water-for-48-hrs-complaint-filed-against-builder-230627
26-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Maharana Pratap Horticulture University project gets wings||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 25After witnessing several hiccups, the construction work of Maharana Pratap Horticulture University at Anjanthali village is all set to be resumed as the state government has not only finalised the construction company but also allocated a budget of Rs 85 crore for the financial year of 2021-22.Earlier, the government had allotted Rs 150 crore, but due to the non-utilisation of funds, Rs 31 crore was sent back to the Finance Department last year.So far, only the boundary wall and entry gate has been constructed, while the work is going on for polyhouse and pre-engineering structural buildings to run the classes of BSc (horticulture) from July, which are at present being run from the building of the Extension Education Institute, Nilokheri.With an aim to develop human resources in the field of horticulture, the state government had announced the setting up of this university and the foundation stone was laid by the former Union Agriculture Minister Radha Mohan Singh and Chief Minister Khattar on April 6, 2016.At that time, the expected project cost to be constructed in 118 acres with three regional centres one each at Raiya in Jhajjar, Chandsoli in Ambala and Badhana in Jind was Rs 486 crore, but now the cost is likely to increase.As per sources, the delay in the finalisation of drawing and construction agency led to the delay in construction work.“The state government has allocated a budget of Rs 85 crore, of which Rs 60 crore is for the construction work, while the remaining amount is for salary and other expenditures,” said Professor Samar Singh, Vice-Chancellor of the university. The government has also decided that the administrative block of the university will run from the premises of the regional station of Haryana Agriculture University and Horticulture Training Institute, Uchani in the district, while the office of the directorate of research, lab, farmers’ facility centre, farmers’ training centre, seed production unit, nursery and classrooms of graduation, post-graduation and PhD will be on the university premises.Foundation laid in 2016With an aim to developing human resources in the field of horticulture, the state government had announced the setting up of this university and the foundation stone was laid by the former Union Agriculture Minister Radha Mohan Singh and Chief Minister Khattar on April 6, 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maharana-pratap-horticulture-university-project-gets-wings-230628
26-03-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana CM's security breach: Cops ‘knew’ about gherao by SAD MLAs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 25An inquiry report on Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s security breach by Akali Dal legislators during the Budget session on March 10 has revealed that the Chandigarh Police, Punjab Police intelligence and Haryana CID had prior information about the gherao. The report, however, is silent on fixing responsibility.The report by Inspector General of Police (IGP) Saurabh Singh, Chandigarh Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal and Commandant 82 Bn Punjab Armed Police (PAP) Gurmit Singh Chauhan was submitted to Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today.Not satisfied with the report, Gupta said: “There was prior information, but the Chief Minister’s media briefing was not shifted. The responsibility has not been fixed. I will examine the report legally to take further action.”On the sequence of events, the report has brought out that AIG (Intelligence), Punjab, Anil Joshi had informed Chandigarh DSP Ram Gopal that SAD legislators were planning to gherao the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on March 10 in protest against the farm laws. A message in this regard was conveyed to the Haryana CID.The SHO of the Sector 3 police station reached the Vidhan Sabha at 4.29 pm. Around 10 minutes later, Akali Dal MLA Bikram Singh Majithia and other party legislators reached the main entrance, where the Chandigarh Police stopped them to enter. But the watch and ward staff of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha allowed them, stated the report.As per the CCTV footage, eight SAD MLAs entered the Vidhan Sabha complex at 4.50 pm. They were Majithia, Sharanjit Singh, Sukhwinder Kumar, Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra, Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi, Manpreet Singh Ayali, Gurpratap Singh Wadala and Narinder Kumar Sharma.About 5.55 pm, the MLAs holding black flags and placards started raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. At that time, Khattar was addressing the media.Five minutes later, Majithia and others tried to break the security cordon, but were stopped and pushed back by the security personnel.The report stated the action by SAD MLAs indicated that “they had some ulterior motive”. “They had jeopardised the CM’s security who is a Z-plus protectee,” said the report.On March 16, a case was registered against nine Akali legislators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cms-security-breach-cops-knew-about-gherao-by-sad-mlas-230629
26-03-2021||---||2 shot dead in Ambala||Ambala, March 25Two men were shot dead, while two others suffered bullet injuries in a firing incident at Kalka Chowk, one of the busiest locations in Ambala City, today.The names of Lawrence Bishnoi and Bhupi Rana gangs cropped up in this regard.The deceased were identified as Rahul and Pradeep, while the injured were identified as Ashwani and Gaurav, all residents of Chandigarh. Nearly 20 rounds were fired in the incident. They were rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, where Rahul and Pradeep were declared dead.Ashwani suffered bullet injuries on his shoulder, while Gaurav suffered injuries on his arm and stomach. They were later referred to the GMCH-32.Ashwani (35), a resident of Mani Majra, Chandigarh, stated he along with Gaurav, Pradeep, alias Panja, and Rahul had reached Ambala court, in connection with a case. After discussion with his advocate, they were on their way back. Gaurav was driving the car, Ashwani was sitting on the front seat, while Rahul and Pradeep were sitting on the back seat.“Around noon, as we reached near Kalka Chowk, the driver of a Swift car applied sudden brakes in front of our car. Two youths came out and started firing at us. After firing, they managed to flee from the spot,” Ashwani said.A case was registered under Sections 341, 307, 302 and 120-B of the IPC and 25 of the Arms Act against the unidentified persons.The victims, reportedly belonging to the Bhupi gang, had reached Ambala for a hearing in a case registered after a brawl at Central Jail Ambala in which members of the Lawrence Bishnoi and Bhupi Rana gangs had clashed on July 11, 2019.SHO Ambala City police station Ramkumar said, “The postmortem would be conducted by a board of doctors. The injured are out of danger.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-shot-dead-in-ambala-230630
26-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||Any punishment for ignoring mask norm, asks HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 25Amidst resurgence in Covid-19 cases, the High Court today asked the State of Haryana to specify whether punitive provisions were required to be incorporated in the instructions on the issue for initiating action against persons “endangering their own life and that of the others by wearing mask in a casual manner”.As the matter came up for resumed hearing, an affidavit on the issue by Haryana Secretary Home TL Satyaprakash was placed before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh.Appearing before the Bench, the state counsel agreed that there was a dire need to educate the public on mask etiquette, particularly on the aspect of wearing the same on the nose as Covid was spreading at the moment.After going through the affidavit and the submissions, the Bench asked the State counsel to also specify the measures being taken to implement the instructions in letter and spirit. Faced with the queries, the State counsel prayed for a week’s time.Before partying with the order, the Bench noted that the counsel for the petitioner wanted to withdraw the writ petition. Rejecting the prayer, the Bench asserted “a larger question has arisen during the course of hearing”.Granting the counsel the permission to withdraw from the matter, the Bench appointed senior advocate Rupinder Khosla as the amicus curiae or the friend of the Court, along with Haryana Additional Advocate-General Ankur Mittal. The case will now come up for hearing in April first week.The Bench has already made it clear that mask etiquette were required to be injected to the public along with the vaccine to beat Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/any-punishment-for-ignoring-mask-norm-asks-hc-230631
26-03-2021||---||Cane crop damaged in Karnal district||Karnal, March 25The attack of top borer insect on sugarcane crop has resulted in loss to farmers of the region. The most affected variety is CO 0238, which has been cultivated in a large area of the region.Scientists of the Karnal-based Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Regional Centre, told the farmers to eradicate moths at this stage as the time was appropriate to manage top borer through mechanical collections by using pheromone traps. They say the current harvesting season is about to end, but farmers should save the next crop by managing the insects.Field study by scientists show that in some parts of Haryana, including Karnal, Panipat, Sonepat, Yamunanagar and Ambala, the insect has damaged the crop to 40-50 per cent, while in eastern and western UP, Bihar and other parts of the north India, it has affected the crop by 30-40 per cent.Based on the field study, scientists have issued an advisory to farmers and exhorted them to be vigilant in the fields during day time to check the insect.Scientists’ advisoryField study by scientists shows that in some parts of Haryana, including Karnal, Panipat, Sonepat, Yamunanagar and Ambala, the top borer insect has damaged the crop to 40-50 per cent. Scientists have issued an advisory to farmers and exhorted them to be vigilant in the fields during the day to check the insect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cane-crop-damaged-in-karnal-district-230632
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab DGPs discuss organised crime||A joint conference of senior police officers of Haryana, Punjab, and Chandigarh was held in Panchkula to discuss various issues and challenges to tackle organised crime in the region.The conference was jointly presided over by DGP Haryana Manoj Yadava and DGP Punjab Dinkar Gupta which was also attended by senior functionaries of the Chandigarh Police, where emphasis was laid on creating an institutional mechanism to effectively coordinate, create common database, and sharing of information in real time to curb organised crime.DIG Chandigarh Omvir Singh and SSP Chandigarh Kuldeep Singh Chahal were also present on the occasion.Yadava said holding such coordination meetings would certainly be helpful in keeping tabs on the criminal activity of inter-state gangsters, detection of crime and more importantly, sharing of information in real time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-punjab-dgps-discuss-organised-crime-230633
26-03-2021||---||Six cases of UK Covid variant found in Haryana||Chandigarh, March 25Even as 81 per cent of the samples sent from neighbouring Punjab for genome sequencing have tested positive for the UK variant of Covid-19, only six samples from Haryana have so far been reported from this new strain of the virus.The state, however, is waiting for reports from the National Institute of Biologicals for samples sent in the recent past.“As on date, we have found total six cases positive for the UK variant, out of which five cases were foreign travellers and 1 case from general population. This one case was a prisoner who had already been shifted to Sangrur (Punjab),” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Haryana.He said the government had requested the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to conduct a thorough epidemiological investigation to assess the community level transmission of the UK variant in this case which was conducted later on and nothing suggestive was found. Sources in the Health Department, however, said reports of a large number of samples sent for genome sequencing in the recent days were yet to be received.As per the norms, the state is supposed to send 5 per cent of the total samples to the central lab for genome sequencing of the virus to know the presence of the mutant variants.With new daily cases crossing 100-mark today, Haryana has witnessed a spurt in the Covid-19 cases recently and the state Home and Health Minister Anil Vij had yesterday banned public celebration of Holi festival in the state.The state, which had 1,275 active cases when the present month started, has 7,229 active cases today.Vaccination drive intensifiedThe Haryana government has intensified its campaign for vaccination and so far 12.61 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered. Most of the new cases are coming from Gurugram, Panchkula, Ambala, Karnal and Kurukshetra districts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-cases-of-uk-covid-variant-found-in-haryana-230634
26-03-2021||---||Man accused of killing wife, two children held||Panipat, March 25  With the arrest of a man from Bhadoi in UP, the Panipat police have claimed to solve the murder case of three persons, whose skeletons were found in a house at Shiv Nagar here on Tuesday. The man had murdered his wife and two children on November 2016 and buried them in the house.  Satish Kumar Vats, DSP (Headquarters), in a press conference said the accused had been identified as Ehsaan Saifi of Jagaheri village in Muzaffarnagar district. He was living in a rented accommodation in Bhadoi for the past two-and-a-half year and was working as a carpenter.  Three skeletons were recovered by labourers when they dug the floor of the house during renovation on Tuesday.  It was revealed after postmortem examination that the skeletons were of a woman and two children, he said.  Shashank Kumar Sawan, SP, handed over the investigation to the CIA-1 team.  It came to the fore that Saifi had sold the house to Pawan Kumar three years ago. The CIA-1 team nabbed Saifi from a flat in Bhadoi. It was revealed during investigation that the accused had murdered his wife and two children on November 2016 by poisoning them. After that he dug a pit in his house and buried the bodies there and sold the house to Pawan Kumar and fled, he said. The deceased have been identified as Nazneen, Sajid and Sohail.  It was revealed that he was already married and had a wife and sons in Jagaheri village, but he got married again to a woman from Mumbai. When the woman opposed him to go to his previous wife, he planned to murder them, the DSP said. Saifi was produced in the court on Thursday which sent him to two days police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-accused-of-killing-wife-two-children-held-230635
26-03-2021||Rohtak||Farmers protest, BJP leader Birender Singh's event called off||Supporters of former Union Minister Birender Singh faced the wrath of farmers for organising the “Samvad se hi Samadhan” event at Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram Memorial in the district’s Garhi Sampla village on his birthday today.The protesters, including women, gathered outside the venue in the morning and staged dharna till 3 pm so that the event could not be held. The farmers carrying black flags raised anti-government slogans. They tore the posters of BJP leader Birender Singh installed on a two-wheeler.In view of the protest, the organiers cancelled the event.Earlier, the organisers had claimed that a function would be organised and a bike rally would be held in support of farmers camping at the Delhi borders. The protesters, however, rubbished the claims and said the function was organised to celebrate Singh’s birthday.“Singh is playing a double game to serve his political interests. He is trying to gain farmers’ sympathy by claiming to be as their well-wisher, but his son, who is an MP from Hisar, is supporting the three farm laws. He should quit the BJP to prove his claim. Otherwise, we will continue opposing him,” said Virendra Hooda, national general secretary, BKU (Kisan Sarkar).The district administration was apprehensive about the resistance by farmers. Hence, it had appointed a duty magistrate to maintain law and order. Amit Kajal and Virendra Kirori, organisers, claimed the function was planned in support of farmers’ demands and that the protesters were instigated. — TNSTikait praises Haryana farmersAssandh: Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait has said farmers of Haryana have always forced the governments of the day to bow in front of their demands. “My father used to say whenever Haryana farmers stood against the government for any cause, it had to give in,” he said at a "kisan mahapanchayat” here on Thursday. Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Charuni) president, appealed to farmers to oppose MLAs who had voted against the no-trust motion in the Assembly. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-bjp-leader-birender-singhs-event-called-off-230636
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Reimbursement for 31 dental treatments for Haryana Govt employees, pensioners||To take care of the oral health needs of its employees, pensioners and their dependents, the Haryana Government has come out with a new policy for the reimbursement of the cost of dental treatment.Under the new policy, the beneficiaries will be able to get reimbursement of the cost of treatment for 31 dental procedures even if the treatment is from the government-empanelled private hospitals.The policy would be applicable to the regular government employees, while contractual and outsourced employees would not come under its ambit.“The beneficiaries surrender the option of availing fixed medical allowance and change to open medical allowance to avail the medical reimbursement of dental procedures in OPD basis. Once the claimant opts for open medical allowance, the same shall continue for two years,” Haryana’s director general health services (DGHS) said in the policy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reimbursement-for-31-dental-treatments-for-haryana-govt-employees-pensioners-230637
26-03-2021||Sonepat||Online induction programme||CUH sets up lab for bakery productsMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) has set up a laboratory for bakery products to promote traditional and local products by preparing nutritious health-rich bread and biscuits, bakery products etc. Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad said the initiative had been taken by two faculty members and a PhD research scholar of the university under the startup programme. "Our startup is completely focused on preparing bakery and other nutritious food products, keeping in view the nutritional values of traditional and local products," he added.College lad shines in archeryYamunanagar: Sachin Gupta, a student of BSc (sports ) second year of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, gave a brilliant performance in the All-India universities selection process organised in the Recurve category of National-Level Inter-University Archery held in Bhubaneswar, (Odisha,) setting a new record in the event. On reaching the college, Principal Dr Major Harinder Singh Kang welcomed Sachin Gupta and his father Shravan Kumar Gupta. He said in the all-India aforesaid selection process held in Bhubaneswar, Sachin not only performed brilliantly with 684 marks, but also set a new record. He said now, Sachin would represent Indian universities by participating in the World Universities Championship to be held in Chengdu, China from August 18 to 29.Short-term training programmeFaridabad: A weeklong AICTE-sponsored online short-term training programme (STTP) on “New dimensions in research support services: A contemporary library perspective” organised by Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay Central Library of the university concluded recently. Dr RC Gaur, dean and director, library and information and head, Kala Nidhi Division, IGNCA, Ministry of Culture, Government of India, who was the Chief Guest at valedictory function emphasised the importance of research support services in a university. Applauding the initiative, the VC Prof Dinesh Kumar said digital libraries played an important role in the educational and research process. It allows students and teachers to share common information resources and to take advantage of wider range of materials. He urged librarians to promote research support services to the faculty members and research scholars. The STTP was attended by 88 participants from across the country.Online international symposiumKurukshetra: Department of geophysics, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, has organised two-day online international online symposium on “Valuing water: Groundwater sustainability and climate change” on the occasion of World Water Day 2021. The programme was attended by students, faculty and research scholars from different parts of the country. The experts/ scholars from south Asian countries of Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh and from the USA also attended the online symposium.Virtual alumni meetHisar: The department of alumni relations, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised an online “Global alumni meet-2021”. Prof. Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, said, “Alumni are like a brand for a university. The name of the university from where one gets degree is always associated with the individual. We should maintain this relationship throughout life.”World Water DayKarnal: World Water Day was organised at the National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, in collaboration with National Innovation in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) and Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), NDRI. Dr Manmohan Singh Chauhan, Director, NDRI, said March 22 was declared as World Water Day and was celebrated around the world since 1993. The theme of World Water Day 2021 is “valuing water” and has been chosen to highlight the value of water in daily life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-induction-programme-230639
26-03-2021||Adigital apparatus has been put in front of the main gate of the Mini-Secretariat building in Ambala City. This was installed a few years ago in collaboration with a bank with an objective of providing instant information related to farmers and farming activities. The monogram of both the state government and bank add to its beauty grandeur and speaks highly of its authenticity. A free phone facility was also provided. It has an instruction subscribed in Hindi in bold letters "ab kisan bhaiyo ke liye har suvidha sirf touch par". This facility remains non-functional. I hope officers concerned will take cognizance of issue and take step in the right direction.||Digital apparatus non-functional at Ambala Secretariat||Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityAuthorities fail to take note of important link road in PanchkulaIt is sad that the authorities have failed to take note of the badly damaged/potholed road (near Radha Swami Satsang Mandal Complex) enroute Chandigarh Railway Station (Panchkula side). No effort has been made to properly repair/recarpet this widely used link between Panchkula and Chandigarh.Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/digital-apparatus-non-functional-at-ambala-secretariat-230640
26-03-2021||---||Three held, 2.25 kg smack recovered||Karnal, March 25The Kaithal police have arrested three drug peddlers, including a woman, and recovered around 2.25 kg smack from them. The accused have been identified as Gopal Singh, a resident of Kharkan village, Virender Singh of Safidon and Gurpeet Kaur of Salempur in Kaithal district. The accused were produced in the court, from where Virender and Gurpreet were sent to judicial custody and Gopal was taken on remand of four days.The police informed that on a tip off, a team of CIA chased a car and rounded them up on the Jind road. During interrogation, the accused said they used to bring drugs from MP and sell them in Haryana and Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-held-2-25-kg-smack-recovered-230641
26-03-2021||---||Hisar woman dies by suicide||Hisar, March 25A 39-year-old woman Sunita Devi allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself at her residence in Bhiwani town today. She was reportedly under depression after her son Ashish, 21, who was a student of chartered accountancy (CA), had reportedly committed suicide on February 8. Ashish was upset after he had failed to crack the CA examination and hanged himself to death at their residence. Sources said the woman went in depression and could not bear the loss of her son and took the extreme step today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-woman-dies-by-suicide-230643
26-03-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Nod to axe trees awaited, work on Delhi-Mumbai e-way delayed||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, March 25The work on the Rs 3,580 crore project of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway passing through the city is being delayed for want of approval from the Forest Department to axe 2,935 trees, besides other factors. The authorities concerned are yet to grant the right of way of 70 metre width on both sides of the bypass here to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The right to way demand was taken up last year.“Around 2,500 trees on the right side (Delhi to Palwal) of the road have already been removed, but there are another 2,935 trees on the left side of the road that have not been axed in the absence of the approval of the Forest Department,” says an NHAI official. The NHAI had written a letter to the DFO, Faridabad, on June 6, 2019, seeking permission to fell trees, but the approval was yet to be granted. This has resulted in an inordinate delay in handing over the land to the contractor, who has been awarded the project,” he says.The NHAI official says that the plantation on the left side of the road belongs to the Forest Department, while the trees on the right side of the road are part of the green belt owned by the HSVP. The right to way was expected by December 31, 2020, but it got delayed. “The HSVP, which is the nodal agency for land clearance, is yet to take up the removal of constructions, including eight petrol and CNG stations and 143 other structures hindering the project,” claim sources in the district administration.NHAI officials took up the matter with the HSVP authorities recently, but a deadline was yet to be fixed to hand over the cleared land to the agency concerned. “We have taken up the issue of axing the trees with the higher authorities and the approval is awaited,’’ says Rajkumar, DFO.The expressway starts at the Ring Road-DND junction in New Delhi, passes through Faridabad and culminates at the interchange junction at Mandkola village of Palwal. Its foundation stone was laid on March 1, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-axe-trees-awaited-work-on-delhi-mumbai-e-way-delayed-230644
26-03-2021||---||SC tells Punjab, Haryana, BBMB to maintain status quo on supply of water to Delhi||Chandigarh, March 25The Supreme Court on Thursday told Punjab, Haryana and the Bhakra Beas Management Board to maintain status quo on the supply of water to Delhi till Friday.A Bench led by Chief Justice SA Bobde put on hold the decision by the two states and the BBMB to reduce water supply to Delhi by 25 per cent in view of repair work in a canal.The top court asked the two states and the BBMB to file their response to the plea by Delhi Jal Board opposing the move to curtail the amount of water supplied to Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-tells-punjab-haryana-bbmb-to-maintain-status-quo-on-supply-of-water-to-delhi-230336
26-03-2021||---||2 men shot dead in Ambala, 2 others injured||Ambala, March 25Two men were shot dead in a firing incident at Kalka Chowk in Ambala City on Thursday. Two others suffered bullet injuries.The deceased have been identified as Rahul and Pankaj. The injured have been identified as Ashwani and Gaurav, residents of Punjab.After getting information, DSP Headquarters Sultan Singh reached the spot.The injured were rushed to Civil Hospital, Ambala City.The incident is said to be fallout of a rivalry between two gangs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-men-shot-dead-in-ambala-2-others-injured-230322
