27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rabi procurement to begin from April 1 in Haryana; payments directly in farmers’ bank account||The procurement process of rabi crops will start from April 1 in Haryana with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday directing authorities to ensure transfer of full payment directly into farmers’ bank account.Presiding over a review meeting regarding procurement process of rabi crops here, the Chief Minister directed the concerned officials to make all necessary arrangements, an official statement said here.Besides, the Chief Minister also released a booklet containing information about the entire arrangement for the procurement process.For the stakeholders, 12 essential information points related to the procurement process are enclosed in the booklet.The functions and rights of stakeholders including farmer, secretary market committee, inspector, arhtiyas (commission agents), warehouse keeper, payment, purchaser and marketing board administrator are described in the booklet, the statement said.Khattar said in every situation, the state government has been making efforts in the interest of farmers.He said every necessary arrangement should be made to help the farmers.He said that support of Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) should also be sought to ensure that farmers do not face any inconvenience in the market.It was apprised in the meeting that there are a number of FPOs in the state and a list of 380 organisations have been sent to the respective Deputy Commissioners who will assist the administration in the procurement process.The Chief Minister also directed to ensure proper arrangements for arhtiyas so that they can get their commission during the procurement.Read also: Centre approves Punjab’s plea to reschedule wheat procurementBesides, the police department has been directed to make arrangements to stop unregistered farmers entering the border of the state.Only the farmers who have registered at ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal will be allowed to bring their crops for procurement.The chief minister also directed the officials concerned to ensure the lifting of crops within 48 hours.The concerned Officials have been directed to make prior arrangements to increase the procurement centres if required at the time of emergency situations, the statement said.The main Rabi crops in Haryana are wheat, gram and mustard. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rabi-procurement-to-begin-from-april-1-in-haryana-payments-directly-in-farmers-bank-account-231354
27-03-2021||---||Bharat Bandh evokes mixed response in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, March 26The Bharat Bandh call received a good response in Ambala and Kurukshetra. In Ambala, farmers blocked the Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway, the railway track near Shahpur village, National Highway-344 near Hema Majra village in Mullana, and roads in Karsan and Saini Majra, besides at toll plazas.Dharna cut short to 5 hrs in palwalPalwal: Farmers and residents blocked the NH-19 near Antoha village in the district for five hours between 11 am and 4 pm on Friday. Though the bandh call was for 12 hours, the dharna was cut short to five hours in the wake of a lukewarm response. Representatives of 52 pal (khaps) condemned the alleged failure of the government to resolve the issues concerning the farmers. TNSIn Kurukshetra, the farmers blocked roads at 14 locations, including the Teokar border, Pehowa Chowk, Ladwa road, near the Thanesar railway station and Karah Sahib. Though traffic was diverted to alternative routes, long queues of vehicles were witnessed on the national highways, causing inconvenience to commuters.A woman, who was on her way from Jaipur to Chandimandir in Panchkula to join duty as a teacher in Army School, was stranded in Ambala. She was seen crying and requesting the protesters to let her go. She said that they should at least let the public transport and personal vehicles to go. The farmers said that the woman wanted to reach Chandimandir to join duty, so they would drop her.Shashi, a commuter at Ambala Cantonment railway station, said, “I have to reach Delhi to catch another train for Bihar, but I don’t think I will be able to reach in time. These people have been regularly causing inconvenience to people”. The Unchahar Express that reached Kurukshetra around 6.45 am was stuck at the Kurukshetra railway junction.Meanwhile, passengers expressed displeasure and said that the government should resolve the matter at the earliest. The Railways should have cancelled the train or informed the passengers that it would be stopped at the Kurukshetra station due to the agitation.In the markets, a large number of shopkeepers kept their shops closed to avoid any confrontation. BKU leaders visited the markets and appealed to the shopkeepers to keep their shops closed.Jhajjar: The Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) evoked a mixed response in Jhajjar district on Friday. Shops and other business establishments in main markets remained open in Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh cities while farmers disrupted rail traffic by sitting on the Rohtak-Delhi track at the Bahadurgarh railway station.The protesters also blocked the Rohtak-Delhi highway at the Rohad toll plaza, the Rohtak-Jhajjar highway at the Dighal toll plaza and the Jhajjar-Badli road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bharat-bandh-evokes-mixed-response-in-haryana-231220
27-03-2021||Panipat/Sonepat||Markets remain open in Panipat, Sonepat||The Bharat Bandh call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had a partial impact in Panipat and Sonepat today, as markets remained open in the city areas.Protesting farmers blocked roads at Israna, Madlauda, at the toll-plaza on the National Highway No-44, near Ladsauli in Sonepat and at the Singhu border. The bus stand and the railway stations in Panipat and Sonepat wore a deserted look.In Panipat district, farmers blocked traffic at the toll plaza on the National Highway No-44, near Shahpur village on the Panipat-Rohtak highway, and at the Bhalsi turn on the Panipat-Jind highway. Fewer commuters were noticed on the national and state highways in comparison to other days.In Sonepat district, the farmers blocked traffic at the Badwasni chowk, and Joli Lath on the Sonepat-Gohana road and the Sonepat-Kharkhoda road. Besides, the National Highway No-44 was blocked near Ladsauli village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/markets-remain-open-in-panipat-sonepat-231221
27-03-2021||Jhajjar||Punjab farmer found murdered at Tikri||The police have registered a case of murder against unknown persons on the complaint of the deceased’s relatives and started investigation.Hakum Singh’s body bearing injury marks on the neck inflicted by a weapon was found at the rear of the new bus stand. He came to Tikri on Thursday morning. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-farmer-found-murdered-at-tikri-231222
27-03-2021||Hisar||Traders, employees back protesters||The traders association supported the bandh call and kept the grain market in Hisar closed. Many social organisations staged a dharna at the Nagori gate in the town. The protesters blocked the road in front of the gate number four of HAU. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traders-employees-back-protesters-231223
27-03-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak schools stay closed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-schools-stay-closed-231224
27-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Cancelled train resumes after passengers protest||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 26Passengers of Vande Bharat Express protested at the railway station here today after the Railways had cancelled the train in the view of the Bharat Bandh call by farmers’ organisations.The train started from Delhi at 6 am and reached here around 7.30 am, but for the blockade by farmers, the Railway authorities halted the train.Railways asked us to get the refundI had booked my ticket last month. On Friday, the Railways asked passengers to get the refund as the train has been cancelled. Is there any accountability? My trip to Mata Vaishno Devi had been planned long ago. I am not going back. — Sarika, Delhi residentApprehending that the situation won’t improve, the Railways cancelled the train and asked Mata-Vaishno-Devi-bound passengers to get the refund.This caused an uproar among the passengers. They blamed the Railways for not cancelling the train in advance. One of the stranded passengers Sarika said, “I had booked my ticket last month. Today, the Railways asked passengers to get the refund as the train has been cancelled. Is there any accountability? My trip to Mata Vaishno Devi had been planned long ago. I am not going back.”In the meantime, volunteers of religious and social organisations such as the Nirmal Kutia, Dera Kar Sewa, JBD Samaj Kalyan Samiti and NIFAA provided food and milk to the stranded passengers.On getting information, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Veena Hooda reached the railway station and tried to pacify the passengers. She assured them of finding a way out.The Railways finally decided to resume the train. Around 5.40 pm, Vande Bharat Express left for Katra. Station Superintendent MS Meena confirmed this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cancelled-train-resumes-after-passengers-protest-231225
27-03-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC raps Centre for violating rules on retirement benefits||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 26The High Court has rapped the Union of India for violating rules and well-settled propositions of law in a case concerning the release of retirement benefits to a “hapless and helpless widow of a deceased government employee”.The Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma made it clear that the payment of retirement benefits was not an act of charity or bounty doled out by the government. It was an indefeasible right of a government employee earned in recognition of past service.The admonition came on a petition filed by the Union of India for quashing order dated September 5, 2019, passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT). The Bench was told that respondent-Richa Dewan’s late husband Arun Dewan was posted as the Additional Commissioner of Income Tax in Indore, where he was murdered in June 2012.She was aggrieved by the action of the authorities, whereby her request for release of arrears of pay and allowances, death-cum-retirement gratuity on her husband’s retirement and other retirement dues were not acceded to by the Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, Indore.After she moved the tribunal, the authorities paid a certain amount and the only issue remaining for adjudication by the tribunal was the award of interest from the date the amount became due.The tribunal held that she was entitled to interest at the rate applicable to the general provident fund from the date the amount became due till the actual payment. The counsel for the Union of India submitted that they had released the amount themselves during the pendency of the application. As such, interest was not liable to be paid.The Bench said: “Admittedly, the retirement benefits became due after the death of the husband of the widow-respondent in 2012, whereas the same was released to the widow-respondent in 2018 and that too, after filing of the original application before the tribunal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-raps-centre-for-violating-rules-on-retirement-benefits-231226
27-03-2021||Karnal||Covid norms violated, private school sealed||The district administration today sealed a private school in Ranwar village allegedly for violation of the Covid protocol. The administration also recommended action against the school under Section 188 of the IPC and Disaster Management Act 2005.On the directions of DC Nishant Kumar Yadav, District Horticulture Officer Dr Madan Lal was appointed as the Duty Magistrate, who inspected the school recently and found that the Covid-19 protocol was not being followed at Greenwood Public School, which could be dangerous to the lives of students.After the report of the Duty Magistrate, the DC issued an order to SDM Karnal Ayush Sinha to seal the school. School authorities could not be contacted despite several attempts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-norms-violated-private-school-sealed-231227
27-03-2021||Deepender Deswal||In Hisar, mustard sold above MSP||Tribune News ServiceHisar, March 26Even as the state government is yet to procure mustard, farmers of the district have sold their produce above the Minimum Support Price (MSP).The MSP of mustard is Rs 4,625 per quintal, but private traders are offering Rs 4,900 to Rs 5,400. Farmers say they are happy that their produce is fetching remunerative prices.Consumers, however, are feeling the pinch as mustard oil, which is mainly used in cooking, has got costlier. A kilogram of mustard oil is avavailbe for Rs 150.Satish Kumar, who sold 10 quintals of mustard for Rs 4,900 per quintal, said: “Unlike previous years, I did not have to wait for the state government to start procurement this time.”Other farmers such as Virbhan of Bahbalpur village and Vijay of Juglan village sold their produce for Rs 5,100 per quintal. “It is a major relief from the tedious exercise of getting the MSP. I don’t know why my produce has fetched a good price. Whatever be the reason, it is good for farmers,” said Vijay.Pawan Kumar Garg, a trader in the local grain market, said: “The increase in import duty on palm oil has led to the rise in edible oil prices, which have gone up from Rs 80 per kg to Rs 130 per kg this year. At present, oil mills are purchasing without any market fee, which has been waived.”Ashok Sharma, District Food and Supplies Controller, said: “The government agency chips in to support farmers in getting the MSP. Since mustard is fetching more than the MSP, there is no need for farmers to wait for the government to start procurement.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-hisar-mustard-sold-above-msp-231228
27-03-2021||Karnal||High drama at Karnal hospital as two wives claim man’s body||A high drama was witnessed outside Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College over the death of a 40-year-old man after two women, claiming to be the wives of the deceased, fought over the right to cremate him.Later in the evening, the body was handed over to the first wife and the mother of the deceased for cremation.Hari Om of Raipur Jatan village was working as a driver with the Education Department and living with Beena Devi in Karan Vihar for the past 10 years. He allegedly consumed some poisonous substance two days ago and died on Thursday.He was earlier married to Suman of Shekhpura in 2001. Suman claimed they had a son, Hritik, and Beena was not allowing her husband to meet them. She claimed Hari Om and Beena were in a live-in relationship.Denying the allegations, Beena said they were married now. “My husband told me not to allow his first wife and other family members to cremate him. I am the legal heir of my husband,” she added.Meanwhile, heated arguments were witnessed between both the parties and the police tried to pacify them.Some family members led by Hari Om’s mother Krishna Devi and Suman met SP Ganga Ram Punia, and were handed over the body. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-drama-at-karnal-hospital-as-two-wives-claim-mans-body-231229
27-03-2021||Gurugram||Another bid to disrupt namaz in Gurugram||A high drama was witnessed, as a group of locals led by a Hindu group tried to disrupt namaz being offered at a community ground in Sector 40 behind the cyber hub in Gurugram today. Meanwhile, cops stopped the group comprising women from doing so.“They have no valid permission to offer namaz at the ground. We tried to explain this thing last Friday also but I was detained for objecting to this illegal activity. We want action against this illegal congregation,” said Dinesh Thakur, national president of the Jai Bharat Mata Vahini.“The administration has approved this ground for prayers. This group is trying to scare us and we are under constant threat. Today also, we offered prayers in the police presence. We want immediate intervention and clarification on the legality of the venue,” said a maulvi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-bid-to-disrupt-namaz-in-gurugram-231230
27-03-2021||Yamunanagar||19 shopkeepers challaned for not wearing masks||Three teams of the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation recently issued challans to 19 shopkeepers for not wearing masks and imposed a fine of Rs 9,500.The teams challaned shopkeepers on Railway Road, Khalsa College Road, Jindal Park Road and in the Fountain Chowk area. Three shopkeepers were also issued challans for using plastic bags.Arun Kumar Bhargava, MC executive officer, said the drive would continue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/19-shopkeepers-challaned-for-not-wearing-masks-231231
27-03-2021||---||Villagers oppose waste dumping by Gurugram, Faridabad civic bodies||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, March 26Residents of 12 villages and colonies located in and around the Aravali belt organised a mahapanchayat here today against the decision of the Gurugram and Faridabad Municipal Corporations to dump waste near Pali village in the district. They decided to lodge a formal complaint with the National Green Tribunal (NGT).Jitender Bhadana, an activist of NGO Save Aravali and one of the organisers of the mahapanchayat, claimed that the consent of Pali village panchayat or the villagers had not been taken in this regard. He said that the Faridabad and Gurugram municipal corporations, which earlier dumped garbage at Bandhwari village, were now dumping waste at a place near Pali village, leading to resentment among the villagers. ‘’Over 100 truckloads of garbage have been dumped near Pali village in the past couple of days,’’ he said. Perhaps, it had been done because the original place at Bandhwari village was now overfilled and there was no space left, he added. Last year, the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) had to abandon its decision to dump waste near Sector 75 after protests by residents.Rambeer, a resident of Pakhal village, said that instead of timely processing waste at Bandhwari, officials concerned had been resorting to short-cut methods, ignoring their impact on the ecology and the health of people. Underground water near Bandhwari was already severely polluted, he added.The mahapanchayat attended by around 120 residents of Pali, Mohabtabad, Pakhal, Pawta, Gothra, Nayagaon, Bhankri, Nawada, Nekpur, Kheri, Dabua and Sainik Colony condemned the decision of the two civic bodies and decided to lodge a complaint with the NGT soon.However, Inderjeet Kulharia, Additional Commissioner, MCF, said the decision to dump waste in the form of refuse derived fuel (RDF) had been shelved. He claimed that the RDF was not toxic and non-polluting and was in fact a renewable energy source and have no adverse impact. He added that a three-member committee had been formed to discuss the issue and find a viable solution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villagers-oppose-waste-dumping-by-gurugram-faridabad-civic-bodies-231232
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure ex-gratia benefit to PACS staff: Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today accepted 11 major demands of the Haryana unit of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS).Khattar, while presiding over a meeting with members of the BMS, directed officers concerned to ensure that PACS employees get the benefits of ex-gratia and the cashless medical scheme. Besides, he also ordered them to resolve the issue of promotion of PACS employees in Central Cooperative Banks.Khattar directed the officers concerned to resolve the matter of pending salaries of rural tubewell operators within 15 days and bring watchmen deputed in rural areas under the purview of PF rules. He also directed the officers to ensure the benefit of additional incentive amount to ANMs working in urban health centres from September 2019. BMS demanded the removal of discrepancies in the matter of minimum wages and the withdrawal of court cases against computer operators The CM directed the officers to withdraw the cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-ex-gratia-benefit-to-pacs-staff-khattar-231233
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Ready to amend 75% quota policy, says Haryana CM||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said that the state government was committed to providing ample employment opportunities to the local youth through 75 per cent quota in private jobs but if required amendments to the policy would be made.Khattar presided over a meeting with major industrial associations, chambers, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders on Thursday. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala also attended the meeting.“The industry plays a pivotal role in the state’s development. The stakeholders gave many important and valuable suggestions at the meeting which would certainly be incorporated before framing the policy. If required, amendments to the policy would be made so as to ensure that it is industry-friendly,” he said.The Chief Minister said that the main purpose of the meeting was to seek suggestions and feedback from the stakeholders before framing rules for the new policy mandating 75 per cent job reservation for Haryana candidates. Khattar said maintaining a perfect balance between the progress of the industry, and the economy along with creating a favourable employment environment, especially for the youth of the state, was the need of the hour and both government and industrialists should jointly work in this direction. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ready-to-amend-75-quota-policy-says-haryana-cm-231234
27-03-2021||---||Vij: Haryana to move HC for death penalty to Nikita's killers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 26Soon after the verdict in the Nikita Tomar case came out on Friday, Home Minister Ani Vij announced that the state would file an appeal in the Punjab and Haryana High Court for death penalty to the killers.Order not encouragingToday’s court order is not encouraging. Had there been a law on forceful conversion in the state, the picture would have been different — Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, acting prez of Haryana state women commissionIssuing a statement on Friday, he said, “We are examining the judgment. We will file an appeal for death penalty to the killers.”He said the killers were arrested in 24 hours and within 11 days, a 700-page chargesheet was filed. The case was tried through a fast-track court where the punishment was pronounced in five months.Acting president of the Haryana State Women Commission Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal expressed dissatisfaction over the sessions court order of life term to the convicts. She said, “Today’s court order is not encouraging. Had there been a law on forceful conversion in the state, the picture would have been different.” Dalal said other states do have laws on conversion and requested the government to bring a law, “so that action could be taken against those luring girls before marriage for conversion,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-haryana-to-move-hc-for-death-penalty-to-nikitas-killers-231235
27-03-2021||---||9 structures razed in illegal colony||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, March 26A team of the District Town Planner (DTP), Yamunanagar, carried out a demolition drive in an unauthorised colony at Mandebar village in the district on Thursday. The colony is spread over 1.5 acres and the team comprising DTP Amit Madholia, Assistant Town Planner Dinesh Singh and Junior Engineer Mohit removed nine damp proof courses.People must invest wisely: Town PlannerSumit Sawhney, Assistant Director, Industrial Health and Safety, Yamunanagar, was appointed duty magistrate. DTP Amit Madholia said people should not invest their hard earned money in such unauthorised colonies and should rather contact the DTP office for any enquiry before buying land.Sumit Sawhney, Assistant Director, Industrial Health and Safety, Yamunanagar, was appointed duty magistrate. Madholia said that people should not invest their hard earned money in such unauthorised colonies and should rather contact the DTP office for any enquiry before buying land.“General notice boards have also been erected in all unauthorised colonies for the awareness of general public,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-structures-razed-in-illegal-colony-231237
27-03-2021||---||Class X, XII exams from April 20||Tribune News ServiceHisar, March 26The Board of School Education Haryana, Bhiwani, has announced the date sheet of the examinations for matriculation and senior secondary classes. A spokesperson for the board said that the examinations would start on April 20 and would be held from 12.30 pm to 3 pm. The students are required to reach the examination centres half an hour before the schedule, he added.Jagbir Singh, chairperson of the education board, said that about 7.5 lakh students would appear in the examinations at 2,100 centres in the state. While the Class XII examinations would be held from April 20 to May 18, the Class X exams were scheduled from April 22 to May 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/class-x-xii-exams-from-april-20-231238
27-03-2021||---||Karnal sugar mill trial likely from March 30||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 26The long wait of farmers is going to an end, as the new Karnal Cooperative Sugar Mill is likely to have a trial of crushing sugarcane from March 30. The installation work of the machinery is in the final stage. As per officials, the extended deadline is March 31. The crushing season starts on March 30, so the trial date has also been fixed as March 30.After the mill becomes operational, its capacity would increase to 3,500 tonnes crushed per day (TCD) from the existing 2,200 TCD. It would be further expanded to 5,000 TCD. With the increase in the capacity, around 8 to 10 lakh tonnes of surplus sugarcane of the allocated area, which was earlier allotted to other sugar mills due to the less capacity of the mill, would now be crushed here, said Aditi, MD, Karnal Cooperative Sugar Mill. She said there would be no need to allocate the surplus sugarcane to other mills as the mill would be able to crush the whole production of the allocated areas in the coming days. “The new mill will also generate 18 MW power that will help in increasing its income ” she said.Besides, once the mill becomes operational, it would start producing refined sugar. “At present, we are producing around 3.5 lakh quintals of conventional sugar per day, but after the mill starts working, we will be able to produce 4 lakh quintals of refined sugar, which will fetch good prices,” the MD said.“If the new mill is not started now, we will have to start it in the next crushing season, which will entail expenses of around Rs 5 crore on the maintenance of the old mill,” Aditi said.The old mill is working since 1977 and develops technical snag in the crushing season every year, which affects the crushing season and resentment brews among the farmers. On the demands of the farmers, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had laid the foundation stone of the new Karnal Cooperative Sugar Mill instead of the existing old mill on January 20, 2018. The work was allotted on November 18, 2019 and the deadline was fixed as October 25, 2020, but due to the Covid lockdown, the project failed to meet the deadline and the government then extended the deadline to March 31.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said a sum of Rs 263 crore had been spent on the renovation and modernisation of the old mill. “It was a long-pending demand of the farmers and the government has fulfilled it by not only renovating but also modernising the mill,” he said, adding that the new mill will also reduce the sugar loss to 1.8 per cent from the existing 2.5 per cent per quintal. Besides, it will also increase the sugar recovery to 11 per cent from the existing 10.87 per cent, he maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-sugar-mill-trial-likely-from-march-30-231239
27-03-2021||Karnal||Minister out of  hospital||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-out-of-hospital-231240
27-03-2021||Karnal||NCC cadets clean statue of Bhagat Singh in Karnal||GJUST listed for online coursesHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology (GJUST), Hisar, is now listed in the list of higher education institutions entitled to start full-fledged online programmes without the prior approval of the University Grants Commission (UGC), as per the provisions of the UGC (Open and Distance Learning Programmes and Online Programmes) Regulations, 2020. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor,said GJUST was the first science and technology university of Haryana among 37 approved higher education institutions listed for online courses by the Distance Education Bureau of the UGC for the full-fledged online programmes. GJUST is entitled to offer bachelor of commerce-general and master of business administration in human resource (HR) and marketing through distance mode. The permission to offer the online courses has been awarded to only those reputed higher education institutions, who are accredited and ranked with NAAC and NIRF.Karnal’s student shines in JEE (Main)Karnal: Khushi Singh, a student of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Karnal, has secured 99.87 percentile in JEE (MAIN). She has secured 100 percentile in physics in the same exam. Her father, Warrant Officer Birendra Kumar Singh, is working in the Indian Air Force and at present posted at No. 2 HAR AIR SQN NCC, Karnal. Her mother Ranjana Singh said she had bee a brilliant student throughout. Apart from this, she has passed Class X with 97 per cent and also qualified the regional mathematical olympiad in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ncc-cadets-clean-statue-of-bhagat-singh-in-karnal-231242
27-03-2021||Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) is laying underground gas pipelines in the city for a long time. The pipeline work has been completed in many sectors||House ramp not repaired||Shakti Singh, KarnalDrains in Karnal full of garbageIn Chief Minister's city Karnal, drains were laid on both sides of the roads for an easy flow of water. These drains remain filled with garbage and water and have become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Please get these drains cleaned regularly.HR Mittal, KarnalSurge in Covid-19 cases worrisomeThe life was slowly limping back to normal, as Covid cases declined in January and February. But the sudden re-surge in March is worrisome. Everybody is afraid of it. Social gatherings led to this spike in positive cases. There is hardly any place where people are seen not wearing masks or adhering to safety norms. There is a proverb, "Self-discipline is always good" is so true but as a responsible citizen we do not follow the Covid protocol. The pandemic can continue for another year, nobody knows. Thank God! Panchkula is less affected, but self-safety will help in saving others' lives.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaEncroachment outside shops in Narwana grain marketIn the Narwana grain market, shopkeepers have encroached upon the entire available space outside their shops by erecting pucca tin sheds and placing their wares up to the middle of the main road, leaving little space for traffic. Further, they have also encroached upon the entire open ground to store iron girders and stone slabs. The practice is going on since long and no government department stops them from doing so. This trend must stop now.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/house-ramp-not-repaired-231243
27-03-2021||Chandigarh/Mohali||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block Chandigarh-Ambala highway; traffic jam on Zirakpur-Panchkula road||Farmer unions blocked the Chandigarh-Ambala Highway on Friday morning, observing the 'Bharat Bandh'. Massive protests broke out at the McDonald point in Zirakpur.Despite this, they also barred K-Area lights on Zirakpur-Panchkula road. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed here.Farmers union have also blocked National Highways in the Mohali district. The Zirakpur-Patiala road was also blocked by the protesting farmers from the Airport light points since this morning.Due to the Bharat Bandh, passengers in Chandigarh face an inconvenience as the Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express stopped at Chandigarh Railway Station as the farmers blocked the railway traffic during the nationwide 'Bharat Bandh', called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Also read: Meanwhile, the strike will be observed from 6 am to 6 pm.Local markets: Phase 7, 3B2, Phase 11 in Mohali wore a deserted look. Shopkeepers were spotted waiting outside their shops in Zirakpur, hoping the markets open till 10am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-chandigarh-ambala-highway-traffic-jam-on-zirakpur-panchkula-road-230750
27-03-2021||---||Total bandh in Punjab; road, rail traffic hit in Haryana||New Delhi/Chandigarh, March 26Road and rail traffic was disrupted in several parts of Punjab and Haryana during the “Bharat Bandh” called by farmers on Friday as part of their nationwide protest against the three farm laws. The response was partial in other parts of the country. Punjab saw a complete shutdown. Roads and markets wore a deserted look. Bus service in the state was severely hit with both private operators and Punjab Roadways buses keeping off road.A press note by the Northern Railways said 10 trains, including the Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi and the Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi, were cancelled. At last five trains were diverted and more than 39 “short- terminated.”Impact barely 0.5% nationwide: RlysNew Delhi: The Railways said on Friday barely 0.5 per cent of the trains were impacted by Bharat Bandh. “Barring a limited number of trains in Punjab and Haryana, the bandh had nearly zero impact across the nation,” said official sources. TNSAll passenger and goods trains passing through Ropar district were cancelled or terminated mid-way. The bandh received a massive response in Patiala, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Mansa, Sangrur and Barnala. “All sections of society supported the bandh today,” said Jagtar Kalajhar of the BKU-Ugrahan.Under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, farmers in Amritsar held a protest bare-chested. They blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi rail track and the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT road. In Fatehgarh Sahib district, farmers gathered in front of the shop of BJP’s Sirhind unit president, asking him to shut his shop.In Haryana, farmers blocked highways and other key roads and squatted on rail tracks at several locations. As many as 35 passenger trains were detained and the movement of 40 goods trains was affected. The movement of trains was disrupted at 44 locations under the Delhi, Ambala and Ferozepur divisions. Road traffic was hit at Ambala, Panipat, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Jind, Panchkula, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Palwal, Rohtak and Bhiwani districts.Shops remained shut in Rajasthan’s Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh districts. Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, and Odisha saw a mixed response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/total-bandh-in-punjab-road-rail-traffic-hit-in-haryana-231076
27-03-2021||Faridabad||Life term for 2 in Nikita murder case||A fast-track court here today sentenced two convicts to life imprisonment for the murder of Nikita Tomar, five months after the 21-year-old was shot outside her college in Ballabgarh. A fine of Rs 20,000 was also slapped.Tausif (22) and Rehan (24) were pronounced guilty on March 24. Another accused, Ajru, who supplied gun to the convicts, was acquitted.A B.Com final year student, Nikita was murdered on October 26 after she resisted an abduction attempt by the duo. The police, in its chargesheet filed in record 11 days, had claimed Tausif drew inspiration for the crime from a web series. “Nikita was murdered as she refused to marry Tausif,” said a relative of the victim.Home Minister Anil Vij, who had called it a case of “love jihad”, said the state government would file an appeal before the High Court seeking death sentence for the two men. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/life-term-for-2-in-nikita-murder-case-231084
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Major rejig: High Court shifts 180 judicial officers in Punjab, Haryana||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered the transfer and postings of 180 judicial officials in Punjab and Haryana. The transferred officers include district and sessions judges.In all, 79 judicial officers of the Haryana Superior Judicial Services, including six district and session judges, and 73 additional district and sessions judge-rank officers have been transferred in Haryana. In Punjab, 97 judges have been transferred. This is the first major administrative reshuffle ever since the HC went into restrictive functioning mode in March last year following the Covid outbreak. The major transfers include District and Sessions Judges Gurbir Singh from Ludhiana to Chandigarh, Munish Singal from Moga to Ludhiana, Harpreet Kaur Randhawa from Tarn Taran to Amritsar and Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa from Pathankot to Nawanshahr. In Haryana, District and Sessions Judge Deepak Gupta has been transferred from Faridabad to Panchkula; Surya Partap Singh from Chandigarh has been transferred as District and Sessions Judge at Gurgaon. Puneesh Jindia has been posted from Rohtak to Chandigarh as member-secretary, State Legal Service Authority, UT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/major-rejig-high-court-shifts-180-judicial-officers-in-punjab-haryana-231091
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court orders transfer and posting of about 180 judicial officials||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered the transfer and postings of about 180 judicial officials in the states of Punjab and Haryana. The transferred officers include district and sessions judges.In all, 79 judicial officers of the Haryana Superior Judicial Services, including six district and session judges, and 73 additional district and sessions judge-rank officers have been transferred in Haryana.In Punjab, 97 judges have been transferred. This is the first major administrative reshuffle ever since the high court went into restrictive functioning mode in March last year following Covid outbreak.        The major transfers include District and Sessions judges Gurbir Singh from Ludhiana to Chandigarh, Munish Singal from Moga to Ludhiana, Harpreet Kaur Randhawa from Tarn Taran to Amritsar and Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa from Pathankot to Nawanshahr.In Haryana, District and Sessions Judge Deepak Gupta has been transferred from Faridabad to Panchkula; Surya Partap Singh from Chandigarh has been transferred as District and Sessions Judge at Gurugram. Puneesh Jindia has been posted from Rohtak to Chandigarh as member secretary, state legal service authority, UT Aradhana Sawhney, Additional Legal Remembrancer, has been posted as District and Sessions Judge at Jind. Yashvir Singh Rathore has been posted as District and Sessions Judge at Faridabad. UT Legal Remembrancer Phalit Sharma also has been posted as Additional District and Sessions Judge at Gurugram. The orders will come into force from April 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-orders-transfer-and-posting-of-about-180-judicial-officials-230832
27-03-2021||Chandigarh||Fast-track court sentences 2 to life imprisonment in Nikita Tomar murder case||A fast-track court in Faridabad on Friday sentenced the two accused in Nikita Tomar murder case to imprisonment for life.The court sentenced the key accused, Tauseef, and his accomplice Rehan to life imprisonment in a judgment on quantum of punishment delivered today.The court had on Wednesday held both the accused guilty of Nikita’s murder and had put off its verdict on quantum of punishment for today.Nikita Tomar, 21, was shot in broad daylight at Ballabhgarh in Faridabad district of Haryana on October 26 last year. The incident took place during an abduction attempt that was caught on camera.The two men had tried to abduct Nikita Tomar. When she resisted, Tausif pulled out a revolver and fired at her. Tausif told the police after his arrest that he shot Nikita as he wanted to marry her but she was about to get married to someone else.A Special Investigation Team (SIT) probed the case and submitted challan in a record time.The victim’s family had later given an application saying that this was a case of “love jihad”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fast-track-court-sentences-2-to-life-imprisonment-in-nikita-tomar-murder-case-230804
