29-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmers celebrate Holi, Hola Mohalla on protest sites at Delhi borders||The farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws at the Delhi borders -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- on Monday celebrated Holi and Hola Mohalla.The protesting farmers maintained that their agitation will continue till the farm laws are repealed and a separate law on minimum support price is enacted.They celebrated the festival with cultural programmes and a drama ‘Uthan Da Vela’ by Lok Kala Manch Mandi Mullampur.“We celebrated Holi at all the protest sites. Sikhs also celebrated Hola Mohalla festival. Women from nearby villages of Haryana came to the protest sites and played Holi in traditional way by playfully hitting the protesters with a cloth whip,” farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar told PTI.Advocate Joginder Singh Toor also launched a book titled “In Kanuno Me Kala Kya”, which explains the agri laws in a detailed manner.The farmers on Sunday burnt copies of the new farm laws during ‘Holika Dahan’, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmers’ unions, said in a statement. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-celebrate-holi-hola-mohalla-on-protest-sites-at-delhi-borders-232128
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Virus scare dampens Holi mood in Punjab, Haryana||Holi celebrations remained muted across Punjab and Haryana on Monday as people stayed indoors with the authorities prohibiting gatherings at public places due to the coronavirus scare.In Chandigarh too, people celebrated the festival at home as the administration prohibited the celebrations at public parks, Sukhna Lake and the Sector 17 Plaza. Clubs and hotels were also barred from holding any gathering.The restrictions had been imposed in the wake of a recent surge in the virus cases in the region.Police personnel in adequate strength were deployed and barricades were set up at several places to prevent hooliganism, check drunken driving and ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour, said officials.A police official in Punjab’s Mohali said they impounded vehicles of those who indulged in hooliganism.Police personnel even carried out patrolling to check gatherings at public places, the officials further said.However, a large number of people paid obeisance at Gurdwara Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib on the occasion of Holla Mohalla, a religious fair.“Nihangs”, traditional Sikh warriors, displayed the “gatka”, a traditional martial art form.Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh greeted people on the occasion of Holi.“Wishing you all a very safe and #HappyHoli. I pray and wish the festival of colours heralds a year of joy and happiness for everyone, especially our farmers. Request everyone to observe all #Covid19 safety precautions in your Holi celebrations,” said Amarinder in a tweet.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also extended greetings to the people of his state on this occasion. May the festival of Holi bring immense happiness, prosperity and new enthusiasm in people’s lives, he tweeted. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virus-scare-dampens-holi-mood-in-punjab-haryana-232122
29-03-2021||Parveen Arora---||Karnal old bus stand to be redeveloped||Tribune News Service Karnal, March 28 The old bus stand, situated in the heart of the city, will be redeveloped by Karnal Smart City Ltd., a company looking after the Smart City project. This project was earlier shelved by the state government due to the Covid pandemic, but now, it has been taken up. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given nod to the project. A detailed project report (DPR) has been prepared. As per the DPR, it will be have facilities of a commercial plaza, intra-city bus stand, public utility spaces. “We have shortlisted three plans and the Chief Minister has given nod to one of them. We have prepared the DPR and will again send it to the CM for the final nod,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner who is also the CEO of  Karnal Smart City Ltd. The old bus stand is spread in around 8.75 acres. To give relief to residents from the traffic congestion, the state government got constructed a new bus stand on the national highway near the Baldi bypass. “We will develop a commercial plaza in around 1.8 acres. Shops will be constructed and later auctioned, so that people can get space to establish their business,” said the DC, adding that the intra-city bus stand will also be developed in around 2.25 acres. The buses running under the city bus service project and also the buses of the district routes will pass from it. An e-rickshaw and auto stand will also be established. Apart from this, an interactive park, digital library, skill centre along with other public utilities and museum will also be developed in the remaining areas of the old bus stand, the DC asserted. He said the new project would not only add to the beauty of the city, but also increase the revenue of the Karnal Municipal Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-old-bus-stand-to-be-redeveloped-231975
29-03-2021||Parveen Arora||Poor response to e-PTMs in government schools||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, March 28Parents of students studying in government schools are showing less interest in attending e-parents-teachers meetings (e-PTMs). Lack of digital capacity and less awareness on the e-mode among parents is believed to be main reasons behind it, said one of the officials associated with the Saksham project.As per the data of Saksham, parents have not attended the e-PTMs actively held in January. The data says that 75,132 parents out of total 1,24,279 parents have attended the PTMs.With 49.9 per cent parents participation, Nissing block has the lowest participation, followed by Nilokheri block (56.69 per cent), Assandh block (60.81 per cent), Karnal block (61.36 per cent), Indri block (63.64 per cent) and Gharaunda block (66.58 per cent), less than the district average which is 75 per cent.“I have reviewed the progress of Saksham project two days ago and found that the parents have not shown enthusiasm in the e-PTMs,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, adding that directions have been issued to the teachers, heads and district-level officials to ensure active participation of parents in future through both online and offline mode. “Our teachers are also approaching the parents in their houses to make them aware about the digital mode and to ensure their participation in the PTMs, which will further help in nurturing their wards,” said the DC Yadav.Amrutha Datla, Chief Minister Good Governance Associate (CMGGA), said to assist the students in their studies and their exams, “Avsar app” was started under the Saksham project. Students are being connected through “Siksha Mitra” and other facilities, so that they can actively participate in educational activities. More than 85 per cent students have been connected with this app, but efforts are being made to raise the percentage of their usage, which is at present 21.74 per cent. Indri block has the highest active user students which are 59.93 per cent.She also informed that the number of registered teachers on the Avsar app was good, but they were also not using this app actively. There are 5,545 teachers in the district, of them 5,164 got themselves registered on this app, but only 1,307 are using this app actively.“We have directed the teachers to use this app actively to monitor the performance of the students and also to deliver their lecture, notes,” the DC maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-response-to-e-ptms-in-government-schools-231977
29-03-2021||---||Roadmap to develop Panchkula being readied||Chandigarh, March 28The Haryana Government has prepared a roadmap for the overall and integrated development of Panchkula district. The district will be developed as a ‘Centre of Excellence’ in various areas, which will be ecological and eco-friendly.In this series, it is planned that a film city on about 50 acres to 60 acres in the HMT, Pinjore will be developed, where model studios will be developed.The Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department, AK Singh, directed officers of the departments concerned to expedite various projects being implemented for the purpose of integrated development of the district.He said Panchkula district would be a centre for planned regional development and the focus would be on cultural activities, including tourism, entertainment, recreation, medicine, industrial development, sports and Ayurveda. For this, the forest, tourism and sports departments are working together.AK Singh said several projects had been started to improve connectivity here. Under ‘PR-7’, connectivity work would be expedited on the road proposed by Punjab to the Chandigarh Airport. In this series, the construction of a bridge on the Ghaggar river was going on to connect Sector 20-21 and Sector 24-26.He said he work would also be done to upgrade the Ramgarh-Mubarakpur-Derabassi road on the National Highway-73 for connectivity to Ramgarh.Besides, the road would also be widened from the Morni-Raipur Rani road on the NH-73 and from the Chandimandir T-junction to the Morni road on the NH-73. There is also a plan to connect Ramgarh to Himachal Pradesh by connecting Sector 32, Panchkula, to the DLF township in Pinjore, near Parwanoo.AK Singh said instead of concrete structures, the emphasis would be laid on temporary and nature-friendly constructions in terms of tourism. Besides, the possibility of paragliding in Thapli forest would also be explored along with camping and trekking. He added that structures of buildings such as Mountain Quail, Morni and Yadavindra Gardens, Pinjore, as well as Red Bishop would be used in the area to promote tourism. He said to promote medical tourism in the area, seven to 10 places would be identified for hospitals. The possibility of increasing cooperation with the PGI, Chandigarh, to provide medical facilities on the lines of Medanta, Gurugram, would also be explored. Similarly, the work would also be done to set up institutes such as an education city here. The pharma industry falling under the white, green and orange categories would be promoted here.Centre for planned regional development||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/roadmap-to-develop-panchkula-being-readied-231980
29-03-2021||---||Pollution board notice to 225 screening plants||Yamunanagar, March 28The authorities of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Yamunanagar, have issued show-cause notices to 225 screening plants under provisions of the Water and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act.The owners of the screening plants have been told to provide the details of settling tanks, arrangements made for re-circulation of washing water being generated from washing section, adequate plantation along the periphery of the units and metalled road on the premises of the units.The screening plants are engaged in the process of washing and screening of mixed material procured from river bed mining.Meanwhile, sources said the notices had created panic among the screening plant owners as a number of plants didn’t have settling tanks (water storage tanks for re-circulation).Nirmal Kumar Kashyap, regional officer of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Yamunanagar, said the plants had recently been issued show-cause notices to submit compliance report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-board-notice-to-225-screening-plants-231982
29-03-2021||---||Venod Sharma denies joining saffron  party||Chandigarh, March 28 Former Union Minister and president of the Haryana Jan Chetna Party(HJCP) Venod Sharma today denied reports of his joining the BJP. In a statement issued here, Sharma termed the reports as “baseless”, adding that his party had been working and would continue to work for the welfare of the people. Sharma’s wife and HJP candidate Shakti Rani Sharma was recently elected Mayor of Ambala City, defeating the BJP and the Congress candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/venod-sharma-denies-joining-saffron-party-231984
29-03-2021||An elevated section of the under-construction Dwarka Expressway collapsed on Sunday||Gurugram flyover collapses; 3 hurt||The incident took place at Daultabad Chowk; no construction was in progress when the flyover collapsed“The injuries to three labourers are not serious. They are under treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP (West)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-flyover-collapses-3-hurt-231986
29-03-2021||---||Farmers burn copies of farm laws on Holika Dahan||Sonepat/Karnal & Palwal, March 28Farmers, who have been protesting at Delhi borders for the past four months, today burnt copies of the farm laws as part of the “Holika Dahan” celebrations at the Singhu border, the Peont toll plaza on the NH-709A in Karnal district and at a dharna site near Palwal’s Antoha village.They termed the laws “anti-farmer” and “anti-people”, and said they would not step back until the Centre repealed the three laws.Meanwhile, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha condemned the Haryana Government for passing the “protesters to pay” law.Dr Darshan Pal, a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said: “The Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property during Disturbance to Public Order Act, 2021, contains such dangerous provisions that will undermine democracy. By bringing in this law, the state government wants to derail the farmers’ movement.”Under the Act, the loss of private or public property during protests would be recovered from agitators.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, meanwhile, decided to observe April 5 as the “FCI Bachao Diwas”. In view of the privatisation of the Food Corporation of India (FCI), its offices across the country will be gheraoed from 11 am to 5 pm.At the Peont toll plaza, the farmers remembered those who died during the protest. Sukhwinder Singh, a farmer leader from Assandh, said: “More than 300 farmers have lost their lives ever since the agitation started. We cannot celebrate any festival as our brothers and elderly persons have sacrificed their lives during the agitation.”“To keep the momentum, duties have been assigned to farmers as per villages. One vehicle is on duty to pick and drop farmers from two villages daily, so that the numbers do not dwindle,” he added.Meanwhile, another farmer leader Chander Pal said, “We have burnt copies of the laws in protest against Central Government’s ‘rigid attitude’ towards our demands.”At the dharna site in Palwal district, protesters said burning the copies of the laws was like burning demons unleashed by the Central Government.Former minister Karan Singh Dalal condemned the police for booking farmers for blocking a national highway. He demanded a fair probe into the matter.The Congress leader alleged the Centre was leaving no stone unturned to crush the agitation. “The BJP will face defeat in the in the Assembly elections in five states,” he claimed.Thousands of farmers are protesting against the three laws passed by the Centre at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border for the past 122 days. Theyare demanding repeal of the laws and legal guarantee on the MSP.The talks with the Union Government have not been held for the past two months after the 12th round of the talks on January 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-burn-copies-of-farm-laws-on-holika-dahan-231989
29-03-2021||Jhajjar||Man shot dead over land row in Jhajjar||A guest teacher (35), posted at a government school in Najafgarh (Delhi), was gunned down by three bike-borne masked assailants in Dujana village here on Sunday.The deceased was identified as Anil Kumar. Some land dispute was stated to be the reason behind the incident.The police have booked three persons on the complaint of the victim’s father, Vijay Kumar. No arrest had been made so far, while the police said three teams were conducting raids at the possible hideouts of the accused.Anil had come to Dujana from Delhi for Holi.Anil’s father suspected the involvement of Sanjay of Birdhana village in the crime, as the accused had attacked the complainant and his son over 10 months ago following a land dispute, Manoj Kumar, Dujana SHO, said, adding that Sanjay, along with two others, had been booked for the murder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-shot-dead-over-land-row-in-jhajjar-231992
29-03-2021||Ambala||Cattle smugglers try to run over cops, booked||The police have booked unidentified cattle smugglers for allegedly trying to run over policemen in Naraingarh on Saturday. ASI Pitamber Singh alleged that a canter and a pick-up truck were smuggling cattle to UP. Acting on the information, a naka was set up on the Naraingarh road. The canter driver and the pick-up truck broke the naka, sped toward Sadhaura and attempted to run over the cops at the site. They fled and the cops rescued seven cattle from the vehicle.  A case was registered under Sections 307, 279, and 336 of the IPC, and Section 11 of the Prevention to Cruelty to Animals Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cattle-smugglers-try-to-run-over-cops-booked-231994
29-03-2021||Kurukshetra||18-day Covid trace & test drive in Kurukshetra||The district administration has planned an 18-day drive from March 30 to April 16 to trace and test Covid patients following a surge in cases. It has also decided to map the high-risk population and increase testing.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhbir said, “The Health Department will be testing vendors, shopkeepers, delivery boys and milkmen as they come in contact with a large number of people every day. The police will patrol containment zones. Banners will be installed in streets where Covid patients reside.”DC Sharandeep Kaur said, “Officials have been directed to keep tabs on containment zones and take action against those found violating the norms. Shopkeepers and vendors found without masks will be issued challans.”Meanwhile, 112 new Covid cases were reported in the district today, taking the number of active cases to 911. In all, 73 patients were discharged, while two deaths were reported. The district has reported 145 deaths. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-day-covid-trace-test-drive-in-kurukshetra-231996
29-03-2021||Faridabad||BDPO among 4 booked for fraud||A Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) is among four persons booked for allegedly withdrawing Rs 2.32 crore from the account of the Mujheri gram panchayat between January and May 2020 without the permission of the competent authority. The accused — BDPO Pooja Sharma, former Mujheri sarpanch Rani, gram sachiv Vijay and contractor Lalit Mohan Sharma — have been booked under Sections 409 and 120B of the IPC,and Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Actat the Ballabgarh police station on Saturday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bdpo-among-4-booked-for-fraud-231999
29-03-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar announces settlement scheme for HSIIDC allottees||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has announced a settlement scheme for the clearing the dues of the HSIIDC plot owners. It will benefit more than 2,250 industrialists.As per the announcement, if industrialists pay the outstanding plot cost and the enhanced cost in one go, they will get a waiver of 25 per cent on overdue interest and 100 per cent on penal interest.There was an outstanding amount of around Rs 1,500 crore and the benefit was likely to the tune of Rs 225 crore, Khattar said. He also announced rationalisation of the extension fee structure with effect from April 1. The period for the completion of the project beyond the initial time of three years will be deemed extended for further three years on the payment of the rationalised extension fee, to be decided by the HSIIDC Board of Directors, for three categories of estates — A, B and C. Khattar hinted that for the ‘A’ category estate, the 4th and 5th year extension fee would be Rs 50 per sq mt, for the ‘B’ category, Rs 25 per sq mt, and for the ‘C’ category, it would be Rs 10 per sq m.He said at present, Rs 636 crore of extension fee was outstanding from 330 allottees.The CM also announced that the HSIIDC would waive 50 per cent of the outstanding amount because of the extension fee. He added that in case the allottees were not able to complete their projects, they could apply for placing the plot for sale by auction through the HSIIDC before the commencement of the sixth year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-announces-settlement-scheme-for-hsiidc-allottees-232001
29-03-2021||---||Information delayed, official penalised Rs 25,000||Hisar, March 28The State Information Commission has imposed a penalty of Rs 25,000 on the State Public Information Officer (SPIO) of the Higher Education Department for not providing information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.Information had been sought by a Hisar-based resident Anil Bhatia regarding the affiliation and administration of government-aided DAV colleges.An application was filed on November 16, 2019, to seek information from the public information officer (colleges branch) in the Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) on five points regarding the affiliation and administration of 13 affiliated and 95 per cent government-aided DAV colleges as per the security of the Service Act 1979 and service rules 2006.Bhatia had sought the list of the transferred lecturers and principals of DAV colleges since 1979 and rules regarding the fixation of seniority and grant of senior scale public selection grade to these transferred lecturers, principals and the approval of the government.State Public Information Officer Neelam Puna said on November 28, 2019, there was no rule of transfer in DAV colleges and such a list of transferred lecturers and principals was not available with the office of the DHE. Bhatia argued that this was despite the fact that every appointment was subject to the approval of the government and university and all posts of lecturer/principal in non-government recognised college was by way of direct recruitment.Bhatia filed the first appeal before the appellate authority on December 5, 2019, who did not decide the appeal on February 9, 2020. Bhatia had filed the second appeal before the State Information Commission. At the time of the hearing of both parties on March 7, 2020, the commission had observed that the information supplied by the public authority was incomplete and inaccurate.Finally at the time of the hearing on March 3, 2021, the State InformationCommissioner, Bhupender Dharmani, imposed a penalty of Rs 25,000 on Neelam Puna for intentional delay and delay of information to Bhatia in its order, dated March 15, 2021.The commission also directed the director, higher education, to deduct the penalty amount from the salary and directed to send the compliance report to the commission by April 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/information-delayed-official-penalised-rs-25-000-232003
29-03-2021||Rohtak||National conference organised||Seminar on banking, insuranceKurukshetra: A two-day national seminar on contemporary issues in banking, insurance and financial sector was organised by the Institute of Management Studies, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, which had four sessions. In the first session, Ramesh Tamak, senior vice-president, investors relations, TATA AI General Insurance, discussed about the recent developments in the distribution of general insurance. In the second session, Vivek Mittal, DGM, PNB, and Dr Ashish Garg, associate professor, IIM, Kashipur, jointly, also discussed the issues of financial sector, cyber security and NPA management. The third and fourth sessions were chaired by professor Bhag Singh Bodla, dean, faculty of commerce and management and Rajendra Chauhan, general manager, IDBI Bank, respectively Dr Ramesh Dalal, Chairman, University School of Management was the chief guest.Ambala girl selected for TV showAmbala: After the All-India auditions Avni Chaurasia of Class IV of Lord Mahavir Jain Public School selected as challenger for the "top challengers shoot round" of "Bhavanjali - a reality show" Dharohar Sangeet Ki. It was held online and she showed her talent with full zeal. The school management and school principal congratulated her for bringing accolades and laurels to the school.6 students get scholarshipKarnal: Six girl students of Government High School Ramba, Karnal, got scholarship of Rs 22,500 under the scholarship programme of Canara Vidya Jyoti scheme by the Canara Bank Branch, Sector 12, Karnal, through saving accounts. In this scheme, the students were selected on the basis of examination results. This is a good step taken by Canara Bank to encourage girl students. The amount was given to Riya, Aarti, Amandeep, Kajal, Mehak and Monika who scored the highest marks in Classes V to X. The officiating headmistress of the school, Shalini Anand, received the incentive amount given. On behalf of students, she thanked the chief manager of the bank Santosh Kumar Minde, senior manager Pawan Kumar, manager Megha Patharia and expressed gratitude for this move.Diet session organisedAmbala: A session on diet and health management was organised under an administrative training programme for the non-teaching staff of Sanatan Dharma College, Ambala Cantt. The training programme was conducted by the internal quality assurance cell of the college and included two sessions - disaster management and diet and health management. Dietician Shiva Kumar, resource person, in her address talked about different body types and the requisite diet for people with various lifestyle disorders like blood pressure, gout, arthritis, acne and digestive problems.Vaccination campaign at varsitySirsa: Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa, Professor AS Malik launched the vaccination campaign to safeguard the employees and their family members from Covid on the campus. After taking the dose of the vaccine, he motivated the employees of the university to become a part of the vaccination process.Focus on developing rural sectorRohtak: Prof Rajbir Singh, Vice-Chancellor of Maharshi Dayanand University, said rural development should focus on comprehensive socio-economic development of rural sector. Inclusive growth is the need of the hour. Universities have a stellar role to play in the matter through qualitative research in the domain of rural development, and preparing a development road map for the purpose. While chairing a national seminar on "rural development: Opportunities and challenges" organised by the department of economics. The chief guest of the inaugural function was Prof Ashok Mittal, Vice- Chancellor, Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Agra.Nine GJUST students qualify GATEHisar: Nine students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology (GJUST), Hisar, have qualified the graduate aptitude test in engineering (GATE) 2021 examination, the results of which was declared recently. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Dr Avnesh Verma, Registrar, congratulated the students who have qualified the GATE examination. Total 711542 students appeared for this test, out of which 17.8 per cent students have qualified. Those who qualified the exams are Siddharth (601), Vishal Sharma (438), Jagdish Mishra (350) and Ayush Kumar (303), Rahul Rathee (410), Ishmit Bamel (369), Himanshu (358), Sachin Sharma (353) and Ankit Grover (308).‘Holika Dahan’ at Kaithal DPSKaithal: A cultural fiesta was organised on the premises of Delhi Public School, Kaithal, to celebrated Holi. Principal Navneet Kaur said life was a stage and it offered everyone abundance of opportunities to grab with a positive spirit. Parents, students and the DPS faculty attended 'Holika Dahan' with great reverence. Sending his greetings on the occasion, Satish Kumar Bansal, chairman of the school, urged the people to celebrate a safe Holi with colours and flowers following all the SOPs of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-conference-organised-232005
29-03-2021||IT is good to learn that the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram has taken the charge of clearing encroachments in the city||Tackling encroachment in Gurugram a right step||Subhash C Taneja, GurugramDeploy police to maintain law and order during HoliOn Holi, nuisance makers are often seen roaming around on heavy duty bikes. The noisy silencerless vehicles are often programmed with cracker blast sound producers. Druken driving by the bikers pose threat to peace and order in streets and markets. The police should deploy its force in sensitive areas of the town so that the festival passes of peacefully.Rakesh Sudan, KurukshetraGive elderly Railway fare concessionIt is sad to see that the railway authorities are not offering any fare concession to differently abled and senior citizens for travel by the general and special class. Special class like sleeper or chair car offers no concession. The Railway must be considerate on this issue.CP Bakshi, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tackling-encroachment-in-gurugram-a-right-step-232007
29-03-2021||Faridabad||Now, diesel delivery on doorstep||SDRF personnel felicitatedJhajjar: Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal has felicitated a five-member team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) with commendation certificates and cash reward for fishing out the body of a kiln labourer, who slipped into the NCR canal passing near Jasaur Kheri village here. The team was called from Bhondsi after all efforts made at the local level failed. “The team worked marvellously and recovered the body from the canal within some hours,” Duggal added.CCI gets new office-bearersYamunanagar: Industrialist Ish Anand was nominated as the president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (YJCCI), Yamunanagar-Jagadhri. In a programme organised here on Saturday, eminent educationist MK Sehgal was nominated as the vice-president. Sehgal, who is also the CCI spokesman, said other office-bearers were Samira Saluja as secretary general, Vibhor Pahuja as secretary, Shivam Saluja as joint secretary and Ashish Luthra as treasurer. He said Kapil Gupta, Harvinder Singh, Harmeet Chopra, Rajiv Aggarwal, Atul Gupta, Chaitanya Chandra, Pankaj Malik, Sanjay Gulti, Subhash Mahajan and Rahul Khanna would act as the executive members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-diesel-delivery-on-doorstep-232011
29-03-2021||SS Chahal||Remove hurdles to help farmers reap dividends||AGRICULTURE is the engine of economic growth in our country. However, the annual growth rate of agriculture and allied sectors has shown big fluctuations with declining trends during the post-Green Revolution period. The growth rate in real terms was 2.88 per cent from 2014-15 to 2018-19, according to the Economic Survey Report 2020. Studies have revealed that stagnant investment is one of the major factors for the decline, besides the slowdown of irrigation expansion, downscaling of production due to farm fragmentation and soil degradation due to improper use of chemical fertilisers. An analysis of data reveals continuing deceleration in public investment both at the national and state levels after the 1980s ‘in’ agriculture (land development, irrigation, markets etc.) as well as ‘for’ agriculture (roads, power, transport etc.), because of which there is no desirable improvement in the structural support system. Public investment, which has declined over the years, is mostly consumed for subsidies, fertilisers, irrigation, electricity, credit etc., whereas private investment made by farmers is adversely impacted by heavy indebtedness.The share of public investment in the Gross Capital Formation (GCF) has dipped to an extremely low level. As per figures given by the Union government, the GCF in agriculture and allied sectors at the current prices for 2016-17 was estimated at Rs 64,410 crore and Rs 2,79,066 crore from public and private investments, respectively. Any increase in public investment is beyond expectations with the 7.71 per cent cut for agri-schemes in the Union Budget 2021-22. To put agri-growth in the rapid mode, there is an acute need to improve infrastructure, including transportation and storage facilities, cold storage capacity in proximity to farms, warehouses and adequate processing, marketing and export facilities, the lack of which is causing huge wastage and losses to the public exchequer as well as the farmers. A study in 2016 estimated that about 67 million tonnes of food worth Rs 92,651 crore was lost annually in farm produce wastage.To build infrastructure for curbing such losses and achieving the target of 10.4 per cent income growth rate in farming over a period from 2016-17 to 2022-23 (with 2015-16 as the base year), the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare aims at an annual investment growth rate of 12.5 per cent ‘in’ agriculture and 16.8 per cent ‘for’ agriculture. While expecting a substantial increase in private investment by farmers, attracting corporate investment, which is currently around 2 per cent of the overall investment, is a huge challenge. A growing need has been felt for corporate investment in food processing, building warehouses, scientific storage and cold storage in addition to the farm mechanisation sector, the seed sector and the horticulture and food processing sector. Further, it is prudent to develop models defining capability-based activities for qualitative improvement and sustainable flow of corporate investment.Direct contactIt is with such considerations that contract farming (CF) is promoted to involve corporate agri-business entities, bringing them directly in contact with the primary producers as well as linking farmers with the market. The CF system basically involves a pre-determined price, quality, quantity and defined acreage at a time for production and commitment for the supply of agricultural produce to the known buyer under the contract which may be total, partial or for procurement only. The system got established in the country with the advent of new seeds and production of their certified versions since the 1960s. Further, it has been pushed by growth in the international trade demanding high quality, supermarket chains, demand for organic food, drying up of state funding, the agrarian crisis and support from the industry and the banking sector. Public as well as private sector banks leveraged their interest and promoted financing for CF by formulating special policies, setting up of agricultural credit, offering quick loans, reducing interest rates, increasing direct agriculture lending portfolios and tying up for end-to-end financing through tripartite agreements between farmers, banks and the industry.Seen as an alternative to private and corporate farming, CF lowers transactional costs for both the contracting parties because many transactions become internalised. Farmers get access to new technologies and inputs and contracting agencies get assured supply of raw material. A few of the several examples of successful models include the poultry sector, the production of certified seeds of field crops and cultivation of potato, barley and sugarcane. Evidence is available for increased productivity/production, better incomes and employment through contracting, but it requires sustainability.FPOs the best betThe system suffers from bottlenecks because of which it has not attained popularity so far. Evaluating quality and grading of produce is a critical matter and often exploited for rejection or reducing the price by the contracting companies. An inbuilt provision of settlement by a state coordinator or arbitrator should help resolve such cases to the satisfaction of the parties. Small farmers are in an unfavourable position because of their limited ability to deal with big companies. In this context, the Thailand model to facilitate groups of small farmers for collectively entering into contracts has proved useful. However, the best course is that small farmers should enter into CF by forming New Generation Cooperatives commonly known as Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs). That will enhance access to a variety of resources, effectively maintaining quality standards, better application of scientific farming techniques and increase in bargaining power and capacity to pursue litigation collectively. The Centre has set a target of supporting 10,000 more FPOs in the next financial year. Some problems faced by the growers include delayed deliveries at the factory, unforeseen pest attacks raising the cost of cultivation, no legal protection for often verbal and informal contracts, monopsony and lack of strict enforceability of contractual provisions. Delayed payments are of frequent occurrence.Making payments within the stipulated time frame has been addressed in Clause 6(3) of the new law, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Prices Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. However, restricting dispute settlement rights up to the district-level bureaucratic set-up and barring normal judicial course in the same Act (Clause 19) have not gone down well with the farmers and need reconsideration. There is visible fear among the peasantry that CF may lead to greater direct entry by corporate entities in agriculture and that would result in dispossession of their land. It is important to dispel this fear for spurring this potentially transformational system of farming.The author is former VC, Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, UdaipurSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/remove-hurdles-to-help-farmers-reap-dividends-231916
29-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Holi gesture: Farmers tidy up Tikri||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, March 28Protesting farmers at Tikri border on Sunday celebrated Holi, albeit in a different way. They held a cleanliness drive at the camping site spreading over 13 km, from Jakhoda turn to Tikri. The farmers also decked up the main protest site with balloons.“We are putting up at Tikri for four months. It is our home till the three farm laws are repealed. We thus cleaned up the site and prayed that the Centre comes to its senses and agrees to our demand,” said Gurbachan Singh, a farmer from Mansa.He alleged that despite repeated requests, the local authorities failed to get garbage lifted from the site.BKU leader Purushhotam Singh Gill said the government had claimed that the farmers would return home by Holi. “We have taken a vow not to move an inch till our demands are met,” Gill said.Terminder Singh, another farmer, said: “Till the time we are here, we will celebrate every festival with communal harmony and brotherhood. As the tradition goes, people burn negativity in ‘Holika dahan’. We too burnt copies of the three farm laws today to register our protest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/holi-gesture-farmers-tidy-up-tikri-231889
29-03-2021||New Delhi||Farmers celebrate ‘Holika Dahan' by burning copies of Centre's farm laws||Farmers camping at Delhi borders on Sunday burnt copies of the Centre's new farm laws they have been protesting against during ‘Holika Dahan', the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said.The protesting farmers celebrated Holi at the borders and maintained that their agitation will continue till the farm laws are repealed and a separate law on minimum support price is enacted, it said in a statement.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint front of farmer unions, also said that it will observe "FCI Bachao Diwas" on April 5, adding that offices of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will be gheraoed from 11 am to 5 pm across the country. “The government has made several attempts to end the minimum support price (MSP) and public distribution system (PDS) indirectly. The FCI's budget has also been reduced over the last few years. Recently, the FCI also changed the rules for procurement of crops,” the statement said. The SKM also condemned the passage of the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property during Disturbance to Public Order Bill, 2021 by the Haryana Assembly, saying it aims to suppress agitations."It contains dangerous provisions that would surely prove fatal to democracy," the body added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-celebrate-holika-dahan-by-burning-copies-of-centres-farm-laws-231718
29-03-2021||Sonepat||Farmers leave for harvesting, crowds at Singhu thinning; mahapanchayats off||The crowds gathered at Singhu, the epicentre of the farmers’ protest against the central farm laws, have been thinning over the past several days. Subsequently, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders have decided to call off mahapanchayats in other states and re-focus on the Delhi borders.Intelligence sources said three to five protesters were putting up in each tractor-trailer compared to 10-15 earlier.“The decline in numbers could be due to senior leaders holding ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ across Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, MP, UP and other states and farmers returning for harvesting,” explained Gurmukh Singh of Hoshiarpur.SKM leader Harinder Singh Lakhowal claimed the crowds were thinning temporarily as farmers had been maintaining a “protest roster” at village level. “If some farmers have moved their tractor-trailers back, ‘pucca’ huts have come up as a replacement,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-leave-for-harvesting-crowds-at-singhu-thinning-mahapanchayats-off-231491
