31-03-2021||Gurugram||New Gurugram residents uproarious as Kherki Daula toll hikes toll charges||A hike in toll from April 1 at the Kherki Daula toll plaza has drawn protestations from local residents in the area.The National Highway Authority of India recently sanctioned an increase of Rs 5 from Rs 65 that private vehicles currently pay to use the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway. Heavy motor and multi-axle vehicles will pay Rs 205. There's no hike for LCVs. The new rates will be applicable from midnight.The decision to hike toll charges has left over 20,000 families living primarily in New Gurugram’s Sectors 82-95 livid. These residents, who must pay toll charges each time they head to Gurugram, say they’ve been demanding that the toll plaza be removed altogether.  They have also started a social media campaign against the new charges.“We were already paying 130 rupees for every day for going to our offices, markets, hospitals and schools. Someone who goes to Gurugram every day spends Rs 4000 a month. We have no facility on this road, and this plaza keeps our air quality poor all year round,” said Praveen Malik, a representative of New Gurugram’s Resident Welfare Association.The villagers nearby have been exempted from the toll, he said.Residents say they were promised that the plaza will be removed to another place, but there’s been no word on that from the authorities since.“Where in the entire country do you find people paying to go around in their own city? We’re been made fools of for years.  We won’t take it anymore. We want exemption just like the villagers,” Sujjan Yadav, a member of the Toll Hatao Sangram—a group instituted with the aim of having the toll plaza removed.Some 75,000 vehicles cross toll plaza on an average day. In response to a query, a senior official of NHAI said that hike was approved under terms of a contract signed with the concessionaire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-gurugram-residents-uproarious-as-kherki-daula-toll-hikes-toll-charges-232731
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana mulling automatic challan system for overspeeding||The Haryana government has plans to put an automatic challan system in place for overspeeding in the state, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Wednesday.Under the plan, a suggestion has also been received for an auto debit of the fine from the account of the violator, he said."We have a plan to bring an automatic challan system for overspeeding on roads in some areas," Khattar told the media here.The violator will get an SMS about the debit of the fine amount, he said.The CM further said the state government had collected a fine to the tune of Rs 72 crore for different traffic rule-related violations, including overspeeding and overloading in the last five months. He said around 25,000 challans were issued for different violations.Khattar said that during November 2019 till March 2020, a total of 9,800 challans were issued and a fine of Rs 37 crore was collected for such violations. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-mulling-automatic-challan-system-for-overspeeding-232710
31-03-2021||It is a matter of grave concern that an under-construction bridge on the national highway collapsed near Gurugram on Sunday morning. Some workers present at the site suffered injuries||Collapse of under-construction bridge a matter of concern||Satish Seth, KaithalWe should maintain our infrastructureBenches kept for the public to sit and relax, along the Boh-Kallarheri road, Ambala Cantt (in Boh village), are a neglected lot. These are neither being maintained by the authorities nor the village people. Some of these lie in a dilapidated condition. We are good at creating public facilities like public urinals, water ponds, parks etc, but very poor at maintaining these. Many streetlight poles still lie broken on the ground on the Kallarheri-Panjokhara Sahib road. The authorities concerned should attend to these broken benches etc, and ensure their proper upkeep.Col R D Singh (retd), Ambala canttVacant plot a nuisance in TohanaGenerally, vacant plots are mostly sold when prices rise. Due to non-construction of these plots, it becomes a place of nuisance and pollution. These plots are used as open toilets, dumping of garbage, playing games along with shelter for drug abusers. To stop these activities, the government should take action. Along with this, owners of these plots should be directed to cover their plots with a minimum 8 ft. boundary wall in a specified period and close the plot's entrance with a gate.RK Garg, TohanaExtend working hours of vaccination centresIt is now clear that from April 1, 2021, people in large number will visit Covid-19 vaccination centres as the government has allowed the vaccination age as 45 and above. It will be of great help if the Haryana Government provides vaccination facility on all seven days of the week with working hours extended upto at least 8 pm so that people in private sectors can conveniently get vaccinated. It must be noted that 94 per cent workforce is in private sectors. Such measure will help cover maximum number of people.Ravi Bhushan, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/collapse-of-under-construction-bridge-a-matter-of-concern-232453
31-03-2021||---||Rs 174 cr Karnal MC budget to focus on development||Karnal, March 29 The General House of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) on Tuesday unanimously passed the budget of Rs 174.46 crore for 2021-22. The House meeting was chaired by Mayor Renu Bala Gupta and presided over by MC Commissioner Vikram Kumar, while the Senior Deputy Mayor and other councillors were present. Claiming it to be a development oriented Budget, Mayor Gupta said they had kept extra budget in comparison to the last year. The proposed income of the MC is Rs 155.13 crore, while the proposed expenditure is of Rs 174.46 crore. Gupta informed the House that there would be no shortage of funds for the development works in any of the 20 wards of the city. She said a sum of Rs 40 lakh had been given to each ward a few days ago and soon Rs 1 crore would be given to each ward for development. Vikram Kumar said they were hopeful that they would recover property tax of Rs 20-25 crore in the current fiscal. He said around 25,000 LED lights would be installed in the Smart City in the coming days. The tender of the project will be opened on March 31. He assured the House of development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-174-cr-karnal-mc-budget-to-focus-on-development-232333
31-03-2021||---||Fiji envoy visits Karnal gaushala||Karnal, March 30 High Commissioner of the Republic of Fiji Kamlesh S Prakash visited Shri Krishna gaushala in the city on Monday and fed fodder and jaggery to cows. His wife Mala Prakash and daughter Vishakha also accompanied him.   Talking to The Tribune at the residence of Mayor Renu Bala Gupta and social worker Brij Gupta, S Prakash appreciated the gesture of the Indian Government to send 1 lakh doses of Covid vaccine to Fiji and said it would go a long way in reopening the borders and economy, which has shrunk by over 20 per cent after the outbreak of the pandemic.  About the key priorities, Prakash said, “Strengthening the bilateral relationship with India is our top priority along with economic co-operation and trade partnership.”  “We are trying our best to invite investors from India to Fiji, which will also help in strengthening the cultural co-operation and friendship between the governments as well as the people of both the countries,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fiji-envoy-visits-karnal-gaushala-232334
31-03-2021||---||Behave well with locals, BKU chief tells protesters||Kurukshetra, March 30 Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh has asked activists, especially those who belonging to Punjab, staging dharna at the Kundli border to mend their ways and not to harass local villagers as there have been complaints against them.  In a video, Gurnam said: “There have been repeated complaints from villagers living near the Kundli border that the protesters, especially from Punjab, stop them while travelling and ask unnecessary questions, behave rudely and play loud music after consuming liquor. Locals have been supporting us and I request you not to bother them. Talk politely and cooperate with them. There is a need to improve your behaviour. Our fight is not against the locals but the government.”   Manish Kumar, Kundli village sarpanch, said: “There have been some issues. Whenever a large number of people gather for a cause, some mischievous elements too step in. We have been supporting the farmers and they also cooperate with us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/behave-well-with-locals-bku-chief-tells-protesters-232335
31-03-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri---||DGP yet to respond to Health Minister on narcotics bureau||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 30 Seven days have turned to 25 days and Haryana Home Minister is still awaiting Haryana Director General of Police Manoj Yadava’s reply on a practically non-functional Haryana State Narcotics Bureau by Haryana despite a reminder being sent to him. Speaking to The Tribune, Vij said that he had not received a reply even though the DGP has over-stretched the seven day time-frame. “When we did not receive a reply, I sent out a reminder to him through the ACS (home). It has been over a week since that went and I am still to hear from him,” the minister said.Though the reminder sent to the DGP does not fix any time-frame, the minister said that he will take disciplinary action against the officer for failing to respond. “The reminder mentioned that the DGP should reply failing which we will initiate disciplinary action. I will wait for another couple of days and then initiate action,” he said, adding that the reply has to come to him through the ACS (home). A day after the MHA’s extension to Yadava, Vij had forwarded a panel of senior officers to CM Manohar Lal Khattar with adverse comments about the functioning of the officer.Vij had asked Arora to seek written explanation from the DGP for “not taking interest in making NCB functional” within seven days. Khattar repeatedly emphasised that Yadava would continue to be the DGP, Vij, in his letter to the CM, had urged him to forward the panel of officers to the UPSC since the DGP could not control his staff. On the issue of the NCB, Vij cited a demi-official letter of state NCB chief Shrikant Jadhav wherein the officer had alleged that the bureau remained only on paper even nine months after its inception due to “lack of interest by the DGP”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dgp-yet-to-respond-to-health-minister-on-narcotics-bureau-232336
31-03-2021||Ravinder Saini||Insurance co rejects 850 farmers’ applications, admn seeks reply||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, March 30The district administration has sought a reply from Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd for rejecting 850 applications submitted by non-loanee farmers to get policy under the Prime Minister Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) for kharif crops. The company declined the applications, citing deficiencies in documents.DC seeks company’s communiqués sent to farmers asking deficiencies to be removed Taking a serious note of it, Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar has directed the company to provide all those communiqués sent to the farmers concerned asking them for getting the deficiencies removed.He stated that the company was bound to pay compensation to the farmers for their crop loss if it failed to verify the applications to get insurance policy within two months after the cut-off date, hence the company needed to intimate the farmers concerned within the stipulated time on finding any deficiency in their documents.Sources said the DC took the action at the district level monitoring committee (DLMC) meeting for the PMFBY following the complaints of the farmers who accused the insurance company of rejecting their claim applications, pleading that they were not entitled to get compensation for their crop loss as their applications for the policy were rejected due to deficiency in the documents.The matter came to the fore when 128 farmers, who suffered loss in their paddy, cotton and bajra crops due to water-logging and hailstorm, lodged their complaints against the company with the local office of the Agriculture Department, which then placed the matter at the meeting of the DLMC held on March 26, the sources added.“A total of 6,289 non-loanee farmers voluntarily applied to get the policy under the PMFBY for the kharif season 2020, but the Bajaj Allianz Insurance Company rejected 850 applications on the grounds of deficiencies in the documents. A total of 128 persons among them later filed claim applications to get compensation for their crop loss,” said Rohtas, deputy director (agriculture).He maintained that the company was, as per the rules, was bound to issue notice to the farmers before rejecting their applications, hence a reply had been sought from the company in this respect. The company would be liable to pay compensation if any procedural lapse was found on its part, he added. Parveen, district manager of the insurance company, could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/insurance-co-rejects-850-farmers-applications-admn-seeks-reply-232337
31-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Speaker forms seven Assembly panels||Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta has constituted seven Assembly committees for the year 2021-22.Deepak Mangla has been nominated chairperson of the Committee of Public Health, Irrigation, Power and Public Works (Building & Roads), while MLAs Vinod Bhyana, Leela Ram, Aftab Ahmed, Krishna Lal Middha, Praveen Dagar,. Mamman Khan, Shamsher Singh Gogi and Devender Singh Babli will be members of this committee.Similarly, a committee of Local Bodies and Panchayati Raj Institutions has been constituted under the chairpersonship of Kamal Gupta. Its members include Kuldeep Bishnoi, Ghanshyam Saraf, Seema Trikha, Bishambar Singh, Dharam Singh Chhoker, Surender Panwar, Amarjeet Dhanda and Rakesh Daultabad.The committee constituted for the Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes has MLA Ishwar Singh as the chairperson and Jagdish Nayar, Lakshman Napa, Satya Prakash, Renu Bala, Shishpal Singh, Chiranjeev Rao, Ram Karan and Dharam Pal Gonder have been nominated as members of this committee. The Committee for Public Accounts has been constituted under the chairpersonship of Harvinder Kalyan, while Kiran Choudhry, Ram Kumar Gautam, Abhe Singh Yadav, Narender Gupta, Sudhir Kumar Singla, Varun Chaudhary, Jogi Ram Sihag and Randhir Singh Gollen have been nominated as its members.Similarly, for the Committee on Estimates, Subhash Sudha has been nominated as the chairperson, while Rao Dan Singh, Aftab Ahmed, Lakshman Napa, Parmod Kumar Vij, Ram Kumar Kashyap, Sitaram Yadav, Amit Sihag and Mewa Singh have been nominated as its members.For the Committee on Petitions, Ghanshyam Dass Arora has been nominated as the chairperson, while Jagbir Malik, Geeta Bhukkal, Shakuntala Khatak, Leela Ram, Laxman Yadav, Sanjay Singh, Ram Niwas and Balraj Kundu have been nominated as its members. The Deputy Speaker of the Vidhan Sabha, Ranbir Gangwa, has been nominated as the ex-officio Chairperson for the House Committee, while Mohd Ilyas, Aseem Goel, Ram Karan and Randhir Singh Gollen will be its members. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-speaker-forms-seven-assembly-panels-232338
31-03-2021||---||Info panel yet to recover Rs 2.27 cr fine from officials||Chandigarh, March 30With the Haryana Information Commission yet to recover Rs 2.27 crore fine imposed on officials, the state government has informed the Lokayukta that it has set up a panel under the Chief Secretary to monitor the recovery of the pending dues.The Lokayukta is hearing a complaint by RTI activist PP Kapoor that 1,726 government officials, many of them HCSofficers, designated as state public information officers (SPIOs), under the Right to Information Act, were ignoring to pay Rs 2.27 crore, out of the Rs 3.5 crore fine imposed on them by the State Information Commission from 2006 to 2019.The RTI activist alleged in his complaint filed on July 21, 2020, that the State Information Commission had become “toothless” as the SPIOs designated by the government neither provided information within the stipulated period of 30 days nor do they pay the fine imposed on them by the Commission for the delays.Kapoor informed the Lokayukta that the State Information Commission had imposed a fine of Rs 3,50,54,740 ever since its inception in 2006 till 2019, but out of this, Rs 2.27 crore was still to be recovered as officials were ignoring to pay the fine and the Commission did not have a mechanism to force them to comply with the orders.He also supplied a list of 1,726 government officials, many of them HCS officers, who had not paid their fine.One of the officers has to pay Rs 1.82 lakh to the Commission as fine, while several of them owe more than Rs 1 lakh.The Lokayukta, Haryana, has informed Kapoor that the state government, in its reply, had said that a panel, under the Chief Secretary, had now been constituted to monitor the payment of the fines.The panel will have Additional Chief Secretary of Administrative Reform Department as member (secretary) and Additional Chief Secretary of the department concerned and the Registrar of the Commission as members.The next date of hearing before Lokayukta Justice NK Agarwal is on May 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/info-panel-yet-to-recover-rs-2-27-cr-fine-from-officials-232339
31-03-2021||Faridabad||Two students test positive||Two B Tech students of the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, have tested positive for Covid. Both are hostellers.22 docs infectedRohtak: In all, 22 doctors serving at the Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics of PGIMS, Rohtak, have tested positive for Covid. Elective surgeries have been stopped and nurses, paramedics and other employees at the department have been told to get themselves tested. Sources said several doctors, who had got themselves vaccinated recently, had tested positive. TNSThe university authorities have launched a screening test of all students. This is the first instance since the university started offline classes in February.One of the infected students has shifted to his house in Ambala, while the other one is still in the hostel. Both are first-year students.SK Garg, university registrar, said: “The first-year exams, which were proposed to be held offline from April 8, will now be held online in view of the pandemic.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-students-test-positive-232340
31-03-2021||Palwal||Palwal man opposes celebratory firing, shot||A 22-year-old man was shot dead after he had objected to celebratory firing by four persons on Holi in the district’s Janoli village yesterday. The victim was identified as Praveen of the same village. His brother Mukesh, said: “Some drunk men had fired in the air while they were playing Holi. Praveen objected to them. The matter was settled then and there. But after half an hour, when Praveen was returning home, four men identified as Janak, Akash, Bhola and Kapoor shot at him. He succumbed to bullet shots in hospital.”  “We have booked a case of murder and have launched a hunt to nab the accused,” said a police official.   In another incident, a man identified as Narender of Aharwan village died under mysterious conditions.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-man-opposes-celebratory-firing-shot-232341
31-03-2021||Sushil Manav||Covid infection rate at three-month high in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 30With cases showing an upward trajectory in the past weeks, the R Naught value — a mathematical term that indicates the contagiousness of an infection — of Covid-19 in Haryana has reached the number where it stood in the month of December.‘R naught’, a Key parameterR0, pronounced “R naught”, indicates how contagious a disease is. It's also referred to as the reproduction number. As an infection is transmitted to new people, it reproduces itself. R0 tells the average number of people who will contract a contagious disease from one person with that disease.Not only this, even the daily positivity rate in the state is at a four-month high, and is 40 per cent higher than commutative positivity rate of Haryana.R0, pronounced “R naught”, indicates how contagious an infectious disease is. It’s also referred to as the reproduction number. As an infection is transmitted to new people, it reproduces itself.R0 tells the average number of people who will contract a contagious disease from one person with that disease.According to sources in the Haryana Health Department, the R0 value of Covid-19 in the state stood at 1.05 on Sunday, which is the highest since the first week of December when it stood at 1.06.The state witnessed the peak of R0 at 1.35 in September last year after which it came down to 1.10 by mid-October only to go up to 1.18 in mid-November.During the months of January and February this year when the infection was at its lowest, the state witnessed an R0 between 1 and 1.01, but the value started rising again in March as the cases started rising.Even the daily positivity rate in Haryana has moved up as it was recorded as 6.4 per cent on Sunday against the cumulative positivity rate of 4.6 per cent in the state.Haryana administered 1.63 lakh doses of vaccine on Tuesday under a mega vaccination drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-infection-rate-at-three-month-high-in-haryana-232342
31-03-2021||---||Clear Rs 35 cr cane dues by April 20 or face stir: Farmers||Ambala, March 30Following a continuous delay in payments, sugarcane growers and farm activists under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) held a panchayat outside Naraingarh Sugar Mills on Tuesday and threatened to launch a stir if their dues of Rs 35 crore were not cleared by April 20.Assurance on duesThe payment for sugar sales from the market are likely to be received soon. Post-dated cheques with interest are also being issued to farmers. Efforts are being made to clear the dues on time. — Narender Malik, CEO, Naraingarh sugar millKejri in Jind on Apr 4Hisar: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal will attend a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ in Jind on April 4. AAP leaders, including Rajya Sabha member Sushil Gupta and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, will also address farmers. TNSFarmers claimed that sugarcane dues worth around Rs 105 crore for the ongoing season were pending. There is a sugar stock of around Rs 28 crore.Baldev Singh, BKU mandal president, said “As per the norms, the payment has to be cleared within 14 days of the purchase of sugarcane, but the Naraingarh mill never clears its dues in time. We are being forced to hold repeated meetings and serve ultimatums to get our dues. Now, the mill authorities have now assured us to clear Rs 35 crore dues by April 20. We have also given them an ultimatum that if the dues are not cleared as per the assurance then a mahapanchayat will be held on April 22 after which we will launch a massive stir.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clear-rs-35-cr-cane-dues-by-april-20-or-face-stir-farmers-232343
31-03-2021||Vijay Mohan||Rainfall, storage in dams significantly below normal in northern region during March||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 30Rainfall over the region during spring season has been seriously deficient this year while the water level in crucial reservoirs located in the north too is significantly below normal.Data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) reveals that from March 1 to March 30 the deficiency was as high as 70 per cent in Punjab. In Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, the shortfall was 62 per cent each.During the aforementioned period, Punjab received 7.1 mm rain against the normal of 23.4 mm. Haryana recorded 4.4 mm against the normal of 11.8 mm while Himachal Pradesh received 41.7 mm against the normal of 108.9 mm for this duration.Bathinda, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar were among the worst hit districts in Punjab, while Kangra, Hamirpur and Sirmaur remained the driest in Himachal Pradesh. On the other hand, a few districts in southern Haryana received excess rain in March, though the north-western parts of the state received little or no rain.An active western disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation had caused fairly widespread rainfall snowfall and thunderstorms over western Himalayan region and Punjab during March 22–24, but according to the IMD, the precipitation was 5 per cent below normal.The weatherman has predicted that due to absence of any active western disturbance, rainfall activity is likely to below normal over northwest India during the first week of April, while maximum temperatures are expected to rise gradually by 4—6 degrees Celsius.As far as the water level in crucial dams is concerned, which is crucial for irrigation, domestic and industrial use as well as power generation, the present storage is reported to be 46 per cent below normal in Himachal Pradesh and 42 per cent below normal in Punjab.According to information released by the Central Water Commission (CWC), the present storage at Bhakra Dam that lies on the Sutlej in Himachal is just 20 per cent of the total reservoir capacity. The average storage at this dam at this time of the year was 38 per cent over the past 10 years.At Pong Dam on the Beas in Himachal, the present storage is 18 per cent of the total capacity as compared to the past 10-year average of 32 per cent, while at Thein Dam on the Ravi in Punjab it is 23 per cent against the 10-year average of 40 per cent, this time of the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rainfall-storage-in-dams-significantly-below-normal-in-northern-region-during-march-232196
