01-12-2020||Calcutta||Awareness and accolades||St Stephen’s School, Birati St Stephen’s School, Birati, is teaching its students how to grow their own food, that is, vegetables, fruits, herbs and the like, thereby giving them the opportunity to earn their own school fees as a step towards making the kids more self-reliant. Grow Your Food is the name of the programme that aims to teach children how to grow organic and variety of vegetables at home with minimal cost. To give a proper shape to this initiative, a family pack food tower was designed which facilitates growing of about 1,000 plants in five feet by five feet area. All sorts of vegetable, including creepers and herbs, can be grown on the space, producing around 50kg of vegetables. Students are being introduced to organic soilless farming and microbes as well. The fact that the pandemic made it difficult for some households to pay the tuition fees of their wards was taken into consideration by the school and, thus, an initiative called Earn Your Fees was launched, along with the Grow Your Food programme. The school has given students the seeds that they have to grow into plants and then hand them over to the school authorities. The school pays children for the plants that they have grown. These plants are then sold to the common public at a minimal price. “I am happy that the children have sportingly taken part in this initiative. They will not only learn to grow their own food, but also develop a knack for gardening — a positive step towards protecting nature. We are even planning to make this Grow Your Food initiative compulsory for the kids from the next session,” said principal Subrata Chatterjee. Birla High School junior section, Moira Street The junior section of Birla High School organised a virtual annual prize distribution ceremony to mark the achievements of the students in academics and co-curricular activities for the academic session of 2019-2020. The virtual ceremony was conducted on two separate days for the lower and upper primary classes. The awards for sustainable excellence, highest achievement and subject prizes for English, maths and vernacular languages were given out at the webinar. Students with full attendance for one, two and three consecutive years were also awarded prizes. The best house and the best club awards went to Tagore House and the Quest Club, respectively. "It was important to acknowledge the hard work that our students put in. We didn't want their hard work and effort to go unnoticed. The annual day is something that is looked forward to by students, teachers and parents. We want to keep things as close to normal for our students in such trying times. They have been the worst affected in the pandemic. The online prize distribution ceremony was well appreciated by all," said Farida Singh, the headmistress. Asian International School The need for peace, better health policies and a greener world were discussed at a Model United Nations recently held virtually for students of Asian International School. The event aimed at honing the leadership skills of students and giving them the knowledge about the role of United Nations and its various agencies. It had children enacting as T.S. Trimurthi (India’s representative to the UN), Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (director-general of World Health Organisation), Henrietta H. Fore (executive director of Unicef), Audrey Azoulay (director of Unesco) and many other eminent heads as they debated issues of economic and political interest. In the end, the students learnt how to negotiate and collaborate on resolutions made on the model UN platform. “This is an academic activity that will help students learn about diplomacy, international relations, and the United Nations. It is meant to engage students and allow them to develop deeper understanding of the current world issues,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. Meena Kak, the chief guest and director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, iterated similar sentiments. “Education is a process of learning, unlearning and re-learning that has made teachers reach out students even in this global pandemic. They are constantly learning, along with their students in this virtual world,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
01-12-2020||Calcutta||AMRI to shut Sector V Covid satellite unit||The AMRI Hospitals will shut down its satellite facility for Covid-19 patients in Sector V as very few patients are taking admission there and running the unit was proving to be economically unviable, an official of the hospital said. The state government had on June 15 said private hospitals could set up “satellite facilities” for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or those with mild symptoms, to free up beds reserved for such cases. Rupak Barua, the Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said on Monday very few rooms in their satellite unit at Monotel, a four-star facility in Sector V, had been occupied since the beginning of November. “We set up the satellite facility in July. Between July and October, the occupancy was very good. But after Durga Puja, and especially during November, the occupancy has been very poor. We are shutting down the facility,” said Barua. He said less than 10 patients are there now. The hospital had booked 20 rooms in the hotel and had to pay for all the rooms irrespective of whether patients were staying there or not. “When it was set up, people with mild symptoms were willing to get admitted to hospital. They were sent to the satellite facility. Nowadays, people are preferring to stay at home if they have mild symptoms. So the occupancy at the satellite facility has been very poor over the past few days,” Barua said. Only five to seven rooms were remaining occupied recently, he added. In the early days of the pandemic, with the number of Covid-19 cases increasing every day, most hospitals were struggling to admit patients. People who tested positive but had mild or no symptoms were being advised home isolation. But many such patients feared their families would be ostracised if they stayed at home. Quite a few stayed with their elderly parents and in-laws. The concept of satellite facilities was mooted to accommodate such patients. “People who get admitted to the satellite facility are examined by a doctor every day. Nurses, stationed at the hotel round the clock, monitor the patients’ health. Oxygen support is available, too. The stay at the satellite facility costs Rs 7,000 a day,” said an official of AMRI Hospitals. Barua said Covid-19 patients were sent to the satellite facility only after a thorough check-up. If doctors found that the patients needed hospitalisation, the patients and their family were told about the doctor’s observations. The Bidhannagar commissionerate on Monday launched a drive where traffic policemen stopped bicycles and pasted retro reflective tapes on their rear mudguards and carriers in Sector V. The number of bicycles in Sector V and New Town has doubled since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. Many office-goers are using bicycles to avoid public transport. “Most bicycles don’t have rear warning lights.... The stickers will light up when the headlights of a vehicle fall on them,” said a senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Cossipore Ramakrishna Math to be closed for Kalpataru Utsav from January 1 to 3||The Ramakrishna Math at Cossipore (Udyanbati) will remain closed to devotees from January 1 to 3 for Kalpataru Utsav because of the Covid pandemic, monks at the Math said. “This is the first time since the Utsav had begun in 1946 that the Math would remain closed to devotees and visitors... The special puja of Sri Ramakrishna and the homa would be streamed live on the Math’s website, www.rkmcudyanbati.org, and the DD Bangla TV channel,” said Swami Pareshatmaananda, a senior monk at the Math. “We will be forced to keep the gates closed on the three days from January 1 because of the pandemic. We hope our devotees and followers will realise our concern.” Sri Ramakrishna had lived in the north Calcutta house in the last few months of his life with his disciples. He had breathed his last there in 1886. Monks of the order believe that on Kalpataru Day — January 1, 1886 — Sri Ramakrishna had revealed himself to be an avatar (God incarnate). One of his disciples, Ramachandra Dutta, had said that on this day Sri Ramakrishna had become Kalpataru - the mythical wish-fulfilling tree. Every year on January 1, lakhs of devotees queue up outside the Math from early morning to offer their pranam to Sri Ramakrishna in the room where he had breathed his last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Low-hanging wire kills elephant in Nischinta forest ||An adult tusker died of electrocution inside the Nischinta forest near Kalaikunda, under the Kharagpur forest division in West Midnapore, on Monday morning. A forest department official said the elephant was moving alone through the forest when it came in contact with a low-hanging high-tension wire of around 11,000 volts. It touched the wire while crossing an area that has open land interspersed with trees. “The preliminary post-mortem report confirms that the elephant died of electrocution,” the official said. “Villagers and a forest patrol team spotted the elephant lying inside the forest on Monday morning.” After confirming that the elephant had died, forest officials called in a hydraulic crane and a truck to remove the carcass. “We have ruled out foul play because the elephant was not touched or harmed in any way. There are no farm areas in the vicinity,” said the official. The divisional forest officer of Kharagpur, Sivanand Ram, said the elephant was aged around 20 and was not part of a herd. Sagnik Sengupta of NGO Sage, which works for animals, said it was not uncommon for high-tension wires in forested areas to sag, causing them to come closer to the ground. “The suspension of the wires changes over time. They pose a risk to passing wild animals when they sag and come closer to the ground. As elephants are large animals, the chances of them getting in touch with these wires are the highest,” said Sengupta. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said it was “extremely unfortunate” that the elephant died of electrocution. The forest department, he said, is going to set up a task force to ensure that animals don't come in contact with power lines. Such a task force functions in the forests of north Bengal. “We have spoken with officials from the power department and they have promised us all help,” said Yadav. “The task force will keep an eye on high-tension power lines passing over animal corridors and also electricity lines and fences set up by villagers to prevent animals from entering their fields.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Death rate up among patients without comorbidity||The percentage of people with comorbidities in the share of Covid-19 deaths in the state has fallen while that of people without comorbidities has risen, according to data published by the Bengal health department. While 13.5 per cent of the Covid-19 victims in Bengal till July 31 had no comorbid conditions, it went up to 16.3 per cent till November 29. The percentage of victims with comorbidities was 86.5 till July 31 and 83.7 till November 29. The Telegraph analysed the figures on the last day of all months from August to October, and the second last day of November. On August 31, 13.2 per cent of all Covid-19 victims in Bengal did not have any comorbid condition. It rose to 14.9 per cent on September 30, 15.9 per cent on October 30 and 16.3 per cent on November 29. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients in Calcutta’s hospitals linked the rise in the percentage of deaths among Covid patients without comorbidities to late arrival in hospital, stemming from a false sense of security that they will not develop any complications. Doctors also said such patients often turn up at hospitals after their condition turns critical. The rise in the share of deaths among patients without any comorbidity points to the fact that everyone is at risk from the coronavirus and no one should drop guard in the fight against it. Chandramouli Bhattacharya, an infectious disease specialist and part of the team of doctors treating Covid-19 patients at Peerless Hospital, said he had come across many patients who had no medical condition but they still got severely infected by the coronavirus. “They came to hospital very late and by then, their condition had turned critical. In the early days of the pandemic, patients who did not require hospitalisation requested for admission. But now, because the fear of the disease has diminished, people are staying at home risking complications,” Bhattacharya said. As many as 90 per cent of the patients are turning up at hospital in a critical condition, he said. Many of them do not have any comorbidity. Bhattacharya said many doctors advise patients in home isolation to take steroids and be on oxygen support after a drop in the oxygen saturation level. “Only oxygen support is not enough in such conditions. There are other parameters that need to be monitored, which is not possible without the presence of a medical team round the clock or outside a hospital set-up,” said Bhattacharya. A Kasba resident in his 40s spent six days at home despite having symptoms of Covid-19. He got himself admitted to hospital on the seventh day, as the symptoms still persisted. “I had turned critical during my admission. I had to spend 14 days at hospital to recuperate,” he said. Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, a pulmonologist who has been treating Covid-19 patients since the beginning of the outbreak in the city, said he had noticed the rise in mortality among people without comorbidities. “I know of two patients, aged 35 and 51, who passed away over the past two weeks. Neither had any comorbidity,” he said. “A lot of people with mild symptoms are not even undergoing tests. With time their condition worsens. They are arriving in hospitals very late. Some people have a false sense of security that since they do not have any comorbidity, they will get well naturally. This is not happening in all cases,” he said. Doctors also said everyone, including the young and those without any comorbidities, should pull up their socks. “The data should alert young people or those without any comorbidity. Many people are taking things very lightly. Do not drop guard and keep taking all necessary precautions because the pandemic is still not over,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a doctor at the Beleghata ID Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Guru Nanak prudent celebrations in city||The 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak was celebrated in gurdwaras and across homes in Calcutta, breaking from the practice of having a large gathering on the Maidan as a precaution against Covid-19. Members of all gurdwaras used to come together and celebrate the day on the Maidan. “We decided to celebrate the day in all gurdwaras, instead of having everyone assemble in one place,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general secretary of the Behala gurdwara. “People lit diyas at their homes to mark the occasion.” The gurdwaras conducted kirtan, reciting hymns, and katha, telling stories from the lives of the Sikh gurus. Langar, where people sit on the floor and eat, continued through the day at the gurdwaras. A langar meal typically consists of dal, roti, rice, vegetables curry, salad, kheer, halwa and curd. At the Behala gurdwara, celebrations were held since Saturday to ensure that people did not crowd on a single day. Ajit Singh, the vice-president of Gurudwara Bara Sikh Sangat at Burrabazar, said the procession organised on a Sunday a week before Guru Nanak’s birthday was scaled down this year because of the pandemic. “This time a limited number of people joined the rally. They stayed in cars…. One of the cars had the Guru Granth Sahib (the sacred text of the Sikhs) and it was taken from the Burrabazar gurdwara to the Bagmari gurdwara,” Singh said. The Guru Granth Sahib is considered the living guru of the Sikhs. The IHA Foundation, a charitable organisation, held a langar on wheels to feed the poor and the underprivileged. “Because of the pandemic, many poor people could not come to the langar. So we took the langar to their doors,” said Ahluwalia, who is chairman of the foundation. The IHA Foundation also donated 551 blankets to street dwellers, 551 sets of clothes to underprivileged children and provided a month’s ration to 551 families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Union education ministry sanctions funds for IIEST hostel||The Union education ministry has sanctioned Rs 129 crore for the IIEST to build a 10-storey hostel, addressing a long-standing grievance of the Shibpur tech school that has been missing out on many bright students because it cannot provide accommodation to them. IIEST officials said 1,000 students would be accommodated in the 10-storey hostel. The institute will sign an MoU with the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the implementing agency for the project. “The Centre has sanctioned Rs 129 crore for the project. We will soon start discussions with the CPWD. We hope that once the hostel is ready, the institute will not miss out on bright students for want of hostels,’’ IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabrti told Metro. The hostel is expected to be ready in two years. It will come up where remnants of a barracks, built during World War II, stand on the campus. Chakrabarti had on November 18 appealed to the education ministry, through its representatives on the IIEST’s board of governors, for immediate sanction of funds to build hostels on the Shibpur campus. The board had in September expressed concern over the delay in the construction of hostels. The intake capacity of the institute for the BTech, MTech and PhD courses together stands at 4,000. The absence of adequate number of hostels and the rising number of students have forced the institute to accommodate a number of students at staff quarters. Another official said new hostels were required now more than ever because once the campus reopened from the Covid-induced shutdown, more than one student could not be put up in each room. “We guess the physical distancing protocol will remain in force for quite some time. The accommodation may drop to 30 per cent from the existing 50 per cent. One additional hostel will help us deal with the situation,’’ said the official. The Centre has yet to sanction any funds for an academic complex, which will have lecture rooms and labs. “Once on-campus classes resume, we have to ensure that not too many students gather in one classroom or in one lab. So we need more classrooms and labs. But the ministry is silent on the academic complex,’’ the official said. He said the proposal to build an academic complex at a cost of Rs 135 crore had been pending with the Centre since 2018. Director Chakrabarti said: “We hope the ministry will act on this project as well.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Undergrad entry portal to reopen for a week from Dec 1st||The higher education department has asked universities to reopen their undergraduate admission portals for a week from December 1 because “a good number of seats are lying vacant in different general degree colleges and unitary universities’’. An advisory on the admission portals was issued to the universities on Monday because first-year seats have remained vacant after the admission season ended in October. The order says: “Colleges/universities where the seats are lying vacant, may reopen the UG admission portal for another 7 days for receiving the fresh application, where necessary, and complete the admission process by December 15’’. This is the second extension of the admission season. The higher education department had earlier deferred the last date of completing admissions in undergraduate colleges from September 25 to October 30. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had then said as many as 25 per cent of the seats had remained vacant in some of the colleges. The situation is particularly bad in the science streams with the counseling for admission to the NITs (through the JEE-Main) and the medical colleges (through the NEET) happening late because of the Covid pandemic. “The JEE-Main and the NEET were held in September. Many students who had taken admission in colleges left after securing admission in NITs and medical colleges,’’ said an education department official. A vice-chancellor of a university in Calcutta said one of the reasons for seats remaining vacant was that a good number of students from districts refused to enrol on city colleges because of multiple factors amid the pandemic. “These students are not sure whether it would be advisable to shift to Calcutta for on-campus classes, considering that the pandemic is still raging. They are worried over where they would end up if they contract Covid away from near and dear ones. Many of them are preferring to enrol on a college closer home,” the VC said. Another VC said students from districts were wary of coming to Calcutta because there was no guarantee when hostels, closed in March because of the pandemic, would reopen. “Even if in-person classes resume, we are against reopening hostels because it would be very difficult to monitor whether the students are adhering to the safety protocols,’’ said the VC. An official of Jadavpur University said they had held several rounds of admissions for BSc courses this year, something that was inconceivable earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Class XII student falls to death||A Class XII student of Don Bosco Park Circus was found dead in a pool of blood on the ground floor of the Urbana housing complex, near Ruby hospital, on Monday morning, police said. He is believed to have jumped off the washroom window of their flat on the 24th floor around 10am. The boy’s father, a chartered accountant, and elder brother, who is an engineering student, were in the flat when he apparently went to the washroom. The police said the family had told them that the boy, a student of commerce, was anxious about his board exams, due in a few months. He had secured around 96 per cent marks in his Class X board exams. “He was part of the school football team. He was good in studies and had scored close to 80 per cent in the Class XI final exams,” the principal of the school said. Witnesses have told the police that the boy had landed on a bicycle kept on a pathway on the ground floor before hitting the floor. “A preliminary post-mortem report suggests he died of severe head injury. He had also suffered multiple fractures,” said an officer of Anandapur police station. “We have started a case of unnatural death. We have not received any complaints from the family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||South Point sends outstanding fees reminder to parents||South Point school has sent a notice to parents who have outstanding fees reminding them that Calcutta High Court has allowed schools to disallow students from attending classes because of non-payment of fees. The school has said in the notice that it hopes that it “is not constrained to take such a step due to non payment” of fees. The notice has been sent to the parents of around 400 students of classes Nursery to XII. An official of the school said most of the parents had defaulted for more than two months, between April and September. Some of the parents had defaulted in the last academic year, too. The defaulters owe between Rs 5,000 and Rs 25,000 to the school. “The Hon’ble High Court in its order has also given liberty to schools to disable classes of such students whose fee for the period up to November 2020 remains unpaid on November 30, 2020. We hope the School is not constrained to take such a step due to non-payment in respect of any child,” the notice from the principal says. “We have to exercise utmost care and caution before discontinuing any child. We would like to give as much opportunity to parents to clear the dues in the interest of the child as possible,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of the school. “Sending them reminders is also a part of the process and to ensure that parents have not missed out on the notice. We are a private school that depends on fees for sustenance.” In normal circumstances, the school strikes the name of a student off the rolls if the fee remains unpaid for two or more months. But this year the school has not taken any such action “because of the pandemic”, an official said. The notice has been sent individually to parents via the school app. “We write to remind you that as per our records, part of the school fee in respect of your ward remains outstanding…. The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court, in its pronouncement dated October 13, 2020, had directed inter-alia that all dues are to be cleared by parents by November 30, 2020,” the notice says. It also mentions that in compliance with the order, the school had issued a detailed circular on October 31 via the school app and the website regarding the revised fee schedule and the mode of payment. “In the same circular, we had requested parents with outstanding dues for the period up to September 2020 to contact the school office to be advised about the amount that needs to be paid by them to the school, after providing for the waivers as directed by the Hon’ble Court,” the notice says. In most schools, the tuition fee is spent on paying salaries to the teachers and other staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||PSU official, professor… those who can afford, exploit fee waiver||A senior official at a public sector undertaking has opted for a 20 per cent waiver of the tuition fee for his child, who studies in a private school. A teacher at a government college did the same. Among the 4,000-odd students in three schools run by a group, the parents of only three have been paying the full fees. One of the three parents told the school where his child studies that his payment was a contribution to those who are finding it difficult to pay. Officials of several schools said many parents who could afford to pay the full fees were paying only 80 per cent of the amount. Calcutta High Court had on October 13 ordered private schools, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of tuition fees of students between April and one month after the schools resume on-campus classes. Schools have also been stumped by the kind of emails they have been receiving from parents who do not want to pay the full amount. A parent who works in a senior position, and is not paying the full fees, wrote to the school that “during the lockdown he had helped many of his relatives financially,” a school official said. Since schools have to make adjustments with what parents have already paid, one school head said the pinch would be felt most in the fourth quarter. “There are parents who have paid up to the third quarter. Now, if they want to avail themselves of the waiver, the school will have to make adjustments in the fourth quarter. In addition are parents who have not paid,” said Sunil Agarwal, the founder director of The Newtown School. In the three schools run by the Vidyamandir Society — Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School and Birla High School Mukundapur — the parents of only three children have paid the entire fees. The three schools together have around 4,000 students on their rolls. “There are some parents who can afford (to pay the full fees), but people will pay whatever they are asked to and not more,” said Brigadier (retd.) V.N. Chaturvedi, the secretary general of Vidyamandir Society, which runs the three schools. “We are a non-profit charitable society and one school is running for 79 years and another for 26 years. We don’t have an immeasurable surplus. We are sustaining up to the point it is possible for us to sustain.” The three schools on Monday extended the deadline for payment from November 30 to December 31. “For those parents who may not yet have made the payment as per the Order, we wish to inform you that in the interests of students and also for your convenience, we are voluntarily extending limited flexibility for the month of December 2020. It is sincerely expected and requested that all dues will be cleared within our self extended time frame upto 31st December 2020,” reads a notice issued by the three schools on Monday. The principal of a school in south Calcutta said they were running on “reserves”. “But how long can we run on reserves? We have been digging into the school reserves since July. We have to pay salaries to 240-odd employees, including teachers, and also have to spend on the maintenance of the school,” the principal said. Several school heads said among those sought waivers were officials of nationalised banks, teachers at government institutions and established businessmen. Many of them have not suffered any financial loss because of the pandemic. The high court had said in the October 13 order: “Parents and guardians of students are requested not to avail of the reduction in school fees if their financial situation does not merit the reduction. However, if any set of guardians or parents obtains the benefit, no question in such regard can be asked.” A school head said many parents also see it as an advantage and schools have no right to question them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
01-12-2020||Calcutta||Honeybees land on aircraft before passengers board||Honeybees descended on two Vistara aircraft on Sunday afternoon and Monday morning at the Calcutta airport, causing delays. Water cannons had to be used to drive away the swarms, officials said. On both occasions, the bees were detected before passengers had boarded the flights, said Vistara officials. Both flights — around 150 passengers had booked seats on each — were operated with Airbus A320Neo aircraft. On Sunday, Vistara staff detected the bees moments before passengers were to board the flight that was to leave for Delhi at 5pm. “We detected the large swarm of bees on the front right side of the aircraft just before boarding was to start. The aircraft had been parked in a remote bay since the previous night. The Sunday afternoon flight to Delhi was its first operation of the day,” said a Vistara official. Airport officials had to call fire tenders to drive away the bees with water cannons. “Although no bee could enter the aircraft, the airline staff had to do fumigation as a safety measure,” said an airport official. This delayed the take-off by an hour. Again, on Monday morning, a swarm of bees settled on a Port Blair-bound aircraft. “This time, too, the bees were detected before passengers boarded the flight. Again, fire tenders were called and a water cannon was used to drive the bees away,” said the official. The Port Blair flight, too, was delayed by about an hour. The flights were parked in bays 25 and 26, which are away from the terminal, said an airport official. “Our operations team has sprayed insecticide in the surrounding area and also conducted searches but could not find any beehive. We suspect the swarm of bees that had settled on the Vistara flight on Sunday afternoon returned the next morning,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. He suspects the bees had come from outside the airport premises. “There are no big trees in the operational area…. The trees are all on the city side of the terminal,” he said. An airport official said this was not the first time honeybees had disrupted flights at the Calcutta airport. “In earlier instances, aircraft attached to aerobridges had faced the problem. Beehives had been spotted on pillars of some aerobridges,” said the official. “This was the first time bees settled on aircraft in remote bays.” A few years back, a swarm of migrating bees had settled on a wing of a New York-bound Delta Airlines aircraft at the Pittsburgh airport, causing a 47-minute delay. A professional beekeeper was brought to gather the swarm settled on the Bombardier CRJ-700.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
