02-12-2020||Calcutta||IRS officer who retired on Monday, questioned at Lalbazar on Tuesday ||An Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer who retired on Monday was questioned at Lalbazar on Tuesday in connection with a three-year-old corruption case, in which another IRS officer is the prime accused and accounting firm owner Govind Agarwal is a co-accused, officers at Lalbazar said. Biswanath Jha, who retired as the principal chief commissioner of income tax (West Bengal and Sikkim region), appeared before police in the afternoon. Jha was supposed to appear before cops on November 27 but he did not turn up that day. “He cooperated with us on Tuesday. He was questioned for about an hour. We may summon him again,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Officers said he was asked about some documents found in Agarwal’s office in Mangoe Lane. “The documents resembled those of the IT department and have signatures that resemble those of senior IT officers. We had some queries about those documents,” the officer said. The Telegraph tried to contact Jha but the calls went unanswered. The police on Tuesday issued summons to an IRS officer in connection with the case, in which IRS officer Neeraj Singh is the prime accused and Agarwal a co-accused. Agarwal was arrested on November 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta police’s martial arts workshop to go online||Calcutta police’s popular martial arts training programme for girls and women will be virtual this time. Tejashwini begins on December 5. Participants will have to log in through a link to access the five-day online workshop where they will be taught techniques of self-defence. Officers involved in the project said the online course had been designed especially to train women in self-defence and help them remain fit. Girls and women between 12 and 40 years can join the programme. “The master trainer will teach the techniques live from a stage. The participants will see the techniques and try them at home. It will be an interactive session. If anyone finds it difficult to understand any technique, she will be able to type on the screen and request the trainer to show it again,” an assistant commissioner said. More than 500 women have been trained in techniques of self-defence in the three sessions of Tejashwini, which started in 2018. Many women had joined the training with their daughters in the past. The city police will invite 250 applications during the online course this time. The workshop used to be organised at the Calcutta police sergeants’ institute tent since its inception. It has been turned online this time keeping in mind the pandemic situation. “Most of the Calcuttans are confined in their homes in the last eight months. So we decided to reach out to the girls and women through the online mode to keep them fit and ready whenever they have to step out again,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. Registration for the workshop will be open between December 2 and 4. Women interested to enrol will be able to register through a link: www.kpsgtinst.org and get answers to their queries about the workshop through the WhatsApp number 9748438165.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake residents’ concerns range from digital ration card to health scheme   ||A camp was organised at BD Block in Salt Lake as part of the state government’s outreach programme, Duare Sarkar (government on doorstep), where government officials as well as elected representatives heard grievances of residents. Apart from hearing out grievances, officials at the inaugural camp of the outreach programme listed at least 11 welfare schemes launched by the state government since 2011. On Tuesday, more than 50 men and women visited the camp that was held on the first floor of BD Market. The Telegraph visited the camp to find out what sort of assistance people sought from officials. Sambhu Das, 46, arrived at the camp around midday and told an official that he needed help regarding a digital ration card for his daughter. According to Das, he and his wife had received the digital cards, but his daughter had been left out. “Although we three had applied together, my daughter’s card did not come. So I came here and spoke to the officials, who asked me to fill in a form and submit it,” said Das. BE Block resident Snigdha Bhattacharya, 57, asked about the procedure to apply for the Swasthya Sathi scheme. She was directed to an official from the health and family welfare department, who told her that a smart card would be issued in the name of the woman who heads the family and details of all family members would be inserted in the card. Those enrolled in any other government health scheme can’t opt for the Swasthya Sathi scheme. “The card will be issued in the name of the woman who heads the family. Details of all the other family members will be inserted in the card and all family members can avail themselves of the benefits,” the official said. The official also explained to Bhattacharya that the scheme has around 1,500 empanelled hospitals, including AIIMS (Delhi) and Christian Medical College (Vellore). The chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty, and other officials of the civic body, the sub-divisional officer of Bidhannagar and officials from other departments were present at the camp. A board hung near the entrance explaining different government schemes, including Kanyashree (a cash transfer programme aimed at retaining girls in schools and preventing their early marriage), Khadya Sathi (which aims to ensure food security for 90 per cent of the population) and Sikhashree (a one-time grant to SC and ST students studying in Classes V-VIII to reduce their dropout rates). Other schemes include Rupashree (a one-time grant of Rs 25,000 to poor families during their daughter’s marriage), Jai Johar (for betterment of STs), Taposili Bandhu (pension scheme for SCs) and Aikyashree (scholarship programme for students from minority communities). Chakraborty, of the Bidhannagar civic body, said people had come out in good numbers to tell their grievances as well as to apply for welfare schemes. “This camp has been quite satisfactory as people turned up in numbers,” said Chakraborty. The camps will be held in phases. The first phase of the programme will continue till December 11, the second from December 15-24, the third from January 2-12 and the last from January 18-30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Report released on transgender persons lodged in Indian prisons||Two-hundred-and-fourteen transgender persons were lodged in prisons across India from May 2018 to April 2019. Around three-fourth of the states and Union Territories do not record prisoners’ gender beyond the male/female binary. A report on transgender persons lodged in Indian prisons, billed as the first of its kind, was released at a virtual programme on Friday. The report — Lost Identity: Transgender Persons Inside Indian Prisons — also takes stock of compliance of prisons with existing legal framework to protect transgenders’ rights and makes a series of recommendations. The Supreme Court, in its NALSA judgment on April 15, 2014, had for the first time recognised non-binary gender and upheld the fundamental rights of transgender persons in the country. The findings of the report are based on RTI information from 28 states and six Union Territories (see chart). Between May 2018 and April 2019, a total of 214 transgender persons were incarcerated in jails across the country, said the report, prepared by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), a non-profit. Bengal had seven transgender persons lodged in its jails during the period. Only nine states recorded data of transgender inmates separately, not categorising them as male or female, according to the report. “In some states, including Gujarat, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, New Delhi, Rajasthan, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal, there existed a lack of uniformity in recording of data by jails within the state,” a representative of the CHRI told Metro. “While the authorities in some jails in these states said data of transgender persons was being recorded separately (apart from male and female), other jails responded that there was no provision to record the data of transgender persons separately,” she said. An official in the Bengal correctional services department said on paper, there was no provision of categorising inmates as a third gender. “The correctional homes do not have separate wards for transgender persons. But when an inmate is brought to a jail after court production, the person is assigned an isolated ward carved out of the existing wards if he or she wants,” the official said. “We will see the report and do the needful,” said Piyush Pandey, additional director general, correctional services. The report also highlighted the lack of awareness among prisoners on the recognition of transgender persons as a legal identity. The report was launched by Justice Madan B. Lokur, a former Supreme Court Judge. He stressed the need for training and awareness — of prison staff, lawyers and police — on the issue. “The police, the judiciary, institutions dealing with civil servants... need to get together to deal with issues facing transgender persons," he said. Justice Lokur underlined that India was a welfare state. “A welfare state cannot say that we cannot give certain facilities to some people. Answers to questions about the problems transgender persons face can come only through adequate training, awareness and recruitment,” he said. More than 300 persons — prison and correctional services officials, members of human rights commissions, metropolitan magistrates and others — attended the virtual programme. “I do not think that the judiciary has completed its task. We need to look at transgender persons in the criminal justice system as a whole,” said Justice S. Muralidhar of Punjab and Haryana High Court, one of the participants in a panel discussion that followed the launch. “The government of India, in consultation with relevant government agencies and civil society organisations, must formulate a model policy towards making prison processes more inclusive so that the special needs of transgender persons are taken into account,” said Madhurima Dhanuka, programme head, prisons reforms at the CHRI. Some of the key findings of the report, based on RTI answers from 28 states and six Union Territories ⚫Between May 2018 and April 2019, a total of 214 transgender persons were incarcerated in jails across the country ⚫Only nine states recorded data of transgender inmates separately, not male or female ⚫On the procedure for placement of transgender persons in gendered prisons, non-uniformity in policy was observed not only across states but across jails within the same state ⚫No awareness programmes among prisoners were conducted since 2014, apart from the state of Karnataka, on the recognition of transgender persons as a legal identity ⚫No transgender person had been recruited by the prison department in any of the states or UnionTerritories between January 1 2014 and January 1 2019 ⚫None of the prisons reported the inclusion of any course/module in the training curriculum which focused on the aspect of awareness and  sensitisation regarding the rights of LGBTI+communities. However, Karnataka, in its response, did mention that a training class wasconducted in the prison training institute regarding the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2019||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat bridge to be named Jai Hind bridge||The Majerhat bridge, which will be opened to traffic on December 3, will be named Jai Hind Bridge as a tribute to Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birthanniversary, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday. “We have decided to change the name of the Majerhat bridge to Jai Hind Bridge as our tribute to Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary,” Mamata said at Nabanna. “All the community centres in Calcutta under the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have been named Jai Hind. We have decided to take forward the slogan of Jai Hind in keeping with the ideals of Subhas Chandra Bose.” The chief minister will inaugurate the bridge at 5pm on Thursday. The decision to inaugurate the bridge on December 3 was taken on Saturday, a day after the railway and the PWD, which has implemented the Rs 200-crore project, submitted a “safety certificate” about the structure to the state government. Senior officials of the PWD said final touches were being given to the structure ahead of the inauguration. The police said the Bailey bridge, set up parallel to the Majerhat bridge after the old structure had collapsed in September 2018, will remain open, providing commuters an additional option to travel in the north-south direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Look forward to a decent winter: Met official||November did not deliver the chill it had promised. December is here but woollens are still inside cupboards. Since plunging to 15 degrees on November 23 and 24, the mercury has been on the rise, dashing the hopes of an early winter in Calcutta. On Saturday, the maximum temperature in Calcutta touched almost 30 degrees. The Celsius has been dropping marginally in the night but the minimum temperatures have still remained a few notches above normal until Monday Tuesday. The India Meteorological Department has forecast a harsher than usual winter for north and central India. Since cold and dry winds from the upper reaches of the country bring the chill to Calcutta, the forecast has raised fresh hopes of a longer and stronger tryst with the city’s favourite season. The Met office in Alipore has cautioned against jumping into conclusions. “Severe cold in north India does not automatically translate to a lower than usual temperature in Calcutta. But the city can look forward to a decent winter this year,” said a Met official. By “decent winter”, he meant “a few days of sub-12 degrees temperature” between December 15 and January 15. In the “Seasonal Outlook for temperatures during December 2020 to February 2021”, the IMD said the north and northwestern parts of the country were set to experience a colder than usual winter this time. Thanks to steady snowfall in the upper reaches of the country since November 15, winter has made an early entry in several northern states this year. The mercury has already plunged to six degrees in Delhi. But the biting cold in northern states has not brought a corresponding chill to Calcutta. A series of weather systems over the Bay of Bengal — cyclone Nivar, that hit Tamil Nadu coast last week, being the latest of them — led to moisture incursion in Calcutta, stalling the free flow of northwesterly winds and triggering a rise in temperature. Another well-marked low-pressure area was brewing over southeast Bay of Bengal on Monday. “Not every system leads to rain in Calcutta. But it injects moisture into the atmosphere, triggering a rise in temperature,” said the Met official. The minimum temperature dipped to 15.7 degrees on Monday. But the day was warm and sunny, with the Celsius climbing to 29.1 degrees. “The minimum temperature is expected to remain in the 15-16 degrees range over the next few days. The maximum temperature will be in the range of 28-29 degrees,” said a Met official. The Met office in Alipore does not formally announce the onset of winter. But December 15 is the usual time for winter to set foot in Calcutta, according to Met officials. The key parameter is that the minimum temperature has to be 15 degrees or less for at least four days at a stretch. The day temperature in the coming days will be an indicator of the chill, said G.K. Das, director, IMD Calcutta. “If the day temperature is around 27-28 degrees, the mercury will go down to around 15 degrees. But if the day temperature is around 24-25 degrees, the minimum temperature is likely to dip to 12 degrees or lower,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Daily scan of Vivekananda Road flyover||Six CMDA engineers, working in two shifts, are scanning the Vivekananda Road flyover in north Calcutta, a part of which collapsed in March 2016, every day for signs of any further damage that could bring down the rest of the structure. The engineers are examining the flyover from 9am to 9pm, with their trained eyes as well as with the help of machines, looking for signs of subsidence in the concrete, deflection caused by stress and lack of maintenance. The flyover was still under construction when a portion of it, near Girish Park, collapsed. Rows of steel rods have been lying dumped on a portion of the 2km-long flyover, adding to the weight on the deck slabs. Water has been seeping into the concrete, resulting in growth of plants and making the structure even more vulnerable. Over the past few years, several experts have warned that portions of the flyover that do not have concrete casting are less stable and their collapse could lead to another disaster. The urban development department has decided that a team of three engineers on every shift will assess the structure and note down their observations. What will they look for? Slight cracks in concrete slabs or railings, presence of unwanted materials such as tubular steel structures on the deck slab, outgrowth on the walls and the nature of loading and unloading activities around the piers in the heart of the Posta wholesale market — every minute detail will have to be noted down. A 41m-long deck slab of the flyover had collapsed on March 31, 2016, killing 26 people. The structure has since remained untouched even though a committee appointed by the state government to decide on the fate of the structure has recommended its demolition. “Demolition will take time because a company that specialises in such work will have to be engaged. Till that happens, we don't want any further deterioration of the structure, which has been without any maintenance for almost four years,” said a senior official of the urban development department. “Necessary arrangements are being made so that there can be surveillance even after 9pm by engineers.” Engineers will ensure that no trucks are parked close to the piers of the flyover, so that if a vehicle topples because of weight imbalance, none of the piers has to take the load of the impact. Officials said observations of the engineers will be discussed at the end of every week so that necessary arrangements can be made for adequate protection or removal of unused materials from the top of the deck slabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Dumped plastic bags and bottles threaten Sarobar||Regular visitors to Rabindra Sarobar have complained that an increasing volume of plastic bags and bottles is being dumped on the premises and the authorities are not doing much to stop the practice. They are surprised that despite the park opening for only about six hours a day, so many plastic bags and bottles are still found strewn across the complex. Some of the plastic waste ends up in the water, blown by the wind. Environment scientists said the waste can suffocate aquatic life. The water body in the 192-acre Rabindra Sarobar compound is spread across 73 acres. Somendra Ghosh, a daily visitor to the lake, noticed a plastic container, a plastic bottle and a garland floating on the water on Sunday. Ghosh said he had also noticed plastic bottles strewn around the place in large numbers. “There are plastic bags and bottles lying on the walkways and the green verges bordering the walkways and the gardens,” he said. Ghosh noticed a woman picking plastic bottles on the Sarobar premises on Sunday. By the time she was leaving, she had two bags filled with plastic bottles. “It shows how irresponsible some visitors are. The woman and people like her are actually helping keep Rabindra Sarobar clean of plastic waste,” he said. The plastic that goes into the water is a threat to aquatic life. The plastic that remains in the soil can damage the top soil and turn the portion into a barren stretch. “The lake is home to a variety of turtles and fish. They will choke to death if they swallow plastic,” said Parthib Basu, a professor of zoology at Calcutta University, who specialises in ecology. “The plastic that remains stuck in the soil will destroy the topsoil, which is rich in all the vital nutrients plants need. The top 1 feet of the soil contains all the beneficial microbes. Since plastic does not decompose easily, it will turn the portion where it lies into a barren stretch,” said Basu. Micro plastic — the torn smaller parts of a plastic bag — are hazardous for microorganisms, he said. Once in water, micro plastic releases toxic substances or can choke insects and other beings that are an important part of the ecosystem. The Sarobar is home to three species of turtles, Common Toads, Bullfrogs, Cricket Frogs, Skittering Frogs, squirrels, about 60 species of butterflies, about 30 species of dragonflies and snakes. Though Rabindra Sarobar has been declared as a no-plastic zone by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), many visitors freely walk in with plastic bottles and bags. Regular visitors alleged that security personnel do not stop visitors to find out whether they are carrying any plastic item. A CMDA official said it was not possible for guards to check the bag of each and every person because entry was free. Sumita Banerjee, another daily visitor to the place, said she was surprised with the behaviour of those who dump the waste in the place. “The park is now open for three hours in the morning and three hours in the afternoon. Despite the short duration, people manage to defile the place. I think the only way to stop them is not allowing any plastic bag, bottle or container into the Sarobar,” she said. Another CMDA official said the organisation had “installed plastic crusher machines inside the Sarobar so that plastic bottles are put inside them and crushed, and they do not fall in the water or lie scattered around the place”. “We can consider imposing a penalty on people who are found to dump plastic waste inside the Sarobar,” said another CMDA official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Hospitality seats vacant in city colleges ||Many hotel and hospitality management seats are vacant this year because a section of students is unwilling to pay a full year’s fees for the few months remaining in the current academic year. Students appear ready to forgo a year and enrol when hospitality is back in business like it was. However, career counselors and teachers across several disciplines warned against the trend, which will affect the students’ prospects in terms of admission and recruitment. In the Calcutta school of the International Institute of Hotel Management (IIHM), approximately 30 per cent seats are still vacant in hotel and hospitality management. Across its eight campuses, IIHM has 25 per cent of the seats vacant. At the Subhas Bose Institute of Hotel Management (SBIHM), about 20 per cent seats are still vacant in hotel management and a little less than that in hotel and hospitality management. Usually, all seats in these courses are taken up by the time classes start in July-August. There would even be a long waiting list of candidates. Many students Metro spoke to said they were waiting for things to look up, even if that meant losing a year. A college principal said what these students failed to understand was that next year they would be facing tougher competition with more applicants. “Gap year should be avoided. Students should rather use the opportunity to attend classes online. Faculties across the world are taking classes now because virtual platforms have made that easier,” he said. There is another long-term problem with a gap year: when the industry bounces back, there may be enough opportunities but not enough trained professionals. “Students who are not enrolling this year are actually making a mistake because by the time they graduate, three years from now, the world would bounce back more strongly. There will be a huge demand for people, especially in the hospitality and tourism industry. All the projects (in this sector) that are stalled now because of Covid will restart soon and will be ready in two years. There will be a requirement from the industry and if an adequate number of students are not there, it will create a huge gap between demand and supply,” said Suborno Bose, the CEO of IIHM. BA in hospitality management at IIHM is affiliated to the University of West London and also the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (Makaut) in Bengal. Degree courses at SBIHM are affiliated to Makaut. Both universities have extended this year’s admission window to at least mid-December. The fees for the degree courses range from Rs 1 lakh at SBIHM to about Rs 2 lakh at IIHM per year. “Parents are reluctant because they are apprehensive of enrolling their children this year. But we are advising parents that the market is opening up and there will be jobs created when they graduate,” said Rajib Sen, the chairman of SBIHM. Students can take bank loans to fund their studies but many parents said they were wary of loans in the absence of proper counselling. “To help those in financial distress we have scholarships, too. Plus we are also giving them the option of paying in instalments,” said Bose. Admission had also taken a hit because local trains were not running, the head of another institute said. “There is a tendency among students and their parents to see the campus and the infrastructure before deciding on a college. We have a certain percentage of students who come from districts like Burdwan, Midnapore, Howrah, Hooghly etc, who were unable to come,” said Sen of SBIHM. Dheerata Chatterjee, 18, was waiting for a few months before taking admission two days back. “I was waiting for the sanction of a bank loan. If I had not got the loan I might have had to study some other course. I wanted to be in hotel management,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
02-12-2020||Calcutta||Govt tells colleges to hold BTech counselling||The state government has allowed engineering colleges to conduct counselling and select students for admission on their own as 60 per cent of the BTech seats have remained vacant following a three-phased centralised counselling. As many as 20,000 out of 34,000-odd engineering seats are vacant after admission through centralised counselling. Last year, around 12,900 of the 33,000-odd seats were vacant. An order issued by the higher education department on Tuesday said the institutions were being asked to start the de-centralised counselling as “a reasonable number of seats in such professional technical courses are lying vacant”. Vacant seats have been a problem with some of Bengal’s engineering institutions year after year.  But unlike other years, seats are vacant in large numbers this time even in premier institutions like Jadavpur University and Calcutta University. Though the order does not specify any schedule, an official said each institution had been asked to start the counselling from this week. Out of 1,253 BTech seats at Jadavpur University, 450 are vacant, said a university official. After the centralised counseling, JU’s vacancy figure had stood at 260 last year. Eighty-five out of the 237 BTech seats at Calcutta University, which is considered next to JU, did not find any takers. CU’s vacancy figure last year had been 50. The Telegraph had on November 5 reported about the large number of vacant seats in the engineering institutions even after the JEE board had carried out a three-phased counseling, which started on August 12 and ended on October 31. The staggering vacancy at Jadavpur University, where the cost of studying is bare minimum, has left officials of the higher education department baffled. “It is understandable that the students are not willing to pay the steep tuition fee at private engineering colleges for studying BTech, given the shrinking job prospect amid the pandemic. But we fail to understand why students avoided JU in such large numbers,” said an official. An official of the engineering and technology faculty at JU said that even as the university had been filling seats in the first round of centralised counseling, enrolled students started backing out after counseling for the NITs began in mid-October. “As the Joint Seat Allocation Authority started its counseling, a large number of students who had opted for JU backed out and took admission in NITs. This led to a situation where one in the three seats has remained vacant at JU,” said the official. Another official said that such an exodus for the NITs, where the cost of studying is way too high compared with JU, goes to show that JU is gradually conceding its space to the NITs. “This was not the situation even a few years ago. NITs, with better infrastructure, are snatching bright students from JU. Through decentralised counseling, we will get students who are lower down the rank,” he said. Chiranjib Bhattacharjee, a pro-vice-chancellor at JU, declined comment when contacted. He had in June asked JU teachers in the engineering faculty to find out why the university’s position in the engineering category in the NIRF ranking had been sliding continuously over the past four years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-220
