03-12-2020||Calcutta||CM inaugurates Majerhat bridge, blames railway for bridge delay||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday inaugurated the four-lane Majerhat bridge, which had collapsed over two years ago, and claimed that the project got delayed by nine months as the railways took time to grant requisite permission. Banerjee also came down heavily on the BJP for staging a stir on November 26, "despite knowing that work has been completed and the bridge was to be inaugurated in a few days". "Will those who demonstrated in the area a few days ago be able to show their faces in the media to explain why it took so long for the railways to give their consent? Why did the railways take Rs 34 crore from the state for maintaining its own property under the bridge," she said. Portions of the Majerhat bridge, connecting Behala with south Kolkata, had collapsed in 2018, killing three people. The government has set up a cable-stayed bridge in place of the old one. The chief minister also said that the railways took Rs 55 crore for demolishing the dilapidated Tallah bridge in north Kolkata – under which runs railway tracks and sidings – and sought to know the reason for the move. "It seemed you (the railways) were doing me a favour (granting permission for Majerhat bridge). You also owe us an explanation of why you took that money from the state. Don't you run emergency services to clear the rush of passengers? Do you charge for that? The Kolkata Port Trust also took from us Rs 77 lakh for the bridge (Majerhat). With all that money, we could have built schools and colleges. If possible, please return the money," she said. Banerjee said the state has spent Rs 311.76 crore for the Majerhat project – christened Jai Hind Bridge to pay tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary next month. "Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had raised the slogan, Jai Hind, from the soil of Bengal. Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay who coined Vande Mataram was also from Bengal," she said. Hitting out at the BJP for trying to create "disturbances in the name of agitation", she said, "They (saffron party) claimed that they wanted to highlight the plight of people of Behala (who faced troubles commuting after bridge collapse). Do they even know how many wards are there in Behala, how many Durga pujas held there? How many schools and clubs, organisations are there? They only know the art of destabilising peace and engineering riots." Talking about the newly constructed Jai Hind Bridge, the CM said, "Technology used for building the second Hooghly Bridge has been employed to set up this one, which is longer than the previous one – 650 metre in length and upgraded to four lanes from just two. "We had also given free land to the Metro Railways as we believe in working for the people," she said. Taking a jibe at the erstwhile Left regime, she said, "There was no mechanism to audit the safety aspect of bridges, earlier. We introduced that." Noting that the government has built several bridges in the southern and the northern outskirts of city, she said, the state spent as much as Rs 445 crore to build the Maa flyover. Another flyover, linking Park Circus with Ballygunj Phari, would come up soon, she stated. Urging commuters to follow traffic rules, the CM said motorcyclists should wear helmets to avoid untoward incidents. "I will request people to follow all rules. The state will not impose Rs 2,000 as fine for those not wearing masks. The police would instead request people to don masks," she said. She also urged people not to litter, spit or throw garbage on the new bridge. "I will ask the younger generation, who are the future of the state, to play a lead role in the cleanliness drive (undertaken by the government) to keep our places, our landmarks clean," Banerjee, who was accompanied by her cabinet colleagues Partha Chatterjee and Firhad Hakim at the programme, added. Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, taking to Twitter, sought exemplary punishment for those who had failed to maintain the bridge, leading to its collapse two years ago. "It is time accountability be fixed and exemplary punishment for negligence be given to those who failed to upkeep this crucial bridge. State PWD Minister should have resigned following the deaths of Prabir Kumar Dey, Soumen Bag and Gautam Mondal two years ago. But the CM did nothing." The BJP leader further said the people would never forget the September 2018 tragedy. "As CM Mamata Banerjee, under relentless pressure from the BJP, proceeds to inaugurate the critical Majerhat bridge, people of Kolkata cannot forget the pain she inflicted on them, back in Sept 2018, when the tragedy struck. She was unmoved by the damage, destruction and death," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
03-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Poor’ or ‘very poor’: Calcutta’s recent air quality ||Air quality in the city has remained “poor” or “very poor” in many instances in the past several days, according to the National Air Quality Index, raising concerns that the situation would further worsen as temperatures fall. At 4pm on Wednesday, the air quality was “poor” at the monitoring stations in Ballygunge, Bidhannagar, Jadavpur, Victoria Memorial and Rabindra Sarobar. It was “very poor” at the monitoring stations in Fort William and Rabindra Bharati University (BT Road campus). At 4pm on Monday, the air quality was “poor” at all stations barring Rabindra Bharati, where it was “very poor”. The Telegraph checked the index for the last seven days. The readings at each of these stations was the average of the air quality of the previous 24 hours, said a scientist at the Central Pollution Control Board, which compiled the air quality index based on data from the stations. The index mentioned prolonged exposure to “poor” air could cause “breathing discomfort” in most people, while prolonged exposure to “very poor” air could result in “respiratory illness”. Air quality management specialists said more days of “very poor” and “severe” air could be waiting as winter has just set in. As temperatures will fall in December and January, the polluted air will hang close to the surface and take more time to disperse in the absence of steady winds. “Severe” air quality could affect healthy people and “seriously impact” those who are ailing, said doctors. They are more worried this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The most potent of the air pollutants are PM2.5, which are less than 2.5 micron in size. They can enter deep into the lungs and trigger a host of critical ailments. “Every year the air quality in Calcutta starts deteriorating from November. This year, too, is no exception,” said Anupam Deb Sarkar, a professor of civil engineering at Jadavpur University, who specialises in environmental engineering. “As temperatures fall in winter, the surface and the air close to the surface become cold. Being heavy, cold air does not rise up easily and get replaced by warm air. It takes almost till next afternoon for the situation to improve, which is why evenings, nights and mornings are particularly bad during winter. This natural phenomenon is called thermal inversion,” Deb Sarkar said. Other specialists said other factors were adding pollutants in the air, which float for a longer duration during winter because of thermal inversion. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of the Centre for Science and Environment, said burning of biomass also contributed to the worsening air quality. Poor air quality can have multiple effects on the human respiratory system, and can have worse impacts if someone has Covid-19. “If a person who has Covid-19 is exposed to polluted air, there are more chances of the person developing severe symptoms. Besides, air pollution also exacerbates the ailments in people with COPD and asthma,” said Sumit Sengupta, a respiratory disease consultant at AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake. Average air quality over 24 hours till 11am on the days mentioned Victoria Memorial Poor: On December 1 and 2; November 26, 27 and 29 Moderate: On November 28 and 30 Rabindra Bharati Very poor: On December 1 and 2 Poor: On November 26, 27, 29 and 30 Moderate: On November 28 Source: National Air Quality Index||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
03-12-2020||Calcutta||New Town residents face fire menace||Grass and waste are being set on fire regularly on empty plots in New Town, forcing residents to stay indoors and keep their doors and windows shut as dense smoke engulfs entire blocks. On Wednesday, residents of DF Block in Action Area I were greeted with an acrid smell of burning grass and plastic and dense white smoke. A few residents stepped out to locate the source of the smoke. Bhujaya Roy Choudhury, one of the residents in the group, said they were shocked to see mounds of what seemed to be a mix of dried grass and plastic on fire. “The smoke was so bad that our eyes started hurting and it became difficult to breathe,” Roy Choudhury said. The residents alerted police. Soumyosree Dasgupta, a resident of a housing complex in Action Area II, said people were lighting fire on the field behind their complex almost every other day. Residents and guards of the complex tried in vain to catch the people who are doing so. New Town does not have an air quality monitoring station and there is no way to measure the impact of the fires on air. The air quality index in neighbouring Salt Lake, which has a monitoring station, was 284 on Wednesday, which is considered poor. “Since it is biomass burning, it will release PM2.5 and PM10. The impact on the air will depend on the existing pollution in the area,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment. The impact, she said, will not be limited to New Town. “Burning of stubble far away from Delhi worsens the air quality of the city. It depends on the wind speed and direction…. The same will happen in New Town and Calcutta, too,” she said. An official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said they, too, failed to catch anyone responsible for lighting the fires. He said they had come to know that the fires were being lit for various reasons, including clearing undergrowth and scaring away snakes. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they had placed notices on vacant plots asking people not to light a fire. A meeting has been scheduled with the pollution control board on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid patients face CT scan overuse||Many doctors and private hospitals are doing more CT scans on Covid patients than necessary, insurance companies and agencies that process hospital bills for insurance companies have said. The agencies said they were often coming across cases where treatment sheets showed a patient was made to undergo multiple CT scans even though he had all parameters normal. “We are raising queries in claims from hospitals where we feel the CT scan of thorax has been done more number of times than necessary. But we cannot interfere in the treatment. So, when the doctor is saying scans are necessary, we cannot do anything,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (medical), National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. “Also, in these cases, if we deny the claim, the patient will suffer, not the hospital.” An official of a third party administrator (TPA), which processes insurance claims, also said they were raising queries about such “excess CT scans” for Covid patients. “We have come across cases where even though the stay of a Covid patient is as short as four to five days, two to three CT scans of thorax have been done,” said Jyotirmoy Kundu, network manager (hospitals) at Heritage Health TPA Pvt Ltd. “In many cases we have found that the CT scan of thorax and the collection of swab samples for the RT-PCR test were done during admission. Which means the scan was done even before the results of the RT-PCR test came. Also, in several cases, while going through the treatment documents, we find that the patient is stable, his oxygen saturation is normal, there is no fever or breathing trouble, but still several CT scans of the thorax have been done,” said Kundu. CT scans are way more expensive than X-rays. One private hospital in the city said their CT scan of the chest costs Rs 7,200, while X-ray of the chest costs Rs 500. An official of a TPA said many doctors were getting the CT scan of the chest done for patients at the outpatients department without doing an RT-PCR test. The American Colleges of Radiology, which represents about 40,000 radiologists in the US, has said CT scans and X-rays “should not be used as a first-time tool to diagnose or screen for Covid-19”. It has given three reasons: A chest CT scan or X-ray cannot accurately distinguish between Covid-19 and other respiratory infections. Also, the CT scan or X-ray of many Covid patients can be normal, which can give a false impression that they are healthy. Besides, health workers can get exposed to the coronavirus while performing a CT scan on a Covid patient. Doctors said the severity of a Covid patient’s condition depends on two factors — the oxygen saturation level and how much the lungs have been affected by the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19. “The CT scan of the thorax gives a better image of the lungs. Initially, when RT-PCR tests were not available for most people, doctors were depending on CT scans to decide whether a person has any chance of having been infected by the coronavirus. But now RT-PCR tests are readily available and cheaper. It is a more accurate tool of diagnosis of Covid,” said Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, a critical care specialist. “Repeated CT scans are hazardous for a patient. One CT scan leads to exposure to radiation of 100 X-rays,” said Sarkar. Doctors treating Covid patients said diagnosis of the disease should not be based on radiology alone and that swab tests are necessary, too. “A CT scan should not be part of the routine management of Covid. I get CT scans done on only those Covid patients whom I suspect might have a secondary bacterial infection, which the scan image can reveal. Also, I advise CT scans for patients who have suspected pulmonary embolism, which is a blockage in a pulmonary artery,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, an infectious diseases expert and member of the Covid treatment team at Peerless Hospital. “The treatment of Covid depends on clinical features of the patient and blood tests.” Arjun Alva, the administrative head of the medical intensive care unit and consultant in charge of Covid ICU at Narayana Hrudayalaya Health City, Bangalore, said less than 20 per cent of the patients in their ICU undergo CT scans. “We do not do chest CT scans unless it is clinically required to rule out pulmonary embolism or for prognostication purposes,” he said. “We mainly depend on clinical features like whether the patient is able to maintain required oxygen saturation without oxygen support.” He said CT scans at the Bangalore hospital were also done on patients who have to undergo a major surgery or procedure. “In 30 to 35 per cent cases, RT-PCR reports can be faulty. So for patients undergoing major surgeries or procedures, we do a CT scan. If the image of the lungs shows abnormalities, we defer the procedures,” said Alva. Also, CT scans can be done on patients who are having all symptoms of Covid but the RT-PCR test is returning negative, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Five Covid zones in Calcutta||A house on Rowland Road in Ballygunge, some apartments in a building near Ballygunge Phari and some flats in another building in Ekbalpore were declared as Covid containment zones on Monday. Following the additions, there are now five containment zones in the city. Six residents of the Rowland Road house and nine residents of the building near Ballygunge Phari have tested positive for Covid-19, said Asim Bose, coordinator of Ward 70. It was not immediately clear how many residents of the other building have tested positive. “We are only asking residents of the flat where someone has tested positive to stay isolated. People who have come in contact with an infected person are also being said so. But not others,” said Bose. “Suppose someone lives on the eighth floor and has not come in contact with an infected person on the fourth floor, that person is free to follow his or her normal routine,” Bose said. A civic official said a flat or a road or a house is declared as a containment zone only when several people test positive from a small area within a few days. “If a small road has four or five positive cases, it can be declared as a containment zone. But if five persons test positive on a long road, with people staying far from each other, there is no need to declare the road as a containment zone,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Park Street rape case convict completes jail term||Naser Khan, who was convicted in the gang rape of a woman in a moving car along with friends more than eight years ago, has completed his prison term and stepped out of jail. On the intervening night of February 5 and 6, 2012, the woman who had met friends at a night club on Park Street was raped inside a Honda City as it drove on. Naser, 35, walked out of Presidency jail on Saturday. He was released around 400 days before the end of his term of 10 years because of his “good behaviour”. He was arrested on Feb-ruary 18, 2012, along with friends Sumit Bajaj and Ruman Khan. His younger brother Kadir, now 33, who had been named the prime accused, and another co-accused, Ali, were arrested four years later. Sumit was released in June (he had earned a remission of around 500 days), while Ruman’s term is likely to end next February, sources in the jail department said. Naser, who has barely stepped out of home since his release from jail three days ago, told Metro on Wednesday: “I am looking forward to starting afresh. I am feeling uneasy to step out now. But gradually things will be normal, I believe. I have a bunch of close friends who know me and are helping me cope with the new situation.” His family owns a business dealing in industrial thermometers. Naser said he was yet to decide whether he would rejoin the family business. Sixth of eight brothers in the family, the biggest regret Naser had during his stint in the jail was to lose his parents. “The death of my parents has left a permanent vacuum in my life which nothing can fill,” he said. At Dum Dum and Presidency jails, where he was lodged, Naser was involved in “office work” at the welfare offices. “He was actively involved in helping inmates who were poor and could not afford lawyers. He would write petitions on their behalf and seek assistance from the legal aid forum,” said an official in the jail department. Naser said one “good thing” that happened to him during his stay in jail was to sleep early and wake up early. “I want to leave behind everything else except the sleeping pattern. Going to bed by 10.30pm and waking up by 6am is what I will follow for the rest of my life,” he said. Sumit was at the wheel while his friends Ali, Kadir, Ruman and Naser were in the vehicle, police had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Assurance for surgeon's dues chided by CM Mamata Banerjee||The high court on Wednesday took a written undertaking from the state health secretary that all steps would be taken to ensure that Shyamapada Ghorai, a former director of the Bangur Institute of Neurosciences (BIN), got all his dues at the earliest. Ghorai, who retired from service in 2015, was publicly snubbed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee during a visit to the institute in May 2011 and suspended as its director. On Wednesday, the division bench of Justice Saugata Bhattacharyya and Justice Soumen Sen issued the order in a contempt case moved by Ghorai. The case was filed apparently after the state government had failed to carry out an earlier high court order, asking it to immediately disburse the neurosurgeon’s statutory dues. Counsel Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya and Shamim Ahmed represented Ghorai. In an earlier order, the division bench had directed health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam to appear before him on Wednesday. On Wednesday, when the bench asked Nigam why he had failed to carry out the earlier order and clear Ghorai’s dues, the secretary remained silent. The bench then asked him to give a written undertaking that he would take all possible measures so that Ghorai got his dues at the earliest. Nigam submitted the undertaking. Mamata had made a surprise visit to the hospital on May 26, 2011, and was told by Ghorai that the trail of people behind her was inconveniencing patients. After questioning Ghorai in public over some faulty equipment, Mamata had said: “It seems you are afraid that if the media come here, you and your acts will be exposed. You have already been exposed. You don’t know etiquette, how to behave with people. I don’t want to speak to you anymore. Meet me tomorrow, I’ll take a decision.” The same evening, the chief minister had called a meeting of the heads of different state-run hospitals, including BIN, Ahmed said. “But Ghorai could not attend the meeting because he was performing an urgent operation. He was suspended the next day,” Ahmed said. The lawyer alleged that after suspension, his client did not get salaries in time. Ghorai moved the high court in 2019 because the state did not disburse his salary arrears, statutory dues and pensions, Ahmed said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||JU science heads plead against rise in PG intake||The heads of the science departments at Jadavpur University have written to the vice-chancellor saying “there is no scope to increase the intake of students for postgraduate courses without enhancing the infrastructural facilities” of the institute. The teachers have pointed out “difficulties in running undergraduate courses with the increased numbers of intakes over the years”. Although the December 1 letter does not say it explicitly, it contains an underlying message to not succumb to alleged pressure from the students’ union to admit all students who have passed the BSc exams from the university this year in the master’s courses, even if that means admitting more students than usual. The teachers are worried how they will conduct undergraduate and postgraduate classes adhering to the physical distancing norms amid the Covid pandemic once in-person classes resume, unless additional classrooms and labs are made ready. The letter, signed by the heads of the seven science departments at JU, says: “We request the administration to take the necessary steps to enhance the infrastructural facilities as we have been experiencing difficulties in running our undergraduate courses with the increased numbers of intakes over the years.” It adds: “We do not have laboratories that can accommodate additional students for teaching in undergraduate courses….” Last week, the acting dean of science at JU, Subir Mukhopadhyay, had resigned following what sources close to him said was “pressure” from the students’ union of the science faculty to accommodate all graduating students from the university in postgraduate courses. Mukhopadhyay withdrew his resignation on Wednesday. The department heads sent their letter to VC Suranjan Das five days after the head of the physics department, Sukhen Das, had written to Das that in the absence of additional space, “It will be almost impossible to continue theory and laboratory classes for PG students, especially in this pandemic situation’’, once in-person classes resume. He had requested the VC to provide the department at least two classrooms and two laboratories for PG students on an urgent basis. The letters written in quick succession amplify the extent of the crisis related to infrastructure on the campus amid the pandemic, a JU official said. An associate professor of physics said the department had two classrooms and three labs for 45 PG students in each of the two years. “The classrooms get crowded and often four to five students work on an instrument. That cannot be allowed in this pandemic situation,” the teacher said. The situation is equally bad in the chemistry and mathematics departments, which have 41 and 70 students at the masters’ level, respectively. The number of seats has increased over the years in both general and reserved categories at the undergraduate as well as postgraduate level, said a JU official. A section of teachers has long been alleging that the higher education department has increased the number of seats without enhancing the infrastructure. “Teachers in the science departments had alleged at executive council meetings that they were finding it difficult to accommodate all students in the classrooms and laboratories. If the same numbers are maintained, they are fearing the students will be exposed to infection,’’ an official said. If the students are forced to attend the theory and practical classes in crammed facilities, they will endanger their lives and that of the teachers amid the pandemic, said a teacher. Repeated calls to vice-chancellor Das went unanswered. A university official said the issue about improving the infrastructure would be taken up at the executive council meeting on December 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Metro trains to go up, timings revised||Metro Railway is inching towards its pre-pandemic timings. Starting Monday, the first trains will leave the terminal stations at 7am, instead of 8am, the carrier said in a slew of announcements made on Wednesday. The last trains will leave Dum Dum and Kavi Subhash (New Garia) at 9.30pm, instead of 9pm. Before the service was suspended following the Covid-19 outbreak, the first and the last trains would start at 6.45am and 9.55pm, respectively. The revised timings are for trains from Monday to Saturday. The other announcements that came on Wednesday are: ⚫The number of trains from Monday to Saturday will go up to 204 from 190 from November 7, said a Metro official ⚫Also from Monday, commuters will not need an e-pass to enter a Metro station between 7am and 8.30am and after 8pm ⚫Women and children (up to 15 years) will not need an e-pass to enter a Metro station throughout the day. Now, women and children are exempt from producing an e-pass between 11am and 5pm. Senior citizens (60 years and above) can enter a station without an e-pass throughout the day ⚫The token system will remain suspended. Since services resumed on September 14, tokens are not being issued to prevent a possible spread of the Covid-19 virus Metro officials said more trains and revised timings followed a jump in the footfall over the past few days. Metro’s passenger count breached the 1,00,000-mark on November 18, for the first time since the resumption of service on September 14 and a week into the resumption of suburban trains on November 11. The usual weekday count is now above 1,10,000. “The number of passengers till 8.30am and post-8pm is reasonably low. So, we want to open slots for more commuters,” said a Metro official. “We plan to open more slots for commuters without an e-pass. But in the rush hours, the e-pass system will be the key to crowd control,” he added. From Monday, the inter-val between two trains will be around seven minutes during rush hours and aro-und 15 minutes during the rest of the day’s service period. On Sundays, the number of trains will remain unchanged at 68. But on December 6, there will be 74 trains to facilitate the journey of candidates of the West Bengal Clerkship Examination (Part II). The first trains will leave Dum Dum and New Garia at 9am and 9pm, respectively. From Noapara, the first train will leave at 9.13am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
03-12-2020||Calcutta||Francis Xavier: Missionary on the move||Francis Xavier had planned to devote himself to a prestigious intellectual life, but at a strategic moment he surrendered to God, who had long and patiently pursued him. That surrender changed the course of his life — and the course of history as well. Even Ignatius of Loyola, the leader of the new Jesuit community, had planned to deploy Francis as a scholar. But India beckoned. The Indian mission of the Jesuits lies at the very origin of their Order. It is to India that Ignatius of Loyola, the Founder of the Society of Jesus, sent his greatest son, Francis Xavier, in 1542, and to him and his successors, he gave that inspiration and those directives which became the foundation of the Jesuit mission and method in India. Xavier was a zealous “missionary on the move”. He worked in India for 10 years, from 1542 to 1552, which is called the “Xaverian decade”. India has also been the birthplace of missionary theories and the testing ground of Jesuit principles and policies. Jesuit involvement in education in India has a precious history and heritage. It is part of the larger global educational network. The Jesuits have been pioneers and vanguards in providing education to the rural poor, Dalits and tribals. By opening the doors of their institutions to all, irrespective of caste, creed, language and sex, the Jesuits have exerted a healthy and harmonious influence on the educational system of India, and the mood resonates beyond its boundaries. St Francis Xavier opened the first Jesuit College in Goa in 1543. It was named St Paul’s College. Nothing exists of this institution today except its memory, but it was the predecessor of hundreds of other schools, colleges and universities bearing the name of Xavier’s in India. Francis Xavier saw in the school an opportunity to do good by initiating the young into secular and human knowledge and simultaneously into spiritual and moral values — the love of God and human person. The success experienced in India and in Europe encouraged the Jesuits to go in for more and more schools and colleges of every kind, so that soon education came to be considered the primary work of the Society of Jesus. Hence, the Jesuit dictum “Give us a boy and we will return you a man, a citizen of his country and a child of God.” In 10 years of his stay in India from 1542 to 1552, he travelled 45,600 km by sea and land for his apostolic work. Described as the “Apostle of the East”, second only to St Paul, Xavier did not return from his trip to Chinaen route the Celestial Kingdom in 1552. He fell ill and died on December 3 at Shangchuan Island, Jiangmen, China, and was buried at the beach there. After one year from death, the uncorrupt body of Francis Xavier was shipped to Goa. The body of the 16th century Spanish saint is now preserved in a casket at the Basilica of BomJésus in Goa. Xavier was canonised as saint in March 1622 along with Ignatius of Loyola. Francis Xavier was born in 1506 at Javier, Spain. At the age of 19, he enrolled at the College of St Barbara, where he pursued an unwaveringly successful academic career. Within three short years he had earned his degree and was lecturing in philosophy at the same college where circumstances put Xavier’s spiritual career on course. Through his roommate, Peter Faber, Francis became a friend of Ignatius of Loyola. This relationship gradually revolutionised his life. He joined Ignatius and together founded the Society of Jesus, the largest religious order in the Catholic Church. Jesuits all over the world along with their collaborators, alumni and alumnae and students celebrate the feast of St Francis Xavier on December 3. I wish them all a happy feast of their patron and his abundant blessings on their good work for knowledge, health, harmony and peace. On this auspicious occasion, Prof. Suranjan Das, vice-chancellor of Jadvapur University, will release my book: WAVES – Story Bank, which contains 75 inspirational stories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-219
