04-12-2020||Calcutta||Sunny Fort kids’ night out||They had wanted to celebrate Halloween in October, by sending the kids ‘trick or treating’ but obviously that had to be cancelled. Then they realised that Diwali would be devoid of crackers, another favourite of kids. “So I came up with the idea of organising a ‘costume walk’ for juniors and it so happened that most of them chose the horror theme,” says Madhumita Bhattacharya of Sunny Fort Ladies’ Team in New Town. “Of course, it all fit in perfectly when we realised Diwali was also Children‘s Day this year.” Horror had many faces at Sunny Fort. More than 10 kids in the four to 14 age group took part and paraded along with thematic music. Sreyash Chatterjee sacred the audience as Dracula, Rishi Banerjee dressed as as Bhuter Raja from Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne and Suditi Bhowmik did a little jig as Paromi Rakkhoshi of Thakumar Jhuli that she watches on Hotstar. “The toughest part of my costume was the long nails, which I cut out of chart paper. But they wouldn’t stick to my fingers! When no amount of cellotape worked, my mother fixed them with BandAid,” laughed the fifth grader. Avipsa Chatterjee had dressed as Annabelle, the evil doll from the eponymous film. “I’m scared of ghost movies and haven’t seen Annabelle but my friends talk about it so much that I know all about it. I wore a white frock and tied my hair with red ribbons like the doll,” said the 10-year-old. It seems the girl knew exactly what make-up was required too and asked her mother Chandrani for white eye shadow to apply on her face, along with lipstick on the cheeks. “The only thing missing was a blonde wig,” said Chandrani, who anchored the show along with Sudeshna Dutta (whose kids Asmi and Arav dressed as a rabbit and crocodile respectively). “The show was a super success,” beamed Madhumita. “I hadn’t expected parents and kids to invest so much this time into this.” Her own six-year-old Adrita Bhattacharjee had dressed up as Stree, the ghost in the Shraddha Kapoor film. The child enjoyed the show but got so scared by the other participating “ghosts” that she couldn’t sleep all night after that! “Ami ma aar dida ke shara raat khub jaliyechi,” says the child who even vomited out of fear. Mother Madhumita says Adrita isn’t supposed to watch horror films but saw Stree on the sly once. “She got so scared thereafter that that I had to take leave from office to pacify her the next day!”  As a sideshow Juna Dutta, a ladies team member, taught the kids to shape mashed potatoes like stubby strips and push in almonds at the end. “They were zombie fingers and the kids ate them after making and clicking them,” smiled Juna, who happens to be the co-ordinator of a preschool. “They also made zombie teeth with apple slices, jam and nuts and instead of Jack-o’-lantern pumpkin carvings, drew eyes and teeth on oranges with markers.” Suchita Mukherjee got homemade Swiss rolls for the little ghosts to snack on and Mukulika Adhikary brought home-made butter cookies that resembled witch fingers and Jack-o’-lantern faces. Her own sons were dressed up too. Twelve-year-old Rittik walked as a vampire (with mom’s black dupatta fastened as cape) and seven-year-old Rishaan had draped a stitched white sheet over himself with a red ribbon to demarcate his head, much like Casper, the friendly ghost. “Since my face was hidden no one could recognise me. My friends were wondering who I was,” laughed the little one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta’s air quality deteriorates to 'very poor', ‘severe’ in certain parts||The air quality in most parts of Calcutta deteriorated to 'very poor', while it turned 'severe' in the northern parts of the metropolis on Friday, a West Bengal Pollution Control Board (PCB) official said. The automated air monitoring station at Rabindra Bharati University (RBU) on B T Road in north Calcutta recorded the air quality index (AQI) of 408 PM 2.5 at 3 pm, which is categorised as 'severe'. "The AQI recorded at RBU during the day is the worst this year. It was caused mostly due to wintry conditions with particulate matters hanging in the air and a large number of vehicles hitting the roads," he said. AQI between 401 and 500 is designated as 'severe' and affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases, causing respiratory difficulties, environmentalist S M Ghosh said. "It is caused by the plying of a large number of diesel-run commercial vehicles, use of coal-fired chulha (clay stove) by roadside eateries and garbage burning at dumping yards," he said. The air quality turned 'very poor' (301-400) in other parts of the city. It can aggravate asthma and other respiratory conditions. Ballygunge recorded AQI of 309, Bidhan Nagar 320, Fort William 324, Victoria Memorial 314 and Jadavpur 303. "The PCB is taking steps like banning coal-fired chulha and old commercial vehicles in the city. The board is also using water sprinkler vehicles to prevent the accumulation of dust in the air," the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Let the margins thrive||Back in the 80s, before scientists had come up with a name for it, AIDS was casually referred to as Grid (Gay-Related Immune Deficiency) or even gay cancer. “Such terms were inaccurate and insensitive,” said Anindya Kar, a doctor speaking at a webinar on the rights of LGBT+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and related communities). In 2020, the community may be better off than in the 80s but the discussion revealed that society still has a long way to go before LGBT folks feel truly at home. “Homosexuality is just a variation of sexuality. Like being left-handed, it is simply less common but sadly, the world is yet to understand this,” said Kar, who is assistant director and chief medical officer of Advanced Neuropsychiatry Institute, Joka. “States like West Bengal are still better off. Here a person like Rituparno Ghosh is respected despite his orientation but up north, things are frightening.” The webinar was conducted by PeaceLiveLaugh, a counselling, life coaching and mental health unit with a branch in BL Block. “Even today, we have clients who bring their homosexual children to us and ask us to ‘fix them’. It’s such parents and families who need counselling,” said Kakoli Das Mandal, psychotherapist and co-founder of the group, who moderated the session. “In school, it is expected that a boy will like a girl but if by chance that is not the case he is bullied. If an effeminate boy goes to complain about his harassment, he is further ridiculed. In our country teachers lack gender sensitisation,” said Kar. His sister, a counsellor, had once assessed a bullied student and found that he might be homosexual. She wanted to speak to his parents but the principal would not hear of it. “He said such an assessment would unsettle the parents and they would take his ward out of the school. So the topic was buried and the child’s harassment continued,” he sighed. Kar explained that chronic stress from school, the neighbourhood and within the house leads students to the their threshold and makes them vulnerable to mental health issues. Aritra Kanjilal, an openly gay individual who champions the cause of LGBT rights, was another speaker at the forum. He noted that most suicides and attempted suicides in the LGBT community took place at the student stage. “Adolescence is tough as it is and if someone’s orientation is different he has this additional burden to bear. Families need to tell them that their feelings are valid so they can focus on other aspects of growing up,” said Kanjilal. When Kar was in college he had wanted to conduct a study on the attitude of Indian medical students towards homosexuality but the authorities rejected his proposal as being unnecessary. “But it is extremely necessary. It may affect patient care,” says Kar, who fought it out and conducted the study anyway. “As per the 2018 study, 15 per cent doctors felt homosexuality was an illness and 24 per cent felt homosexuals were neurotic,” he said sadly. “We live in a country when if a homosexual teenager visits his doctor with a sexually transmitted disease the first thing the doctor asks is: ‘Do your parents know you’re doing all this?’ Who gives the doctor the right to judge his patients?” said Kar. He cited the case of doctors from rural and conservative backgrounds who get into the profession without any knowledge of homosexuality. “Since the education system doesn’t so much as mention the term, such doctors believe it is abnormal. They don’t even talk properly to these patients. And since the LGBT community as it is lives in fear, they don’t know they can sue doctors for such behaviour.” “Why is the ideal family always depicted with a mother, father, son and daughter?” wondered Kanjilal. “Why is a same-sex couple never highlighted? Let alone marriage, could the government and society at least consider same-sex union?” Kanjilal said he and his same-sex partner have a difficult time renting a home together. “We have to tell the landlord we are cousins or school friends. We cannot open joint accounts, our relationship status has no legal recognition.” Another can of worms is gays being forced into marriages. “A 2018 study found a huge portion of Indian gay men to be married,” said Kar, citing the web series Made in Heaven on Amazon Prime where the character played by Vinay Pathak is a closeted gay man living with his wife and child. “The complex situation requires family counselling. If the man ‘comes out’, his wife accuses him of having cheated her all these years. Then comes the question of divorce, which itself is a taboo.” Then again, Kar said many gay men inform their would-be brides about their orientation beforehand. “It’s a marriage of convenience. To the world, they are a couple but in private each is free. Such a marriage, too, was shown in Made in Heaven,” he said. In the 1950s, British scientist Alan Turing, considered the father of theoretical computer science and who helped crack Nazi codes during World War II, was prosecuted for homosexuality. “Instead of being honoured, he was administered hormone treatment to try to ‘cure’ him,” said Kar. Turing died of cyanide poisoning, which many believe to have been suicide. Kar also touched upon other torturous ‘treatments’ meted out to homosexuals down the ages. In the 21st century, at least some MNCs have embraced the community. Kanjilal works for a company that he says is inclusive. “They allow medical benefits for same-sex partners, have gender-neutral adoption policies…. Why, last year we even took part in an LGBTQI (the last two letters stand for queer and intersexed) job fair in Bangalore,” said Kanjilal, who leads their company’s South Asia ‘pride’ employee resource group. Footfall at the job fair comprised mostly members from the LGB community as transgenders lack formal education and it is difficult to even reach news of such an event to them. “Transgenders who did come did not have resumes and we wrote their details down for them.” Sambit Dey, who used to work for the same company as Kanjilal and spoke on the forum, felt any kind of diversity increases productivity, be it women, the differently-abled or LGBT. “If an employee is holding back, he is not free to work to his full potential. In fact, a lot of companies are now hiring LGBT but only to tick a box. The atmosphere is missing at their workplaces with people still sniggering at employees from the community. A huge help is if the top management is an ally,” he said. While their company advertises vacancies on LGBT websites, the applicant is free to hide where he spotted the ad. “It is against the law to ask a candidate his orientation but if we create an atmosphere of trust, we can attract talent from there,” said Kanjilal. After a point, Dey said, orientation no longer matters in office. “Aritra is ‘out’ but we forget about it,” he said. Perhaps the most important role in the journey of the LGBT community is played by allies. If you are a heterosexual person but one who believes that gay lives matter, you are their ally. “Your best friend could be gay. Create an atmosphere so he can ‘come out’ to you without worrying about your reaction,” said Kar. “If you find someone making homophobic jokes, prod him politely. Ask him why he thinks it’s not ok for two men to be holding hands. He won’t have conviction in his answer because there is really nothing wrong with it. Don’t attack them, just help them contemplate. Create peer pressure for others to be nice to LGBTs.” As for LGBTs trying to ‘come out’, the journey needs support, resilience and someone to confide in. “This need not be a doctor, it could be a friend of family member. And once you are out, don’t be afraid. Raise your voice against discrimination,” said Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Physiotherapy course to promote employment||At a time when unemployment is on the rise due to the pandemic, Rotary Club of Salt Lake Central has certified 19 young girls in physiotherapy in the hope that they be self-employed. The classes were held over four months last winter and the convocation that took place in September was to have taken place in April. The course was conducted in association with Workshop for the Blind in LB Block, which was the venue of the classes as well as the convocation. The workshop was conducted by senior physiotherapists and physicians and taught the participants about the various muscle groups, nerves and organs in the body, mobility exercises for those with joint pains, frozen shoulder, chronic neck pain etc. “We were also taught massaging and the use of blood pressure monitors, oxygen cylinders etc,” said Swapna Pradhan, who was teaching at a Montessori till before the lockdown. Nirupama Ghosh, a resident of Duttabad, has already taken charge of a few patients in Salt Lake. “One of them is a 76-year-old lady who couldn’t even lift her leg when I joined. She’s much better after my therapy,” said the youth who has completed her Higher Secondary exams and would tutor students before making the job switch. “Schooling is not enough. One needs vocational courses like this to land jobs.” The girls also got many a practical tip from the chief guest at the event. “I am a psychiatrist and can prescribe medicines. But alongside my services patients need psychologists for counselling. It’s teamwork. Similarly, your job as physiotherapists is important for orthopedics,” said Kedar Banerjee, a resident of AL Block in New Town. He asked them to prepare visiting cards. “No need for anything fancy, take plain print outs of your name, profession and phone number and give doctors when you meet them. They may laugh at your face saying four months is not enough to become a physiotherapist, but take it up as a challenge,” said Banerjee. “Speak to senior physiotherapists and ask to become their assistants. You will gain experience and confidence. And in case a doctor does recommend you, call him up every week to share the status of the patients. The doctor will remember you and refer more patients to you.” The psychiatrist also anticipated taunts from neighbours. “They’ll ridicule your profession, comparing you to their IT sector-employed children but don’t you believe them. You are now health workers and deserve more respect than anyone,” assured Banerjee, adding that while it would not be possible to maintain distancing with patients, they should be careful and follow the other Covid safety norms. Arindam Nandy, a Rotarian who was compering the event, said this was the first time that they conducted such a camp, deviating from tailoring, beautician and similar time-tested vocational courses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Plea in Green Tribunal against stubble burning||On Wednesday, environmentalist Subhas Datta filed a public interest litigation before the eastern zone bench of the National Green Tribunal, alleging large scale crop residue cum stubble burning in various parts of the state, including New Town, triggering significant air pollution. The case is expected to be heard soon. "In West Bengal every year after the kharif crop is harvested in October and November… stubble burning becomes rampant throughout the state for which the city lives become miserable due to various air borne diseases” wrote Datta in his affidavit, a copy of which is with The Telegraph. “The stubble burning is not limited in the districts only, it is largely being practised … in New Town Action Area II”, further wrote Datta attaching several photographs of such burning and even spots being blackened with such burning. “It’s a matter of real concern and shock that the unbearable air pollution level in our city is accelerated due to such stubble burning,” added the activist while pointing out that large scale burning happened on November 25 at the land earmarked for and fenced for construction of Calcutta High Court complex at New Town. According to locals, stubble burning in vacant plots has become a menace in New Town for about a month. It has added high level of toxic particulate and gaseous pollutants over and above the already deteriorating air in the area, a common phenomenon during winter. According to PCB sources, the automatic air pollution measuring station in Bidhannagar, closest to New Town among the automatic stations, recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) value of 357 at the stroke of midnight on December 1,which falls under the ‘very poor’ category. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, people exposed to such air for a prolonged period can develop respiratory illness. “Often plastic is burnt along with the stubble, which makes the fume even more toxic,” said Krishnajyoti Goswami, a resident of Alaktika Housing Complex in Action Area IID. “On Tuesday, a fire blazed for an hour and did extensive damage. The benefit of desisting from bursting fire crackers this Diwali is being frittered away through this pollution,” said Ranadip Basak of Mahua Madhabi, in Action Area IIB. Debasish Sen, chairman of NKDA, said that they had placed notices on vacant plots asking people not to light fire on the grasslands and stubble. “We have not yet been able to find who have been starting the fire,” said Sen, adding that they had formed watch groups to locate the offenders. A recent project by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) on Calcutta’s air pollution has not carried out any study on specific impact of stubble burning on the city’s air pollution but found that open burning is responsible for about three per cent of PM 10 pollutants and seven percent of PM 2.5 pollutants in the city air. PM 10 and PM 2.5 are fine particulate pollutants, the latter being tinier and hence more penetrative and potent. These can enter the deep crevices of the respiratory system and trigger several diseases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||CC Block post office to be nodal delivery hub for parcels||The CC Block post office in Salt Lake has become a nodal delivery hub for parcels. It will handle parcels not only for Salt Lake but also New Town. “Parcel is a new trend of mail that is developing for both home delivery and commercial sectors. They require a slightly different approach than letters. While a single mailman can handle a large number of letters for a small area, parcels are bigger and heavier. So in a digitally integrated environment that post offices now have, it is necessary to redelineate the area and designate a location in each area where parcels can be handled in a more focused manner under proper supervision,” explained post master general, Calcutta, Niraj Kumar. Thus a nodal delivery hub caters to a slightly larger area than a traditional post office. The CC Block post office will be the sixth hub in the Calcutta metropolitan area, after the General Post Office, Alipore, Dum Dum, Tangra and Bhowanipore. “We realised that Tangra could not handle parcels for Salt Lake and we also recognised the commercial importance of the area which includes the tech hub in Sector V and New Town. That’s why we decided to carve out this area under a separate post office,” added Kumar. Since parcels are bulkier, the department has recognised that the traditional mode of delivery — on foot or by cycle — will not work. So the mailmen have been provided with e-scooters, four-wheelers and three wheelers. Kumar added that the department also plans to introduce extended parcel booking hours at the Salt Lake post office. “Currently, counters close at 3pm. So people are deprived of our services after that. We want to roll out parcel booking facility till the evening hours from here,” he said. But before that, the staff crunch at the post office would need to be addressed. The post office is functioning with half its allotted strength of personnel and does not even have a full-time post master. Even the person who was handed charge temporarily has gone on leave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Twin health units for New Town||The New Town administrative authorities are gearing up to address a long-standing demand of residents to boost the public health infrastructure in the township. Two projects have been taken up, one by Hidco and another by NKDA. The tender processes for both have been initiated and the Hidco project has reached the bid evaluation stage. The chosen site for the latter is near the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Government College in Action Area 1. “We are constructing a polyclinic with ambition of a big hospital in future. For now, it will have a diagnostic centre and an out-patient department with specialist doctors available for consultation,” said Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The pile foundation is of a seven-storied building, of which only two floors will be built at present. Hidco has taken help from the medical engineering wing of the health department in drawing up the building plan. “We have no expertise in matters like designing a surgery room — what its required dimensions should be, whether the entry needs to have a double door to prevent infection... The building layout has been planned in such a way that later it can be expanded into a multi-speciality hospital,” Sen said. Though Hidco is constructing the building, Sen emphasises that the health department has to run it. “We are not equipped to deal with nurses, doctors, surgical equipment or medicines beyond the level of the requirements of a primary health centre.” Though health infrastructure in New Town, as anywhere else, has been in focus in the aftermath of the Covid-19 infection, Sen affirms that the two projects are not a reaction to the recently felt need. “It is the result of planning for three-four years. We have been in dialogue with the health department. The requirement we have placed before them is at the minimum of the standard of Bidhannagar Sub-divisional hospital but preferably a full-fledged multi-speciality hospital like SSKM. Though nothing has come about yet, we thought of making a start, drawing up lateral and upward linkages which by themselves involve a difficult process.” Though the Hidco has a long wishlist of specialisations from cardiology and endocrinology to ophthalmology and dentistry, Sen admits that it will all depend on who the health department can spare. “Shortage of doctors is a perennial problem. Even if a specialist can come once a week for outdoor consultations at the polyclinic, we will be happy.” The other project is an urban primary health centre to come up near Akankha More in Action Area 2. It will be a three-storeyed building to be built by NKDA and will offer the facilities enlisted under the National Urban Health Mission. “The thrust of these primary health centres is on public health and prevention. So it will spearhead detection and treatment of seasonal outbreaks like dengue and malaria and also mass vaccinations and sterilisations. Mother and child care will also be a component of its activities,” said Sen. New Town already has a primary health centre functioning from a building that also houses a public health and engineering office located behind DPS New Town, on a lane near Tata Medical Center. A doctor, two nurses and a pharmacist are posted there. “The new set-up will be in a dedicated building and with more facilities,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital principal dead||The principal of the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital, Hashi Dasgupta, died on Thursday after a heart attack. A test revealed she had Covid. Dasgupta was 57. Officials at the hospital said Dasgupta had attended office on Wednesday. She was taken ill and was admitted to Sagore Dutta Hospital around noon. She was found to be Covid positive. She was shifted to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday evening after her condition deteriorated. She passed away around 5pm on Thursday. “When she was brought here, her oxygen saturation was about 70. She had diabetes. Besides, she had fibrosis in the lungs because of Covid. She suffered a cardiac arrest on Thursday,” said an official of Calcutta Medical College. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed grief at the death of Dasgupta. In her condolence message, Mamata said Dasgupta had been serving as principal of Sagore Dutta Hospital since 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Workstations on hourly rent in New Town||Are you tired of working from home? And yet not feeling confident enough to travel all the way to office daily? A solution will soon be on offer in every extended New Town locality which will allow people to step out for some hours and get some quality work done in a socially distanced and convenient set-up. The Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) is building neighbourhood work cocoons. These will be community spaces of 800 to 1,000sq ft area in residential localities where people can spend a few hours on payment. The space will be wi-fi-enabled and one will have to bring one’s own device. It will be like an internet cafe but away from commercial hubs where cafes are usually located. There will be provision for photocopy. One person will be in charge who can serve coffee and biscuits too. It will be a silent zone with library-like discipline. If a person wants to stretch his legs or take a call, he can walk around outside before settling back. “In a situation where we are trying to decentralise, the aim of building these facilities is to provide a flavour of office in one’s own neighbourhood,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. Its uniqueness and appeal in the Covid situation lie in the way the space has been designed. “We are breaking the open office design which can spread infection. There will be glass panel partitions about three feet higher than the table tops and sufficient spacing between what we are calling isolation desks,” he explained. Hidco is building two such work cocoons in Action Area 1 and will hand them over to a private agency against a rent. “These will also generate employment in a situation where people are losing jobs. We will set the operational module which the agency will have to follow,” he said. Sanitisation, for instance, will be a vital part of the maintenance and the private management will have to follow a protocol set by the government authority. For instance, Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority, which Sen also heads, has a routine prescribed for Sector V offices. “We recommend workplaces to be sanitised thrice a day — before opening, at lunch time and after shutdown,” he said. The hourly charge for use will be decided by the agency taking the facility on rent. “It will have to be affordable enough to ensure high footfall and be viable to leave them a margin after paying us the rent,” said Sen, predicting that the charge could be flexible, with Sundays having a lower rate. Abin Design Studio, which has designed Nazrul Tirtha, has drawn up the layout for the work cocoons. “This is a visionary idea. With people avoiding  commuting in public transport and companies avoiding gathering of employees in offices, work from home is here to stay for long. And this will be the future. This will also generate local revenue,” said Abin Chaudhuri, the architect. While the ground floor will be air-conditioned, one can climb up the stairs and sit on the open-air terrace too, especially in winter. The terrace will have gallery-like steps by way of seating arrangement and will have wi-fi connectivity as well. There will be space for lockers in the single-floor structure to store one’s belongings if one wants to spend all day there. The furniture would be modular so that it can be installed and reoriented with ease. Each of the 21 isolation desks will be equipped with a laptop charging station. The brief from Hidco was to evolve a model which is scalable. While the current plots will house 1,000 sq ft structures, a smaller plot can be two-storeyed too, said Chaudhuri. The work cocoons will be of use even to those wanting to take a break from the monotony of a life of leisure indoors. “It can also be used for relaxation, like reading newspapers or a book. A rack will have books and magazines. Even if you want to watch a film, you can bring your laptop or tab along and watch it over a cup of coffee,” said Sen The space, Chaudhuri explained, will be divided into a work area and a round table for those wanting to relax. The table can sit about four people in a sufficiently distanced manner. Separate toilets will be there for men and women. For starters, Hidco has earmarked plots for three work cocoons — two in Action Area 1, which has disjointed plots in residential blocks, and another in Nababpur in Action Area 2. The first two sites are on the Major Arterial Road, making them convenient to reach. “Apartment complexes have their own community centres and coffee shops where we cannot intervene. So we are targeting people in the standalone blocks for now as potential users,” said Sen. Construction is in full swing at all three sites — beside the NKDA office, between the Croma store and Sankalpa 4 and the third across the road from Eco Park’s Christ the Redeemer statue. “The structure next to the NKDA office should be ready by the end of the financial year,” Sen said. Sen had foreseen the requirement in April when the lockdown started. “People will realise the problems of work from home with conflicting demands on the home space. Once they get fed up, they will feel it necessary to go out but not venture too far out,” he had told The Telegraph Salt Lake in early May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Post-Amphan, parks of Salt Lake in disrepair||Several parks in Salt Lake have been reduced to a shadow of their former selves with defunct lights, broken down walls, damaged playground furniture and tall weeds. The parks were once popular hang-out zones for residents as well as visitors to the township but are now run down. Many of these were ravaged by Cyclone Amphan back in May and have been languishing in that state since then. At a park inside FE Block, locally called Green Verge 2, a lamppost that was broken in the cyclone still lies prostrate in the middle. Several portions of the park’s boundary walls have gaping holes and broken branches of trees lie along the periphery. The swing lacks seats and the slide has partially caved in. Several lights inside a nearby park, that houses the Jaideep Mukherjea Tennis Academy, have stopped working and both here and in another smaller park inside the block, lampposts have electric wires sticking out dangerously from them. On November 11, a man had snatched a handbag from one of two girls walking home at night. After the crime, he got on his bicycle that was kept inside FE Park and pedalled away. Basab Basak, a resident of the block, said that the civic body had not carried out repairs in the parks for a very long time and that nothing, be it lights or the benches, had been repaired or painted in a long time. “There has been absolutely no maintenance in our parks,” said Basak. At HA Park, a swing hangs lopsided as one of the chains has snapped, residents said. A rusted iron pole stands at the spot where a monkey-bar once stood. In IA Block, the jungle cage is rusted and the swing’s chains are falling off in chunks at the slightest hint of movement. However, work has finally started here as the tender for the job had been floated before the civic board’s term ended in October. FD Block resident Ayantika Chakraborty said their park plunges into darkness every evening. “Many of the lights don’t work properly. We feel unsafe to take a walk in the park after sunset,” she said. Not a single child was spotted in AD Park despite the presence of colourful swings, slides and merry-go-rounds. The reason is not far to seek. Not one of them work and many of them are broken. “The children's section of the park has at least 10 rides. All of them have stopped working because of lack of maintenance,” a resident said. The broken base of a merry-go-round stands partially hidden from view by overgrown grass and anyone can trip over it and get injured. The merry-go-round itself lies overturned near the wall. In AC Block, a park alongside the Kestopur Canal is so overrun with weeds that creepers have nearly masked a Rabindranath Tagore statue there. In fact, the standing statue is tough to spot unless someone goes looking for it. The civic body had in 2015 cleaned and decked up the parks in all three sectors of the township at a cost of more than Rs 30 lakh. Just four years later, however, most of them are in such a state that residents are shunning them. Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, said they had started repairs. “The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is carrying out these repairs as emergency maintenance work. We cannot call for fresh tenders now as the term of our board has ended. However we have started the repairs and it will be done in phases,” said Chakraborty. According to her, ward co-ordinators (former councillors) that have damaged parks in their wards have sent in reports on the repair needs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Extortion cuffs on Salt Lake spa employee||An employee of a spa-cum-grooming centre has been arrested for allegedly blackmailing the owner and posting her objectionable photographs on social media when she refused to pay him. Bidhannagar police said the accused, identified as Shahnawaz Hossain, in his 30s, had earlier been a guard at a highrise where the woman stays. “They had met a few years ago when he was working as a security guard in the building where the victim lives with her family. The victim has said that on his request she employed him at her spa-cum-grooming centre,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. Initially, the woman had paid him some money when he allegedly threatened to send her photographs to her relatives but later she refused when his demands increased. “At this point, when the woman stopped paying him, he threatened to post their intimate photographs and videos on social media. He then sent her objectionable photographs to her husband and posted them on social media,” the officer said. The woman lodged a complaint with Bidhannagar North police station on November 28, alleging blackmailing, criminal intimidation and extortion. The case was taken over by the cyber cell of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. A case has been registered under IPC sections related to putting someone under fear of death to extort, extortion, criminal intimidation and outrage of modesty with words and gestures. Hossain was arrested near Rajarhat on Thursday morning. Officers said incidents of accused persons trying to use social media as a tool to commit crime have been happening quite frequently. “It is important for women to come forward and report the crime to the authorities. There are strict cyber laws against online offences,” said a senior police officer not attached to the case. Hundreds of such incidents happen where women are subjected to extortion and blackmail by men they had trusted. However, only a few are reported. Another officer said it was best to avoid clicking personal photographs with strangers or with persons whom we barely know. Social media platforms, including messenger services, have become potential weapons of cyber crime. Many cases have been reported to the police where a woman is blackmailed by her virtual friends, whom she had never met in real life but shared private moments with them through online chats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Refund order to two Calcutta hospitals||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Thursday directed Desun Hospital and Woodlands Hospital to refund various sums to the families of three persons treated there. The family of a 61-year-old man, who was admitted to Desun on July 22 with Covid-19 and passed away four days later, had lodged a complaint stating that they had been billed Rs 2.92 lakh for the four-day treatment. “In the bill, Rs 52,400 was shown as bed charges, Rs 86,000 for investigations and Rs 96,000 as pharmacy charges. We found the pathology charges exorbitant,” said Banerjee. “Rs 2.92 lakh for four days seems to be a very high amount.” The commission considered Rs 50,000 as each day’s cost of treatment and asked the hospital to return the rest to the family. The commission asked Desun to return Rs 48,000 to Swapna Dey, who stayed at the hospital for 29 hours. “The bill came to Rs 1.23 lakh. The woman was billed Rs 29,000 for bed charges, Rs 58,000 for pathology charges. Sanitisation charges were also taken. We found the cost exorbitant,” he said. Dey had Covid and was admitted to the ICU. Banerjee said in this case, too, the commission had fixed Rs 50,000 as the rate for a day and asked the hospital to keep Rs 75,000 as the amount for one and a half days. “We asked them to refund Rs 48,000 to the family,” he said. Tapas Mukherjee, the deputy managing director of Desun Hospital, said they would have to examine the order before commenting. The commission asked Woodlands to refund Rs 50,000 to the family of an 85-year-old woman who was admitted to the hospital in June. “The woman’s family said the hospital billed them Rs 6.47 lakh. She had tested negative for Covid, yet the hospital took Covid protection charges,” said Banerjee. “We also found the hospital did not offer any discount on pharmacy charges.” The commission had asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the maximum retail price of medicines. An official of the hospital said: “We have billed according to our existing and displayed rates and felt we became a victim of circumstances today. The patients’ relatives complained about medical management. They had no complaints on billing. The commission today asked the hospital to reduce the pathological test charges, waive off Covid protection charges and asked for a discount on pharmacy bills and a total refund of Rs 50,000 was ordered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-217
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Dues deny waiver at South Point||South Point school sent a notice to parents on Thursday telling them that those who had not cleared their fee dues by the November 30 deadline set by Calcutta High Court cannot avail of the waivers offered by the court. The school had extended the last date by a day. Those who did not pay by December 1 will be deemed to have opted out of the waiver scheme. They will be charged the fees that the school had levied last year. The high court had on October 13 ordered private schools to waive 20 per cent of tuition fees and 20 per cent of session fees. The court had also restrained the schools from charging fees on non-academic heads like “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extracurricular activities or the like”. The high court had said that the discounted fees would have to be paid by November 30. The school’s notice says: “We would like to inform that the school fee for the months of October & November 2020, in respect of those parents who have not opted to obtain the benefit of the waivers and in respect of whom fees up to the month of September 2020 already stands cleared, will be collected... on or around December 7, 2020 at the rates as applicable to each class...” The notice has been sent to parents of children from Nursery to Class XII. The school has 12,000-odd students. “A little less than 50 per cent of our student fees have been paid at the concessional rates,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point school. The school has thanked parents who have refrained from obtaining the waiver. “...at the very outset we would like to extend our heartfelt gratitude to the large number of guardians forming a majority, who have refrained from obtaining the waiver in terms of the Hon’ble Court’s order, and thus agreeing to pay the school fee at the same rate, as applicable in the last academic year,” read the  notice. “We would also like to thank those guardians who have cleared all dues of the school, till November 2020, after obtaining the waivers, within the specified date of November 30, 2020 later extended by the school to December 1, 2020. This will go a long way in helping the school manage its finances effectively,” the notice said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Four Toco Toucans rescued along Bangladesh border||Four Toco Toucans that were allegedly being smuggled from Bangladesh were rescued early on Thursday by a team of BSF personnel, an officer said. Toco Toucans are also called Giant Toucans because they are the largest among their species. The birds grow up to a length of 25 inch and their beaks can be 7.5-inch long. They are found in Central and South America. The birds were being allegedly smuggled from Bangladesh near the Khararmath border outpost in Gaighata, North 24-Parganas. A BSF team saw some men moving suspiciously. They were carrying a box covered with cloth. On being challenged by the BSF team, the men dropped the box and ran deep inside a forested area. “Our men found the four birds crammed inside,” a BSF officer said. The forest department identified the birds as Toco Toucans. All four birds were handed over to the Alipore zoo hospital. A zoo official said they would be quarantined for at least a fortnight. Bapai Sen, a member of the All Bengal Birds Lover Organisation, said there was a demand for Toco Toucans as pets. “A pair can cost more than Rs 18 lakh. There are only three birds with the city's collectors now,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta doctors restart Bangladesh unit||A cardiac unit in Bangladesh’s Chittagong, which runs in collaboration with a Calcutta hospital and was shut down in March as the Indian workforce returned home amid the Covid pandemic, is back in action again. The outpatients department of the cardiology unit at Imperial Hospital in Chittagong resumed operations on Thursday. The unit runs in collaboration with the Narayana Health group in India. The cardiology unit had been shut since March-end when the doctors and other healthcare workers from the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences at Mukundapur, a flagship unit of the Narayana Health group, returned to Calcutta. They could not go back to Bangladesh as all flights were suspended because of the pandemic. The team of 22 from Calcutta, including four doctors, reached Chittagong in two phases by December 1. Flights between India and Bangladesh resumed last month. The Telegraph had on September 28 reported that around 160 heart patients, who were scheduled to undergo surgery or other procedures at the Chittagong hospital, had been calling desperately to find out when the unit would resume functioning. It was around Durga Puja last year that the 350-bed hospital had tied up with the Calcutta hospital. The 65-bed cardiology was opened on February 16. On Thursday, 36 patients turned up at Imperial Narayana Cardiac Center’s OPD for consultation, said an official. One of the patients was Md Imran Chowdhury, 40, a businessman from Chittagong. “Since August I have been having pain on the left side of my chest. I had gone to local doctors... the pain is persisting. I could not go to Calcutta because flights were suspended. So, I had called up Imperial Hospital to know when the cardiac clinic would reopen,” Chowdhury said over the phone. “The hospital finally gave me an appointment today. The doctor has advised some tests.” Devi Shetty, the chairman of the Naryana Hrudayalaya group, said there were plans for further expansion of the unit. “Chittagong does not have facilities for treatment of cardiac ailments and cancer. We have plans to provide good quality treatment for cancer and heart ailments at affordable rates for all. Because of the pandemic, everything was delayed, but shortly we will be drawing up the strategy for expansion,” he said. Binayak Chanda, a senior cardiac surgeon, is one of the doctors who went to Chittagong from Calcutta. “I had 19 patients whose surgeries were lined up before the unit was closed down in March. Eight of them have contacted us. By next week we will start operations,” Chanda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Focus on post-Covid options in education||A parallel system of education exists along with the conventional school-college-university system, which Sugata Mitra, professor emeritus of NIIT University, calls the “street smart education system”. In the new normal, post-pandemic, the street smart education system needs to integrate with the conventional system, Mitra said while talking in the final session of Day One of Infocom 2020, titled Power of Experiments in the Next Normal. With Mitra were Pradeep K. Khosla, chancellor of the University of California, San Diego, and Suborno Bose, founder of Eduguy and founder and chief mentor of Indismart Group, who moderated the session. “All of us went to school, college and university. That is the formal system of education. But there are people who have not gone through that education system or they might have dropped out of it. But they picked up a lot of stuff from the streets and taught themselves to be plumbers or electricians. A street smart electrician can do an entire rewiring of your house. So the street smart education system is an alternative education system that has been with us for a long time,” explained Mitra, who was professor of educational technology at Newcastle University. Every nation has them and with the internet, the power of the street smart people becomes immense. Earlier, they might not have known certain things but today, with a smart phone in their hands and Net connectivity, they can easily find out and teach themselves. And Covid has made it possible for us to think of an alternative education system that combines elements of the formal education system with the street smart education system. Khosla, who has a $6 billion college infrastructure in UC, San Diego, said the four-year education system imparted not just intellectual development but also social development. “Living on a campus, students learn to experiment, they learn in groups. There is a biohacking lab on my campus, a physical lab. In the pandemic situation, no one is allowed in that lab. How to run a lab like that in this pandemic? How do I give the social experience of campus life? That experience has a lot of educational value,” Khosla said. Mitra, the creator of the hole-in-the-wall experiment that showed unsupervised children could learn by themselves in self-organised learning environment, does not rule out the role of teachers. While he propounds that learners should not be taught what they can learn by themselves, he also believes that the teachers’ role is to formulate interesting questions to which children can seek answers with the help of a computer and internet. Moderator Bose said in the post-Covid world, learning and the education system as a whole have undergone a change. He felt both the student and the teacher need to redefine their roles in the changed environment. Khosla advises against getting rid of the physicality in the Zoom world. With huge university campuses in the best of locations, the chancellor stresses the need for the physical touch. “How do you do a chemistry experiment, how do you make something in the lab, we need an equivalent of that experience in the virtual world,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Mamata revives hopes of two Calcutta flyovers ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday revived hopes for the construction of two flyovers in Calcutta which appeared to have been shelved — one between Park Circus and Ballygunge and the other between Ganesh Chandra Avenue and New Market. “We are trying to build a flyover between Ganesh Chandra Avenue and New Market. You all know New Market is a congested area,” Mamata said while inaugurating the Majerhat bridge, rechristened Jai Hind bridge, at Taratala. “There will be another flyover — Park Circus to Ballygunge Phanri. Total Calcutta would be covered with flyovers.” State government officials said the Park-Circus-Ballygunge flyover was part of an earlier plan to construct a Ballygunge-bound ramp of the Parama flyover. The arm was to branch off the AJC Bose Road flyover-bound ramp of the Parama flyover above the Zeeshan crossing on Syed Amir Ali Avenue. The urban development department had engaged RITES, the consulting arm of the railways, to carry out a “feasibility study” of the project. Last March, RITES had submitted a report saying it was “feasible” to construct the ramp. “A traffic survey had shown that nearly 1,400 cars were likely to use the Ballygunge-bound arm every hour during the rush hours,” said an official of the CMDA, which is the custodian of the Parama flyover. The arm was to be 2km long and officials had said it should not have taken more than two years to be ready. According to the plan, the ramp was to touch down near Kalyan Jewellers, opposite The BSS School and only a few metres from the Gariahat flyover. “The chief minister’s words have infused new hope among us about the project,” a CMDA engineer said on Thursday evening. “We had nearly given up hope for this ramp, which will reduce travel time for those headed towards Ballygunge from Ultadanga down the Parama flyover.” The state government had decided on the New Market-Ganesh Chandra Avenue flyover two years back. The idea was to decongest one of the most busy pockets of the city. A flyover from New Market to GC Avenue over Central Avenue would have helped commuters skip at least three busy traffic signals - at the SN Banerjee Road crossing, Esplanade crossing and the Ganesh Chandra Avenue crossing. Commuters remain stuck at each of the crossings for 15 minutes on an average, police said. In February 2018, a tender was floated for a detailed project report. Engineers said a feasibility study would have to be carried out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Festive crowd on Majerhat bridge||Pedestrians, not cars, took over the Majerhat bridge after it was inaugurated by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday evening. The bridge was closed for vehicular traffic till 10.30pm because the dismantling of the giant dais at the Taratala end took a lot of time. A traffic officer said the bridge was unlikely to be opened for vehicles till early Friday. Barricades with guardrails were placed at both ends of the bridge. Cops posted at the barricades kept telling motorists that the bridge would be opened “shortly” once the dais was cleared. “You have waited for over two years. A couple of extra hours is nothing,” one policeman told a biker coming from Mominpore. But hundreds of people descended on the 650m-long bridge soon after the VIP convoys left. In swarms, people walked up and down the bridge, glowing in miniature lights and decked out in a fresh coat of blue and white. The bridge, or what remained of it, was witness to a bigger turnout on September 4, 2018. A portion of the structure had just collapsed. Two years ago, the mood was chaotic. Many people had come looking for “missing” relatives and friends. A heavy contingent of cops struggled to keep people at bay. On Thursday, the mood was similar to that at a promenade along a seafront. Most of the pedestrians had their phones in their outstretched hands. Some kept taking pictures and others made video calls to near and dear ones to share the “inaugural experience”. “I am making a WhatsApp video call. Please answer it,” a middle-aged man was heard telling over the phone. The cops stopped a couple of cyclists from taking the bridge. But on the Mominpore-bound approach road, a young girl was trying her hands on a scooty under the watchful eyes of her father. A man on a cycle was selling tea and doing multiple rounds of the bridge. The pedestrians included children and grown-ups. A group of teenagers, bags slung on their shoulders, posed for a group picture, after requesting another passer-by to click. Many pedestrians on the bridge had helmets in their hands. They had parked their two-wheelers on Diamond Harbour Road to take a stroll on the bridge. The crowd was denser as one approached the 260m deck slab of the bridge, held by 84 cables — imported from Switzerland — supported by towering pylons. A string of blue and white miniature lights fixed to the lamp posts and wrapped around the cables provided ample illumination. A mother and her daughter in joggers clicked pictures of the giant cables. “We go out for a run every evening. We were drawn here by the carnivalesque ambience,” the 12-year-old girl, a New Alipore resident, told Metro. The deck slab stands over the railway tracks that lead to the Majerhat station. The honking of an approaching train prompted many pedestrians to look over the boundary walls of the bridge. At the Taratala end of the bridge, a group of men were busy dismantling the blue and white dais. Scores of food packets were stacked on top of a boundary wall. Two men were transferring them to the boot of a car.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
04-12-2020||Calcutta||Plea for Classes X, XII opening ||The ICSE council has requested the chief ministers of all states to allow schools to “reopen partially” from January 4 for the students of Classes X and XII to attend practical classes and “doubt clearing” lessons and do project work. All schools have been closed since March as a precaution against Covid. The council has also requested the chief election commissioner to share the election dates of the states that are set to go to the polls in April and May so the council can “finalise” the schedules of next year’s ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), Gerry Arathoon, said in a statement on Thursday. “For the final run-up to the Examinations, CISCE has requested the chief ministers of all state governments/UTs to allow schools to reopen partially, specifically for the students of Classes X & XII from January 4, 2021. With the students physically attending school, this time will be utilised for practical work, project work, SUPW work and for ‘doubt clearing’ lessons. This will be extremely beneficial to the students who will now get the time to interact directly with their teachers,” Arathoon said. Arathoon told Metro there was a difference between “online teaching and teaching in a classroom”. “At least if schools open in January, students will get time to clear doubts and, most importantly, do practicals for physics, chemistry, biotechnology and other subjects, which have to be done in school…. We are asking for Classes X and XII. They will get some time in school and get ready for the board exams,” Arathoon said over the phone. “Teachers have put a lot of effort into online classes. They have shown experiments from the labs and sent videos to students. But nothing can compare with children doing the practicals themselves. Students need to have hands-on experience and do the experiments themselves. Proper practical exams cannot be conducted without hands-on practicals,” he said. On November 13, Metro had reported how teachers across schools were concerned about the loss of practical classes because of the pandemic, especially for the Class XII students. An official in the Bengal education department said that since the council’s letter had been addressed to the chief minister, they were awaiting an instruction from her office. “This is a crucial decision. During the pandemic all decisions with regards to reopening of campuses have been taken by the chief minister,” the official said. The statement issued by the council said the schools, if allowed to reopen, would be asked to abide by Covid-19 protocols of the respective state governments. The schools will be told to “conform to the safety guidelines and the standard operating procedures (SOP) of the state health department to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” the statement said. CISCE has also requested the “Chief Election Commissioner of India to share the election dates of the states that are due to have their elections in the months of April-May 2021”. Last week, Arathoon had said the ICSE and ISC board exams were not likely to take place “before the end of May or in June”. On Thursday, Arathoon said it was difficult to say in which format the board exams would be conducted — online or pen and paper. “It is difficult to say right now… in all probability it will be pen and paper, but it all depends on the pandemic,” he told Metro. Arathoon did mention the challenges of online board exams. “There are challenges like connectivity and bandwidth issues in an online exam. There are students who are doing classes on a smartphone. How can they write a board exam on a smartphone,” he said. “There could also be power failure during an exam…. Imagine, if suddenly the electricity goes off, while the child is writing an online board exam,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-218
