05-12-2020||Calcutta||SBIHM keeps festive spirits alive with cake mixing ceremony||Subhas Bose Institute of Hotel Management (SBIHM) organised the Annual Cake Mixing Ceremony on Saturday. This is an annual affair for the SBIHM family. The ceremony this year was a small event due to Covid-19 but was dazzling with live music, varieties of Christmas bakes, sangrias and mulled wine. The cake mixing ceremony marks the beginning of the festive season. During the ceremony, dry fruits were soaked in a combination of liquor, so the students and faculties both are ready in time to bake the Christmas plum cakes. At Subhas Bose Institute of Hotel Management (SBIHM), New Town campus, the mix was prepared with an assortment of dry fruits such as cashews, almonds, figs, apricots, raisins, black current and many more, with a variety of spices and a selection of rum, whiskey and cognac. Due to the ongoing pandemic, this year SBIHM organised two separate cake mixing ceremonies to follow government rules and regulations. In the first half of the cake mixing ceremony, which started at 2 pm onwards, the chief guests were Mr. Debasis Sen, chairman HIDCO and Mr. Abhshek Sachdev, GM, Fairfield by Marriott. Mrs. Bidisha Sarkar, group director, SBIHM; Mr. Ujjwal Basu, head F&B service and teacher-in-charge, SBIHM; Chef Prantik Bhandary, HOD production, SBIHM; Chef Soumik, SBIHM; Ms. Triranga Deka, HOD, front office, SBIHM; Ms. Oindrila Kundu, HOD accommodation; the first batch of the students, faculty members, and other associates put on a chef’s apron and hat and joined right in for the mixing. In the second half, a separate cake mixing ceremony with the second batch of the students with a good number of dignitaries including – Mr. Angad Sathe, Hr. manager, The Westin; Mr. Arup Panda, F&B manager, The Westin, Mr. Anindya Gupta, manager accommodation; Mr. Bivek Kalia, Executive Chef, Westin; Mr. Ankit Bhatt, sous chef Fairfield by Marriott; Mr. Utpal Dey, executive chef, Pride Plaza; Mr. Prosenjit Jana, executive pastry chef; Ms. Megha Dutta, Hr. Landis+Gyr; Mr. Arnab Das, GM operations, Times Group; Mr. Pritam Mondal, corporate front office manager, Clubs Ambuja Neotia; Mr. Niladri Saha, executive front office, The Oberoi, Kolkata; Mr. Ashutosh Avasti, sous chef, Park Hotel participated in the fun cake-mixing with different fruit juices, an assortment of fruits, a variety of spices and a selection of rum, whiskey and cognac. The mixture will be left to soak till just before Christmas, when the sealed containers will be finally opened for the baking of the Christmas cakes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Back on the menu, is a flavour packed culinary journey at your favourite Marriott International restaurant||Suffice to say that 2020 has been a challenging year and as we moved along, people adopted a myriad of ways to keep themselves busy. Needless to say, food and cooking were at the very top of the list. Though as we slowly move towards adapting to new normal and with hotels and dining venues reopening across the country, Marriott International invites you to relive a traditional in-restaurant fine dining experience in stylish yet sanitised environments across its properties in Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad. As the group’s restaurants ready themselves to welcome you once again, with best-in-class safety measures in place, it’s time to load up your plates and clink your glasses together in anticipation of brighter times ahead. For a truly memorable post-lockdown dine-out experience, we list the best dining venues for you in your own city, Kolkata. JW Marriott Kolkata: A chic dining venue, JW Kitchen is where you’ll be treated to a range of international classics across breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Also expect lavish buffets and tempting à la carte meals prepared using the freshest ingredients. As the group’s restaurants ready themselves to welcome you once again, with best-in-class safety measures in place, it’s time to load up your plates and clink your glasses together in anticipation of brighter times ahead. For a truly memorable post-lockdown dine-out experience, we list the best dining venues for you in your own city, Kolkata. Westin Kolkata Rajarhat: Whether it’s a refreshing breakfast, an elaborate lunch, or a light dinner, catch up with your loved ones over a quiet meal at Seasonal Tastes. Basis your preference, order Indian or international fare...or tease your taste buds by opting for a mix of both. Fairfield by Marriott Kolkata: Variety truly is the spice of life, and nowhere is this more apparent than at Vertex. Discover a perfect place to unwind with outdoor and indoor seating overlooking the iconic Biswa Bangla Gate. There’s nothing quite like the feeling of gathering around a table with your loved ones and celebrating togetherness over a lavish spread. Pamper your taste buds in luxurious spaces, which have been revamped with stringent sanitation protocols and redesigned to be as contact-less as possible. These restaurants serve up some of the most inviting and exciting culinary adventures at their dining venues. Take it from us: they’re the perfect way to bond with those closest to you. For reservations, contact: JW Marriott Kolkata, JW Kitchen – +91 9007062262 Westin Kolkata Rajarhat, Seasonal Tastes - +91 9073970005 Fairfield by Marriott, Vertex - +91 7605086817||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
05-12-2020||Calcutta||'No helmet no petrol' rule to be reimposed in Calcutta||Calcutta Police has decided to re-impose the "no helmet no petrol" rule forbidding petrol pumps from selling fuel to motorcyclists without helmets, a senior officer said. The "no helmet no petrol" rule would start from December 8 and will continue for 60 days, the officer said. "It has been observed that several instances of two-wheeler riders riding without a helmet as well as carrying pillion riders without a helmet have been reported and occurrences of such infringement of rules have increased manifold", Calcutta Police Commissioner Anuj Sharma said in the order issued on Friday. It said that "In spite of several prosecutions in such cases being drawn up by the law enforcement agency, the apprehension and possibility of untoward incidents/ accidents arising out of riding two wheelers without helmet always remains. In order to ensure better road discipline and deter such violators of traffic laws, stringent actions need to be taken in accordance with law". "No Helmet No Petrol shall be enforced within the jurisdiction of Calcutta Police to the effect that no petrol pump shall henceforth sell petrol to any such two wheeler rider who arrives at the petrol pump riding two-wheeler without wearing a helmet as well as carries pillion rider without a helmet in contravention of provisions as enumerated under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act", the order read. In July 2016, the city police, following Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressing her displeasure over motorcyclists not wearing helmets, had imposed similar "no helmet no petrol" rule forbidding petrol pumps from selling fuel to motorcyclists without helmets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Chhath goes local in pandemic year||With the pandemic raging and the high court also taking a serious stand regarding maintenance of Covid protocol, Chhath puja went the Durga puja and Diwali way to be a much restrained affair this year. In such a scenario, some housing complexes made their own arrangements to worship the sun god within their own precincts. At Uniworld City in New Town, separate inflatable pools were provided to each family offering puja. “We wanted to minimise risk of infection,” said joint secretary of the Uniworld City Cultural Association Pradipta Dutta. Around 15 families take part in Chhath puja in the complex. “We have a WhatsApp group. Since 2016, we are celebrating together,” said Pritesh Kumar, a resident. In 2016 and 2017, they went to Upsana Ghat to offer puja. “But since it was so crowded, in 2018 we thought of doing this in one of the fountains in our complex. Its wall was raised from half feet to three feet, the water outlet was sealed and more water was pumped in,” Kumar recalled. But this time, no two families were  allowed to get into the same waterbody. “We ordered 15 inflatable tubs online. The whole area was done up with lamps and incense sticks. There was even a dholak playing to accentuate the festive mood,” he added. Shashi Bhushan Singh’s mother came all the way from Jharkhand to celebrate Chhath with her daughter’s family. “She expects a surprise regarding our arrangements every time she comes here for this occasion,” smiled Singh. At Baisakhi Abasan, in neighbouring Salt Lake, residents had expanded a water tank that had been built temporarily to soak bricks at a construction site. “I had been eyeing that tub ever since Chhath was drawing near,” smiled Shambhu Nath Jha, a resident who took the initiative to increase the size of the tank so that the vratis (those undertaking the vrat) would stay suitable distanced. Thus the 10x7.5ft tank became almost double in size. In other years, Jha travels to Sarada Ghat, in Bagbazar. “But it is very crowded and parking is a headache. We cannot even get space to place our dala of offerings on the bank,” he said. The area near the tank was illuminated with bulbs and halogen lamps, and a music system played devotional songs. “The atmosphere was exactly like that on the river bank in other years.” To make the arrangement fool-proof for every believer, he added the 10 litres of holy Ganga water he had carried back from Hardwar in March to the tank. Rain had threatened to play spoilsport on the final morning, November 21. “But thankfully, the shower stopped at 5.40am, with sunrise another 15 minutes away,” recalled Jha. Both groups in Salt Lake and New Town are thinking of continuing with the practice even if there is no infection threat next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Twenty-three minutes saved by 650m-long Majerhat bridge||Twenty-three minutes, saved by a 650m-long bridge. The difference between two car rides from Taratala to Esplanade — one via the Bailey bridge in Alipore on Thursday and the other via the Majerhat (Jai Hind) bridge on Friday — was 23 minutes. The Telegraph took the car rides through the morning rush. The wait at the signals at the busy intersections was almost the same on both days, barring a few extra minutes at the Bailey bridge because of the passage of a freight train. Friday Taratala to Esplanade via the Majerhat bridge (around 8km): 10am to 10.42am ⚫Taratala to the Majerhat bridge: 5 minutes Traffic movement was reasonably slow on the Taratala flyover because police stopped cars whenever the tail of vehicles on the Majerhat bridge grew long ⚫The Majerhat bridge to Ekbalpore: 11 minutes The Mominpore-bound flank of the bridge had bumper-to-bumper traffic. But vehicles kept moving. Occasionally, a phone in an outstretched arm was recording the journey. The load of vehicles on the Taratala-bound flank was much lighter. During the descent towards Mominpore, the cars came to a complete halt for the first time. The snarl got moving within a couple of minutes. For probably the first time in two years, the stretch of Diamond Harbour Road in Mominpore was chock-a-block with traffic. Since a bulk of the traffic on the stretch came from Majerhat, it had remained relatively deserted since the collapse of the bridge. ⚫Ekbalpore to police training school: 10 minutes Of which, around seven minutes were spent at the traffic signals at Ekbalpore and Alipore zoo. ⚫PTS to Fort William: 9 minutes ⚫Fort William to Esplanade: 7 minutes ⚫Total time taken: 42 minutes Thursday Taratala to Esplanade via Bailey bridge (around 9km): 10am to 11.05am ⚫Taratala to Bailey bridge signal: 12 minutes The Taratala flyover saw vehicles moving at a snail’s pace. Ditto on Naliniranjan Avenue, after taking a right turn following the descent from the flyover. ⚫Bailey Bridge to Lalbati: 22 minutes Around 10 minutes were spent at the Bailey bridge level crossing because a freight train was passing through. The rest of the stretch was chock-a-block, too. ⚫Lalbati to Bhabani Bhavan: 5 minutes ⚫Bhabani Bhavan to Race Course: 11 minutes Almost half of which was spent waiting at the DL Khan Road signal ⚫Race Course to Fort William: 6 minutes ⚫Fort William to Esplanade: 9 minutes ⚫Total time taken: 65 minutes||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||City air ‘poor’, ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ on Friday||The air quality measured by one of the seven monitoring stations in Calcutta was “severe” on Friday. It was “very poor” at five other stations and “poor” at one. The station on the BT Road campus of Rabindra Bharati University showed the air quality was “severe”. The readings, at 4pm on Friday, were a measure of the average air quality over the past 24 hours. According to the National Air Quality Index, prepared by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), “severe” air quality “affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases”. “Very poor” category can lead to “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure” and “poor” air quality can cause “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure”. The volume of tiny particles, which can cause a host of respiratory ailments and can be particularly worrying amid the Covid-19 pandemic, was nearly three times the permissible limit. A summary report published by the state pollution control board for Friday showed 163.25 micrograms of PM2.5 was present per cubic metre of air in the city (average of the seven stations). The permissible standard set by the CPCB is 60 for a 24-hour average. The presence of PM10, bigger particles, was measured at 273.99 micrograms per cubic metre of air. The permissible limit is 100. The readings were taken around 4pm. Air quality management specialists said the more the presence of tiny particles in the air, the more is the threat of diseases. “A rise in the inhalation of tiny particles increases health risks during winter,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). “The worry with tiny particles like PM2.5 is that they can penetrate the blood barriers and reach our blood. Once in our blood stream, they hit the organs. Other toxic substances in the air stick to these particles. Which means the particles are also carrying other toxic elements to our blood and organs,” said Roy Chowdhury. Scientists have said that every year the air quality starts worsening in November and reaches its lowest in December and January. This happens because the colder winter air does not rise up quickly and the pollutants remain trapped close to the surface. Low wind velocity is another reason why the polluted air hangs around for a longer duration. Doctors have said poor air quality compromises the lungs and aggravates diseases like asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Also, people with compromised lungs can develop severe complications if they contract Covid-19. “If a person who has Covid-19 is exposed to polluted air, there are more chances of the person developing severe symptoms,” said a respiratory diseases consultant at a city hospital. At 11am on Friday Severe: Rabindra Bharati University (BT Road campus) Very poor: Ballygunge, Bidhannagar, Fort William, Victoria Memorial, Jadavpur Poor: Rabindra Sarobar At 4pm on Friday Severe: Rabindra Bharati University (BT Road campus) Very poor: Ballygunge, Bidhannagar, Fort William, Victoria Memorial Poor: Rabindra Sarobar, Jadavpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Drones to fight New Town fire menace||The New Town authorities have formed a cell that will fly drones over grasslands and empty plots to try and stop people from setting dried grass, shrubs and waste on fire. The drones will act as “eyes” of volunteers and officials of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), who will move around in vehicles and rush, along with police, to sites where fires will be lit. “Trained professionals will fly drones equipped with high-resolution cameras,” an NKDA official said. “We will use multiple drones for aerial surveillance.” Metro had on December 3 reported that dried grass and waste were being set on fire regularly on empty plots and grasslands in New Town, forcing residents to stay indoors and keep their doors and windows shut as dense smoke engulfed blocks. The decision to launch aerial surveillance, as well as a host of other decisions to fight the fire menace, was taken after a meeting between NKDA officials and representatives of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board. An NKDA official who attended the meeting said boards stating that setting fire to grass and shrubs is punishable will be put up on grasslands and empty plots as well as public spaces where people frequent like bus stops. “A tractor fitted with a water tanker and a hose will be kept on standby to douse such fires,” the official said. A WhatsApp group has been formed where residents can post information about grasslands on fire. People can also call up the NKDA helpline. A number of grasslands in the New Town area attract a variety of birds for their proximity to marshes and water bodies. A joint study by the forest department and Hidco has confirmed the presence of 28 species on small patches of green along either flank of the Major Arterial Road. The birds that have been recorded include the Acorbian Cuckoo, Yellow Wagtail, Black-tailed Godwit and the Red-wattled Lapwing. An NKDA official said a grassland near Eco Urban Village, which attracts quite a few birds, had been burnt down. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they were committed to preventing such fires and catching those who were lighting fires. “Despite our best attempts to find out why the fires are being lit, we have not come across anything concrete. Theories range from people trying to warm themselves to driving out snakes…. We are going to do all we can to stop this,” said Sen. Debanjana Das, an atmospheric scientist with George Mason University in the US, said burning of grasslands had far-reaching effects as pollutants PM2.5 and PM10 were released in the air. New Town does not have an air quality monitoring station and there is no way to measure the impact of the fires on air. The air quality index in neighbouring Salt Lake, which has a monitoring station, was 309 on Friday, which is considered “very poor”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||India ‘lost’ time in Covid fight||India lost crucial time in tackling Covid-19 as the government got distracted by the migrant workers’ crisis that resulted from a hurriedly called lockdown, a former Union health secretary said at a session of Infocom, an initiative of ABP, which publishes The Telegraph. J.V.R. Prasada Rao said people should have got notice of the impending lockdown. He pointed out that the Centre and states should have accepted community transmission of the coronavirus and taken proper measures. That would have helped reduce the number of infections. The online discussion on Friday also focussed on collaborations among countries and organisations to produce Covid vaccines. Heidi J. Larson, a professor at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said that though the process of preparing vaccines had been accelerated, scientific processes had not been compromised. Larson and Rao were in conversation with cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar, who spoke about “contrasting experiences” in the response to the pandemic. “We have Southeast Asia that put up very gallantly. We have the rest of the world that seems to have been caught completely off guard,” he said. “It is believed that if all the viruses of the world were put together, they would weigh less than 2 gram. But even then the (corona)virus has put 65 million people of the world in misery,” he said. Highlights from the talk: Rao said India lost the opportunity to control Covid-19 because of the migrant workers’ crisis. “The prolonged lockdown that was imposed was necessary but... people should have got a little more notice that the lockdown was coming,” Rao said. As a result, he said, the country “got into problems that are not directly related to Covid, but associated with Covid, like the huge migration problem”. “The government’s attention went into tackling the migration problem rather than the Covid problem at some point of time. I think that is where we lost the opportunity to control it at a relatively lower level,” Rao said. Migrant workers had no option but to walk long distances to reach home from the states they had been working in. Several had died during the trudge. Rao felt that had the Centre and states accepted the reality of community transmission of Covid-19 and tailored their strategies, the number of infections could have been reduced. “When it moved from a concentrated epidemic to a community transmission, there should have been greater acceptance of that reality by both the Union government as well as state governments. It is always better to accept and then own it, than denying it and going forward,” he said. “I think that is where we made a tactical error. They could have said ‘yes it is already out in the community and we should be more careful’. The strategy needed to shift from screening and testing to a more open testing policy. There could have been voluntary testing. There should have been a paradigm shift in the approach in the months of May and June. That would have probably reduced the number of infections,” added Rao. Larson said the vaccines that were being developed had gone through the rigour of scientific processes and their safety was not compromised. “Absolute rigour has been followed when it came to processes of safety. The other pieces of the process have been shortened. We have new technologies that we did not have before. We were able to characterise the virus faster. We had funds for emergency research. That was a tremendous boon for allowing things to happen quickly,” Larson said, when asked by Sarkar on concerns about the safety of vaccines developed so fast. “We have not seen these vaccines long enough to know some of the potential long-term rare events, but that is true with any new vaccine,” she added. Larson commended the collaboration among countries and organisations to develop vaccines against Covid-19. “We could not have been this far without the global collaborations. The Chinese vaccine has trials in Indonesia and Brazil. The AstraZeneca vaccine has trials in multiple countries,” she said. Larson added that the Pfizer Inc vaccine, approved for use in the UK, was actually made in Belgium. “The UK approved a vaccine that is made in Belgium. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine was made in Belgium and BioNTech is a German company. It is not the one the UK were expecting to approve, which is the Oxford one. We should celebrate this international scientific collaboration,” she added. Rao said administering Covid vaccines in India should be a teamwork of the Centre and the states. “There are certain things that the Centre needs to make clear. Which are the vaccines that are going to be selected? If a vaccine that has to be stored at - 70 degrees Celsius, will it work for India? What would be the price of a vaccine? These are issues that have to be worked out at the central level,” Rao said. But he added that the implementation and identifying the priority groups should be left to the states. “You cannot sit in Delhi and dictate. Which are the groups that need to be vaccinated, which are the priority groups, how are you going to identify the priority groups? These must be left to the states,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Accountant who lost his job falls  to death||A 63-year-old man who police said lost his job during the lockdown died after falling from the roof of his four-storey building on Golf Club Road early on Friday. Police said Soumitra Sen, who worked in the accounts section of a private firm, killed himself. No suicide note has been found, officers at Jadavpur police station said. Sen was found lying with critical injuries in front of the building where he stayed — P/45 Golf Club Road — around 3am on Friday. He was taken to Baghajatin State General Hospital, from where he was referred to a private hospital in Dhakuria. He was declared dead on arrival at the private hospital. “The deceased person’s family and neighbours said he had been upset over the past few months. He was an accountant at a small firm, which closed down during the lockdown. He had been jobless since,” said a police officer. Sen is survived by his homemaker wife and a daughter, who is a student, the police said. Metro could not speak to Sen’s family. The police have started a case of unnatural death. There have been multiple cases of suicide by people who were hit hard financially during the lockdown. Many organisations closed down during the period and others sacked employees to cut costs. Many organisations have changed the nature of their business and started afresh. A few months ago, a couple who ran a business of app cabs and had purchased mul-tiple cars with bank loans committed suicide at their rented apartment in the Charu Market area. Their business had suffered losses during the lockdown and they had failed to pay their EMIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||School bus owners appeal for payment||A section of school bus owners visited Delhi Public School Ruby Park on Friday and handed over a letter to the vice-principal urging guardians to pay at least 50 per cent of the monthly bus fees so they could pull through during the pandemic. The owners who had gathered at the school requested the authorities to collect half the amount that it would charge guardians on account of bus fees and hand it over to them so they could pay their drivers, helpers and attendants. Next week, they will visit another school in south Calcutta with a similar request. There are around 4,000 school bus operators in Calcutta and its adjoining areas, who have outsourced the service to contractors or agencies. DPS Ruby Park has hired 45 buses, for Rs 75,000 per bus per month, to ferry their students. Bus owners said they had last received payments from the school authorities in July; since then they have not got a penny. “The schools are now shut. The bus operators have placed their appeal with us because of the difficulty they are facing. We will definitely request the guardians,” said Indrani Chattopadhayay, the vice-principal of DPS Ruby Park. “Beyond this there is nothing much we can do about it. It’s not in our hands.” Many schools like DPS Ruby Park have outsourced transportation of students to private bus operators, who have to arrange for the vehicles that carry an emblem of the school on them. A few schools have their own buses. But they, too, hire buses because their own vehicles are too few compared with the number of students. The schools collect transportation fees from guardians and pay a monthly amount to the operators, varying between Rs 60,000 to Rs 80,000 per bus. Bus owners pay monthly salaries to their staff from the monthly amount they receive from the schools. Some owners also have to pay EMIs. With the educational institutions shut, almost all schools have stopped paying the bus owners. As their income has dried up, the owners have decided to visit schools and urge the management to find a way so they get at least a part of the stipulated amounts. In October, Calcutta High Court had ordered that private schools in Bengal, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fees between April 2020 and a month after the schools resume in-person classes and 20 per cent of the session fees. The schools were barred from charging for facilities such as labs, sports and craft that students are not using during the pandemic. In November, the Supreme Court had declined to interfere with the high court’s order on waiver. “There was no clear instruction in the high court order on transportation fees. It is not clear whether bus service was part of the facilities that schools have been barred from charging,” said Himadri Ganguly, of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association. “We have filed a special petition with the court to clarify on this. But no date has yet been assigned for hearing.” School bus operators had earlier appealed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee for waiving fines for late renewal of fitness certificates and doing away with mandatory taxes because they are unable to pay after remaining out of business for almost seven months amid the pandemic. School bus owners said that with campuses shut, their vehicles had been idling in garages. They said it was discriminatory on the state government’s part to offer sops to private bus and minibus operators and ignore them in the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
05-12-2020||Calcutta||Teachers shine on virtual stage||No one expected the serious-looking teacher in a necktie, who sang the soulful Mila jo tu from the film Marjawa, to reappear minutes later in jeans, shades and a cap turned backwards and dance hip hop to a Hritik Roshan number! “But then it‘s Children‘s Day and I wanted to surprise the students,” smiled Purnendu Chakraborty, chemistry teacher of St Francis Xavier school. He and several other teachers performed on campus but the students enjoyed virtually, from home. “I like singing and have sung for the students before but year is like no other and I thought the students deserved something extra. So the physical education teacher Soubarna Ghoshal and I got a mutual friend to teach us the simplest possible steps to a medley of Ghungroo and Muqabla muqabla remix,” said Chakraborty. In response the students flooded the comments section on the Facebook and YouTube page where the video was uploaded with the word “OP”. “I had to ask them what that meant. Turns out it‘s PUBG lingo for ‘outstanding performance‘,” laughed the teacher. Suman Chakraborty (Bengali teacher) and Chandni Chatterjee (math and science teacher) sang Ooo lala pagla hawa and Ruk jana nahin, a trio of plus-two section teachers danced to Itni si hasi and there were collages shared with pictures of students as well as slides highlighting the contribution of Jawaharlal Nehru, on whose birth anniversary Children‘s Day is celebrated. Nikhil Biswas, head of the English department, compered the show. Sunil Kumar Bhattacharyya, the Bengali teacher better known as “SKB sir‘ flew the audience to the western frontier with his rendition of Yaari hai iman mera, that too dressed in a Pathan suit and pagdi. “I‘ve borrowed my costume from our officiating principal, Anil Srivastava! He tied the pagdi and even helped me with the pronunciation of the Hindi song,” said the teacher who plays several instruments and sings Manna De songs on stage. Another entertaining show was a group dance by junior teachers, led by Rahul Mojumder. “We danced to the song Brazil by Vengaboyz, which had came out when we were in school ourselves,” he smiled. “We are also happy we could screen this show — not from home but — from school. At least the kids got a glimpse of the school they miss so much. I may not be technically correct at dance but I performed from the heart to entertain them.” The school’s bona fide dance teacher Atreyee Sengupta was very encouraging. “If I deserve 6 on 10 the others deserve a perfect 10! This is not their subject but they are such sports to have danced anyway,” smiled the lady who performed a solo number and a duet with math teacher Camellia Chakraborty. The school‘s secretary and administrator, Ajay Chopra, praised for the teachers for their effort and the students for co-operating with the online education system so smoothly for so many months. “Most schools have given Children‘s Day a skip this year but your teachers wanted to ensure you your due celebrations,” Chopra said. “On this one day you get to see a completely different side of your teachers and missing it would have been a disappointment. So even if you couldn’t come to school, we entered your homes to celebrate Children’s Day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-216
