06-12-2020||Calcutta||Veteran actor Monu Mukherjee passes away ||Veteran Bengali actor Monu Mukherjee passed away on Sunday at Calcutta, after suffering a cardiac arrest, his family members said. He was 90 at the time of his death. Starting his career with Mrinal Sen’s Nil Akasher Niche (1958), the actor earned recognition with his role of Machhli Baba in Satyajit Ray’s Joy Baba Felunath, and that in Ganashatru. He had also received critical appreciation for his acting prowess in children's fantasy film Patalghar. “Saddened at the passing away of veteran theatre and film actor Manu Mukherjee. We conferred on him the Lifetime Achievement Award at the Tele-Samman Awards 2015. My condolences to his family, colleagues and admirers,” Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, mourning his demise. West Bengal Motion Pictures Artists Forum, of which Mukherjee was an active member, also condoled his death. Actor Saswata Chatterjee took to social media to condole his death. “Tributes.. Rest in peace, Monu Jethu,” he wrote, along with a picture. “Veteran actor Monu Mukherjee passes away. He was 90,” wrote actor Rudranil Ghosh on social media. “Extraordinary comfort, perfect dimension, great sense of humor in front of the camera. And such respect for work. Goodbye Manuda. We shared so much work together, so many memories,” actor Atanu Ghosh wrote on Facebook, posting an image of the both. Mukherjee is survived by his wife and two daughters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||Evening Mass in Catholic churches||This Christmas Eve, there will be no Midnight Mass in the Roman Catholic churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta. Instead there will be an Evening Mass that should end by 9pm, Archbishop Thomas D’Souza said in a circular issued to priests on Saturday. “The celebrations of Christmas this year will be simpler as well as poor-oriented. There will be no Midnight Holy Mass this year on 24th December (Thursday) 2020. Instead an Evening Mass will be celebrated on 24th December 2020, which should end latest by 9pm that day and the Church should remain closed until the following morning. Parish priests and priests-in-charge are requested to get this organised accordingly,” Archbishop D’Souza said in the circular. There are 65 churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta, including the Church of Christ the King in Park Circus, St Thomas’ Church in Middleton Row, St Ignatius Church in Kidderpore, Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary and St Teresa’s Church. “We have taken this decision as a precaution against the pandemic and to avoid crowds. We do not know how the situation will be this year because usually there is a huge crowd for the Midnight Mass,” Archbishop D’Souza told Metro. The Archbishop said that on Christmas, too, there would be more than one Mass in some of the churches to spread out the crowd. “We cannot allow a crowd. So, with more Mass, more people can come to the church but not all together,” Archbishop D’Souza said. There will not be more than 50 or 60 people in a gathering, depending on the capacity of the church, the archbishop said. In October, a circular issued by the Archbishop to the Roman Catholic churches allowed 10 to 50 people for services, prayer and Holy Mass, depending on the size of the church. The circular issued on Saturday said: “On 25th December 2020 (Friday), Holy Mass will be celebrated in the parish churches and other chapels, observing the required standard operating procedures (SOP) strictly.” In the circular, the Archbishop has also referred to the poor. “The poor are the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The generosity shown by all so far is commendable. Let us remember the poor very specially again at Christmas. I exhort the Parish Priests and their Parish Council, Associations and Action Groups to organise collection of funds, and distribute rations or clothes or other needs to the poor in the parishes. This will help us to make Christmas very relevant too,” Archbishop D’Souza has said. “The Midnight Mass is a traditional practice and very popular. The churches are usually filled to capacity every year. But this year everything will be over by 9pm,” said Father Dominic Gomes, vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta. The December 26 gathering of priests and religious leaders usually held at Archbishop’s House has been cancelled. The Christmas gathering of Diocesan seminarians will not be held this year, the circular says. “On 31st December 2020 (Thursday): Parishes will organise Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament for an hour or longer in the evening to thank the Lord for the year 2020,”the circular says. The Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India is going ahead with the Christmas Eve Midnight Mass in its churches. “We will have it but taking all necessary precautions,” said John Ghosh, the secretary of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India. There are about 30 churches in the Calcutta diocese, including St Paul’s Cathedral, St Thomas’ Church Free School Street, St James’ Church. But not all 30 have the Midnight Mass. A giraffe calf, born late last month at Alipore zoo, let out in front of visitors for the first time on Saturday morning. The male calf did a few rounds of the enclosure in between cosying up to his mother, Lakshmi. The calf, born on November 27, stands 4.5ft tall and weighs around 70kg, said a zoo official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||Mukti Joddhas and their families from Bangladesh for Vijay Diwas||A team of Mukti Joddhas and their families from Bangladesh will be part of this year’s Vijay Diwas celebrations in Calcutta along with several serving officers from the Bangladesh’s armed forces like every year. But the celebrations this time will be a muted affair. Vijay Diwas is celebrated on December 16 to commemorate India’s victory over Pakistan in the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971. The Eastern Command has been traditionally celebrating Vijay Diwas as a mark of respect to the fallen heroes of the Indian armed forces and the Mukti Joddhas of Bangladesh, who had made the victory possible. Both India and Bangladesh celebrate Vijay Diwas simultaneously and, every year, reciprocal visits by delegations from both countries, consisting of military personnel, political leadership and war veterans, are usually conducted. This year, the Vijay Diwas celebrations by the Eastern Command in Calcutta would be a low-key affair with the pandemic playing a spoil sport and the coronavirus imposing certain restrictions. There will be no military tattoo, which used to be one of the biggest draws, at the Royal Calcutta Turf Club grounds and even the interface with the civilians and the army would be cut down in a break away from the annual convention. Almost all the celebrations would be held inside Fort William and a whole range of safety measures would be in place to restrict footfall and spread the traditional events over a larger area in the open. There won’t be any helicopter fight display, horse show or the customary military band concert at the Prinsep Ghat this time. Usually, the celebration would start a few days ahead of the Vijay Diwas and continue for a few more days after. This year, the celebrations have been scheduled for two days — on December 14 and December 16. The golden jubilee celebrations of Vijay Diwas is slated to be held next year and the Eastern Command of the Indian Army had initially drawn up an elaborate plan to mark the run-up. But with the pandemic-induced restrictions the celebrations have been scuttled. Calcuttans walk from Sealdah to the SN Banerjee-Chowringhee Road crossing in Esplanade on Saturday afternoon in solidarity with farmers protesting on the Delhi-Haryana border for 10 days now. The 1,200-strong rally included a large number of Calcuttans with roots in Punjab. The rallyists demanded the repeal of three new farm laws that farmers feel will leave them at the mercy of oligarchs and a bill that proposes to reduce electricity subsidies and privatise power distribution. “We want the Centre to repeal the three farm laws and withdraw the electricity bill,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general secretary of Behala Gurdwara, who was at the rally. The protest, organised by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee with the support of Behala Gurdwara, charitable organisation IHA Foundation and others, started from Sealdah at 2.30pm and reached Dorina crossing at 4.30pm. They burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||IIM  Calcutta teachers rue ‘decline’||As many as 60 of 76 teachers of IIM Calcutta have written to the Union education ministry, raising “certain grave concerns” about the “decline in academic and research environment” and “systematic undermining” of the academic council, the principal academic body. The letter written on behalf of IIM Calcutta Faculty Association had been addressed to Union education secretary Amit Khare as the institute’s director and board of governors have allegedly “ignored or brushed aside” the concerns raised by the teachers. The teachers wrote: “We have reasons to believe that the board is also contemplating imposition of restrictions on the freedom of expression of faculty….“Left with no internal recourse, we are compelled to reach out to the ministry and seek your urgent intervention to help arrest the decline of IIM Calcutta.” The Telegraph had reported on June 24 that 51 teachers had signed and sent a letter to the board pointing out what they termed “deficiencies in the current administration” and had spoken about “absence of plurality of views on the campus”. “Since the situation has worsened since June, the letter has been written to the ministry on December 2,’’ a teacher told Metro on Saturday. Elaborating the issue of “decline in academic environment” the letter says, the student-teacher ratio at IIM Calcutta has worsened significantly over the past two years and the country’s oldest IIM today has 20-30 full-time faculty members, fewer than IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) or IIM Bangalore (IIM-B). IIM-C has more students in its two-year MBA programme, compared to both IIM-A and IIM-B, said a teacher. Reflecting on the poor research environment, the letter mentions, the research funding has come down and post-doctoral research fellowships have been discontinued. “Internal funding for research projects and international conferences ... are discouraged to augment the annual surplus,” says the letter. The signatories to the letter have referred to the systematic undermining of the academic council to explain what they have called “violations of due processes and “established norms”. According to the teachers, the academic council (AC) — recognised in the IIM Act as one of the three authorities (the board and the director, being the other two) — has been “systematically undermined in terms of both its powers and function”. Director Anju Seth was squarely blamed for undermining the role of the acad-emic council since taking charge. “The director, as the chairperson of the academic council, sets the agenda, dictates decisions and controls the minutes, disregarding the views of the majority of the members of the council. Consequently, minutes take longer to be ratified and do not truly reflect the discussion or decisions in the academic council,” the letter says. Seth took over as IIM Calcutta’s first woman director in 2018. Repeated calls to her phone went unanswered. She did not respond to text messages till late Saturday evening. Ashok Banerjee, a former dean and a teacher at IIM-C, who is a signatory to the letter said: “We hope that the ministry will look into the grave concerns....” The teachers have also alleged that digital infrastructure for online teaching during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown have been “denied to faculty and students of IIM-C”. The teachers had earlier raised this issue in a letter to the chairman of the institute’s board, Shrikrishna Kulkarni in early September when the institute decided to recall students of MBA executive programme so they could use the campus infrastructure to attend online classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta mall theft ‘gang’ on cop radar||Police suspect a group of three who were involved in robbing a kids’ store at Mani Square to be the same one that stole a customer’s wallet in a South City departmental store last month. In both thefts, the group — two men and a woman — was wearing masks and at least in one of the stores the men were wearing caps. Some cops feel the three are foreigners and used the same modus operandi — of allegedly stealing while pretending to see Indian currency notes — in both shopping mall thefts that happened in the last week of November. Photographs of the three suspects have been obtained from CCTV footage from the malls and circulated across all city police stations. At Mani Square, the trio had entered a kids’ store and two of them had introduced themselves as a couple, the police said. The third had gone to the cash counter and started talking to the staff, asking about Indian currency notes. “He had claimed he didn’t know much about Indian currency notes. On a pretext of checking a few notes, he accessed the cash box and started fiddling with the notes. He had then started a conversation about Mahatma Gandhi seeing his picture on the notes,” said an investigating officer. Before the staff realised anything, the “couple”, followed by their friend, allegedly started walking out of the store without buying anything. A few minutes later the staff found Rs 40,000 missing from the cash box, the police said. A case has been started with the Phoolbagan police station. A similar operation was carried out to rob a woman at South City Mall a day later, the cops said. A group of three — two men and a woman — had started a conversation with the shopper in a departmental store and coaxed her into showing them Indian currency notes. A little later, the woman had reported to the store that her wallet containing Rs 14,000 had disappeared. A theft case has been reported with Jadavpur police station. “In both the cases, they pretended to have no knowledge about Indian currency and wanted to see the notes that bore Mahatma Gandhi’s pictures,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Senior officers said the three appeared to be of foreign origin. A search for the group has been launched. The police are yet to find any digital imprint left by them because they did not buy anything, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||Tallah bridge finger at railway||Work on erecting six of the 18 piers of the new Tallah bridge, which will come up between train tracks, is yet to start because the railways has not provided the necessary approval for the use of its land, PWD officials have said. The foundation of four of the remaining 12 pillars has already been laid. A railway official denied any “deliberate delay” in issuing the clearance. “Several minute details need to be checked and it usually takes some time. This is the thumb rule for any rail over bridge (the Tallah bridge will be one such),” the official said. The old Tallah bridge, which was a crucial link between Calcutta and the northern fringes, was pulled down a few months ago because it had worn out so much that engineers feared the structure could collapse any moment. A General Arrangement Drawing (GAD), outlining how the piers will come up on railway land to hold a deck slab atop the tracks, was prepared after several rounds of inspection of the site by representatives of the railways and the PWD between July and August. After a consensus was reached over how things would shape up, the PWD submitted a detailed scheme to the railways in September seeking approval. The assumption was that since railway officials involved in the project had been aware of how the railway land would be utilised for the Tallah bridge, the approval would come within a few weeks. Nearly three months on, the approval is yet to reach the state government. As a result engineers at the site are unable to plan the construction of the six pillars. The bridge will be constructed over seven pairs of railway tracks. “Six of the 18 piers of the bridge will be constructed between the tracks. Since the land belongs to the railways, work on the piers cannot start without its consent,” a PWD official said. “We have had several rounds of joint inspection before the GAD was drawn up and the scheme was submitted to the chief bridge engineer of the railways.” The Majerhat bridge, too, had faced a hurdle when the railways sent back the GAD to the state government for further scrutiny by structural experts. The move had allegedly delayed the completion of the project. On Thursday, while inaugurating the Majerhat bridge, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she didn’t blame the railway officers but their bosses for the delay. “It is not that I am against the railways. I have been a railways minister and know the rules. I am not blaming the officers or the department. I will blame the leaders who pull the strings from Delhi,” Mamata said. The 750-metre-long Tallah bridge will have six piers at the Shyambazar-end and another six at the Dunlop-end. In the middle, six pillars on railway land will support the 200-metre-long deck slab over train tracks. On Thursday, engineers said work on laying the foundation was over for three out of the six piers at the Shyambazar-end and one of the piers at the Dunlop-end. The foundation of each of these piers is at a depth of nearly 45 metres below the surface. “We handed over the site to L&T (which will build the bridge) in July. The Tallah bridge will be completed within 18 months of the handover. Despite the challenges, the deadline will be met,” a state government official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
06-12-2020||Calcutta||Four arrested for teen gang rape in New Town||Four men were arrested for allegedly gang raping a 17-year-old girl in a field opposite the headquarters of the Border Security Force’s South Bengal Frontier in New Town on Friday night. The girl had gone to the field — where youngsters gather to play games — with a friend. The four men, in their 20s, had been stalking them, police said. “Two men pinned the friend down and the other two took the girl behind some tall grass and raped her.” This was around 9.30pm, cops said. A police patrol team heard the girl’s cries and rescued her. She was taken to the Eco Park police station where she lodged a complaint. The four were later arrested on the basis of her complaint. “The arrested men are unemployed and do odd jobs in their locality,” the police said. All the four have been charged under various sections of the IPC, including 376D (gang rape), 342 (wrongful confinement), and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. If proven guilty the men can be sent to jail for life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-215
