07-12-2020||Calcutta||Time to go beyond curriculum||Sushila Birla Girls’ School Students of Sushila Birla Girls’ School overcame the fear of pandemic as they recently took part in Daan Utsav like every year. Teachers, students and parents joined hands to serve the underprivileged and thus share the joy of giving just before the festive season. The drive was divided into three phases. In the first phase, a competition was conducted to generate awareness among everyone associated with the school. The second phase consisted of the donation of devices. The school could collect 92 mobile phones, nine tablets, the same number of desktops, 12 laptops, one television set and innumerable accessories, including earphones, headphones, keyboards and mouses. In the last phase, these devices were donated to four organisations — Arogya Sandhan; Kid’s Centre, Gariahat; RISE, Krishnanagar; and Upendra Vidyamandir, Sovabazar — that cater to the educational needs of the underprivileged children. “This year, Daan Utsav was celebrated in a special way. It was all about destroying the digital divide and enabling little children to continue their academic journey uninterrupted. This joyful act of giving is a powerful stimulus as it is empowering in the true sense of the term,” said principal A two-day fest, Shabdd-20, organised by Mahadevi Birla World Academy recently saw students from Calcutta and beyond connecting virtually over debates, fashion quiz, slam poetry, shadow puppetry and other events. Eleven schools, including one from Delhi, took part in a range of live and recorded events that celebrated diversity. The live events included Manthan, a three-round debate, and Metis from Milan, a quiz on fashion. The recorded ones also included a Bengali cookery competition. The guest of honour was Jayashree Mohta, the mentor of the school. The high point was Manthan, the debate. Birla Vidya Niketan, the school from Delhi, and The Heritage School went to the finals of Manthan. The motion for the final was “Satyamev Jayate sounds hollow in contemporary India”. The Delhi school spoke for the motion and won the debate. Entrepreneur Swati Gautam of Calcutta Debating Circle was the moderator. The host school emerged the overall winner in the fest. “This is a very special event. Acceptance is recovery. This fest exhibits the resilience and spirit of the students as they rise above the odds and a pandemic. They have shown how one must always try to rise and never yield,” said principal Anjana Saha. Pratt Memorial School recently celebrated their Founder’s Day with a church service and an online programme. The chief guest was Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Church of North India’s Calcutta Diocese. Like every year, the service was held at St James’ Church in the presence of a handful of teachers. “Students recorded songs from their homes and the Founder’s Day programme was uploaded on YouTube for the rest of the students,” said principal Carolyn Lionel. Twenty-five schools took part in a venture to find out the history of their schools as part of a hands-on project called Magic of My School. It was a pedagogical experiment to explore local history. Students explored the history of their own school by delving into old documents, records and journals, and by examining old artefacts and memories of those, who had been associated with their school for years. The year-long programme was initiated by Bichitra Pathshala, an organisation that has been promoting learning with moving images for a decade. It brings cinema into the classroom to make learning more joyful by organising film festivals and film-making workshops. The culmination of the project was celebrated on a virtual platform recently where those associated with the project or organisation shared their opinion about the importance of such a programme. The day also saw launching of the book, Schools of Kolkata: Weaving Magic in Education, in two volumes. The Volume I, titled The Magic of Kolkata Schools, gives an introduction of the 25 schools that took part in the project and the Volume II, titled From Tole to Tablet, focuses on the factors that formed the education scenario of the city. Bichitra Pathshala secretary Subha Das Mollick edited the book. “It was interesting to watch students taking interests in finding the history of their schools. As part of the project, we went to different schools, conducted workshops where we taught them how to take interviews, do research and the like. It was a gratifying experience for us to interact with students and know their idea of history,” said Mollick. A website named The Magic of My School was also launched on the occasion which bears testimony to the efforts taken by both students and teachers of the participating schools. “There are many takeaways from this project for all of us. One thing that I have learnt from this initiative is the more one knows, the more there is yet to know,” said Bichitra Pathshala president S.V. Raman. A reading challenge organised by the British Council spiced up the homebound lives of young bookworms considerably. Since August, kids of Bengal and Northeast took part in a challenge that required them to finish reading one e-book or listening to an audio version every week for three successive weeks as part of the Reading for Life programme. The challenge aims to motivate children between seven and 12 years to read more and grow as an engaged reader. The British Council had curated a special age-wise reading list for the purpose. The collection was available to the registered participants through the institution’s official website or via an app. The children were also involved in workshops, book reviews and discussions as part of the programme, to sharpen their communication and creative skills. The junior section of Birla High School, Moira Street, organised their annual field trip in a different manner this year. Each class had virtual educational field trips to different places around the globe. The nursery students went on a trip to the San Diego Zoo and Georgia Aquarium located in the US. They got to see an array of animals, birds, and fish and know about their habitat, food habits, and the importance of protecting all animals. A virtual jungle safari was in store for the kindergarten students as they visited the Sunderbans, Ranthambore, Kaziranga and the Gir forest. Students of Class I visited the Alipore Zoological Garden and the Singapore Zoo and students of Class II visited the chocolate museum in Brussels through Google Earth. For the students of classes IV and V, it was virtual trips to Delhi and Rome. “Field trips are an important part of our curriculum. It is an extension of learning and nothing beats the hands-on learning that kids experience when they visit a museum or a zoo. In the present situation, we are trying our best to make use of these virtual field trips for our kids. We use augmented reality and Google Earth for the same,” said Farida Singh, the headmistress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Weddings: video cassettes to digital||He is best known as the man who makes elegant wedding videos for the Gujarati and Marwari communities in Calcutta. Which has made him document the lives of the richest and the most famous. But Naren Goswami’s own life could make a rich Bollywood script, in which Bollywood itself plays a cameo. He has always been a passionate photographer and once, he was also a truck driver, informs Goswami, 72, a charming, gentle man, seated in the well-appointed drawing room of his flat in Keyatala in south Calcutta. Driving a truck took him far away from the “five-star” world he had inherited from his father. Goswami was born to a Gujarati family settled in Bhowanipore in the city. His father was a distributor of Hindi films in eastern India, who had in his bag the successful films  like Kismat (1969), featuring Bishwajeet and Babita and Victoria No. 203 (1972). It was not surprising that the son was drawn to the camera very early. About eight-years-old, Goswami was going around with a Sure-flex, taking pictures of whatever he liked. But not too many, as a child was entitled only to the end bits of a film. “There were only be 12 exposures from one reel,” said Goswami. The analog era had its own economy. By the time he was 13 or 14, and a student of Adarsh Hindi High School in Bhowanipore, he was part of the Photographic Association of Bengal, but yet not as a member as he was underage. He was later awarded lifetime membership of the organisation. At the association, he met several illustrious photographers: Benu Sen, Jyotish Chakraborty and D.S. Nahar. Raghu Rai would drop in. Sen was outstanding with the way he printed the photos, and Nahar would love to focus on rotting things, recalled Goswami. After studying at Umesh Chandra College, he got a taste of filmmaking. His father had invested heavily in Yeh Gulistan Hamara (1972), featuring Dev Anand and Sharmila Tagore, and Goswami spent a considerable time with the cast and crew in 1971 in Assam, where the film was shot. All this would come in handy. Life changed for the Goswami family as several films they had banked on, including Yeh Gulistan Hamara and Zalim (1980), another film they had invested in, sank at the box office. The distribution business stopped. Life hit rock bottom by the end of the 70s. Two things followed. Goswami became a regular visitor to the ISKCON temple in Calcutta, and for years, took several series of pictures of the idols, which is quite a collection. Two, he reinvented his family’s transport business, which, too, had collapsed. Goswami began to drive a truck that belonged to the family, carrying goods to every part of India, bathing in rivers, eating at dhabas. He was already married then, with a young family. His wife would feel scared. This was 1981. There were no cellphones. “But those were the best days of my life,”said Goswami. Only he could not carry his camera with him. Then life changed again, suddenly. In ’83, he took photographs of an engagement ceremony at the ISKCON temple in Calcutta. The photographs were liked so much that he was invited to Delhi to take the pictures of the wedding. “They paid me a fancy price and I took up wedding pictures and videos as my profession,” said Goswami. In the next few years, he became the go-to wedding videographer for the Gujarati and Marwari communities in Calcutta. “Families would even call me to ask about my availability before deciding on the wedding date,” Goswami said. These were the video cassette days. He caught on because his videos were different. At a time when the average wedding video was a crudely put together mishmash of garish stuff, Goswami kept his videos understated and clean. His style was “realistic”, the lighting unintrusive, the editing sleek. His camerawork was fine, he kept away from Hindi film songs mostly and used folk or traditional wedding songs and people looked like people, not a fluorescent version of themselves. “The lettering was special,” laughed his son Ketan, a digital entrepreneur. Goswami would make his son and daughter throw plastic letters on a surface and arrange them as he cleverly shot and edited the process for the title sequence of his videos. His videos were simple and stylish. He also did the wedding photographs. He worked with a team. As his work increased, he began to travel abroad regularly to keep himself upgraded. From the 80s Goswami began to attend Photokina, a trade fair for the photographic industry held in Cologne in Germany, to buy the latest equipment. He has attended the event till 2012. He was one of the first to introduce the DVD format to the Calcutta viewership. He would get the DVDs from the US. “Each cost Rs 3,000 at first,” he said. By the mid-90s, he had switched to the digital camera. By that the weddings, too, had upgraded and were becoming bigger and bigger. “Chefs would be flown in from Europe, flowers from Bangkok. At one wedding a chef was flown in from Japan to make sushis,” he said. Film stars would dance, cricket players would strut. In Calcutta, all this culminated in 1999, when industrialist L.N. Mittal’s son got married here. Goswami was the videographer. He had worked hard to get the job. “I heard that the Mittals were interviewing people. I went to London and met them,” said Goswami. Since then he has shot even bigger weddings. He has also been flown to Thailand, the US and Portugal, among other countries, for destination weddings. “Digital photography makes for very good picture quality,” said Goswami. But something is lost, he admits. “A film roll had 36 exposures, and for a wedding we would use five to 10 rolls,” said Goswami. “A video cassette would hold 120 or 180 minutes of recording. But digital photography just requires another chip. It allows endless photographs. The difference shows.” Digital media has also changed memory and one senses a little hurt in Goswami’s voice here. “People don’t look at wedding videos and photographs these days. Everyone takes pictures and all photographs are exchanged and put up on social media,” he said. “Often they call me as a ritual now.” Goswami is not on social media. And of late some have also said no to him. “Some young couples, wanting cocktail parties and the bachelor parties alongside their weddings, said no to me after seeing how old I was, though their parents had engaged me. The couples felt that they could not be themselves in my presence,” Goswami said. Not that he is planning to retire. Weddings have not stopped during lockdown and neither has his work. Plus he is digitising his older reel and video formats. One of them has a very young Kumaramangalam Birla singing at an event for Dev Anand, with the actor sitting in the front row.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Want back the country where we felt so wanted||A Muslim teacher who grew up in a railway colony remembered being decked out in her mother’s saris during Saraswati Puja. A Parsi author found Calcutta of yesteryears to be more inclusive than an elite US college. A lawyer activist cited several interfaith marriages in her circle in the past, long before “love jihad” was coined. A virtual session on Sunday saw speakers share personal experiences to demonstrate the diversity that makes India. They reminded the need to protect India’s secular and pluralistic fabric, especially in the wake of “divisive forces… threatening to tear apart the cohesive and peaceful co-existence”. “Celebrating Indian Diversity: Stories of Peace, Strength and Hope,” was a collaboration by Calcutta-based NGO Swayam and Know Your Neighbour, a movement to promote communal harmony. That the session was held on December 6, the day when Babri Masjid was demolished in 1992, was significant, organisers said. “December 6, 1992 is a blind spot on the secular fabric of India. We need to learn from mistakes,” said Sabir Ahamed of Know Your Neighbour. “No one group in India can claim to be the original Indian,” said Amrita Dasgupta of Swayam. Ahamed and Dasgupta moderated the session. Philip Vinod Peacock, a priest of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, remembered growing up as a Christian in a “largely Sikh neighbourhood in Bombay”. “I had Bengali Brahmin friends. We had an Iranian refugee family as a neighbour. We frequented the gurdwara and eagerly waited for the langar there…. That is the kind of nationalism that I long for, not the new nationalism,” said Peacock, a former teacher at Bishop’s College in Calcutta. Anees Wahhab, a former teacher at Loreto House and an anchor for All India Radio, spoke of growing up in Kharagpur. “During Saraswati puja, I wore my mother’s sari. Holi was celebrated by everybody with fervour,” she said. “We want back the country where we felt so wanted.” Author, scholar and women’s rights activist Jael Silliman, 65, talked of growing up as a Baghdadi Jew in Calcutta. Silliman had her first sushi in Class VI. Her class was a mini-globe with Chinese, Italian, Iranian, English and Japanese students. Later, when she went to Wellesley College in Massachusetts, she was surprised to see “Indians at one table, English at another and gays and lesbians at another. “I moved across all the tables because of having grown up in Calcutta…. This cosmopolitan diversity was deeply ingrained in Calcutta psyche,” said Gillman. Sameena Dalwai, professor and assistant director, Centre for Women, Law and Social Change at the Jindal Global Law School, went back to many interfaith marriages in her social circle. One of them was between a Muslim girl and a Hindu Maratha boy. When the relatives of the girls went to see the bride off, they were “scared” to see pictures of “a goddess with her tongue out and a severed head”. But the relationships stayed strong, she said. Shashi Kapoor, an octogenarian volunteer with Swayam, traces her roots to Lahore. Her family shifted to Murshidabad first and then to Calcutta after the Partition. Her family had built a temple in Burrabazar. “A true Hindu would never say ‘don’t eat this or don’t wear this’,” said Kapoor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Two injured in Bypass car crash at night ||A man and a woman were injured when the car they were travelling in hit the median divider on EM Bypass, near Science City, around 2.25am on Sunday. Police said the owner of the car, Bhaskar Singh, 29, a resident of Danesh Sheikh Lane in Howrah, was at the wheel. With him was Ilora Das, 24, a resident of Kestopur. “A preliminary investigation suggests that the vehicle suddenly lost control and rammed into the median divider. The cause of the accident is yet to be ascertained,” said an officer of Calcutta police’s traffic department. The man and the woman were taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, from where their families shifted them to a nursing home in Shibpur, the police said. Senior officers in the traffic department said speeding was one of the causes of accidents between 11pm and 6am, a period marked with reduced police vigil on roads. “People tend to speed up on relatively empty roads at night, ignoring the condition of the road surface and the capacity of the vehicle’s engine,” said an officer of the rank of assistant commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||South Point options for parents with dues||South Point school has sent a notice to the parents who have not paid their children’s fees from April to September, or even for earlier months, providing them some “additional recourse” to clear their dues. The notice from the principal says the school may consider additional fee waiver, staggered payment or extension of the deadline for clearing the dues. The notice has been sent to around 250 parents. To avail themselves of the “additional recourse”, the parents have to apply to the school by December 19, mentioning the reasons for non-payment and “the nature of benefit being sought”. The plea will be considered only if the reason for non-payment is “strictly attributable to the pandemic”. “We understand that the present economic situation caused by the pandemic is quite stressful for many persons and for the same reason, you might also be facing difficulties in clearing the entire outstanding amount. It is also possible that you require some more time to clear the dues and are in need of additional waivers,” the notice says. The school has cited a Calcutta High Court order in October, which gave liberty to schools to bar students whose fees would remain unpaid till November 30 from classes. In the same order the court had asked private schools to waive 20 per cent of the tuition fees between April 2020 and one month after the schools would resume on-campus classes. “However, we would like to take utmost care and caution while taking such an extreme step (disallowing students from classes) and would like to provide parents all opportunities to clear the unpaid dues in respect of their child’s school fees,” the notice says. “In order to enable such parents to fully clear their dues, the school may consider providing: 1 additional waiver of fee, or 2. Facility of staggered payment, or 3. Extension of time needed to clear the dues.” The parents’ applications will be evaluated by a committee set up by the school. “The committee will comprise a parent, a teacher and a representative of the finance department of the school,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of the school. The parents who will not make any application by December 19 are required to clear the dues till November by that date. If they fail to make an application or clear their dues, the school “will be constrained to assume that they are no longer interested in continuing their ward’s enrollment and the school may strike off the name of such students from its rolls in terms of the existing rules,” the notice says. “This is an unprecedented step and as a school we also have to keep the interest of the child in mind. We do not want children to suffer because of circumstances not under their control and we also believe that parents will not default without any reason. So instead of being mechanical about it we want to give parents more opportunities to pay,” said Damani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Goods carriers set to  ply on Majerhat bridge ||The newly-built Majerhat bridge will soon be open to loaded trucks and other goods vehicles, which are barred from plying over most flyovers and bridges across Calcutta. Since its inauguration last Thursday, Calcutta police have been keeping heavy and medium goods vehicles away from the Majerhat bridge, christened Jai Hind bridge. On Sunday, senior police officers said they were open to allowing heavy goods vehicles on the bridge after engineers certified that most of the components of the structure were performing according to the expectation. The state government had declared most flyovers and bridges out of bounds for goods vehicles after the collapse of the old Majerhat bridge in September 2018. A committee of engineers set up by the government had inspected the flyovers and bridges and found that most were not strong enough to bear the load of goods vehicles. Senior officials in the PWD said that over the past three days, engineers had been monitoring the performance of the cables of the Majerhat bridge, which hold the deck slab over the railway tracks, and the piers, which transfer the structure’s load to the ground. The study has left the engineers confident that goods vehicles can move over the bridge, built at a cost of Rs 300 crore. “We have observed the performance of the different components of the bridge and the results are satisfactory,” said a PWD official. “We will revisit the bridge on Monday with police and finalise the movement plan for goods vehicles.” The 260-metre-long deck slab of the bridge remains suspended by 84 cables brought from Switzerland. Ahead of the inauguration, a load of 534 tonnes was mounted on the bridge and the engineers were happy with the outcome. The cables that hold the deck slab are now subjected to the load equivalent to 40 per cent of their capacity and the engineers feel there is no immediate challenge to the bridge if goods vehicles are allowed on it. “We will soon come out with a notification regarding the movement of goods vehicles on the Majerhat bridge. The timings will remain the same as followed for thoroughfares of Calcutta,” said Rupesh Kumar, the deputy commissioner of police, traffic. Primarily, it has been decided that goods vehicles of all types that are headed for Thakurpukur or further south will be allowed on the Majerhat bridge from 10pm till early morning. Apart from that, medium and light goods vehicles moving in either direction will be allowed on the bridge between noon and 4pm. Trailers and very heavy goods vehicles from south will never be allowed on the bridge. “Parts of Hide Road, Central Garden Reach Road and Garden Reach Road have been struggling for the last two years, since the collapse of the old bridge, with the additional vehicle load,” said a police officer. “Once goods vehicles are allowed to move down the Majerhat bridge, these roads will get a relief.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Pandemic forces Jadavpur University  to scrap convocation||Jadavpur University will not hold its convocation this year because of Covid-19 and the degree certificates will be distributed on digital platforms, officials of the institute said. The decision to do away with the convocation, usually held on December 24 at the open air theatre on the campus, was taken by the university’s executive council at a meeting held virtually onSunday. “We will not be able to hold the convocation because of the pandemic. We will upload the digital version of the degree certificates on the National Academic Depository so that the students could download them on December 24. The university will issue a notification informing the graduating students about the mechanism,’’ vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said. The depository is a digital database of academic awards provided by the education ministry. “If a recipient wants a hardcopy of the certificate, the university will have it delivered to him or her through courier,” Das said. A member of the council said it had been left to the VC to decide whether a token programme would be held on December 24 and the recipients asked to collect the certificates in a staggered way the same day. “A committee comprising the vice-chancellor and the deans of engineering, science and humanities has been constituted to take a final decision on this issue,’’ said an official. “Health experts are apprehending that the virus could become more virulent during winter. So, we cannot risk any assembly on the campus now,” he said. JU has not charged the graduating students the convocation fee of Rs 500. About 4,000 students have graduated this year. The convocation fee is collected to distribute gowns to the recipients and prepare the laminated degree certificates. An official of Calcutta University said they too, are, planning to avoid the traditional convocation because of the pandemic. “The pandemic is raging even in winter. So, it is unlikely the ceremony will be held in a physical mode. We will decide on the alternative mechanism, soon,” a CU official said. Presidency University is likely to distribute digital degree certificates through the National Academic Depository next year, as it did this year, sources said. It had scrapped the convocation in February amid the buzz that it was reluctant to invite governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to the event. The governor had then faced students’ protests on campuses because of his views on the citizenship matrix.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||New Town fires take a toll on winged residents and guests||The frequent fires on grasslands of New Town mean health hazards for residents. For many winged residents of the grasslands, they mean loss of life, home and food. Dried grass and shrubs are being regularly set on fire on empty plots in New Town and over a dozen fires have been reported in the past few weeks. The grasslands and marshlands in the township and the adjoining Rajarhat are home to a wide variety of birds and an annual winter destination for many migratory birds. Many nests have been burnt because of the frequent fires in grasslands, said birders who frequent the areas. The number of insects and rodents that live in the grasslands, a steady source of food for the birds, has also depleted. Several nests with chicks were burnt on a patch of grassland, popularly known as the Red Munia field, behind the Mother's Wax Museum, opposite Eco Park, on Friday. The day before, there was a huge fire on a grassland near the Owl More, where a lot of birds nest. “There was dense smoke all around and a large patch of grassland was gutted. The nests could not be differentiated from the ashes,” said Arka Sarkar, a birder who has been to the grasslands several times. According to birdwatchers, the grasslands are home to many birds because they provide a steady food supply. The birds include seed eaters like various species of munias and weavers. They are also home to insectivorous birds like Pipit, Lark, Eurasian Wryneck, Siberian Rubythroat and birds of prey which feed on rodents such as Black Shouldered Kite, Indian Spotted Eagle, Common Kestrel and Pied Harrier, among others. Birders fear that the inexorable loss of habitat because of fires would turn away birds for a long time. Souvik Roychoudhury, another New Town-based birdwatcher, recorded two men pouring fuel into a burning fire in a grassland opposite an eatery, near the Shrachi junction. “Adult birds can fly to safety but the young ones cannot escape,” said Roychoudhury. He has shared the video on Facebook. Subhankar Patra, who runs a Facebook birdwatching group called SundayWatch, said that although it was fascinating that birds were still coming in numbers to New Town, whose skyline adds several highrises every year, the fires are dangerous for the birds. “All the birds that come here are losing their habitat, which provides them with shelter and a source of food. After a grassland is burnt, it eventually regrows, but it takes time to have the same diversity as it did before,” said Patra. According to him, the fires like in other places of the state are set by people who want to drive away snakes and reduce vegetation so that they and their livestock can move around freely. Although New Town has almost no farmlands, cattle herders often head to the grasslands to let their cows and buffaloes feed. Metro reported on Saturday that the New Town authorities had formed a cell that would use drones to conduct aerial surveillance over grasslands and empty plots in a bid to stop people from lighting fires.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid halts IISER research for 21 days||The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Kolkata, has decided that all research activities will remain suspended for 21 days from Monday because of a rise in the number of Covid cases on the campus, an official of the institute said. The administrative committee of the Kalyani institute had on December 4 discussed the Covid situation with members of the students’ affairs council and decided to suspend research activities. “From December 7 till December 27, the research complex, TRC, AAC Building, library and computer centre will be closed for the students. Faculties are allowed to enter respective offices as usual,” reads a circular issued by the dean of students’ affairs. The circular says the situation will be reviewed on December 18. In-person classes at the institute have been suspended since March as a precaution against Covid. Research has been allowed to resume, in compliance with the Centre’s Unlock guidelines. The institute had recalled students, who are mostly pursuing the MS programme and vacated the campus before the onset of the lockdown, to the campus in October. As for the remaining scholars, a decision will be taken later. “Remaining PhD/IPhD (integrated PhD)/16 MS (master of science) will be notified in due course for their campus entry,” the circular states. The dean of students affairs, Balaram Mukhopadhyay, said they would take stock of the situation every week before taking a call on the next course of action. “Although the circular says the situation will be reviewed on December 18, we will assess the situation each week,”  Mukhopadhyay told Metro. The researchers and other students who are on the campus have been asked to remain confined in their hostels so long research activities will remain suspended. All of them will be tested for Covid. Since the testing facility set up on the IISER campus last month had to be disbanded following a row with students, the institute will use the facility on the campus of the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology in Haringhata. The tech university campus is less than 5 km from the IISER. Two research scholars at the IISER had last month been suspended allegedly because they questioned the institute’s handling of Covid testing on the campus. They had wanted to know why the canteen staff were not being tested for Covid-19. According to the circular, the day scholars who don’t stay in hostels will only be allowed to enter the campus to collect food (if needed) from the canteen. “They are not allowed to enter the hostels or roam around the campus,” the circular says. The IIT Kharagpur campus had remained closed from September 6 to 20 following an increase in the number of Covid cases on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Optional foreign travel rises||Non-essential international travel from Calcutta has started picking up again, although slowly, airlines and tour operators said. People are travelling to the US and the UK to visit family members, while tourists, traders and a few businessmen are travelling to places like Dubai. Destination weddings are taking place, too, and couples who will tie the knots soon are planning their honeymoon in foreign locations. The Covid-19 pandemic had stalled air travel from the end of March to the end of May. Domestic flights resumed after that but international flights were initially not operating. Officials at the Calcutta airport said evacuation flights under the Centre's Vande Bharat scheme started bringing back stranded passengers to the city in July, and in September resumed commercial flights under the air bubble transport scheme. Airlines and tour operators said international travel from Calcutta was not significant when air bubble flights started. But now it is picking up, they said. Jayanti Neogi, a resident of Ganesh Chandra Avenue, is flying on Monday to Boston in the US, via Delhi and Newark, on an Air India flight to visit her son. “She was supposed to visit her son in the summer of 2020 but could not because of the pandemic,” said a family member. Tour operators said they were even having chartered flights from Calcutta, which are having good bookings. On December 15, a chartered flight is scheduled to leave for the Maldives. A consortium of travel agents has hired the 183-seat aircraft from Vistara. One of the agents said the tickets had all sold out. Businessman Shubham Bubna, who is getting married to Prarthana Gupta on December 11, has booked two seats on the flight for their honeymoon. “We had planned to defer our honeymoon till next year. But then I got this package to the Maldives. The rate is almost one third of what it was before the pandemic,” said Bubna. Tour operators said non-essential international travel had been picking up, slowly, since the end of October. “People are tired of staying at home for months and are desperate to travel. We have been getting queries since October and travel has now started,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. Air India’s once-a-week direct flight to London was not having a good response initially. The airline had to reduce the frequency from twice to once a week. The spokesperson for the airline said occupancy had started rising slowly. Calcutta-based structural engineer Moin Bin Moksud recently travelled to the UK and Dubai for business purposes. He returned to the city on Friday. “I have an office in Dubai. Throughout the lockdown and even after that, we were giving online presentations to clients. But now, since flights have resumed, I have travelled to the UK and Dubai,” Moksud said. Airport and airline officials said there were only a handful of business and corporate travellers among passengers going to international destinations. Most are travelling to visit family members and there are some leisure travellers, too. “Quarantine rules are strict in certain countries. Only those people are travelling to those countries who have family members there,” said Kaushik Bhattacharya, the director of the Calcutta airport. “Tourists are travelling to other countries.” “Our direct flights from Delhi to five destinations in the US and eight in the UK are doing well,” said the Air India spokesperson. Airport officials said the twice-a-week Emirates flights between Calcutta and Dubai was having 80 per cent of its business and first class seats booked. The occupancy in the economy class seats is about 70 per cent on an average. The demand for Dubai has also gone up because traders who used to shop from Thailand and Hong Kong are going there, said airlines. Flights to Bangkok and Hong Kong have not been restored||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
07-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools await parents’ reopen nod ||A consent from the state government to reopen schools may not be enough to resume in-person classes, parents have to feel comfortable about sending their children to school, the heads of several institutions have said. Parents have to be part of the decision-making and they will have to decide whether it is “safe enough” to send their children to school amid the pandemic, a principal said. A day after the ICSE council had on December 2 requested all chief ministers to allow schools to “reopen partially” — for the students of Classes X and XII - from January 4, several schools started thinking how to tackle the issue. A number of school heads said it was a “difficult choice” for parents — many might still be scared to send their children to class and at the same time worried that not doing so would result in the students missing out on practical and “doubt clearing” sessions. “Even if schools reopen and we are allowed to resume in-person classes, we will have to provide an alternative dates for practicals. If we are taking the consent we cannot possibly force them to come to school,” a principal said. At least two heads said online and in-person classes would have to be held simultaneously because not all children might be in a position to go to school while the pandemic is still raging. St James’ School said they would have to take a declaration from parents that their children were fit enough to attend school. Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’, said: “It has to be the parents’ call whether they can send their child to school.” Loreto House said the consent from parents was important because they would have to face the consequences if anything untoward happened. Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House, said the parents’ consent was important because the “responsibility of the child coming to school will largely rest with the parents”. Heritage School, too, will seek parents’ consent before resuming on-campus classes. Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School, said:  “We’d not like children to come to school unless their parents are confident that it is safe for them.” Modern High School for Girls said they would need to know how many students were ready to attend in-person sessions to organise classes. Calcutta Girls’ High School will draw up a roster for students to attend practical classes in batches. An official in the education department said the state government would have to weigh the “pros and cons” of reopening campuses before announcing its stand on the ICSE council’s request. “The government is yet to reopen colleges and universities because there is no certainty that there will be no more surge in coronavirus cases in the state,” the official said. “Any decision on reopening of schools will give rise to the question whether it is right to do so at  a time college and university campuses are still closed…. Also, whatever decision the government takes should apply to all boards,” the official said. Schools also feel that feedback from parents was important for them to prepare for reopening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-214
