08-12-2020||Calcutta||Winter lost in December heat, poor air piles pain||The day temperature has been pushing 30 degrees for the past couple days. A week into December, mothballs are still embracing woollens inside cupboards. The night lacks nip but the day is when Calcuttans are feeling the heat. The December sun, usually mellow and pleasant, has forced many to switch on the fan. In Calcutta, the Celsius has been rising consistently over the past few days (see chart). At 18.6 degrees, the minimum temperature on Monday was three notches above normal. Despite the IMD’s forecast of a harsher than usual winter this year, northern parts of India have witnessed a rise in temperature for the past few days. “That is behind the warm spell in Calcutta and the rest of south Bengal,” a Met official said, ruling out a significant slide in the Celsius over the next few days. “The temperature in Calcutta is expected to go down marginally from Thursday. But it is unlikely to dip below 15 degrees over the next seven-eight days,” said a Met official. The maximum temperature is likely to be in the range of 29-30 degrees over the next three days. The minimum temperature in Srinagar was 4.6 degrees on Sunday, five notches above normal. In Delhi, the minimum temperature was 11.4 degrees, a couple of notches above normal. “The chill in Calcutta is brought by northwesterly winds which come from Kashmir via places like Delhi and Patna. The intensity of the winds keeps decreasing as they travel. A -2°C temperature in Srinagar can result in a 7°C reading in Delhi and a 12°C in Calcutta. The temperature has been on the higher side across northern parts of India. Gangetic Bengal is also witnessing a corresponding rise in temperature,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. There is no immediate Western Disturbance — that triggers snowfall in Kashmir — on the Met radar.“The effect of snowfall in Kashmir is usually felt in Calcutta within 48-72 hours. In the absence of fresh snowfall, chill is unlikely to set in,” said Das. The reason for unusually hot days is the clear sky for most of the day, allowing the sun to beat down hard and triggering a rise in day temperature, said a weather scientist. “A cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand is leading to some fog early in the morning but as the day progresses, the sky becomes clear,” a Met official said of the past couple of days in Calcutta. The moisture injected into the atmosphere by the circulation is minimal but enough to ward off weak trickles of northwesterly winds, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Needed: graded plan to fight air pollution in Calcutta||An action plan with specific measures to be implemented as the air quality worsens with the progress of winter must be prepared for Calcutta, air quality management specialists have said. The action plan —  a graded response action plan has already been prepared for Delhi — will list the immediate measures that have to be taken when the air quality drops from “moderate” to “poor”, from “poor” to “very poor”, and from “very poor” to “severe”. Delhi’s action plan states that when the air quality worsens to “moderate” or “poor” from “satisfactory” and remains so for at least 48 hours, only trucks registered after 2005 are allowed to enter the city. Traffic cops are deployed in “vulnerable” areas to ensure smooth flow. When the air quality drops to “very poor” from “poor”, use of diesel generators and use of coal and firewood in hotels and open eateries are stopped. When it further worsens and stays severe for at least 48 hours with extremely high PM2.5 concentration, entry of trucks, except those carrying essential commodities, are stopped. Also, all construction activities are stopped and even schools may be shut down. “It is called a graded response action plan because there are different steps that have to be added with every fall in air quality standards,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, an air quality management specialist. “Calcutta must prepare its own graded response action plan. The National Green Tribunal had asked all non-attainment cities to frame such action plans through an order in October 2018,” said Roy Chowdhury, who is the executive director of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). The air quality at most monitoring stations in the city has already touched the “poor” and “very poor” levels. At one station, it has touched the “severe” level. Bulletins issued for Calcutta by the Central Pollution Control Board at 4pm on Friday and Saturday, based on the average air quality of all seven monitoring stations of the city over the previous 24 hours, showed the air quality was “poor”. An official of the state pollution control board said a graded response action plan for Calcutta was under preparation. But he could not say when it would be ready. “We are working on a graded response plan for Calcutta. But it will take some time. It will be difficult to say by when it will be ready,” said the official. Roy Chowdhury said the graded response was like an emergency response, meant to ensure that the pollution was kept under control. “Systemic changes such as phasing out of old commercial vehicles take time, which is why an emergency graded response plan is required,” she said. Air quality management specialists also said the emergency action plan should continue parallel to long-term measures like stopping use of coal at roadside eateries, switching to cleaner fuel for public transport and phasing out commercial vehicles aged 15 years or older.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||State board announces promotion without exams||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education announced on Monday that students of Classes VI to IX would be promoted to the next class “without appearing in any evaluation/examination this year”. “But whenever the school shall open and classes start regularly, the teacher must revise the full syllabus of the previous class in the interest of the students before starting the syllabus of the present class,” reads Monday’s notification. The notice also says that though no selection test will be held this year for Class X students, “the schools are requested to make their students ready” for Madhyamik 2021 “by taking mock tests, if required”. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced on November 10 that students of the Bengal board in Classes X and XII will be allowed to write the Madhyamik and higher secondary exams next year without appearing in a selection test. Asked how mock tests could be held if schools don’t reopen, Partha Karmakar, the board’s deputy secretary (academic), told Metro: “We have left it to the schools to decide factoring in the circumstances.” A board official suggested “a bare minimum test on digital platforms based on the availability of tech support or over a phone call”. Although next year’s Madhyamik dates are yet to be announced, the board will hold camp offices on December 16 and 17 for the form fill-up exercise. The state government on November 25 had pruned the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII who will write their board exams next year because on-campus classes could not be held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Close to 14,000 secondary schools have been shut since the third week of March. The state government had decided to reintroduce the pass-fail system in Classes V and VIII in government-aided schools from the 2020-21 academic year. Reintroduction of detention in Classes VI and VII is due in the following year. Students were supposed to write three tests during the academic session that starts in January before securing promotion. “The three tests were to be held in April, July and November. But the tests could not be conducted this year,” said an official of the education department. Teachers tried holding classes on digital platforms during the pandemic but limited access for tens of thousands of students was a big hindrance. Saugata Basu, a teacher of Uttarpara Government School and the secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association, said the instruction to revise the full syllabus of the previous class once physical classes resume suggests that the department knows that alternative models were not adequate to cover the syllabus. “In the absence of revision, the students will not be able to comprehend anything of the new class,” said Basu. A school education department official said Avik Majumdar, the chairman of the syllabus restructure committee, advised revision of the full syllabus of the previous class. “The committee appointed by the state government consulted experts before giving its recommendations,” said an official of the board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Bonphool honey wakes up and smells sales||Bottles of honey collected from the Sunderbans mangroves and packaged by villagers, who faced the double blow of the pandemic-induced lockdown and Cyclone Amphan, are finding more takers from across the country. The sale of brand Bonphool, has jumped after a study, led by the New Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment, found that honey sold by major brands in India was “adulterated with addition of sugar syrup”, said a forest official. The honey-production programme, started by the state forest department, the panchayats and the rural development department in collaboration with WWF India as a means to generate alternative livelihood for villagers, who venture deep into tiger territory to collect honey or catch fishes and crabs, is barely a year old. On Monday, stocks of Bonphool were sold out on a popular online shopping platform. And the three cooperatives, set up jointly by the forest department, the panchayats and the rural development department and WWF India to produce honey from bee boxes, are working overtime to meet the demand that they had never seen before, the forest official said. Honey collectors have been going inside the forest despite the risks of getting mauled by tigers since ages. In fact, there is a popular saying: “Modhu khoja mane bagh khoja” (finding honey equates finding a tiger). According to forest department figures, at least five to six of these honey collectors (official figures) are killed by tigers every year. Bonphool sold 2,500 bottles per day on an average after the report was published last week, a forester said. As the demand soars, senior foresters are brainstorming to find out how to churn out more bottles and reduce time taken to pack each one before they are handed to the couriers for delivery across the country. The honey has had thousands of takers and has the likes of writer Javed Akhtar among its admirers. The demand for the honey started going up after a section of foresters started tweeting about the brand while focussing on the fact that they are collected from the mangroves of the Sunderbans. The programme was started by Santosha G.R., who was serving as the divisional forest officer of the South 24-Parganas, and a senior official of the panchayat and rural development department of the state government. The forest department had given 20 boxes each to 72 traditional honey collector families, who are called maulis in Bengali. It had also helped them to form three cooperative societies in the Jharkhali, Kultali, Nalgora areas and helped them secure soft loans from the state co-operative bank. The villagers have been trained in bee-keeping by experts from the Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Nimpith. Soumyajit Das, the special secretary of the panchayat and rural development department, said their sales counter on the ground floor of their office on Salt Lake was witnessing a steady stream of customers. “The response is overwhelming,” said Das. The department is setting up an app where orders can be placed. The forest department too has started a dedicated webpage for taking orders and residents of Calcutta can get theirs home delivered for free. To order one needs to visit: https://sundarbansjfmc.org/store/product-category/honey/ Visit: Mrittika Bhavan, Plot no-18/9, Block-DD, Salt Lake, Sector-I Online orders: https://sundarbansjfmc.org/store/ product-category/honey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Burns while cooking kill aged woman||An elderly woman who suffered burns while cooking at her daughter’s home in Radha Madhab Dutta Garden Lane, in the Beleghata area, on Sunday evening died on Monday. Police suspect a leak in an LPG cylinder triggered the fire. The woman’s daughter and son-in-law got injured while trying to save her. The police said Chaya Nag, 74, was admitted to the NRS hospital with severe burns on Sunday. She passed away on Monday afternoon. “The woman’s daughter Alpana Haldar, 55, who was in the kitchen, got injured while trying to save her. The victim’s son-in-law Tarak Nath Haldar suffered burns while trying to save the two women,” an officer of Beleghata police station said. “Till now there is no hint of foul play. The exact location where the cylinder leaked is yet to be ascertained,” the officer said. Forensic department officials will collect samples from the spot to ascertain the location and cause of the fire. The findings of a preliminary investigation suggest a leak in the LPG cylinder that the family was using caused the fire. Forensic officials said consumers should periodically change the gas pipeline and keep a tab on its condition. “It is very important to have proper ventilation in the kitchen to prevent accidents even if there is a leakage. But in most flats windows are kept closed in winter. The gas gets trapped, causing sudden flames the moment it comes in contact with any spark or source of ignition,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Clear hospital dues, panel tells family||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission, which has so far mostly restricted itself to penalising hospitals and drawing guidelines, on Monday asked a petitioner to pay the bill a private hospital charged him, even if in installments. The commission asked a patient’s family to pay ILS Hospital, Howrah, Rs 65,000, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said. “To get the services, patients have to pay the necessary charges. She (the complainant) told us that their economic condition was not well. We allowed them to pay the dues in installments,” Banerjee said. The complainant told the commission that her husband was treated at the hospital for Covid-19 for nine days. The hospital billed him Rs 1.66 lakh. The complainant alleged the hospital overcharged them. The family paid Rs 70,000. “That leaves Rs 96,000 as dues. We asked the hospital to offer a discount of Rs 31,000, but even after that Rs 65,000 remained as dues,” Banerjee said. The woman told the commission that she had asked the hospital to discharge her husband as he was doing well. But the hospital discharged him two days later. “We have asked the hospital to refund the charges of those two days. After calculating everything, we asked the hospital to offer the discount of Rs 31,000,” said Banerjee. Debashis Dhar, the group vice-president of ILS Hospitals, said: “It is the doctor’s call when to discharge a patient. Even from a business point of view, the hospital would not want to keep a patient unnecessarily. If one patient gets discharged, we can take another on that bed.” Sanjib Bandopadhyay, who treats Covid patients at Beleghata ID Hospital, said: “The guidelines say a patient can be discharged on the 10th day from the onset of symptom without a negative test report, provided the patient does not have fever for three consecutive days and also have oxygen saturation levels more than 95 for three consecutive days.... A Covid-19 patient can spread infection. So the doctor has to be very cautious….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid test rate cap on hospitals||Private hospitals that do not have the permission to conduct Covid-19 tests cannot charge more than the government-capped rate to get the samples tested in other laboratories, the chairperson of the state clinical establishment regulatory commission said on Monday. The bar will only apply to those who will give samples for tests at the outpatient department of hospitals, not those who are admitted in hospital. Patients admitted in hospital can be billed a transportation cost or other necessary charges for carrying the sample to the laboratory, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. According to the latest state government order, no hospital or laboratory can charge more than Rs 950 for an RT-PCR test for Covid. Banerjee made the observations while asking Zenith Hospital in Belghoria to return Rs 500 to a person who had complained that the hospital had charged him more than the government stipulated rate. “All private hospitals are admitting Covid-19 patients but not all have the authorisation from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct Covid-19 tests. Only a few hospitals have the approval,” Banerjee said. “The other hospitals collect samples and send them to authorised laboratories for tests. But they cannot charge more than the government stipulated rate. This will be applicable to people who are not admitted in hospital but are giving samples for Covid-19 tests,” said Banerjee. “The hospitals can charge patients who are admitted a nominal transport cost or other necessary charges.” He later told Metro that it was not possible for a patient admitted in a hospital to go to another hospital for the test. “A patient who is suspected to have been infected by the novel coronavirus has to be tested. But that patient cannot be taken outside the hospital. So the hospital will collect the patient’s sample and transport it to a laboratory authorised to conduct the Covid-19 test. In such cases, the hospital can charge a transportation cost,” he said. Arnab Pal, a resident of Peerless Nagar in Sodepur, complained to the commission that Zenith Hospital had charged him Rs 500 more than the rate stipulated by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
08-12-2020||Calcutta||Schools locked in tussle with parents over payment of fees||Many schools are locked in a tussle with parents over payment of fees during the pandemic, but some have also extended waivers that go beyond the court order. Schools have had to extend this help having realised that without concession some of the children might be forced to drop out. A parent of a senior school student at a Christian missionary school asked for a transfer certificate a few months ago because the father had lost his job and the family was planning to send the daughter to a relative’s house in a different city. The school intervened and offered a “considerable concession”. At a private school in north Calcutta, a mother approached the management saying her husband had undergone surgery and they could not afford the fees anymore. The teachers pitched in with some amount and the school agreed to pay the rest. At an Anglo-Indian school, a parent with three children approached the authorities for concession. The school asked the parent to pay the fees of the eldest child and waived the fees of the other two children. Calcutta High Court had ordered private schools to waive 20 per cent of tuition and session fees and not charge any fees on non-academic heads like “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extracurricular activities or the like” between April 2020 and one month after the resumption of on-campus classes. After the court ordered a blanket waiver for all parents, irrespective of their financial condition, many schools discussed whether they could afford to provide the larger concessions they had offered to some parents. Fortunately, the overwhelming decision so far has been “we have to”. In such a situation, a number of schools have appealed to parents to pay their fees so they are able to extend the additional concession to parents in greater distress. Schools said these parents would play a crucial role at this point. “It is the generosity of other parents that will help the school keep giving to the other students who need it more,” said Sister Sherley Sebastian, the principal of Our Lady Queen of the Missions School in Salt Lake. The additional concession often varies from about 20 per cent to 50 per cent and goes up to even 100 per cent in some cases. Several school heads said concessions to a section of parents had been granted at the beginning of the academic year and to take that away during the pandemic would be “inhuman and unethical”. “We cannot change that because even when things were normal (before the pandemic), many of these parents were barely able to manage,” said Sister Sebastian. Since the court order, schools have had to deal with questions from some parents comparing their situation with others who are getting concessions despite being relatively better off. The Supreme Court has stayed portions of the high court judgment that asked schools to consider individual applications from parents for further waiver and allow-ed parents to approach a committee if they did not get redress from the schools. But many institutions are still getting requests for further waiver. “There is no question of rolling back the concession granted to the needy because the policy is to reach out education to as many as possible,” said a member of the Loreto Education Board. South Point has offered parents with dues options such as staggered payment, waiver or extension of date, depending on the documents that they provide. “As a school we have to show compassion and give parents as much opportunity as possible,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
