09-12-2020||Calcutta||Survey to design Covid tips in Calcutta||A project that will assess whether people respond better against Covid-19 when they are told about the protective measures in face-to-face conversations was launched in three wards of Calcutta on Monday. The project will have three parts. The first and the last parts will be surveys where the same questions will be asked to respondents. The second part will involve interventions in two wards, as part of which trained personnel will visit houses once a week over six weeks and tell the residents about the protective measures and what to do when one falls ill. “In one ward, we will disseminate a lot of information about the disease and facilities for treatment. In another ward, we will provide limited information. In the third ward, no intervention will be done. The first survey and the repeat survey will be done in all three wards,” said an official involved in the project. The difference in response between first and repeat surveys in all three groups will tell whether face-to-face interactions help people prepare better in taking precautionary measures. The questions have been framed in a way that they test people's knowledge about Covid and how they respond during an emergency. The three wards chosen for the eight-week project are 82 (Chetla), 11 (Hatibagan) and 101 (covering parts of Patuli). The project, funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being conducted by Liver Foundation, which focuses on liver diseases and other public health issues; Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC); and Covid Care Network, a voluntary organisation of medical professionals and people who have recovered from Covid-19. “We launched the project on Monday. Over this week, our personnel will visit select households in three wards and conduct a survey. We have deputed 20 persons in each ward and are targeting 2,000 households in each ward. This is a pilot project and will cover only a select number of households,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, a deputy chief municipal health officer of the CMC. About 800 houses were visited till Tuesday, said Partha Sarathi Mukherjee, the director of Liver Foundation. In the ward where Covid-related information will be disseminated extensively, project personnel will visit the households once every week from the second week to the seventh week. “Over the six weeks, we will gradually pass on information about the disease and the necessary protective measures. The messages will get repeated by the seventh week. We are hoping that face-to-face conversations will drive home the point,” said the official. In the eighth or the last week, the respondents will be asked the same questions they will be asked in the first week. Mukherjee said the project could also develop a model for dealing with public health emergencies. Covid-19 has laid bare the deficiencies in the country’s health care and preparedness in facing an epidemic, he said. “We have designed a model hoping that it will lead to better responses from people against Covid-19. The model has tools like door-to-door visits, individual interactions, screening and testing, and providing logistics support like taking someone to a testing centre or arranging hospitalisation,” said Mukherjee. He said if it was found after eight weeks that the model implemented in the ward where full intervention will take place elicited better response, it can be inferred that the model can be successful in dealing with public health emergencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Women saviours when virus hit men’s income ||Hundreds of women in a Maharashtra district, whose attempts to earn by joining self-help groups had met with resistance from husbands and others, emerged as saviours for their families when the Covid pandemic robbed men of income. A public health expert from Calcutta who is visiting several places in India to witness community endeavours against Covid-19, saw how the pandemic led to women empowerment in a string of Maharashtra villages. Abhijit Chowdhury, at the forefront of the Mamata Banerjee government’s fight against Covid-19, recently visited Chandrapur district in Maharashtra. He narrated how hundreds of women in several villages there, who had earlier been neglected and had no say in their families, have taken the lead in sustaining their near and dear ones. “I met many women who are members of self-help groups (SHGs). They said for long their husbands, as well as other family members, were against their taking part in SHG activities and they had no importance in their families,” said Chowdhury. “But during the Covid-19 pandemic, when the men lost their livelihood, these women, through various SHG schemes of income generation, ran their families. Now, they say, their husbands are urging them to continue with the economic activities. Many of these women told me during my visit that now they have gained importance and respect in their families, for which they have strived for years,” he said. Chowdhury is documenting these experiences for research. He saw how these women, who used to run community health centres at their villages for non-communicable diseases, are using the facilities with encouragement from their families to raise awareness about Covid-19. “There are cement factories and cotton mills in the areas where most men work. They also work in agriculture fields and sell milk and dairy products in these villages,” said Jyoti Khandale, a project executive for women empowerment at Ambuja Cement Foundation in Chandrapur district. The foundation runs around 200 SHGs, involving nearly 2,300 women and covering about 50 villages in the district. “During the lockdown, their incomes reduced to zero as factories were closed and they could not go house to house selling milk. They were also unable to go to the fields for farming because of lack of funds,” she said. The Telegraph spoke over the phone to a few of these women who narrated how their social standings changed during the pandemic. Sangita Chaudhury, 41, Isapore village: Sangita’s husband Vijay works at a cement factory, earning Rs 15,000 a month. “During the three months of lockdown, the factory was closed and he did not get any wages,” said Sangita. She has been working with an SHG in her village for some time but would always face resistance from her husband and other family members. “In my husband’s family, no woman member is allowed to go out. They would tell me I was wasting time attending SHG meetings and urge me not to go. They would wonder why I should be involved in those activities when my husband was earning enough,” Sangita said. She was earning about Rs 2,000 a month earlier from various activities. But during the lockdown, when no veterinary doctor would visit villages, she was earning more than Rs 5,000 through goat and poultry management and vaccination of animals, for which she is trained. “I learnt how to drive a Scooty, which was given to me by the foundation, and went to various places in course of my work. My husband’s factory has resumed production but he still tells me to do what I am doing. He keeps telling me that it was because of me that the family was saved,” she said. Tai Kelvadkar, 38, Thutra village: Tai’s husband, Sudhakar, works at a cement factory and earns Rs 9,000 a month. “He would tell me that I attended SHG meetings only to gossip and urge me to, instead, concentrate on domestic work. Family members would tell me I had no business attending those meetings since I am uneducated,” she said. But during the lockdown, and even later, when her husband had no income, she was preparing masks and selling them through the SHG, earning more than Rs 4,000 a month. “I know how to knit and took online training in preparing masks,” she said. Now, her husband says she should continue preparing masks and is even eager to help her sell those. Geeta Watguire, 29, Timpalgaon village: Her husband drives a vehicle and earns Rs 15,000 a month. She has been working with an SHG in her village for about two years and would face resistance and abuses from her in-laws. Her husband had no income during the lockdown and even for several months after that. During the period Geeta was supporting the family by making saris and other apparels and selling them through the SHG. She also started vaccinating cows and oxens after training and was earning nearly as much as her husband. “Initially, my family members and other villagers would laugh at me and wonder how a woman could vaccinate cattle?” said Geeta. “But now I get calls from villagers even late at night for vaccination and my husband takes me on a two-wheeler to those places,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Coast Guard rescues 19 Bangladeshi fishermen||Nineteen Bangladeshi fishermen, who were drifting on a wooden trawler on the Bay of Bengal, were rescued by the Indian Coast Guard on Tuesday. The fishing trawler had been adrift for more than 20 days after the engine developed a snag and it entered Indian waters, an officer of the Coast Guard said. The crew members had run out of food and were rationing drinking water when they were rescued. A Coast Guard Dornier that took off from Bhuban-eswar in Odisha on Monday night for a routine patrol spotted the boat around 170km from the Paradip port, the officer added. The aircraft crew tried to get in touch with the boat on a Very High Frequency (VHF) radio but the boat did not respond. The aircraft crew then got in touch with the Indian Coast Guard Ship (ICGS), Varad, that was deployed on another mission on the Bay of Bengal and gave them the coordinates of the trawler. According to the officer, the Coast Guard ship’s crew also tried to contact the ship on radio but there was no response. The ship immediately charted a course for the boat and reached it early on Tuesday. “The ship then sent in specialised boarding parties on two fast-moving vessels. Once our men boarded the trawler, they checked for contraband but did not find any. The crew told them that they were fishermen and their engine had developed a snag which they could not repair,” said deputy commandant Kamal Singh Bhutola. When asked why they were not responding to radio messages, the crew said that they did not have a set nor any modern navigational equipment. The fishermen were then given food, water and first aid. The Coast Guard got in touch with their Bangladeshi counterparts, Bhutola said. On Tuesday evening, Varad was towing the trawler towards Bangladesh from where a Bangladeshi Coast Guard vessel would take over and tow it to Cox Bazaar harbour. The trawler had set sail from Cox Bazaar on November 15. India has a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Bangladesh and the Coast Guards of the two countries work in coordination to rescue fishermen who cross the International Maritime Border Line (IMBL). In the last several years, the two forces have worked in tandem to rescue fishermen in distress. With common security interests, the two forces also undertake coordinated patrolling to prevent activities such as smuggling and poaching. Preventing ecological degradation along the coasts is also a mandate for the two forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Dense fog disrupts flight operations for five hours at Calcutta airport||Dense fog disrupted many flights at the Calcutta airport on Tuesday morning, the first time this season. Low visibility triggered by the fog delayed the departure of 27 flights. The arrival of five flights was delayed, too, and one had to be diverted. The fog caused disruptions between 4.30am and 9.30am, said an airport official. A SpiceJet cargo flight from Delhi to Calcutta had to be diverted to Visakhapatnam before it could return to the city, airport officials said. The visibility started dropping around 4.30am, leading to disruption. Departure of flights came to a halt around 6.45am, when the visibility dropped below 50 metres, airport sources said. The Category III-B instrument landing system, which was installed at the Calcutta airport in January 2018, enables flights to land at a minimum visibility of 50 metres. Earlier, with the CAT II ILS, flights could land with a minimum visibility of 350 metres. At 8am, when visibility went up to 100 metres, planes started taking off again. Airport sources said a SpiceJet flight for Bagdogra was the first to take off, at 8.14am. The delays, however, continued. Two cargo flights of IndiGo from Delhi and Mumbai and one passenger flight of GoAir from Bangalore landed amid fog. The IndiGo flight from Delhi was the first to land, at 6.27am. A cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand and a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal triggered moisture incursion into the city and fog formation on Tuesday morning, said a Met official. The city had been witnessing foggy mornings for the past few days but the density of the fog was much more on Tuesday. Around 6.40pm on EM Bypass, it was tough to spot a car just 10m away. Every car had its lights on to ensure visibility. A group of morning walkers kept clicking pictures of the road, which “looked like that of a hill station,” said one of them. The fog reduced the intensity of the sun’s rays reaching the earth, which made the day a tad cooler on Tuesday. “The cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand is almost gone but the high-pressure zone persists. The next couple of days are also likely to be foggy,” said the Met official. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 18.4 degrees, three notches above normal. But the fog brought the maximum temperature down to 26 degrees from almost 30 degrees a day ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Air pollution: worst week in two years||The city suffered its worst air pollution in two years in the first week of December, says a study by the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). According to the study, the average PM2.5 level in the city’s air was 10 micrograms per cubic meter of air in a week in August, when the air was the cleanest compared with other months of the year. It jumped to 130 in the first week of December. Across the river, in Howrah, too, the December air has been found to be critically polluted. The corresponding PM2.5 level are 19 and 136. Environment scientists said August was the cleanest because of a combination of reasons, including limited economic activity in early stages of unlocking and meteorological factors such as rain, which had considerably neutralised the pollution load. “In the first week of December, Calcutta has experienced its worst week and peak in last two years so far with PM2.5 level,” the report states. “There were a few days when Calcutta and Howrah air pollution levels were higher than Delhi,” it says. Experts associated with the study — which analysed the winter air data from October 1 to December 6, generated at all automatic air pollution measuring stations in the city —  pointed out that the combination of heightened economic activity and meteorological factors have contributed to the jump in pollution. Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said visibility had dropped considerably, a tell-tale indicator of heightened pollution. The wind speed has been low, a typical winter phenomenon, leading to slow dispersal of pollutants. “The visibility in Alipore this morning was between 60 and 100 metres. Under normal circumstances it remains about 1,000 metres. The wind speed also remained relatively low,” said G.K. Das, of IMD Calcutta. The CSE study found that the air quality recorded by the automatic monitoring station on the BT Road campus of Rabindra Bharati University reached “severe” in the first week of December. At the other six stations in the city, the quality was “very poor”. According to the study, the average PM2.5 level in the city’s air was 10 micrograms per cubic meter of air. It jumped to 130 micrograms in the first week of December. “The disturbing part is the finding that the share of PM2.5 has increased significantly within PM 10,” said Anumita Roy Choudhury, an air pollution expert of the CSE who led the study. Ultrafine PM2.5 is considered much more lethal compared with the relatively coarser PM10. “The percentage share of PM2.5 in overall PM10 has gone up to 60 per cent during high pollution episodes from around mid-November and remained high at over 50 per cent since then,” the report says. “The spike in pollution can be attributed to anthropogenic well as meteorological factors. The cooler December air leads to an inversion phenomenon that results in trapping pollutants closer to the ground. Heightened economic activity, too, has contributed to the rise in pollution,” said Roy Choudhury. “This is a typical and predictable winter trend when continuous emissions from local sources, including vehicles, industry, construction and episodic pollution from biomass burning, get trapped because of meteorological changes,” said Avikal Somvanshi, from the CSE air pollution team. Roy Chowdhury stressed the need for “systemic changes” to reduce the city’s air pollution. “Systemic changes like switching public transport to cleaner fuels or phasing out old commercial vehicles will take time, but these changes will lead to a drop in the city’s air pollution level,” she said. The report published by the CSE said that the three-year annual average of Calcutta’s air quality was 41 per cent poorer than the standards set by the Central Pollution Control Board for the country. For Howrah, it was 42 per cent poorer. Asked about the study, Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the state pollution control board, said: “I have not seen the CSE report. Unless one critically considers the impact of meteorological factors, it becomes a one-sided report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Impact of lockdown on domestic workers ||A domestic help defaulted on EMIs for the first time during the lockdown. Another had her salary credited to her bank account by her employer during the lockdown. A virtual session on Tuesday discussed the impact of the pandemic on domestic workers, sharing the findings of a study. The session brought together domestic workers and employers, besides rights activists and government representatives. “Both workers and employers are part of this session so that we can go beyond the narrative of one group pitted against the other. We have to keep in mind that many employers have also lost their income,” said Smita Khator from the People’s Archive of Rural India, a digital journalism platform, who moderated the session. The findings of a study on around 15 women domestic workers conducted during the lockdown were shared at the session. Some of the findings: Anchita Ghatak of Parichiti, the NGO which conducted the survey, shared some snippets while revealing the findings of the study. The husband of a domestic worker used to cook at social occasions. The couple had borrowed money from a bank to start a business. The husband was out of work because of the lockdown. The wife continued working during the lockdown. She ran the family but defaulted on EMIs for the first time because of the lockdown. Amid persistent allegations of non-payment of dues to domestic help for not being able to report for work, the study came across a domestic worker who had her salary credited to her bank account during the lockdown. With the resumption of suburban train services, more and more domestic workers are going back to work. But employers are now wary of help who work at multiple households, the domestic workers who attended the session said. Elderly couples are especially wary of letting outsiders in, they said. A number of elderly couples who hire domestic help from help centres are opting for 24-hour deals to minimise the employees’ exposure to other people, a precautionary measure against Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||IIEST semester exams to be held through digital platforms ||IIEST will hold the upcoming semester exams through a digital platform after students in Monday’s senate meeting expressed their fear about writing the tests on the campus because of the raging Covid pandemic, officials said. Final-year BTech students of the Shibpur institute had last month written the final-semester supplementary exams on the campus, but a much larger number will write the upcoming semester tests. “Only 59 students had written the supplementary exams on the campus on November 11 and 12, while as many as 3,000 are slated to write the semester tests in December and January,” said an IIEST official. The institute had at one point considered holding offline or in-person tests to ensure transparency. But as students and teachers wanted to avoid assembly as a precaution against Covid-19, the institute opted for a test through a digital platform. “We could not ignore the concern over physical assembly. A minuscule number of students had written the supplementary tests. But the mid-term and end-term tests will be written by a large number of students and we don’t want to risk their health,’’ IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said, explaining why on-campus tests would not be held. An official of the institute said questions about the fairness of tests conducted on digital platforms would arise because students would write the papers sitting at home. Concerns over fairness, he said, prompted IIT Madras to hold the December semester exams in designated Kendriya Vidyalayas across the country. Students of the IIT, however, opposed the decision citing health risks. Aman Kumar, the general secretary of the students’ union at IIEST, said: “During the senate meeting and during an earlier interaction with the director, we had appealed that students should not be brought to the campus to write the test, as that could risk their health.” IIEST director Chakrabarti said the students would be sent questions over Google Meet a couple of minutes before the start of the test. After accessing the questions on their computer or smartphone, the students will write the answers on paper and will have 15 minutes after the end of each day’s exam to upload scanned answer scripts on Google Meet. “We will ask students to switch on the web cams while they write the answers. Those accessing the questions on smartphones will have to keep the cameras of the phone on while penning the answers. That will ensure transparency,” said Chakrabarti. Those who don’t have a computer or a smartphone will have to write the test from a cybercafe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
09-12-2020||Calcutta||Parents play crucial part by resisting tuition and session fee waiver||A father who is a middle-level employee at a hotel in Calcutta and has suffered a pay cut during the Covid pandemic has not opted for a 20 per cent waiver of tuition and session fees for his daughter, a student of Class V. A single mother of a Class III student has written to the principal saying she would not take the concession though running the family had become difficult because of the pandemic. A number of schools have told The Telegraph that there were some such parents who had not availed themselves of the tuition and session fee waiver, which the high court has made them entitled to, despite the pandemic-induced crisis. The high court had in October ordered private schools to waive 20 per cent of tuition and session fees and not charge any fees on non-academic heads such as “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extracurricular activities or the like” between April 2020 and one month after the resumption of on-campus classes. Not all such parents who have been paying the full fees are “highly placed” in their profession and have their share of financial responsibilities and difficulties, one principal said. “We will acknowledge the parents who have stood by us. We talk about the school as a family and there are parents who have shown that solidarity. We understand that there are parents who have financial difficulties and it is acceptable that they are seeking the concession,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School. “I have not suffered any pay cut. Why should I deprive the school and perhaps the teachers by not paying the fee?” asked a father whose son is in the primary section of a private school in south Calcutta. “I will effectively be saving Rs 10,000 in some months if I avail myself of the concession, but I have been saving on travel and other expenses because of the pandemic. So, I can pay the full fees,” the father said. Among the parents who are paying the full fees is Madhav Prasad Roy, a retired school teacher whose only source of sustenance is his pension. “I have paid because my funds permitted and I also understand the kind of expenses the school has to incur for smooth functioning. If by paying about a thousand more I can stand by the school, then why not?” said Roy, the only earning member of the family, whose daughter is in Class XII. A mother has written to the principal of a school in Alipore, saying she would like to pay the full fees because she thought what the institution was doing during the pandemic was sufficient to warrant the fees. “The percentage of parents not taking the waiver is small. But they are contributing to the school. In fact one of them said he thought it was his duty to help the teachers who might have to bear the brunt of non-payment of fees,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar. The heads of two schools said they would like to believe that parents were paying the full fees to reciprocate the effort the school was making. “We are happy that a section of parents has responded to the school’s appeal to not avail themselves of the waiver if they are not facing financial difficulties. The parent is supporting the school when the institution is in a crisis just as the school supports the parent in bringing up the child,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-213
