10-12-2020||Calcutta||Blend of tradition & modernity||New Town now has the prettiest address in town to go sip a cuppa. The New Town Coffee House, opposite Amity University in Action Area II, opened doors to the public last Friday. But so heavy was the footfall in the first weekend that the authorities have decided to take the advance online booking route for entry. The coffee house seats 92 people at a time, with tables placed 4ft apart to ensure social distancing. But Sunday saw close to 800 people make a beeline for the landmark, with footfall peaking from 3.30pm and crowds lingering even at 7pm, the closing time. “This is becoming difficult to manage. Though we are registering names at the entrance and asking people to wait in chairs placed outside they are all crowding at the gate. We will talk to an online booking platform and make provisions for advance booking so that entry gets staggered,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. Such a system was in place before the lockdown at the Biswa Bangla Gate restaurant, with specific time slots given to those logging in. Officials held a review meeting on Monday, the weekly closing day for the coffee house. Lots of suggestions have come, seeking extension of hours in the evening and additions, like Mughlai Paratha, to the existing menu. But the authorities want to wait for the set-up to settle down before imposing more variety on the Cafe Ekante-run kitchen. Proposals are also coming from bands to play, for events to be held as also a cycle stand to be built. The bilaterally symmetrical facade harks back to Raj-era architecture, with eight fluted Corinthian columns lending character to the look. The signage bearing the name hangs from a cast iron hexagonal latticework, supported by cast iron columns, which serves as an entrance canopy, standing under which the first view of the interior can be taken. “The design was so intricate that local grille makers were not confident of taking up the challenge. So we got it done from Hyderabad. The fabricator had to come over after the building was ready to take measurements as a difference of even a millimetre would have created problems in fitting,” said Parinita Hati, the architect who designed the building. If the seating hall lets the eye travel vertically the reason is the extraordinary height of the ceiling — 21ft. The ceiling is supported by an old world feature — kori borga, but made of steel instead of sal wood. The floor has anti-skid, ceramic hexagonal tiles with three-dimensional effect. The central panel of terracotta-hued tiles, a College Street coffee house feature, looks like a fissure, sticking out from the 3,000sq ft black and white surface. Another structural highlight is the cantilever mezzanine floor. “I wanted the ground floor to be visible from the verandah upstairs, just like it is in the College Street coffee house. It is an extraordinary feeling to take in the ambience and activities of the hall below from above,” said Sen, an alumnus of Presidency College, which stood right opposite Indian Coffee House, the iconic meeting place. Though the structure is air-conditioned, Sen wanted ceiling fans too. Thus fans with extended downrods are suspended from the double height ceiling, evoking old world nostalgia. The fans will also ensure circulation of the cold air, which tends to settle at a lower level, across the height and breadth of the hall. Nostalgia reigns in the menu selection too. “Today’s generation has no idea what infusion is. We ordered a cup as it cost two rupees less than milk coffee but saved us for some time from the waiter’s suggestive queries. We have priced it at a minimum — Rs 20 a cup. Where would students get money to pay Rs 140 for a cup of coffee, the usual rate these days at private cafes?” Sen said. Though not currently on the menu, Sen has requested Snehasish Sinha, Hidco’s additional general manager, tourism, for Chicken  Afghani. “When we had some money in our pocket, this was what we indulged ourselves with,” he smiled.  He pointed out that the coffee house has been deliberately positioned in what should evolve into New Town’s college para. “There is Amity University across the road. St. Xavier’s and Presidency universities have opened. Calcutta, Jadavpur, Rabindra Bharati and Vidyasagar universities have been given space here. Netaji Open University is under construction. A law college will come up here, as will the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. Aliah University is close by. There are Narayana School and Bodhicarya Senior Secondary School too. In some years, this place will be teeming with a young and vibrant crowd which will need a place to hang out.” He admitted that the low price points might lead to losses. “We may have to cross-subsidise it but we want people to come here.” Alongside showcasing tradition, technology has been embraced at the coffee house. The place will be wi-fi enabled so that not just students but also people on a work-from-home schedule, wanting to step outdoors, can come and work here. The authorities are also considering setting up a photocopying facility and a stationery shop for the convenience of students. A corner of the coffee house has been set apart for browsing books and magazines. With lounge seating for solo occupants, it will operate as an extension of New Town Library, housed in Nazrul Tirtha. “We have brought 525 books from the library’s stock of 13,000 books, which we will rotate from time to time. We will start lending books also from here. For that, one has to become a member of New Town Library. One can even check for titles of choice from the online catalogue and get it fetched from the main library. Casual visitors can browse books at the table without having to be members,” said Sen. Titbits with the Brew  The illustrations, posters and photographs draw from the city’s cultural, literary, cinematic and culinary traditions. “We want to make the coffee house a part of not just New Town but also of Bengali heritage. One should get a feel of old Calcutta in this corner of new Calcutta. That is why we have focused on city icons like Howrah bridge and Satyajit Ray in the visual representations on the walls,” an official said. The bus runs from either end after every one hour.  Opening Hours: 12 noon to 7pm (Closed on Monday)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Jaya cinema reopens to dismal ticket sales||Jaya Cinema, perhaps the only privately-owned non-multiplex movie hall in the vicinity, reopened last Friday with Christopher Nolan’s Tenet. But things are not looking up. On November 25, the Lake Town theatre had on its Facebook page announced that it would reopen on December 4. “Big films require big screens,” they said. But box office collections by the end of Day 1 or even Week 1 are anything but big. The Facebook page has more than 7,000 followers but not many responded online. “On the first day of Tenet release, we had only 10 per cent audience. Jaya has more than 700 seating capacity but we are now operational with only 185 seats. Still footfall is low,” said Debasis Roy, manager, Jaya Cinema. The hall was closed right through the lockdown and opened during Durga puja. But when the crowds failed to return, they shut down again on November 17. “We have opened now but with Tenet we are selling tickets worth only Rs 1,800-2,000 a day,” said Roy. While multiplexes of Salt Lake and New Town are screening Tenet too, cinema owners maintain that it will take a Shah Rukh or Salman Khan release before their fortunes turn. Also, they fear the crowd might not return to the halls before the vaccine arrives. The Jaya authorities had expected a decent run when Abir Chatterjee-starrer Switzerland released during the Pujas but that sank without a trace. The lack of footfall has also spelt doom for food stalls, tea stalls and snack bars around the complex. “The opening day for any film shows what lies ahead. For Tenet, there has been no crowd, right from Day 1,” said Matthu Nath, who sells tea on the footpath opposite Jaya Cinema. “I remember how other English films used to draw viewers of all ages before the pandemic,” he said. Agree owners of nearby snack counters, like King’s Grill and Urban Masala. “My sales have fallen rapidly. Earlier, people would come for a snack in between shows at the theatre. Unlike multiplexes, Jaya allows the audience to take food inside and during the interval, I used to keep a stack of rolls ready. The crowd would come and gobble up hot rolls in five minutes. I don’t see that happening anytime soon,” said one of the workers at King’s Grill. Roy, the hall manager, said that if footfall remained this dismal they might have to shut down again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid-19 patients with medical insurance eligible for discounts||A Covid-19 patient with medical insurance will be eligible for discounts on medicines and consumables if the treatment cost turns out to be more than what the insurance firm has paid, the state clinical establishment regulatory commission said on Wednesday. The commission had in August asked private hospitals to offer at least 10 per cent discount on the maximum retail price of medicines and at least 20 per cent discount on that of consumables to Covid19 patients. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, made the observations while asking Medica Superspecialty Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 1.5 lakh to the family of a patient who died at the hospital on September 3. Banerjee said the hospital had submitted that the patient was not eligible for the discount because she had medical insurance. “But we said that you have to offer the discount since the patient party had to pay the excess amount, which was not paid by the insurance company,” Banerjee told a news conference on Wednesday. The family of a 61-year-old woman who was admitted to the hospital with Covid19 and other ailments complained to the commission that the hospital had overcharged them. The patient was in the hospital for a month, of which 25 days were in the ICU, till she passed away on September 3. The family was billed Rs 25.87 lakh. “When we examined the bill we found that the hospital did not offer any discount on medicines and consumables,” Banerjee said. “The hospital said the patient had medical insurance, so they did not offer any discount. But we said the medical insurers paid only Rs 5 lakh of the total bill. The patient party had to pay the rest. In such a situation, when the patient party has to bear the amount not paid by the insurance company, hospitals have to give a discount on medicines and consumables, according to the commission’s advisory,” he said. After calculating the discount that should have been offered, the commission asked the hospital to offer a discount of Rs 1.5 lakh to the patient’s family. The commission on Wednesday also asked Belle Vue Clinic to return Rs 90,000 to a patient, of which Rs 54,000 pertained to the price of Meropenem, an antibiotic that is being used to treat Covid-19 patients. Banerjee said the hospital had violated the commission’s advisory to private hospitals to supply cheaper antibiotics to patients from its pharmacy unless the doctor prescribed a drug of a particular brand. “The price of Meropenem ranges between Rs 650 and Rs 3,500. The hospital gave the patient Meropenem 31 times at the cost of Rs 3,000 and three times at the cost of Rs 1,250. We told the hospital they have to charge Rs 1,250 for all the times the patient was given Meropenem. The discount on Meropenem alone came to Rs 54,000,” said Banerjee. “The commission asked the hospital to refund Rs 24,000 on other heads and the hospital had deducted another Rs 12,000 because there was some error in their billing system,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Handicraft stores’ revival hope||The handloom and handicraft stores in the city run by NGOs managed to stay afloat through the pandemic but only just. Now, they are back in business with their shutters up for regular hours. With fresh merchandise from their crafts communities, they are planning exhibitions for their clientele to get the touch, feel, buy experience. During the pandemic, the stores took tentative steps towards digitisation through WhatsApp and Facebook but have a long way to go in terms of ecommerce. Kamala, the shop of the Craft Council of India in the city, named after one of the most illustrious patrons of Indian craft, Kamala Devi Chattopadhyay, kicked off the season with a winter exhibition from December 3. Kasturi Menon, the erstwhile Handloom Development Commissioner who looks after the store, is trying her best to revive the flagging sales. “We used to have four events in a year. The first was the Poila Baisakh event which was a complete wash out this year. Then in July, there would be a lifestyle exhibition called Patra where we had functional craft items. For the Puja exhibition, it was just saris from all over the country. And finally the winter exhibition where we would get shawls from Kulu, board games for children during Christmas,” said Menon. Durga Puja this year yielded a sale of Rs 4 lakh as against Rs 17 lakh last year. “We reopened in July, in August we went online, we had a professional photographer take pictures of the store, of the items which were posted on Facebook and also on our customers’ WhatsApp group. Through August, September, October we had sales of Rs 4 lakh and about but then sales have again dipped in November,” said a worried Menon. “Unless sales pick up during the exhibition, we are in trouble.”  Bengal Home Industries Association, an over 100-year-old institution founded by Gaganendrnath Thakur, shut shop on March 20 and re-opened only on June 20. Compared to preCovid times, the shop has lost 75 per cent of its business, said Shankar Bose of BHIA. When asked if the clientele was back, Bose said: “Some of them visited the store before Puja and Diwali but now again we are witnessing a dip in business.” The association is launching an ecommerce enabled website. “Our ecommerce project is in the beta stage, with content uploaded and logistics contracts in place and is undergoing final trials before a rollout scheduled before the year end,” said Bose. Artisana, a shop of the Crafts Council of West Bengal witnessed zero sales this puja though it has been open since August for four days a week for several hours. Located in Bhowanipore, Artisana probably lost out on sales because it was right in the middle of a containment zone. There was some business during Diwali for about Rs 50,000, with terracotta lights done by one of its potters being the largest draw. Some amount of overseas consignments worth around Rs 75,000 have been sent through October and November on order from some of its regular international clientele. “We will be launching our ecommerce site and hope to recover sales once its up,” said Anjum Katyal of Crafts Council.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Tailoring classes for women in Covid crisis||A headmaster in Hingalganj in North 24 Parganas has initiated tailoring training for young women, most of who are qualified but have had no source of income for the past eight months. Of the 17 women who have enrolled for the training, four are postgraduates and four graduates. Some of them used to give tuition but that stopped during the Covid pandemic because parents cannot afford to pay them and have discontinued the coaching, said the headmaster. He plans to have an exhibition for them to sell the products they make, to help them assess the market, open a bank account and generate a livelihood. “There are many in the area who have lost jobs. There are girls who have completed post graduation and graduation but have no jobs. There are homemakers who want to supplement the family income. The idea is to provide them with training and help them earn a living gradually,” said Pulak Roy Chowdhury, the headmaster of Kanaknagar SD Institution. The training is a joint initiative of the school and Mom Sundarban Society, created to work on empowering women in the area. “We do not want to create only labour but also make small businesswomen who would be able to make and sell their products. They should not be the ones who would cut and stitch while middlemen walk away with the profit,” Roy Chowdhury said. The women have started making masks and bags of all kinds — backpacks to shopping bags. The training takes place six days a week from 10.30am to 4am. Soumita Kayal, 25, who has a masters in English has enrolled for the training. She has had no source of income for the last eight months. “I used to teach English to school students for the last two years since completing my graduation but now there is no one who comes for tuition. Since schools are closed, many of them in the villages think why do the children need tuition,” she said. Kayal said the pandemic had made it difficult for young people like her to find a job. “The competition is going up and getting a job is difficult. With this training at least if I can make some money that will enable me to meet my expenses and also maybe give some money to my father.” Like her, 22yearold Monira Khatun, a graduate in Bengali, was doing an internship at a centre in Barasat until the lockdown. “It was a consultancy and they would have sent us to private companies for interviews after the training, but it discontinued during the lockdown,” she said. The tailoring training began with six machines and an initial investment of Rs 80,000. Roy Chowdhury had contributed more than 50 per cent of the amount. An associate professor at Jadavpur University involved with the project was surprised to see the qualifications of the candidates who enrolled. “Some of them scored high marks in masters. But it shows that alternative livelihood is necessary when the normal channels are not available,” said Maroona Murmu, associate professor in the department of history at JU. “Some of these women are educated and once they are able to receive the kind of commercial training that the programme is providing them with they will be able to cater to a bigger market and not just the local market and carve a career out of it,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Car hits app cab, 2 hurt||A couple travelling in an app cab were injured after a private car hit their vehicle from behind on EM Bypass around 2am on Wednesday. The passengers, Himangshu Ghoshal, 60, and his wife Ruma, 50, residents of Hooghly, were admitted to a private hospital off the Bypass, police said. The driver of the private car has been arrested. Both vehicles have been seized, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Parked car theft racket busted||Four men have been arrested on Wednesday for allegedly running a car theft racket that had spread to various states, police said. The gang would steal parked cars from the city and its fringes and sell them to people from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Nagaland and Manipur, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The police have seized three cars — a Toyota Fortuner, a Toyota Innova Crysta and a Hyundai Creta — from them, the officer said. The officer said they were probing how the group stole cars fitted with modern security systems. An officer in the investigating team said they had received information that the racket had been operating from somewhere near Dum Dum and the fringes of Rajarhat. Based on the tipoff, a team from the airport police station had a few days ago raided a garage near the Salua intersection, on the fringes of Rajarhat, where they found the Toyota Innova Crysta. They then traced Mohammed Salauddin, a resident of Maheshtala, in South 24 Parganas, who had taken the car there. Salauddin allegedly failed to produce any documents for the car. “Initially, he said the car belonged to a relative. But after we questioned him, he admitted that he traded in stolen vehicles and had gone to Salua to sell the vehicle,” the officer said. Based on Salauddin’s statements, the team raided a hideout in Maheshtala and recovered the Toyota Fortuner and the Hyundai Creta. The cops also arrested another alleged gang member, Naushad Sheikh. Naushad and Salauddin apparently told the officers that they would steal cars parked along roads in the city and on the fringes. After stealing vehicles, they would drive them to their hideouts and inform people dealing in stolen vehicles in other states. They would arrive in a couple of days and drive away with the vehicles. “Our officers then asked the two to call up their accomplices and tell them that a good SUV was up for sale. A deal was struck for Rs 3.7 lakh,” said the officer. The cops made the two arrested men wait with an SUV, while a team of plain clothes men kept watch from a distance. When two men turned up on Tuesday night to buy the SUV, the cops arrested them. The two have been identified as Mohammed Gufran and Mohammed Jamil, brothers from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. “More than Rs 3.7 lakh was seized from them,” the officer said. The men from Ghazipur have apparently told the police that they would fix fake licence plates on stolen cars before driving them down to their hometown. “Once there, they would change the chassis and engine numbers and get the vehicles reregistered. They would then sell them for double or triple the price they had paid for them,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Live and dead turtles seized in Barasat||Around 1,500 dead and live turtles, stacked in jute sacks and being ferried with onions, were seized from a pickup van in Barasat in North 24Parganas on Wednesday morning. Six men have been arrested. The seizure is the latest in a series of turtle hauls around Calcutta in the past few years. Like in most previous cases, the turtles seized on Wednesday had been caught in Uttar Pradesh, said forest officials. The pickup van had an Uttar Pradesh number plate. All six accused are from Sultanpur in UP. Stuffed in sacks on such a long journey, many turtles had suffocated to death. “We seized 1,295 live and 188 dead Indian flapshell turtles and 17 live Indian peacock shell turtles,” said the divisional forest officer of North 24Parganas. Both species are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act. Killing them can lead to a jail term of three to seven years. “The turtles were hidden under jute sacks stuffed with onions. Based on a tipoff, the van was intercepted near the Dak Bungalow intersection around 9am,” said a forest officer. The operation was conducted jointly by the forest department and the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau. “The turtles were caught from Sultanpur in UP and were headed towards Bangladesh, via the Bongaon border,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal. “They will be released in an oxbow lake off the Ganga in Purbasthali, in East Burdwan, a popular destination for migratory birds.” Turtle meat is a delicacy in Bangladesh, said a forest official. It is also sold on the sly in markets in Gaighata, Bon¬gaon, Habra and some other places in North 24 Parganas and some areas in South 24Parganas, according to foresters and wildlife activists. A kilo of turtle meat is sold for Rs 600, they said. The Gangetic basin of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are rich in turtles. “Winter, when the water level goes down, is the time to catch turtles from river basins,” an official said. In January 2020, close to 1,000 turtles had been seized from a market in Bongaon. A year before, over 1,500 turtles had been seized in back to back raids in North 24Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Glare on ‘unjustified’ ICU stay||Many Covid patients are being admitted to the intensive care unit or kept there for a prolonged period even if they do not need critical care support, state government officials involved in tackling the pandemic and insurance companies have alleged. Most private hospitals have increased the number of ICU beds for Covid19 patients and many have realised that the demand might not be as much as they had anticipated. Some of the insurance companies said they were regularly seeking justifications for decisions to keep stable Covid patients in ICUs. Insurance firms said they often refrained from deducting from reimbursements because doctors said they felt the patient needed ICU care. At least one private hospital denied the allegation. “We often have to refuse critical patients because of lack of beds. There is no question of keeping a patient in the critical care unit for a longer duration than required,” said Rupak Barua, the Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. Some of the parameters for sending a Covid patient to the ICU are severe respiratory dis¬tress and requirement of highflow oxygen, and abnormal blood pressure and pulse rate, said doctors. “The reports don’t come to insurance agencies real time. So, we don’t know whether the data related to oxygen saturation, blood pressure and pulse are true or not. One has to be¬lieve what hospitals say,” said an official of an insurance agency. The tariff for an ICU bed in private hospitals varies between Rs 6,500 and Rs 11,000 a day, said officials of these healthcare units. The tariff for a bed in a general ward, on the other hand, varies between Rs 2,500 and Rs 4,000. “Unnecessary and prolonged ICU stay is mostly reported from middle level hospitals and nursing homes. We seek justifications. If the healthcare unit is unable to provide any, we take steps,” said Prabir Mukherjee, the regional head of medical officers, east, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co. State government officials said they had come across many such cases. “The monitoring teams set up by the health department for Covid patients are regularly coming across patients kept in ICUs despite not needing critical care. The hospitals are being asked to shift these patients. In many such cases we have observed that the private healthcare units are not following government advisories,” said Gopal Dhali, the state government’s officer on special duty for Covid19 and head of the School of Digestive and Liver Diseases, SSKM Hospital. A health department official said they had found such cases in government hospitals, too, but the reason was not monitory. “If a stable patient is kept in the ICU, the pressure on doctors and nurses is much less,” the official said. Some insurance officials alleged that a section of private hospitals were taking advantage of the protocol that blocked access of family members and others to Covid patients for health reasons. “Recently we sent two investigators to a private hospital in Calcutta to check on one such case. But they were not allowed to meet the patient. The investigators could not do much other than go through the data provided by the hospital,” said an official of a private insurance company. Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a doctor who is part of the Covid treatment team at Peerless Hospital, said they assess the clinical condition of a Covid patient such as the oxygen saturation level before deciding whether she or he needs to be shifted to the ICU. “Once the parameters improve, the patient is shifted to a stepdown unit,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta police starts drive to sensitise cyclists||Police have begun stopping bicyclists moving on thoroughfares, and asking them to stick to lanes and bylanes, after a long lull. An increasing number of people have been cycling to work since the lockdown was imposed in March. Calcutta police have started a drive to sensitise cyclists that will continue for a few weeks. During the period, cyclists will be counselled to stay off main roads. “After that, they will be prosecuted and booked for petty cases that attract a penalty of a few hundred rupees, if found moving on thoroughfares,” said an officer. Despite a notification restricting bicycles to lanes and bylanes, the police had been allowing them even on thoroughfares on “humanitarian grounds” during the pandemic as a large number of people had no option but to cycle to work in the absence of adequate public transport. However, the resumption of suburban trains and a rise in the number of accidents involving bicycles have prompted the police to launch an awareness drive urging cyclists to stay away from main roads. “We are stopping every cyclist on main roads and asking them to stick to lanes and bylanes. Many of them are surprised as it has become their habit over the past few months to cycle down thoroughfares. We are asking them to stop the practice immediately,” said an officer in the traffic department in central Calcutta. Officers said cycling was not allowed on 62 thoroughfares in the city. In June 2020, following a nod from the state cabinet, the city police had issued a notification allowing cycling on small and medium roads in Calcutta to ease the hardship people were facing in the absence of suburban and Metro trains. “Suburban train services have since resumed. Also, there is adequate public transport,” said an officer in the traffic department, explaining why the police have become strict on cyclists. Another officer said the presence of cycles, and other slow moving vehicles, on thoroughfares not only reduce the average speed of the vehicles, but also make cyclists vulnerable to road accidents. On Wednesday morning, officers of the headquarter traffic guard were seen suggesting alternative routes to cyclists who were caught playing along Central Avenue and Ganesh Chandra Avenue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
10-12-2020||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira to organise its annual convocation on Dec 12||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira will hold the annual convocation on its Belur campus on December 12 following all health and safety protocols. Close to 200 students (undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD) will be awarded their degree certificates during the one and half hour long ceremony. Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of the college, said they had decided to hold the ceremony on the campus as Unlock VI guidelines of the Centre has allowed social, academic and other congregations in closed spaces using up to 50 per cent of the hall capacity and with up to 200 people. “In compliance with the safety protocols, the 200 odd degree recipients will be split in two groups. One group will attend the convocation in Vivekananda Sabhagriha, which can accommodate over 800 people. Still, we will use AshaJyoti Conference Hall for the other group so that maximum physical distance can be maintained,” Swami Ekachittananda told The Telegraph. Jadavpur University, from where 4,000 odd students have graduated this year, will not hold its convocation to avoid a gathering while the Covid pandemic is still raging. Degree recipients can download their degree certificates from digital platforms. A JU official said the recipients could collect hard copies of their certificates from the departments in a staggered way. RK Mission Vidyamandira, which has featured among the top 11 institutions in the National Institutional Ranking Framework over the past three years, will not allow the degree recipients to be accompanied by family members. “This year we will only allow the degree recipients on the campus as a precaution against Covid,” the principal said. A teacher of the college said that unlike previous years, the recipients this year will not be allowed to put up at hostels on the campus. “No one will be allowed to put up at hostels, which are empty because the students are all home. They are attending classes on digital platforms because of the pandemic,” he said. The college has enlisted the names of those who will attend the event on Google forms. The recipients have to wear masks throughout their stay on the campus and their body temperature will be checked by thermal guns. Pravin Srivastava, a former chief statistician of India, will deliver the convocation address virtually. Calcutta University’s pro vice chancellor for academic affairs, Ashis Chatterjee, will award the degree certificates. Swami Divyananda, the secretary of the college, will be present on the occasion. The convocation at RK Mission Vidyamandira is held on the first or second Saturday. December 12 is the second Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
10-12-2020||Calcutta||More Metro trains during non rush hours from next week, epass use limited||The Metro fleet will go up from Monday with more trains in non rush hours, said officials. Also, the epass system will be operational only during the rush hours from Monday. “From December 14, we plan to run 216 trains from Monday to Saturday,” a Metro official said. The number of weekday trains went up to 204 from 190 on December 7. The timings were also expanded. The first and last trains now leave the terminal stations at 7am and 9.30pm, respectively. The additional trains will be run from 11pm to 5pm, said an official. The epass window is also being shortened gradually to make the carrier available for all throughout the day, said sources in Metro. Women, children (15 years and below) and senior citizens (60 years and above) do not need an epass throughout the day. Other passengers need an epass to enter the station except between 7am and 8.30am, and post 8pm. From Monday, epass will be mandatory only from 8.30am to 11am and from 5pm to 8pm. Outside these two rush hour windows, anyone can enter a station without an epass. “The rush hours have been very busy. But around one-third of the slots between 11am and 5pm are usually vacant. Many people who want to travel during that slot are probably thwarted by the epass system,” said a Metro official. But the system would be essential for crowd control during rush hours, he pointed out. The passenger count of Calcutta Metro breached the 1,00,000mark on November 18, for the first time since the resumption of services on September 14 and a week into the resumption of suburban railway services on November 11. The usual weekday passenger count is now above 1,15,000. On Monday, the count was over 1,24,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-212
