11-12-2020||Calcutta||First phase of Duare Sarkar ends||The first round of Duare Sarkar programmes ended in Salt Lake with the last couple of camps happening on Thursday in Ward 34 at the IB Block ward office and in Ward 40 opposite the Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital. Of all the 11 welfare schemes offered by the state government, the most queries and applications were for Swasthya Sathi, a basic health cover for secondary and tertiary care, up to Rs 5 lakh per year per family. An attractive feature of Swasthya Sathi is that it covers all pre-existing diseases. The state government has recently decided to extend Swasthya Sathi benefits to all residents of the state, except those who are covered under any government-sponsored health insurance or assurance scheme. The benefits of the scheme can be availed at all government hospitals and empanelled private hospitals. According to the district-specific list on the Swasthya Sathi website swasthyasathi.gov.in, the private medical facilities in North 24-Parganas near Salt Lake and New Town empanelled for the scheme include The list may change from time to time, with some hospitals being added and some exiting. But most people applying for the scheme seemed to have little idea that the scheme can be availed only at select hospitals. “Most people coming here are asking us if the card is valid at any private hospital and nursing home. We are having to explain that there is a list of private healthcare units and only those will honour the card,” said an official manning the Swasthya Sathi counter at the CJ Block swimming pool where the Duare Sarkar programme was held last Saturday for Ward 29. The next phase of Duare Sarkar will be held in all the wards from December 15 to 24.  Write to us at saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Men share stories of their fight for women’s rights||A tailor had visited his sister-in-laws’ home after she was “beaten up” there. A woman in the house told him that “a little thrashing” by men was common for every woman, including herself. The young man asked whether she would say the same thing if her daughter faced the same treatment after marriage. The woman fumbled for an answer. The 28-year-old was among several staff and volunteers of an NGO — working for women’s rights — who came together on a virtual platform on Wednesday to share their experiences. The NGO, Swayam, is 25 years old. “We have been working with men for the past five years because engaging women alone is not enough to end violence and discrimination they face. We need to involve men as well,” said Swati Sanyal, team leader of urban communities of Swayam. The speakers at “Men for Gender Equality — Be the change!” came from the city and adjoining areas. In their neighbourhoods, they work with young and adolescent boys and men to break stereotypical notions of patriarchy. They campaign against gender discrimination and intervene in cases of domestic abuse. Deep Purakayastha, a rights activist who moderated the session, asked the speakers how it was possible for them to discard an inherent sense of privilege and take part in the movement for women’s rights. Rahool, a Swayam employee who works in central Calcutta, said he had once “committed gender violence”. “I realised it was a mistake but I could never admit it. It was suffocating”. During a Swayam campaign several years ago, he was in the audience. Taking part in a programme, he had to share an experience. He wrote about his “mistake” on a piece of paper. His entry won the first prize, despite being anonymous. An activist familiar with his handwriting called him on the stage and said the writing did not merit the first prize but it was a way of acknowledging his confession. The moderator urged participants to share the challenges that they faced while working for women’s rights. Mridul Molla, a Swayam employee in Diamond Harbour, was taunted by friends when he told them he was working for a women’s organisation. “Get a job somewhere, in the government sector or a private firm. Get a normal life,” a friend told him. Many months later, the friend’s sister, a minor, “ran away” with a man. The friend came running to Molla for help. Molla’s efforts helped the family track down the girl and get her back. “The friend who had never acknowledged my work realised his mistake,” Molla said on Wednesday. Somnath Pal, another Swayam employee in Diamond Harbour, said growing up, he used to tease and whistle at girls along with his group of friends. When he joined Swayam, he became the subject of his friends’ taunts for opposing something he had been a part of for years. The session saw several speakers share personal stories. Raj, a Swayam volunteer in Maheshtala, grew up watching his “abusive” father for many years. His sister not getting an equal share of a special dish was normal, he thought until he was led to Swayam. It took several sessions before his mindset changed. “I would not repeat my father’s mistakes. Now, all of us eat together,” he said on Wednesday. For most of the male volunteers, the change starts inside before it is reflected in the house or the neighbourhood. “Most of the men we recruit are brothers or relatives of survivors or Swayam members. That way, we are able to engage an entire family in a chain reaction. It is imperative that the men start the change in their own homes,” Sanyal told Metro. A change in the mindset leads to rational thinking and questioning gender stereotypes, he said. Sheikh Sabir, a Swayam volunteer in Metiabruz, spoke about a paradox that keeps bothering him. Girls do not need higher education, many of his relatives believe. “But I have seen the same people look for a female gynaecologist when someone in the family gets pregnant or needs medical attention,” said Sabir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
11-12-2020||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to hold its second convocation on campus ||St Xavier’s University will hold its second convocation on the campus on February 6 with limited attendance and following all health protocols as a precaution against Covid. Among the 472 degree recipients (undergraduate and postgraduate), the university will invite only those who live in the city to the ceremony to maintain maximum physical distancing, “The rest can visit the campus later in a staggered way to collect their degree certificates. Or we can have the certificates delivered to them through courier. They can also download the digital version of the certificates from the National Academic Depository,” an official of the New Town university said. “The assembly, comprising medal recipients, degree recipients, dignitaries, teachers, will not exceed 200. The Unlock VI guidelines say that social, academic and other congregations, in closed spaces with a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 persons will continue. The medal recipients can come from anywhere,” vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj told The Telegraph. The degree recipients will have to register themselves online if they want to attend the one-and-a-half hour event that will start at 11.30am. “This will help us ensure that the turnout does not exceed 200,” said an official of the university. The university will send its buses to pick up the recipients from home. “We don’t want them to use public transport as that could pose a health risk. The students will be notified about the pick-up service,” said Felix Raj. Earlier this month, the university’s buses had brought students who lacked computers or good internet link at home to the campus to write their semester exams. Since all degree recipients will not be attending the convocation, the proceedings will be streamed live on Facebook and YouTube. “The links will be shared with the students so they can watch the event on their smartphones or computers,” an official said. When asked why the event was not held virtually entirely, the VC said: “If it is completely virtual, it won’t look like convocation.” The degree recipients, he said, will have to wear masks throughout their stay on the campus and their body temperature will be scanned by thermal guns. “Security personnel will see to it that all safety protocols are being adhered to,” he said. The chief minister of Meghalaya, Conrad K. Sangma, will be the guest of honour at the convocation. The Telegraph reported on Thursday that Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira will hold its annual convocation on its Belur campus on December 12 following all health and safety protocols. The decisions by Vidyamandira and St Xavier’s University come days after Jadavpur University, from where 4,000-odd students have graduated this year, decided to scrap the ceremony for this year as the pandemic is still raging.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Worst air on BT Road||The air quality recorded on the BT Road campus of Rabindra Bharati University has been the worst while that of Rabindra Sarobar has been the best in the city, a study of the last fortnight’s results available on the West Bengal Pollution Control Board’s website revealed. The contrast was because of uncontrolled truck movement along BT Road and the absence of much human activity inside Rabindra Sarobar, an official of the board said. The air quality recorded at BT Road’s monitoring station has been poorer than other places for years, the official said. “The air quality remained particularly bad during the night and early morning hours in the station at Rabindra Bharati University. This could be because of the movement of a large number of goods vehicles along the road during this time, when trucks enter Calcutta to unload goods or leave after completing work,” said the WBPCB official. An assistant commissioner of Calcutta police said that over 10,000 trucks ply along BT Road every day between 12pm and 4pm and between 10pm and 8am the next day. A study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, conducted between 2017 and 2019, found that goods carriers were responsible for 49 per cent of PM10 and 49.5 per cent of PM2.5 in the ambient air contributed by vehicular emission. The state government has told the National Green Tribunal that it will phase out commercial vehicles that are 15 years or older. But old and polluting vehicles continue to ply in the city. Metro studied the daily air quality bulletin between November 26 and December 9. On November 27 and 28, the air quality measured at the RBU station was “poor” while all other stations recorded “moderate”. On December 4, it measured “severe” readings. On December 6, it showed “very poor” air quality while other stations said “poor”. “This shows that besides the overall pollution in the region (Calcutta and its surroundings), there are additional local sources of pollution in the vicinity of BT Road contributing to greater pollution in that area. This could be because of the heavy traffic along BT Road or other sources of emission,” said Sagnik Dey, an associate professor at IIT Delhi’s Centre for Atmospheric Sciences. There is a need to identify the local sources through a survey in the area, said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of Centre for Science and Environment. “It is common for cities to have areas that consistently show more air pollution levels than the general air pollution in the city. There must be a local area action plan to control the additional air pollution contributed by the local sources. This should be in addition to the action plan meant for the entire city or the region,” said Roy Chowdhury. The board has identified some local units that trade in spare parts of old cars, the WBPCB official said. The trading mostly happens at night and the units burn spare parts which emits a lot of pollutants. “We have requested the police to see that the units do not burn anything,” the official said. Rabindra Sarobar, in a leafy south Calcutta neighbourhood, has measured better air quality than the other stations. On November 26 and 29, the air quality was “moderate” at the Sarobar station and “poor” at all others. On December 8, it was “poor” while other stations recorded “very poor” air quality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Chapter-wise blueprint for Madhyamik||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education on Thursday announced a “blueprint” that provides details on chapter/topic-wise questions and marks in each subject factoring in the reduction in the syllabus necessitated by the Covid pandemic. The state government had last month pruned the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII, who will write their board exams next year, as in-person classes could not be held because of the pandemic. The blueprint uploaded on the secondary education board’s website details how many multiple choice questions, very short questions, short and explanatory and essay-type questions each paper could have in next year’s Madhyamik, the dates of which have not yet been announced. The truncated syllabuses had been posted on the board’s website on November 26. “The pattern of questions set on the basis of the truncated syllabus should help the examinees prepare themselves for the next year’s board examinations,” said Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the president of the board. The guideline on English states what types of questions could be set from the reading (seen), reading (unseen), grammar and vocabulary, and writing sections. The guideline on math details the types of questions likely to be set for arithmetic, algebra, geometry and mensuration. An official of the board said the syllabus restructure committee set up by the school education department and the board’s subject experts had finalised the guidelines. The syllabuses of the two classes were reduced following the committee’s recommendation. The board has sent copies of the blueprints to the heads of all institutions affiliated to it. Saugata Basu, the general secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association, said: “We want the board to publish two to three types of model question papers so candidates could prepare better for the exams,” Basu said. Schools have remained shut since the third week of March and the government has yet to announce when they will eventually reopen. A board official said it had been proposed to the state government that next year’s Madhyamik be held from June 1 to 10. “The dates have been suggested keeping in mind that the pandemic is going to continue over next few months and the Assembly elections are likely to be held in April and May,” the official said. “We are not aware of any such proposal,” said Partha Karmakar, the deputy secretary (academic) of the secondary education board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Government frees Covid beds in private hospitals||The state government on Thursday released a number of beds in several private hospitals that it had requisitioned to treat Covid patients. The director of health services issued an order that provided a list of the beds that have been released and the number of beds that are still requisitioned. “The rate of hospitalisation for Covid-19 is gradually coming down.... We have to make beds available for other patients,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services. The hospitals where beds have been released include Desun Hospital and KPC Medical College in Calcutta; ILS Golabari, Narayana Hospital Old Building and West Bank Hospital in Howrah; and Sramajibi Hospital in Hooghly. The list did not include AMRI Salt Lake, where 66 beds were requisitioned. Patients on requisitioned beds are treated for free. The hospitals sent bills to the government for reimbursement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Unable to bear financial stress, man hangs self||A 46-year-old executive, who was finding it difficult to repay loans following a pay-cut during the pandemic, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of the study in his flat at Neelachal Abasan, on the Rashbehari connector, on Wednesday evening. Diptendra Mukherjee did not blame anyone for his death in an unsigned note he is believed to have left behind. Police said the note mentions that he was unable to bear the financial stress caused by the pandemic. Diptendra’s wife, a homemaker, was not in their second-floor flat on Wednesday evening. The couple’s 10-year-old child was playing downstairs. His wife returned around 7.30pm and rang the doorbell but no one answered. She entered the flat after breaking open the door latch only to find her husband hanging from the fan by a white stole. Diptendra was rushed to Ruby General Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. Friends said Diptendra used to work as the sales head of a company that offered an online platform to buy insurance policies for a range of items, including houses and vehicles. He had taken a loan to buy the flat in Uttara block (C-2) of Neelachal Abasan nearly five years ago. His mother, sister and brother-in-law lived nearby on New Ballygunge Road. “Diptendra told us that he had spent almost 18 years in the insurance sector. He told friends that his salary had recently been reduced,” said Indranil Ghosh, the president of the Neelachal Recreation Club, located in the housing complex. “We have no clue what spurred him to kill himself. The man was full of life. He used to sing well and was an active member of our club.” People close to the Mukherjees said Diptendra had been upset since the salary cut and had recently taken a personal loan to meet household expenses. The police said they learnt from some of the relatives of the couple that he was finding it difficult to pay the EMIs of the housing and personal loans. On Thursday evening, while family members were busy performing the last rites, some of Diptendra’s friends said the family had recently met to discuss a way out of the loan trap. Apparently there was a suggestion that the couple sell the flat and move into a rented accommodation so that they could repay the loans. The couple even checked out an accommodation a few days ago, one of the relatives said. But Diptendra did not like the idea, the relative said. A 63-year-old man who police said lost his job during the lockdown had died after falling from the roof of his four-storey building on Golf Club Road early on December 4. The police had said Soumitra Sen, who worked in the accounts section of a private firm, killed himself. No suicide note had been found, officers at Jadavpur police station said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Skeleton on Salt Lake house roof||A woman in her late 40s was arrested on Thursday night after a charred skeleton was found on the roof of her house in Salt Lake’s AJ block, police said. Geeta Mahensariya and her younger son Vidur, 22, were arrested after a police team probing a missing complaint lodged by her estranged husband, Anil Kumar Mahensariya, landed at the two-storey house. Anil had mentioned in the complaint that he was not being able to get in touch with his eldest son Arjun. “It is yet to be ascertained whether the skeleton recovered from the roof is of the couple's eldest son,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Anil, who runs a garment and footwear business, had separated from his wife in August last year and since been living in an apartment in Rajarhat, the officer said. The couple got married in 1988 and have three children, aged between 20 and 25. Another officer said all three were staying with the mother at the AJ Block house. Two of the siblings who were home were questioned by the police till late on Thursday. “The father tried calling up Arjun several times but could not get in touch with him. He then went to Bidhannagar East police station and lodged a missing diary. He told officers that he suspected that his wife had caused harm to their eldest son,” said a senior officer of the commissionerate. A team of forensic experts visited the house. An officer in the forensic team said they found burnt items on the staircase leading to the roof. “The skeleton seems to be charred. Preliminary investigations suggest the skeleton had been on the roof for several days,” the officer said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they were trying to find out the sequence of events and were speaking to neighbours to ascertain who all were there in the house during the lockdown triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. The neighbourhood was in a state of shock. Many residents said Geeta was a soft-spoken woman, who used to greet everyone she met. “She was nice to everyone and quite active during Durga Puja and other pujas in our block. This has come as a shocker for us,” said Indrani Choudhury, a resident of AJ block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020 to be held on digital platform||The celebration of children’s triumph over odds and teachers’ mentorship will go virtual this year in the wake of the Covid pandemic. IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College, will be held on a digital platform from 11am on Saturday. Close to 200 schools and thousands of students, teachers and parents will be part of the 25th edition of the awards. Many stories of grit and resilience will be shared on Saturday — stories of students who have refused to give up against critical ailments, financial crises and personal tragedies. The list of awardees will include students and schools who have risen up to the unprecedented challenges posed by Covid-19, like turning the campus into a Covid care facility or distributing smartphones among slum children for online classes. The Telegraph School Awards have always left a lasting impression on the minds of the audience who watch students with a never-say-die attitude take the center stage. On Saturday, the awards will be given to students, and schools in 20 categories. Over 20 students will get scholarships. The contribution of teachers and parents will also be recognised. TUNE IN What: IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College When: Saturday, December 12, from 11am Where to watch live:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Journey saluting young fighters turn 25||Over 5,000 viewers logged in from their phones or computers for an award ceremony that salutes young school-going fighters, which went online for the first time in 25 years. In previous years, a school auditorium could accommodate only 1,500 odd people. Thursday was the prelims of the IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College. More than 200 students were given certificates of merit, certificates of appreciation and certificates of honour. A trustee of The Telegraph Education Foundation, and the emcee for the programme, Barry O’ Brien, described the 25 years as a “journey of growth”. “These 25 years to recap in a few sentences has been a journey of growth, of growth not just in size, growth in us as people, people who are organising this, who have organised this for 25 years. People who have joined us on the journey. Some have jumped off but many have stayed on with us,” said O’Brien. He said the most important part of the work of The Telegraph Education Foundation is to reach out to those boys and girls who are struggling not just to complete their education but to make ends meet. “Stories, how boys and girls living in far-flung districts and villages have eaten muri before they went to school, ridden on their cycles for a few kilometers or walked, come back to another meal of muri. And then gone on to score 80-85, 90 -95 per cent marks and got admission in some of the top colleges and universities,” said O’Brien. Such stories abound in the school awards year after year. And so it did on Thursday, despite the pandemic. The ceremony acknowledged Subhankar Das of Silver Point School for writing his Class X board exams from hospital, where he was admitted because of a dark patch on his left lung. The boy scored 80 per cent. Priyanka Bhanja Chaudhary, a Class XI student of Agrasain Balika Siksha Sadan, slipped and fell while coming down the stairs last year. She suffered a spinal cord injury and was unable to stand. Three months of treatment and her indomitable spirit saw her back on her feet. Subhankar and Priyanka received The Surrendra Paul Memorial Award for Courage. While students got their due recognition, the award ceremony also acknowledged the efforts of teachers who have given their life or several decades to teaching and the non-teaching staff who look after the gardens and keep the buildings spic and span, pandemic or no pandemic. And then there were schools that care, not one but quite a number. “We know that all schools care. They care for their students, they care for society. We have been and we have always been on the lookout these 25 years that maybe care a little more consciously,” said O’Brien before announcing The Caring Minds Award for ‘A School that Cares’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Survivors fight post-Covid complications||A 26-year-old man who had recovered from Covid-19 three months back suffered a cerebral stroke this week and died at a hospital in Calcutta. The youth’s family members, who did not want to disclose his identity, said he did not have any medical condition before being infected with the novel coronavirus. There have been a number of cases in the city of people suffering a cerebral stroke or a cardiac arrest a few weeks or months after recovering from Covid. Doctors are classifying these, as well as other serious problems like infections in the brain, as some of the severe post-Covid complications. Doctors differ on whether to prescribe anticoagulant drugs to Covid patients when they are being discharged from hospital to ensure they don’t suffer stroke or pulmonary embolism, a condition where blood clots in a pulmonary artery. “Recently, a 57-year-old man who had contracted Covid was discharged from hospital and the family hired a nurse from our organisation to take care of him at home,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, the unit head of Apollo Home Healthcare in Calcutta. “One day the nurse reported the patient had suffered a severe cardiac arrest. He was resuscitated and taken to a hospital, where he died. The man had suffered severe fibrosis of lungs because of Covid,” he said. Pulmonary fibrosis is a condition in which tissues of the lungs are damaged. Bhattacharya said at least 10 per cent of their patients had to be readmitted to hospital because of post-Covid complications. Doctors said that apart from the usual post-Covid complications such as weakness, shortness of breath, body ache and cramps, they are observing embolism or blood clots in different parts of the body and severe infections. “Many people who had suffered from Covid are coming back two to three months after being discharged with complications like stroke and infections. I recently saw two women, one of whom had herpes in the brain and another brain tuberculosis,” said Hrishikesh Kumar, the head of neurology at the Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata. “The natural deduction is that reduced immunity because of Covid was responsible for the herpes and the tuberculosis.” Kumar said he prescribed anticoagulant drugs to some people who had severe Covid to prevent blood clot. “They need to continue with the medicine for some time. During that time, they have to undergo tests which will show whether they have any chance of bleeding,” said Kumar. Some doctors, however, said they were not prescribing anticoagulant drugs. “During Covid, our body’s immune response system reacts and has a tendency to cause thrombosis. So most patients admitted to hospital are given anticoagulant drugs,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, an infectious diseases expert and a member of the Covid treatment team at Peerless Hospital. “Anticoagulant drugs reduce chances of blood clot but increases risk of bleeding. So it’s a double-aged sword.” Bhattacharya said apart from blood clot, people were also complaining of breathlessness weeks after discharge, although their X-ray showed improvement and oxygen saturation was well above 93 per cent. Doctors said both the heart and the lungs were getting seriously damaged in the aftermath of the infection. “We have carried out a few autopsies to understand how the coronavirus is causing thrombotic complications,” said Himadri Chakrabarty, a senior physician who is leading a team of doctors across state-run Covid hospitals in Bidhannagar, Baranagar, Dum Dum, Barasat and Barrackpore. “Before discharging the patients, we are doing ECG and then following it up after a gap of four and six weeks. In most cases, we are prescribing breathing exercises along with steroids and even anti-coagulants.” “We are asking relatives of some patients to arrange for oxygen support at home before discharging them. They are being advised to come back for evaluation after six weeks,” said Sandip Ghosh, an assistant professor at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. “A few of these patients are being prescribed anti-fribrotic drugs but there is still debate over use of this medicine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Fair season set to start as Saras Mela gets nod||Fairs are back. With the state government giving the green light for fairs to resume after a gap of eight months, Saras Mela is set to be organised at New Town Mela Ground from December 23. Organised by the panchayats and rural development department, the fair will have 240 stalls, including 25 food stalls selling finger food and snacks, in the mela ground. Most of the other stalls will showcase handicraft and handloom products by self-help groups (SHG). “The stalls will be more spaced out than usual. We will not allow entry without mask. Thermal checking will be done daily and Covid test will be done for those with high temperature,” said minister Subrata Mukherjee. The department has sought help from the office of the district chief medical officer of health to transfer those testing positive to safe homes. All artisans are being asked to bring medical insurance documents given by their respective state governments. There are also plans for periodic Covid tests but the huge number of the artisans (650-700) might get in the way. Even if that is not possible, the stalls at the fair as also the lodging facilities of the artisans at the Salt Lake stadium will be regularly sanitised. While mask, apron, faceshield and headgear will be provided to the artisans, a stall to sell masks will be set up near the gate. “In case someone has forgotten to wear one, he or she can buy a mask before getting in. Both cheap surgical masks and those made by SHGs will be on offer,” said an official. There will be three pavilions, selling jute products, nursery products and processed food items like jam, jelly, pickles and masala, all produced and packeted by SHGs. For the first time, there will be live demonstrations at the karigar haat. “You will get to experience sights like needlework in progress to produce kantha stitch from Birbhum or chhou masks being made by Purulia mask-makers,” an official said. Till Wednesday, 15 states have confirmed participation. “The number is higher than last year as artisans of all states have been hit by the pandemic and need a market to sell their ware,” said Soumyajit Das, chief executive officer, State Rural Livelihood Mission. The service road in front of the mela ground will also be used to seat individual artisans with their products. So the authorities have decided to use the fallow land next to the ground as well for car parking and the food court. The food court will offer specialities of each district, from momo of Darjeeling to sharbhaja-sarpuriya of Nadia. Rajasthan has also booked a stall, so expect the authentic taste of daal-bati-churma. So has UP which could offer Awadhi cuisine. Goa might also come, sources said, which adds hope of a range of seafood specialities. Another attraction will be the seasonal delights prepared by the SHG women. While pithe puli options will be there in plenty, cakes will come from Darjeeling and home-made chocolates from Hooghly. The West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation (WBCADC), a unit of the panchayats department, is planning to host a regional food pavilion selling Bengal’s cooked specialities in fish and sweets. If it serves dishes like Ilish Bhapa, Tel Koi, Tangra Kosha, Mourola Chachchari and Pathar Jhol on one hand, on the other there will be a range of sweets made of nolen gur on offer,” said Das, who also heads WBCADC. Cultural programmes will be held with folk artistes from 5pm to 7pm daily. A host of entertainment options will also be there. There will be three selfie zones. “We are trying to bring traditional clothes from the hills which one can wear and get photographed in for a charge. The free-of-cost options will include a cutout of a faceless figure in chhou costume where one can place one’s face in a gap. A cooking competition will see walk-in visitors register on the spot and cook with given ingredients. Children can spend time in an activity centre where they may be asked to do fun things like design their own mask. “Every winter, Saras Mela usually ends up being the last fair of the season as grounds are difficult to get before February. This time we are lucky to be the first off the block,” smiled the official. The fair will continue till January 3. The authorities did try to book Central Park, their usual venue, but did not get the booking on the desired dates. The department of textiles has booked the venue for Banglar Tater Haat from December 22 but there is no clearance yet for the fair from the finance department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Thick fog delays 50 morning flights||Fifty flights were delayed on Thursday morning as fog disrupted operations at the Calcutta airport for nearly five hours. The departure of as many 36 flights and arrival of 14 flights were delayed because of fog-induced low visibility, officials at the airport said. Two flights had to be diverted. This was the second day this season when flight operations were disrupted because of fog. On Tuesday, too, several flights were delayed. Friday morning is also likely to be foggy, the Met office warned. On Thursday, operations were disrupted between 5am and 9.50am as thick fog covered the runway and visibility was 50m or even less, officials said. An IndiGo flight to Delhi was the first to take off, at 9.25am, following the disruption, sources said. A flight of the same airline from Bangalore, which landed around the same time, was the first to arrive. A cargo flight of SpiceJet from Hong Kong was diverted to Hyderabad and a passenger flight of GoAir from Bagdogra was diverted to Bhubaneswar. The Calcutta airport has Category III B Instrument Landing System, which was installed in 2018. The landing system allows flights to operate at a minimum visibility of 50 metre. However, airport officials said many aircraft are not CAT III B-compliant and those cannot land in or take off from the city when the visibility falls below 50 metre. “An intensified flow of moisture into south Bengal, triggered by a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal, and a low speed of the northwesterly winds together led to the formation of Thursday’s thick blanket of fog,” a Met department official said. A similar fog cover is expected over the next two days, the official said. “The high-pressure system is still strong and moving towards the Bengal and Odisha coastline.” Like it has been doing for the past three days, the fog kept the day temperature below normal. Despite the minimum temperature being two notches above normal, Calcuttans felt a hint of chill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Variety picks on buffet plate||Craving hot chicken stew but unsure of venturing into Dacres Lane in the middle of the pandemic? Longing for authentic Chinese noodles but not confident about travelling all the way to Tangra? Take a trip to New Town’s Holiday Inn any Saturday evening and you’ll be served the four cuisines that define Calcutta food — Bengali, Mughlai, Chinese and Anglo Indian. “We had this buffet spread in mind for long and had done all the homework too but then the lockdown started,” says general manager Jaidev Dutta. During the lockdown, the hotel served as a quarantine home and their restaurant Social Kitchen opened to public in June. “Initially we were unsure of how such a buffet would fare given the pandemic but the Pujas dispelled our doubts. This Puja, we actually did better business than last year,” Dutta says. Thus encouraged, Social Kitchen has launched Saturday night buffets. Among starters will be everything from cutlets and Fish Batter Fried to Galauti Kebabs and Dimer Devils. “The Anglo Indian cuisine doesn’t get talked about much but it has some delicious recipes. Many now-popular dishes are modifications of European ones too,” says Dutta, pointing at Jalfrezi and Mulligatawny Soup, a rich lentil-based broth. The live counter has quintessential street food — phuchka, Chicken or Vegetable Stew with bread, tea with malai toast or Bapuji cake. “None of the dishes on our menu are new. Rather, they are old favourites that we are nostalgic about and perhaps, don’t get a chance to snack on in our fast lives anymore,” said one of the chefs, Debarpita Das. For the main course, take your pick from Basanti Pulao, luchi, Narkel diye Chholar Dal, Mochar ghonto and Chingri Malaikari. “The menu will change every week although we’ll have to keep biriyani and chowmein constant,” smiles Dutta. So Schezwan Noodles, Veg Manchurian, Metiabruz-style Mutton Rezala will all be on offer. The dessert section will boast of Anglo Indian-inspired pastries, Chinese Darsan and ice cream, Bengali Nolen Gurer Rosogolla and Mughlai-inspired Gulabi Phirni with rose essence or Daal Badam ka Halwa made of moong daal. And don’t miss the signoffs with some typical mouth fresheners — colourful aniseed (mouri)and the dark, black salt lozenges usually sold in buses and local trains. “This menu is curated for working class people and so we have kept the prices within their reach,” says Dutta. The buffet costs Rs 943. With alcohol, the price is Rs 1,179.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||New Town to get own radio channel||New Town is set to get a community radio channel of its own. A state-of-the-art set-up has been created on the fourth floor of Nazrul Tirtha where two studios are operating — one for audio and another for video recording. A definite step was taken in this regard on Wednesday morning when the first lot of programmes was uploaded on the Facebook page of Radio New Town. “This year, because of the Covid situation, people could not organise cultural programmes in their localities even during Durga puja. We had invited the best performers from blocks and housing complexes to record their programmes at our studio. They did so with a lot of enthusiasm. Some were so good that we are thinking of calling them back for more shows,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. According to sources, 19 groups had expressed interest to come for recording. But one backed out due to Covid infection in the group and another did not have a production ready. So 17 finally turned up for recording in mid-November. An app is being developed which will be available on Google Playstore for downloading. Radio New Town will play on it. And once the app broadcast starts, the Facebook reach will be used to publicise the radio’s shows. A radio frequency has been applied for.” We hope to receive it by the end of next year.” Once that happens, Radio New Town will operate as a full-fledged FM station. The authorities also plan to let out the studio for private recordings. Explaining the need for an administrative body to operate a radio channel, Sen pointed out: “We need multiple channels to inform, educate and communicate with citizens. We can pass on information on Covid,  dengue, solid waste segregation and recycling, events and facilities, business club and Snehodiya, timings of the facilities we run and so on. It will also provide us a window for showcasing local cultural talents.” The authorities have injected a competitive element in the first round of webcast. Over four days starting from Wednesday, the programmes recorded by the residents are being uploaded. While seven are already up, programmes of five each will be uploaded on Friday and Saturday. “For 10 days after uploading, people would be able to ‘like’ the programmes on the Facebook page. The housing complexes or blocks drawing the most number of likes will be given prizes,” Sen said. Hidco has also entered into a content-sharing agreement with the Community Radio JU, run by Jadavpur University. “We will offer them all the programmes that we air. They are educative for children, be it discussions on well-known personalities or hygienic habits to develop during Covid or on textual subjects,” said Imankalyan Lahiri, convenor of Community Radio JU. Till the app is ready, the programming on Radio New Town will be Facebook-based. “Even big FM channels now have a Facebook component and record programmes simultaneously for both radio and social media. This is a new trend,” said Sen. The first programme to go on air on Wednesday morning was by 1CA and 1CD Blocks. Tapas Adhikari of CD Block sang a reworked version of Bhupen Hazarika’s Ami ek jajabor, with the changed lyrics reflecting the plight of migrant labourers during the lockdown and villagers displaced by Cyclone Aila, alongside narration by Runushree Raha of CB Block. Class IX student Sparsh Pandey presented an agomoni song. Chandana Roy of CB Block put up a stand-out performance in a solo act as the mother of an assaulted daughter. The programme ended with a group dance choreographed by CA Block’s Sarmistha Mukherjee. “The residents have been repeatedly asking me the date of the webcast ever since they went for the recording. This is an exciting opportunity for us,” said Neelmoni Seal, general secretary of New Town (1CA to 1CD Blocks) Residents’ Welfare Association. On Friday, programmes by the residents of CA Block, PS Ixora, Sankalpa, Uniworld City and Unmesh will be uploaded while it will be the turn of AL-AK-AI Blocks, CD Block, Greenwood Park , Greenwood Sonata and Hiland Willows Cypress on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-210
11-12-2020||Calcutta||Off for a vacation||Sreemoyee has had enough. After months of near-house arrest, she broke free for her birthday last weekend. “My husband and I picked up three friends and we drove off to Deulti, a good two-hours away. We didn’t do much there, just enjoyed the sunset, but even that felt so rejuvenating,” says the teacher who lives behind City Centre 2. Ditto with Ajay K. Das. “One fine morning, my wife and I hopped into the car and drove wherever the wind took us,” says the CK Block resident. They drifted into Bantala, relished fresh khjurer rosh from the villagers and stumbled upon a resort in Sundargram. “It was a lovely trip and has given us the confidence to do more of these from now on.” Das and Sreemoyee Kaushiki Basak Dey are not alone. Tired of staying home, residents are now taking off on holidays, mostly by car. “And why not,” asks Anandita Banerjee of AD Block. “If we maintain protocol we shall be safe. The other evening I went to Park Street and the crowd there would put Saptami evenings to shame. The crowd at Sector V’s Decathalon was long enough to make me contemplate leaving without buying too. If people have started going around the city without worries, what’s the harm in vacations?” Darjeeling, if not Alaska Our neighbours are crying copious tears at their 2020 travel plans having evaporated in thin air. Bhaswati Sengupta of DB Block was to visit Alaska, Shiksha Jha of Kankurgachhi Leh-Ladakh and Naina Maheshwari was to ‘remarry’ her husband in Goa for their 10th anniversary in November. “When we got married destination weddings hadn’t come into vogue so we wanted a ‘white wedding’ this year where I would walk down the aisle in a gown,” sighs Naina, a resident of Panache, in Mahisbathan. While she’s upset, she made the best of the situation by driving the extended family down to Puri. Others are doing the same, hopping over to Puri and Purulia, Digha and Darjeeling. Somek Choudhury, a food blogger from Lake Town, was to take clients on food trails to Lucknow, Ladakh and Puducherry this year but when it all fell through, he conducted tours to Tajpur, Purulia and Santiniketan instead. “We started going out in August. Back then, these spots were deserted and one was actually safer there than in the city,” says Somek, who is taking another group to Darjeeling for a week-long trail on Christmas Eve. This time, however, he’s sure it won’t be deserted. “The hotels there have been hounding me to confirm bookings as their rooms are filling up fast.” There are also those like Shekhar Bajaj who are planning ‘work-ations’. “Work from home can be work from anywhere. I don’t need to go to office for the next six months so have opted for a work-ation in north Bengal for a fortnight. I can work during office hours and enjoy the place afterwards,” says the IT sector employee from GC Block. Planes, trains, automobiles “Public transportation cannot be trusted at this time, especially if you have elderly people travelling with you,” says Sanchita Sarkar of Baisakhi Abasan. So for their group of 23 people, they hired a bus. They visited Udaipur, Tajpur and finally Mandarmani. “We might visit relatives in Dinajpur in January. If that happens we’ll do Pelling and Darjeeling too and once again shall prefer bus over train.” Jhumpa Karmakar visited Purulia with 11 relatives and they too hired a bus. “Since we had the entire bus to ourselves we sanitised it ourselves to be sure of safety,” says the DA Block resident. But Anandita preferred to fly to Darjeeling. “A bus would have meant 12 hours with strangers, besides pit stops at dhabas that could be crowded. Compared to that, a 45-minute flight seemed safer,” says the IT sector employee. Covid protocols Those taking off are taking all sorts of precautions to ensure safety. When Bhaswati visited Bawali rajbari during Diwali, everyone with her carried their own towels and blankets. Karmakar had to stop her kids from jumping into the pool at the Purulia resort they put up in. “We saw other tourists swimming but we thought it would be risky,” she says. Shiksha only mustered courage to visit Darjeeling after some relatives made the trip and assured her of the hill station’s safety. When Avinaba Mukherjee drove to Kolaghata with a couple of friends they checked sanitisation procedures thoroughly before checking in. “We even visited the kitchen,” says the Ultadanga resident. But when they visited Tajpur some weeks later, they found tourists roaming without masks. “We headed to the farthest shack on the beach and partied in seclusion,” he says. Flight travel has its own stringent protocol. “The airhostesses were in PPEs and passengers sitting in the middle seat had to wear them too,” says AE Block’s Sayan Munshi, who flew to Jaipur with his wife recently. “The two of us sat on adjacent aisle seats and wore face shields throughout the flight.” Highs and lows Given the slump in the tourism industry, FC Block’s Nilanjan Brahma said they got lucrative deals for the hotel they booked in Mandarmani. Naina enjoyed the beach at Puri but says the pandemic robbed her of the Jagannath temple visit. Sayan, however, says there has never been a better time to visit the Taj Mahal. “My wife Sanjukta has visited the monument twice before, when it got tens of thousands of visitors a day. Now the number of visitors is capped at 5,000 and so it was as if we had the massive premises all to ourselves,” he smiles. When Covid catches up When Brahma flew to north Bengal for work, he came down with Covid. “Three of my associates had flown back and all of us got it,” he says. “Thereafter when my kids were hankering us to take them to Mandarmani, we decided to take our own car. No more public transport for us,” he says. Sengupta speaks of a friend who went to Tajpur in a group of 15. “Each and every one of them returned with Covid-19,” says the lady, who herself is a doctor. Another Sector II family was all set to fly to the Maldives but their plans were marred when they went in for the mandatory Covid tests before taking off. “My primary school-going son tested positive,” says his mother, still in isolation. “We cancelled the trip altogether. What if we test again and someone ends up positive?” Naina was keen to have her white wedding in the Maldives too but cancelled when she heard they would need to be tested before returning to India. “In case we test positive, we will have to stay in the Maldives for a fortnight at our own expense. We can’t take that risk,” she says. Propa Chakravartty was all set to cook biriyani with her friends and head to any empty patch in New Town for a picnic last month. “But then my friend came in contact with someone who tested positive. He went into isolation and our picnic went into the backburner,” sighs the BL Block resident.“I’m now trying to arrange a trip to Simlipal forest which is absolutely desolate.” Then again, some are taking the plunge post-Covid. “My parents got Covid but once they recovered I took them to Tajpur,” Anandita says. Sayan, his wife and two children have all recovered from Covid too. “So when my father received an invitation to a wedding in Agra, he suggested Sanjukta and I go instead, since we had already recovered and were hopefully immune,” he says. Industry speak The tourism industry is grateful for the turn of fate. “We have been severely hit by the pandemic but things are finally picking up,” says a spokesperson for Das Travels in GC Block. “More people are venturing out now that train services have resumed and our packages are all booked from mid-December till January end.” But the most popular options are self-driven road trips within 300km and with close-knit groups. “We are booked right through January. Hotel bookings, flight bookings and cab bookings are also on. A lot of enquiries are happening over phone and social media. People want to know if we are taking bookings. This is a good sign,” says Shabari Debnath of Cyrus Tourism in Baguiati. The Camellia Group has hotels in Santiniketan and Puri, and Rupa Datta, director, hospitality division, says booking are picking up gradually. “September onwards is usually peak season in both places but this year is different. Corporate conferences have also started,” said the CL Block resident, who herself visited the Simlipal forest area a while back. Pulak Bhadra, the vice-president of the Tour Operators’ Welfare Association of Bengal, said he had predicted that business would significantly improve in winter. “People were getting fed up at home.” But lesser known spots are drawing more footfall. “Tourists are avoiding congested places,” he said. Debashis Sen Roy, a resident of Midland Park, happens to be vice- president of The Supreme hotel in Visakhapatnam. He says 60 per cent of their guests come from Bengal. “We are getting many enquiries but conversion rate is low, restricted to those who are driving down. Trains have resumed but the train with the most suitable timings, Yesvantpur Express, is not running yet. There’s only one direct flight now too,” he says. And finally the resort within our twin townships — Eco Island in Eco Park — is fast filing up too. “We take bookings up to a month in advance and December is nearly choc-a-block,” says Snehasis Sinha, assistant general manager, tourism, Hidco that looks after the property. “People take heart from the fact that it is a government property and hence sanitisation will be thorough. They don’t have to drive too far and know that social distancing can be maintained since it’s such a sprawling area.” Additional reporting by Showli Chakraborty and Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-211
