12-12-2020||Calcutta||Leander Paes at the launch of India’s first smart e-cycle ||Tennis icon Leander Paes, who has floored many an opponent on the court, was himself grounded while riding a battery-operated cycle at the parking lot of Metro Cash & Carry on Friday. Paes was the star attraction at the launch of the battery-operated e-cycles made by a private company. Paes aced a better part of the ride but lost control while climbing down the stage and fell off the cycle. But true to his comeback spirit, he was back on his feet within a few seconds.  Pictures by Sanat Kr Sinha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
12-12-2020||Calcutta||A year on, anti-CAA cry unmuted||Close to 1,000 people protested against the Centre’s citizenship matrix in the heart of the city on Friday, shattering a long lull triggered by the Covid pandemic. Deafening roars of azaadi and “we will not show papers” posters made a comeback on busy roads as the protesters marched from Moulali to Esplanade where they staged a meeting. Many of the marchers had come from the districts, like Nadia and Murshidabad. Some of them reached Calcutta last night. December 11 was chosen because the Citizenship Amendment Act was passed by Parliament on the same day last year. The campaign against the citizenship troika — National Register of Citizens, National Population Register and CAA — was at its peak when the coronavirus brought everything to a grinding halt. The rally was organised by Anti-NRC People’s Movement, a joint platform of 21 organisations campaigning against the citizenship thrust. Groups of people started arriving at the meeting point — Ram Leela ground on CIT Road in Moulali — on foot, mini vans and buses. A mini-truck parked on the road became a makeshift stage for speakers. “The Narendra Modi-led government has used the pandemic and lockdown as a tool to stifle dissent and bring another series of anti-people laws like the labour code and farm bills. The government had kept the NRC-NPR-CAA combine in the cupboard like mothballed woollens but they would bring it out any time. We should be alert,” said Prasun Chatterjee of Azaad Gana Morcha. The BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said on Sunday that the Centre might implement the CAA from next month to confer citizenship on a large section of refugees living in Bengal. “From infiltrators to termites, we remember every word that was used to describe us, citizens of this country,” said Kasturi Basu of Humans of Patuli. A group of youngsters from Janaganamana Sanskritik Manch performed a series of songs — most of them tweaks of popular Bengali songs. “Batashe bohichhe bish, bukete lagilo chot, raja je kohilo heshe NRC eshe gechhe (The air is filled with poison, the heart wounded. The king says smilingly that NRC is here),” said one song. The opening lines of another song: “Tora je ja bolish bhai, raja’r shosta mojur chai (No matter what you say, the king wants cheap labour).” Almost every speaker said the citizenship thrust mirrored blatant religious discrimination and its main objective was creating a vast pool of cheap labourers for big companies. “This government has sold itself to big corporate houses and will turn people languishing in detention camps into cheap labourers,” said Chandan Bhattacharjee of the Sramik-Krishak Ekta Manch, who had come from Jaynagar in South 24-Parganas. The rally started from Ramlila Maidan in Moulali around 2.30pm and its head reached the front of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation headquarters on SN Banerjee Road around 4pm. Tricolours and large banners fluttered under the canopy of trees dotting the road that connects Moulali with Esplanade. A third of the marchers were women, who often out-shouted the men in sloganeering. “System error… Not found — Hindurashtra,” read one poster. “We want rights, not riots,” read another. A police officer put the number of marchers at over 500 but organisers said more than 1,000 people had turned up. “It is a big number because many people, even in Calcutta, are still not ready to join a large group for fear of the virus,” an organiser said. Many marchers on Friday had posters of political prisoners like Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and Varavara Rao. The protesters demanded their “immediate release”. Banojyotsna Lahiri, a Presidency and JNU alumna and a friend of Khalid, walked in the rally on Friday. “In Delhi, a protest march is usually limited to the stretch between Mandi House and Jantar Mantar. It is extremely tough to protest anywhere else. Being able to walk in a rally through a residential area like this is a big deal. With people watching from their balconies and shopkeepers coming outside stores, the protest becomes so organic,” she said. Arup Majumdar, the convener of the Anti-NRC People’s Movement, said a section of people opposed to the citizenship matrix were now more bothered with livelihood problems posed by the pandemic. “Since there is no strong narrative on the part of the government right now, they think the NRC-NPR-CAA is not on Modi-Shah’s immediate agenda. But the BJP will suddenly strike with these tools, maybe just before the Bengal election. If we do not step up the vigil now, we cannot do much then,” said Majumdar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Refund orders issues to two city hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday asked R Flemming Hospital to return Rs 3 lakh to a Covid patient and Horizon Life Line to return Rs 2 lakh to another after it found that the city hospitals had overcharged the patients. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said they found that Horizon Life Line had charged more than the government capped rates for personal protection equipment (PPE) and doctors’ consultation fees. Regarding the complaint against R Flemming, he said that the bill generated by the hospital was not justified given the fact that the patient had stayed most of the days in a general bed. “A man from Salboni got admitted at R Flemming Hospital on September 26 and was treated at the hospital for 11 days. The hospital said he was in ICU for two days. Even with two days in ICU, the bill cannot be as high as Rs 5.4 lakh,” said Banerjee. “We have asked the hospital to pay the patient Rs 3 lakh,” he said. About Horizon Life Line, Banerjee said that the patient had lodged an overcharging complaint with the commission. “The state government had fixed Rs 1,000 as the PPE rate for one day. The hospital charged the patient Rs 83,000 as PPE charges for 13 days. Besides, they also took Rs 12,000 as doctors’ consultation fee,” said Banerjee. The state government has capped consultation fees of doctors treating Covid-19 patients at private hospitals at Rs 1,000 a day. “We have asked the hospital to offer a discount of Rs 2 lakh to the patient,” Banerjee said. The commission on Friday also asked Desun Hospital to return Rs 52,000 to a patient. “The patient was admitted to the hospital at 4 am on October 16. The patient was shifted to one of the government requisitioned beds at Desun Hospital at 9.40 pm the same day, but the hospital charged them for two days,” Banerjee said. Patients at government requisitioned beds are treated for free.  “The hospital should have charged for only one day, but Desun charged Rs 1.04 lakh for two days,” said Banerjee. “We have asked the hospital to keep Rs 52,000, and return the rest,” he said. The commission also asked All Asia Medical Institute to pay Rs 60,000 to a patient’s family as compensation. “The complainant had alleged that her mother developed bedsore when she was discharged from the hospital, but the hospital said she was admitted with grade I bedsore. The discharge summary of the previous hospital from where the patient was brought to All Asia Medical Institute had no mention of bedsore,” said Banerjee. “We have asked the hospital to pay the patient Rs 60,000,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Biker flung off VIP Road flyover||A 64-year-old biker was grievously injured after he was flung off the saddle on the VIP Road flyover and fell on the road 35ft below on Friday afternoon, police said. Safiar Rahaman Mallick, a resident of Kaikhali, was thrown off the motorcycle after it rammed into a guard rail along the parapet of the overbridge. Mallick was spotted by passing motorists and shopkeepers near the Baguiati bus stand, an officer of the Baguiati traffic guard said. They informed traffic policemen posted nearby who took the man to a private hospital off VIP Road. According to a doctor of the hospital, Mallick is admitted to the ICU as he has suffered a haemorrhage in his brain. The incident happened on the airport-bound flank of the flyover. While Mallick fell off the flyover, his motorcycle remained on the flyover and another police team recovered it. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate’s traffic wing said there was a mark where Mallick’s bike hit the parapet of the flyover. “The cause of the accident is still not clear,” said the officer. A helmet lay near the spot where Mallick fell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Son killed with grinding stone in Salt Lake||The mother and son arrested by Salt Lake police after a charred skeleton was found on their rooftop told policemen that they used a grinding stone to kill the eldest son of the family and then burnt his body using a combination of ghee and camphor to mask the smell, a police officer said. Geeta Mahensariya and her younger son Vidur, 22, were produced before a Salt Lake court on Friday on murder charges as well as destroying evidence. The court sent them to five-day police custody. Geeta and her younger son Vidur were arrested on Thursday night after a police team probing a missing complaint lodged by her estranged husband, Anil Kumar Mahensariya, landed at the two-storey house in AJ Block. The cops are also probing the role of Geeta and Anil’s daughter. According to an officer of Bidhannagar commissionerate, Geeta and Vidur were questioned for hours on Thursday night. Initially they told cops that they knew nothing about the skeleton but broke down during the questioning. “They told us that they killed Arjun by hitting him on the head using a grinding stone used to pound spices. They burnt his body using a combination of ghee and camphor so that the smell did not alert neighbours,” said the officer. The officer added that the initial forensic report indicated that the bone structure of the skeleton was that of a young male. According to the officer, they had found some burnt remnants of clothes on the first floor and there were ashes and other charred remains on the flight of stairs leading to the roof.  “It seems that they had used a large cauldron to burn the body on the first floor. They wrapped up the remains in a bedsheet and carried it to the roof.” Geeta used to stay in the two-storey AJ Block house with Arjun, Vidur and her daughter while her estranged husband Anil was staying at an apartment in Rajarhat since August 2019. According to an officer, they are also trying to find out the exact motive behind the killing. “We are probing every angle of this case.” Anil Kumar Mahensariya had taken an office space in central Calcutta for Arjun to start a business but he had stopped sending money for Vidur and his daughter’s education, said the officer. Both Geeta and Vidur were produced before a Salt Lake court on Friday. There were charged under various sections of the IPC including 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) among others. Inside the court, Sabir Ali the public prosecutor, said that police custody was required as the two would be needed by the cops for crime scene reconstruction in the days to come. “The police also need to question them in custody,” Ali said. The defence lawyer of Geeta and Vidur, on the other hand, said Geeta has been suffering from psychiatric issues for the past several years and was on medication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
12-12-2020||Calcutta||20-mark ISC project work in more subjects||The ICSE council has decided to introduce project work carrying 20 marks in Indian languages, Elective English and several other subjects for students appearing for Class XII (ISC) examinations in 2021. In a letter on Friday, Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), informed heads of schools presenting candidates for the ISC 2021 about the change. “Please note that from ISC Examination Year 2021 onwards, instead of one theory paper of 100 marks, there will be two papers in the following subjects, comprising a theory paper of 80 marks and project work of 20 marks,” Arathoon said. The subjects are: Indian languages, Elective English, Classical Languages (Arabic, Sanskrit, Persian), Modern Foreign Languages, Electricity & Electronics, Engineering Science, Geometrical and Mechanical Drawing, Geometrical and Building Drawing. Indian languages include Hindi, Bengali, Urdu, Malayalam and other languages that students who choose a second language paper for the Plus II course study. In January, the council had announced 20-mark projects in English language, English literature and Mathematics for the 2021 ISC examination. The council has said it will share the sample question papers with the schools shortly. Several school heads feel the introduction of project work in these subjects would ease the load for students. “This means students will get three hours to appear for the 80- mark theory paper. The 20-mark project would make the subjects more scoring for the students,” said Sujoy Biswas, principal of Rammohan Mission High School. “It is going to help students, especially this year, when there is no face-to-face learning. Students will also be able to expand their scope of learning,” said Seema Sapru, principal of The Heritage School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Private hospitals free to reduce Covid beds||The chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has said private hospitals are free to reduce the number of Covid beds if they wished so. Several private hospitals were mulling to reduce the number of Covid beds as number of non-Covid patients was in the rise. Some hospitals said they would seek an informal approval from the government before reducing beds. The commission had asked all private hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds ahead of Durga Puja and Diwali, when many had apprehended a rise in the numbers of Covid patients. “It is the decision of private hospitals whether they want to reduce the number of Covid beds. We cannot tell them how many beds they should reserve for Covid patients. We had earlier appealed them to increase the number of Covid beds and the hospitals responded to our call,” Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said on Friday, when Metro asked him whether private hospitals needed the commission’s permission to reduce Covid beds. Officials of several private hospitals in Calcutta said they were thinking of reducing the number of Covid beds since the rate of hospitalisation has fallen and the number of patients with other illnesses is rising steadily. “People who did not do elective surgeries for months because of Covid-19 are now coming to hospitals. Winters are usually the time when most elective surgeries are performed. So there is a need to increase the number of non-Covid beds,” said a senior official of a private hospital. Officials of another private hospital said they will wait for a few days before deciding whether to reduce the number of Covid beds. “Though occupancy has gone down but we want to wait and see whether this sustains for a month or so. The transformation of a Covid unit to non-Covid is easy, but the opposite is not that easy,” an official of a private hospital in south Calcutta said. Some private hospitals said they would seek the government’s approval before reducing Covid beds. “Though we are not bound by dictates of the government, still we would like to take its approval,” said an official of a hospital off the EM Bypass. Around 20 of the 150 Covid beds at Peerless Hospital have remained vacant for last fortnight. At RN Tagore Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 45 out of 130 Covid beds have remained vacant for the last one month. About 85 per cent of the 270 beds in the three units of AMRI Hospitals have been staying vacant for some time. An official of Medica Superspeciality Hospital, however, said they did not have any vacant Covid beds. The bulk of vacant Covid beds at private hospitals were general beds. The rate of occupancy for critical care beds was higher, officials said. The government on Thursday released a number of beds in several private hospitals that it had requisitioned to treat Covid patients. “The rate of hospitalisation for Covid-19 is gradually coming down.... We have to make beds available for other patients,” Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services, had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
12-12-2020||Calcutta||High Court quashes teachers’ recruitment process||The high court on Friday quashed the process initiated by the School Service Commission for recruiting teachers in nearly 15,000 vacant posts in upper primary schools. Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya directed the commission to start the recruitment process afresh following the guidelines framed by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), according to which candidates with a BEd degree should get first preference. Justice Bhattacharya has set a deadline for the state. The commission should start the process on January 4. The verification of candidates and preparation of merit list should be completed by May 31, and the recruitment process by August 14. The NCTE, which regulates teacher education in India, had in 2009 made the BEd or an equivalent degree compulsory for applying for teaching jobs at primary (till Class IV) and upper primary (from Classes V to VIII) schools. The human resource development ministry (now known as the education ministry) had allowed candidates without a BEd degree to sit for the TET (teacher eligibility test) till March 31, 2014 and had initially expressed its unwillingness to extend the cut-off date. Later, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had written to then HRD minister Smriti Irani, requesting her to allow untrained candidates to write the exam one more time. The NCTE, which functions under the ministry, finally accepted the state government’s plea. “The NCTE suggested that trained candidates should be given preference during the recruitment as well,” said an official of the school education department. The judge on Friday gave the liberty to the commission to conduct interviews of the candidates virtually. The process for recruiting teachers in upper primary schools had started in 2014. Finally, on October 16, 2015, the test for selecting candidates for recruitment in the 14,740 vacant teaching posts was conducted. Last year, on October 1, the department had prepared a merit list of 26,000 candidates based on their score in the written test, with academic weightage factoring in among others whether the candidate is BEd qualified and performance in the interview. “The merit list can have more names than the number of actual posts,” said an official of the state’s school education department. Soon after the publication of the merit list, a large number of candidates moved high court last December alleging that even though they have a BEd degree, their names did not feature on the list while less qualified candidates had been selected. “This prompted my clients to move court,” advocate Firdaus Shamim, the lawyer for the petitioner candidates, said after the order. When asked, an official of SSC said generally additional marks are given to BEd qualified candidates while recruiting teachers in schools. “But in many cases, it has been noticed that untrained candidates are getting higher marks than that of trained candidates, after putting together performance in the written test, academic score and interview score. Therefore names of untrained candidates featured in the merit list as well,” he said. Advocate Shamim countered his comment and said: “Discrepancies have been found in the list.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Actress Arya Banerjee found dead||Actress Arya Banerjee, daughter of late sitarist Pandit Nikhil Banerjee, was found dead on the second floor of her house in Jodhpur Park on Friday. She was 35. There were no injury marks on her body, police said. Arya had made her debut in Bollywood with Dibakar Banerjee’s Love Sex Aur Dhokha in 2010. She had also acted in Dirty Picture in 2011. The actress, also called Devdutta, was alone in her house — 346, Jodhpur Park — on Friday. The police said she had possibly vomitted some food, portions of which were found on her nose and face. She was found lying on the floor with her face down. Cops who broke open the door found some blood droplets on the floor. “Primarily there appears to be no foul play. The exact cause of death will be known when the post-mortem report reaches us,” a senior police officer of Lake police station said. Some of Arya’s neighbours have told the police that the actress had been living alone during the Covid pandemic. Recently, Arya had hired a domestic help. Chandana has told the police that she had been calling Arya’s phone since 10am on Friday, but she hadn’t responded. Later, when she went to the flat, no one answered the door. “She was getting her food through app-based delivery platforms for some time now. She used to spend time with her pet dog. Neighbours said she didn’t mix with anyone in the locality,” the police said. The help has told the police that Arya would have limited interactions with her. “We are trying to find out who would visit the house for any work. Her call details are being scanned to see if she was in any distress and if she had received any food from outside in the last 24 hours,” the police said. A masters in classical music, Arya had dabbled in modelling before moving to Mumbai where she did a three-month acting course in Anupam Kher’s acting school. In 2013, Arya had walked the ramp for a leading fashion designer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
12-12-2020||Calcutta||Race to city on hay boat||A group of water sports enthusiasts has built a boat of bamboo, leaves and hay and is rowing it from Behrampore to Calcutta. The eight-day adventure should culminate at Outram Ghat on December 12. “Hay is a difficult material to use as it gains a lot of weight once soaked in water and tends to sink... We have 11 people on board, making it heavier. We have run tests and found that the boat will not last much longer than eight days and so we are racing against time to reach Calcutta by then,” said Arshad Ali Mandal, one of sailors who also built the boat. Maintaining time has been a challenge as the boat has been getting stuck in silt. The worst scare was on December 8 around Fulia. “There was an island ahead and we were trying to veer to its left. But the current was too strong and we got dragged to the right. There was so much silt in the water that we got stuck,” said Puspen Samanta, the coxswain and team leader. All 11 sailors got off and tried to push the boat free, in vain. The team is carrying with it a kayak that one of them then rowed to the nearest village to seek help. “But it was getting dark and villagers were reluctant to get in the cold water. We stayed on the boat that night and survived on biscuits and 3litres of drinking water among us,” said Samanta. The next morning, villagers brought them water and muri and helped them push the swan-shaped boat free. The team, however, rues the loss of 22 hours and is now rowing round the clock, hardly sleeping or cooking on the gas they are carrying on board. The team is having to sail through the night, but fog is reducing visibility to about 5m. “We are using Google Earth for navigation but the app isn’t able to caution us about boulders and silt,” said Samanta. “On December 9 we narrowly escaped ramming into an electric pole erected in the waters. A few inches off and we would have sunk like the Titanic.” The expedition has been organised by Jagacha Yuva Sakti, a Santragachhi-based swimming and rowing group and is supported by the Outram Ghat-based Sea Explorers’ Institute. The group has been holding such trips since 2014, using boats made of leaves, empty bottles and fibre to navigate rivers and even the sea once to reach the Andamans. Their intention is to raise awareness about keeping the waters clean and this year, also about Covid safety protocols. “The amount of plastic in the water was marginally less this year, but people still use the river as a dustbin,” said Aseem Mandal, who is maintaining a logbook of the bio-diversity and socio-economic conditions they witness. “Every day we are seeing between 20 and 40 carcasses of cows, dogs, goats, ducks and chickens floating in the water.” Aseem is an instructor at the National Disaster Response Force. All others on board are seasoned mountain climbers or water sports enthusiasts. Rudra Prasad Halder has conquered the Everest and Kanchenjungha, Tapas Chowdhury is recipient of the Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award (for water adventure). The team also has a lady member, Keka Jana. “I have participated in several kayaking and rafting expeditions and have the fitness required to match the men. It’s a strenuous journey but I’m enjoying it,” says the 40-year-old swimming trainer. The 65ft x 7ft boat, on its 350km voyage, is enduring much wear and tear. The team has been cutting leaves from trees in the jungles and replacing the damaged portions of the structure. They are using solar panels to charge their phones and lights and have cordoned off a corner in the boat to use as a toilet. The waste will be treated and disposed later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-209
