13-12-2020||Calcutta||Recognition of grit of students||A list of the awardees at the IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College The Caring Minds Award for a ‘School that Cares’ Special mention (for handling the pandemic) Calcutta Rescue: Distributed smartphones among slum children Adamas World School: Provided a part of its Barasat campus to set up a quarantine centre Joint winners Antyodoy Ashram: Home to 78 children, orphans or children of single parents incapable of bringing them up Batighar Pathshala: School for 56 children, mostly from slums and footpaths Don Bosco School, Liluah: Host of welfare activities like teaching girls over 14 years for free and conducting night schools The Somak Dutta Endowment Award Moner Unmesh: A school for tribal children, mostly first-generation learners, in Garbeta, West Midnapore. The mud building of the school was damaged by Cyclone Fani (2019) and razed by Cyclone Amphan in May this year The Anand Paul Memorial Award for Social Service Chowringhee High School St Joseph’s School, North Point The Ambuja Neotia Award for Excellence in Maintenance and Eco-Friendly Initiatives Adamas World School Tribeni Tissues Vidyapith Scholarships, Section 1 Dr. Ashin Dasgupta Memorial Scholarship Rhichick Dey: South Point High School Lakshmipat Singhania Education Foundation Scholarship Jyoti Mardi: Maladang Koherakuri Bangshidhar Uchcha Vidyalaya, Birbhum Dr Amiya Kumar Bose Memorial Scholarship Indrajit Roy Laskar: Haldibari Uchha Madhyamik Vidyalaya The Late Debaprasad Das Purkayastha Memorial Scholarship Santanu Dutta: Malpar Vivekananda Sikshaniketan, West Midnapore Hariyana Vidyamandir Scholarship Jhumi Debnath: Ranaghat Nasra Girls High School, Nadia The Bansari Saha and Late Malay Saha Scholarship Prerna Rana: Belda Gangadhar Academy, West Midnapore The Sonika Chauhan Award for Courage Yubasana Kapa: Gokhale Memorial Girls’ School Susmita Sarkar: National High School Hazra Road Campus (The Sonika Chauhan 27 Foundation Scholarship) The Surrendra Paul Memorial Award for Courage Aaditya Kumar Agarwal: MC Kejriwal Vidyapeeth Arkojit Mukherjee: Union Chapel School Kinkini Chatterjee: Lakshmipat Singhania Academy Ronit Adhikary: Calcutta Public School Kalikapur (also winner of the Tarun Kumar Sinha Memorial Scholarship) Sk Muhemin Ali: Saifee Golden Jubilee English Public School Sumit Kumar Lal: National High School, Hazra Road Campus (also winner of the Chittajit De Memorial Scholarship) Soumili Hor: The Assembly of God Church School, Park Street (Died on September 17. Diagnosed with a degenerative neurological disease in Class VI, for which she struggled to move even with crutches. She attended school regularly despite her numerous health issues) The IIHM Award for Excellence in Academics CBSE: Lakshmipat Singhania Academy ICSE and ISC: The Heritage School Madhyamik and HS: GB Memorial Institution The Madanlal Dhandhania Charitable Trust Award for Academic Excellence by a Student Special honour Auhona Mukherjee: Delhi Public School Megacity (Humanities stream) Subham Ghosh: DAV Model School, Durgapur (Science stream) Yamini Chetani: Mahadevi Birla World Academy (Commerce stream) Joint winners Sreemanti Dey: Delhi Public School Ruby Park Utsav Basu: South Point High School Scholarships, Section II The Delhi Public School Megacity Scholarship Prabir Mukherjee: Malpar Vivekananda Sikshaniketan, West Midnapore The Admissiontree Scholarship Kajal Das: Paschim Barisha Kamala Vidyamandir The Tarinidas Roy and The Pratibha Roy Memorial Scholarship Piyali Nayak: AK Mitra Institution, Dhakuria The Mayukh Mitter Memorial Scholarship Debanjan Sarkar: Ashokenagar Boys Secondary School, North 24-Parganas The Capt. Sanjib Sen and Mrs Suchitra Sen Memorial Scholarship Barsha Mandal: Kanaknagar SD Institution, Hingalganj, North 24-Parganas The Bhawanipur Education Society College Award for an Educationist Chhaya Biswas: She started at Loreto Day School Bowbazar in 1955 as a teacher, worked in several other schools and more than six decades later, she is still guiding students and this time in online mode. Ratan Chandra Dhara: The teacher of Bonbibitala High School (HS) writes skits to raise awareness against child marriage. Dipak Roy Chowdhury: He uses magic to teach sciences and mathematics at Niva Ananda Vidyalaya, Brahmapur, Garia. Special mention Theo Baker. Now in her 90s, she was associated with many schools as a care-giver to underprivileged children. The Dr Mrs NB O’Brien Memorial Lifetime Achievement Award for a Teacher Mukta Nain: The director of Birla High Schools has been in the field of education for more than three decades and believes in providing all-round education to students. Nazirah Ganjee: The former teacher of La Martiniere for Girls, both “strict and soft”, has involved herself with various occasions like Founders’ Day, Sports Day and Children’s Day. Grace Williams: The teacher at Loreto Convent Entally, also a social worker, has instilled the Loreto values in her students. The Abhirup Bhadra Memorial ‘Thank You Baba-Ma Award’ Rehana Sardar: A single mother of three children in a middle-class family, she took up a job after her husband abandoned them and is bringing up her daughters. One of the daughters, Mehdiya Binte Aftab, of Jewish Girls’ School, received The Dr Krishna Roy Scholarship. Sunil Sharma and Mamta Sharma: They have never let their hard times impact their daughter’s education. Sunil Sharma lost his job a few years back, got a part-time job but met with an accident. Mamta Sharma does a part-time tailoring job. Daughter Anjali Sharma, of St John's Diocesan Girls' Higher Secondary School, received The Saradindu Sen & Indira Sen Memorial Scholarship. Kalyan Adhya and Rupa Adhya: Rupa had to sell a kidney to make ends meet and pay for the treatment of son Acharya, who had a rare disease. Acharya received The Indu Basu & Pritish Chandra Basu Memorial Scholarship. Abhijit Sarkar and Late Mandira Sarkar Chakraborty: The couple’s son, Arkodeep of St Luke's Day School, has scored 96 per cent in ISC. His mother, who passed away last year, played a significant role in guiding him in academics and music. The Kalyan Bharati Trust Award for All-Round Excellence Joint winners Dhruv Banka, of La Martiniere for Boys, scored 94 per cent in ISC. He is a debater and a cricketer, and his social work includes conducting food drives Acharya Adhya, of Abhinav Bharati High School, has fought a disease in childhood, excelled in academics and also in rifle shooting and other sports. The Adamas University Award for Outstanding Talent in Sports Special Honour Shreyas Bahadur Shah, of St Joseph's School North Point, for volleyball, basketball and athletics. Winner Aronyak Ghosh, of South Point High School, an international master who has been playing chess since he was nine The Balrampur Chini Mills Award for Outstanding Talent Nilav Bose (photography): Don Bosco School, Liluah Shivam Agarwal (space technology): Lakshmipat Singhania Academy The Anirban Sinha Award for Outstanding Talent in Music Sagnik Sen: South Point High School Shreyan Bhattacharya: DAV Public School, Midnapore The Shining Star Honour Suchandan Ghosh: K. Carmel School, Sarisha Usha Mondal: Calcutta Public School Kalikapur Mira Das: Silver Point School Biswajit Mazumder: Bhavan's Gangabux Kanoria Vidyamandir Satyabrata Kayal: Gems Akademia International School The Telegraph Education Foundation Award for Excellence in Extra Curricular Activities Joint winners Lakshmipat Singhania Academy South Point High School The Telegraph School of The Year The Heritage School Delhi Public School Megacity Suborno Bose Chairman and CEO, IIHM We are very proud and privileged to be a part of The Telegraph School Awards for the past four years. I would like to congratulate the entire The Telegraph Education Foundation for providing support to students for the past 25 years and this is something that nobody has done. I also want to thank every teacher for their selfless service  towards educating children during the Covid-19 pandemic. Miraj D. Shah Vice-chairman, The Bhawanipur Education Society College Stepping into 25 years is a huge thing for any programme and the fact that The Telegraph Education Foundation has been helping students all along is just amazing. The sheer number of students’ lives it has touched is incredible. We can only wish all the best and want this programme to grow even bigger and better. Barry O’Brien Trustee, The Telegraph Education Foundation Twenty-five years is a long time and over this time period some of us have doubled or tripled our chins. However, The Telegraph School Awards has grown in strength and we are grateful to those who stood by rock solid at our side. Amitabha Datta Chairman, The Telegraph Education Foundation The Telegraph School Awards has become extremely popular over the past 25 years not only in the city but all over the state and it is extremely heartening for us. The programme that we had started 25 years ago has transformed the lives of many young children as it helped them pursue their educational endeavours despite their problems and we are grateful to all the individuals, corporates, schools as well as the teachers who have all made it possible for us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
13-12-2020||Calcutta||Twenty-five years of stories of triumph against odds||A Hindu youth with a rare blood group travelled 450km from Ahmedabad to donate blood for a little Muslim girl. When asked whether he would like to meet her, the man replied: “She could be Hindu or Muslim or Sikh or Isai, I am just a human being.” Dhiren Pithiya, the youth, came to Calcutta to give away the courage awards at the inaugural edition in 1996. 2020: A 17-year-old, the son of a farmer in a West Midnapore village, has since childhood been loading his father’s broken cycle trolley with potatoes and travelling six miles, selling them and returning home before going to school. Santanu Dutta, who lives in a thatched house, scored 91.4 per cent in Madhyamik and received a scholarship on Saturday. Calcutta: IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence  2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College has traversed 25 years and stories of triumph against odds and conviction against fate have kept emerging through the quarter of a century. Forced by the pandemic, the award ceremony moved from the stage to the virtual platform this year. Though one could not hear the thunderous applause online, there were many who sat through the show moist-eyed — not just in Calcutta but across the world. “Twenty-five years is a long time and today we would be celebrating and we would be looking back for strength, we could be looking back to draw from the past and look ahead for the next 25 years with confidence,” said Barry O’Brien, a trustee of The Telegraph Education Foundation who hosted the 180-minute programme. “An extraordinary spectacle,” was how Manmohan Singh described the ceremony when he came to give away the awards in 2003, a few months before becoming the Prime Minister. At Saturday’s event, Santanu Dutta received The Late Debaprasad Das Purkayastha Memorial Scholarship for carrying on despite financial hardship. Acharya Adhya of Abhinav Bharati High School, who got The Indu Basu & Pritish Chandra Basu Memorial Scholarship, has been fighting a physical challenge. Acharya was diagnosed with transverse myelitis — an inflammation of both sides of a section of the spinal cord — in childhood and remained paralysed for more than a year. His treatment expenses forced his mother to sell a kidney to make ends meet. Acharya fought his circumstances to top Class X from DPS Howrah and secure the third position in Class XII from Abhinav Bharati. He is now a medical student. Kalyan and Rupa Adhya, parents from Calcutta, received The Abhirup Bhadra Memorial “Thank You Baba-Ma” Award. Sumit Kumar Lal, a Class XI student of National High School, Hazra Road campus, received The Surrendra Paul Memorial Award for Courage and The Chittajit De Memorial Scholarship for pursuing studies while working as a Rapido captain. “Working is a necessity for me, else I won’t be able to continue my studies,” said the Class XI student, whose father is a driver by profession. Sumit had to work even during the pandemic, delivering food, to fund his education. The school awards honour not just students, who are the “VIPs”, but also teachers, non-teaching staff and schools. “Magic Sir” Dipak Roy Chowdhury, who teaches mathematics and sciences at Niva Ananda Vidyalaya at Brahmapur through magic, received The Bhawanipur Education Society College Award for an Educationist. He has been using the technique even when classes are being held remotely during the pandemic. Among the awardees over the years are “kiptey mastermoshai (miser teacher)” Ashutosh Sheet of Kakdwip Primary School, who lived frugally all his life and saved around Rs 10 lakh to build a primary school at his village; and Yaesin Pathan, a peon at Pathra post office in West Midnapore, who has made it “his mission to save six ancient terracotta Hindu temples from vandals and extinction”. Pathan was a special guest of honour in the 2002 ceremony. The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence gave full monetary grant to him to compile and print his book, which led the Archaeological Survey of India to take note of his mission and sanction Rs 20 lakh to save the temples. On Saturday, Nilav Bose, a former student of Don Bosco School, Liluah, was among the winners of Balrampur Chini Mills Award for Outstanding Talent for photography. He has recently worked in Project Bismillah (helmed by BBC photojournalist Kounteya Sinha), documenting Chillai-Kalan, the 40-day period of harsh winter in Kashmir after the scrapping of its special status. The Heritage School and Delhi Public School Megacity received The Telegraph School of the Year. Moner Unmesh, a 600sq ft school for first-generation learners in West Midnapore, was the winner of The Somak Dutta Endowment Award. The school, founded in 2017 by Aloke Kumar Das, will use the prize money to rebuild its 15x15sq ft classroom that was razed by Cyclone Amphan in May. O’Brien said that The Telegraph Education Foundation in a small way changed people’s lives by motivating them. “We actually have been doubly and greatly motivated and inspired by them since 1996,” said O’Brien. It has indeed inspired many. Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, which has turned 25, has donated Rs 99,000 to The Telegraph Education Foundation. Eleven teachers of the school, who do not want to be named, have contributed another Rs 1,10,000 to the foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
13-12-2020||Calcutta||IIEST sets rules for digital examination||The BTech students of the IIEST will get 45 minutes to write their mid-semester papers and 15 minutes to upload the scanned copies of their answer scripts, failing which the scripts will not be evaluated, an official of the Shibpur institute said. The examinations of the third, fifth and seventh semesters will be held from December 21 to 28 on a digital platform. IIEST has decided against on-campus tests for now because students and teachers are wary of visiting the institute amid the Covid pandemic. A notice signed by deputy registrar (academic) Nirmallya Bhattacharya says: “The duration of each examination shall be 45 minutes excluding a maximum time of 15 minutes for uploading a scanned copy of the answer script. After examination, the student shall upload the scanned copy of the answer scripts in Google Classroom, for that maximum 15 minutes shall be allowed. Any answer script submitted late shall not be evaluated”. The examinees will be sent questions over Google Classroom a couple of minutes before the start of the test. The institute had considered on-campus tests to ensure transparency. But as students and teachers wanted to avoid assembly as a precaution against Covid-19, the institute dropped the idea. IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said that although some NITs were assessing students in semester exams by giving home assignments, they settled for a time-bound test. While writing the papers, the students will have to switch on their webcams or mobile cameras. “Since we cannot hold on-campus tests, we are trying to hold the exams in a time-bound manner to ensure transparency. The questions are being set in a manner that if a student has not studied the chapter in detail, he or she won’t be able to write in 45 minutes. Searching the answers on the internet or taking help of a book won’t help,” said Chakrabarti. According to him, if assignments are sent home, it is difficult to assess whether the student has taken someone else’s help to complete it. The institute will hold its convocation on January 30 in virtual mode as it does not want to risk any physical assembly amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
13-12-2020||Calcutta||Dad, child fall from terrace at Parnasree||A 44-year-old man and his one-and-a half-year old daughter fell from the terrace of a four-storey building while playing, causing instant death of the father. The child, who has no apparent external injury mark, is suspected to have suffered internal injuries and has been admitted at SSKM Hospital in an unconscious state, police said. Subhas Chandra Panda, a resident of Baishalakshmitala Road at Parnasree, was a railway employee. Investigators said the father of two was playing with the little girl with a ball when they fell off the terrace. “A plastic ball has been found on the terrace. The man had fallen around two feet from the child. From the position of his body on the ground and the way the child fell, it looks like the man was carrying the child in his arms when he lost balance and fell over the parapet,” said an officer of Parnasree police station. The incident happened around 11.35am when a fruit vendor in front of the building heard a loud thud and found Panda lying a few feet away, near the boundary wall of the building. “His head was completely smashed. He was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where he was declared dead,” an investigator said. A search was launched for the child, who was spotted lying unconscious on the other side of the wall. Police officers who visited the spot said the parapet was only two-and-a-half-feet high. No evidence of any third person having been present on the terrace when the two fell emerged till Saturday evening. Apart from the daughter, Panda leaves behind his wife and a 13-year-old son. Panda’s body has been sent for post-mortem. An unnatural death case has been registered at Parnasree police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
13-12-2020||Calcutta||Actress  Arya Banerjee died after ‘falling from bed’||Actress Arya Banerjee possibly died after falling from her bed, a preliminary investigation by police suggests. The investigators, however, were yet to know the exact cause of death of Arya, also known as Devdutta. They are probing other aspects, including why the door of the terrace was left open when all other doors were closed. The body of Arya, daughter of late classical sitarist Nikhil Banerjee, was found on the second floor of her house in Jodhpur Park on Friday. She lived alone. The cops have found some prescriptions of drugs in the name of the 35-year-old that are used to treat Hepatitis-B. Her room was littered with blood-stained papers napkins. The police said she did not visit any doctor but went on drinking heavily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
13-12-2020||Calcutta||Convocation medal on tray at RKM, Belur||About 200 graduating students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira came to the Belur campus on Saturday afternoon to collect their degree certificates at a convocation that was held adhering to all Covid-19 protocols. As the degree recipients stepped on the campus wearing masks, their body temperature was measured with thermal scanners. Rows of foot-operated sanitiser dispensers were put up from the entrance to the campus. The degree recipients (undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD) were split into two groups — one group attended the convocation in Vivekananda Sabhagriha and the other in AshaJyoti Conference Hall. This was done to ensure maximum possible physical distance among the attendees. Inside the halls, too, adequate distance was maintained among those present. Before entering the venue, each recipient collected a scarf from the reception desk. The scarves were distributed by student volunteers wearing masks and gloves. Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of Vidyamandira, which has featured among the top 11 institutions in the National Institutional Ranking Framework over the past three years, said they took special care while honouring the medal recipients. “As they came on the dais, the medal and the books were given on a plastic tray. In previous years the medals would be placed around the neck of the recipients and the books on their hands. This year we avoided the traditional practice to comply with the Covid protocol,” he told Metro. The degree certificates were handed to the students from a designated counter in a staggered way in an open space outside the halls. The chairs and tables on the dais were placed at a considerable distance from one another. Pravin Srivastava, a former chief statistician of India, delivered the convocation address virtually. The two-hour ceremony, which started at noon, was live streamed on YouTube so that the family members who could not attend the event because of the pandemic got a feel of it. “This year we did not allow the degree recipients to be accompanied by family members as a precaution against Covid. We hope they got a feel of the event on the digital platform,” said an official of the college. Unlike previous years, the recipients this year were not allowed to put up at hostels on the campus. ’’No one was allowed in the hostels, which are empty because the students are all home and are attending classes on digital platforms because of the pandemic,’’ said a college teacher. Calcutta University’s pro-vice-chancellor for academic affairs, Ashis Chatterjee, called out the names of the degree recipients seated in the halls. Swami Divyananda, the secretary of the college, said in his address: “Dear boys – never forget that it is to this glorious educational lineage that you belong. So you can well imagine the responsibility that you would be carrying to prove your worth as the alumnus of this institute. In other words, have you become a morally responsible person in the truest sense of the term? If yes, you’ve jus-tified your stay in this noble institution for the last few years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
13-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid takes heavy toll but still they dared to dream||The pandemic took away their fathers, pushing their families into deeper poverty. But it could not take away their dreams. Class VI student Kajal Das, daughter of a vegetable vendor who passed away a couple of months ago, continues to spend a long time every day, rain or shine, running on a patch of land in her Behala neighbourhood. She wants to realise her ambition of becoming an athlete. Debanjan Sarkar, a roadside hawker’s son who lost his father to Covid days before the NEET, and was himself afflicted with the coronavirus, still cracked the all-India exam. Both of them were awarded scholarships on Saturday at the IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2020, 25th Edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College. After Kajal’s father died, the last rites had to be deferred because she needed to go to her school, Paschim Barisha Kamala Vidyamandir, to collect the rice and vegetables being disbursed to students in lieu of the midday meal during the pandemic. What Kajal calls home is a roof of plastic sheets and a tattered tin shed, supported by bamboo poles, at a slum in Sakherbazar. The house lacks a toilet, and electricity is a distant dream. Till the pandemic killed her father, Kajal used to accompany him to a nearby market to sell vegetables. But already a flame had been lit in January when she took part as a sprinter in an inter-district school competition and clocked impressive timings. The dream of becoming a professional  athlete was born, and it drives her on amid the gloom around. On Saturday, Kajal was awarded the Admissiontree Scholarship. “She knows she has to fight in order not to sink into the darkness of society. We salute her fighting spirit,” said Barry O’Brien, a key initiator of the Awards Ceremony, who anchored the event for the 25th consecutive time. Debanjan’s father too was his family’s sole breadwinner, earning about Rs 4,000 a month till the pandemic robbed him of even that meagre income. Then, in the run-up to the all-India medical entrance exam, Covid-19 struck another blow, infecting both father and son and killing the father. Debanjan, a resident of Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas who studied at the Asokenagar Boys’ Secondary School, had never let poverty hold him back, scoring 97 per cent in the Madhyamik and 96 per cent in his higher secondary exams. But he had never faced odds like this before. “I had to clear the test. I had to become a doctor because it was my father’s dream,” Debanjan, who won the Mayukh Mitter Memorial Scholarship on Saturday, told The Telegraph. Debanjan is now a first-year MBBS student at Calcutta Medical College. If individuals like Kajal and Debanjan refused to be cowed down by the pandemic, institutions too rose to the challenge. After the outbreak, the Adamas World School offered a part of its Barasat campus to the state government’s Covid-19 effort. The Nilgunj Road campus was transformed into a quarantine centre for 900 people between April 3 and mid-July, also housing several physicians and trained nurses. The campus catered to the needs of North 24-Parganas. “We all need to help the government by providing either finance or infrastructure. We are all ready to face the situation together,” Samit Ray, the chancellor of Adamas University, had said. He had also contributed Rs 10 lakh to a Covid relief fund. Calcutta Rescue, an NGO that works with slum children, distributed 50 smartphones in 10 slums. Around 300 children are using the phones by rotation to attend online classes. The NGO has provided the children with Wi-Fi connections and is helping them with digital learning. Both Calcutta Rescue and the Adamas World School received special certificates for handling the pandemic under the Caring Minds Award for a “School That Cares”. The Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, Alipore, was joint winner of The Telegraph Education Foundation Award for Excellence in Extra Curricular Activities. The school had contributed Rs 870,000, collected from the management, staff and parents, to the state relief fund in support of those affected by Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-208
