14-12-2020||Calcutta||Trafficking: boys as vulnerable as girls||Adolescent boys are as vulnerable to trafficking as girls, said activists and others trying to prevent human trafficking. Boys are trafficked to work as bonded labourers in jewellery units, zari workshops and massage parlours, and also to peddle drugs, the activists said. Most of the victims are tempted to take up the offers because of financial constraints at home. They are forced to work for 12 hours a day and are paid peanuts or nothing at all, said a senior official of International Justice Mission, an NGO involved in prevention of child trafficking and rescue of victims. Last year, the NGO with the help of Chennai police had rescued 61 boys from a jewellery factory there. Among the boys, 44 were minors and 33 from South 24-Parganas. Activists stressed the need to make boys more aware of the dangers and their vulnerability. Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre, a wing of the Loreto Congregation in South Asia, has decided to start a youth group that will track boys in Basirhat, North 24-Parganas, as a precautionary step against trafficking. The centre has been working with girls in Diamond Harbour and Canning since 2015. “When we were holding mass awareness programmes in schools, we found that boys were equally vulnerable. They drop out and are sent away to help the family tide over financial crisis,” said Sister Monica Suchiang, the director of the Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre. At a recent webinar, the organisation announced that a youth group would be formed to track boys in Basirhat. “The boys are unsafe because there are people in their neighbourhoods, and sometimes in their extended families, who target them,” said Sister Suchiang. The one hurdle the centre faces is unavailability of hostels to keep the boys. “In order to prevent them from being trafficked, they have to be kept in hostels, but such facilities for boys are mostly not available,” the sister said. The head of the child rights commission in the state stressed the need for more awareness programmes targeting boys. “For a balanced society, one needs to sensitise boys as much as girls. The boys are vulnerable and they are also used for drug trafficking,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Saji Philip, the director of operations of International Justice Mission, said the Covid pandemic had increased the vulnerability of adolescent boys. “Trafficking of boys is prevalent and it is a trend that should concern us. They are mostly taken for forced labour in jewellery units because their fingers help in precision work. They are made to work for 12 to 14 hours with only half-a-day off on Sunday. In some places, they are not even paid… until they become experts in their respective fields,” Philip said. Social activist Rishi Kant, who is part of the NGO Shakti Vahini, said boys were made to work in diamond and zari units. “Keeping boys as labourers works for them because they can be made to work for longer hours than girls and also made to live in dingy places. Inter-state collaboration needs to be strengthened to control this,” said Kant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta students extend help to Piyali girls||Students of a city school travelled nearly 30km carrying with them exercise books and sanitary napkins for adolescent girls and teenagers of a school at Piyali in South 24-Parganas, many of whose parents’ livelihood has been hit by the pandemic. The idea is not just to give but also to expose urban students to the lives of teenagers of their age and initiate them into “philanthropy”, the seeds of which have to be sown while they are still young, said the head of an NGO that conducted the programme. The students of The BSS School, in association with Pukaar, an NGO that works in rural areas, primarily with women and girls, reached out to 70-odd girls between 10 and 20. While the students provided sanitary pads for six months, Pukaar provided exercise books, stationery and basic hygiene items like toothbrush and toothpaste. Three girls from The BSS School and a few of their teachers and the principal spent some hours at Piali Ashar Alo, a school at Piyali village that had started in 2008 to provide education to underprivileged children. Fathers of most of the girls in the school are masons, agricultural labourers or van-rickshaw pullers. Mothers are mostly homemakers or domestic workers. “The pandemic has detached some students of Piyali from education. Online classes are not that easy for them as it is for the children in urban areas,” said Samriddhi Guha Thakurta, a Class XI student of The BSS School. Swati Gautam, the managing trustee of Pukaar, said the Piyali girls had been given sanitary pads and exercise books because they needed them the most. “Parents would cut down on hygiene and school stationery during tough times. Students can still share text books but they need exercise books to continue studies. In many families girls’ education is considered dispensable,” said Gautam. Anup Gayen, the founder of Piali Ashar Alo, said the pandemic had made the situation more difficult for many families and it was tough to keep the girls engaged in studies at a time when classes were being held online. “Not all of them have smartphones. We try to conduct classes for those who have smartphones and provide photocopies of the chapters covered to others,” said Gayen. The journey and the experience will also teach the city girls to be grateful for what they have, said Sunita Sen, the principal of The BSS School. “Despite the pandemic and the problems, one can get a different perspective of life. One has to struggle to get basic things like sanitary pads and exercise books and they should be grateful for what they have,” Sen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta steps out to enjoy winter Sunday||⚫Children throwing frisbees on the lawns of Eco Park, in New Town. ⚫Families enjoying picnics at Alipore zoo, Nicco Park in Salt Lake and Eco Park. The mild winter sun made the weather pleasant on Sunday and people made a beeline for places such as Eco Park, Alipore zoo and Nicco Park. Although the crowds were nowhere close to what these places witnessed around this time last year, the count was significantly more than what it was a month ago. Most of last week saw a dense fog for the better part of the morning and the weather was gloomy. On Saturday and Sunday, the weather was perfect for spending time outdoors and people made most of it. The weather will remain pleasant over the next few days. Kashmir received a fresh bout of snowfall this weekend. The cold northwesterly winds from the Valley are set to reach Calcutta over the next couple of days. “The speed of northwesterly winds is gradually increasing. From December 16-17, the intensity of the winds will go further up and drag the mercury below 15 degrees,” said a Met official. Here is what The Telegraph saw in the city’s hotspots on Sunday. The 480-acre park in New Town with a 113-acre water body in the middle was abuzz since Sunday morning. The crowd peaked around 4pm. As the evening progressed, the stretch of Major Arterial Road leading to the park had quite a bit of traffic, reminiscent of the days when the road would have bumper-to-bumper vehicles in the evening, prompting police to deploy additional force in front of the park. On Sunday, more than 16,000 people had visited the park. Many settled down on the park's ground and around the waterbody and ate. Before the pandemic, the weekend footfall at the park would not be less than 20,000, said an official. Namrata Choudhury, a resident of Phoolbagan who came to the park with a group of friends, said they were tired of being cooped up at home and decided to have the season’s first picnic at Eco Park. “We decided to come here and have lunch. We also brought our badminton rackets,” Choudhury said. The zoo had a mix of people of all ages waiting in front of the ticket counters. The promenade outside the zoo resembled its old self with hawkers selling peanuts, soft drinks and toys, while fast food stalls had their usual share of crowds. Inside the zoo, people of all ages were spotted having a good time, heading out to see their favourite animals. The enclosure of the tiger and the enclosure of the chimpanzees were the top crowd pullers. An official of the zoo said they had a footfall of more than 15,000 on Sunday. Before the pandemic, on weekends, the footfall would be around 45,000, said an official. According to the official, the crowd has been growing since November, when the average weekend footfall was around 5,000. The Salt Lake amusement park had a steady stream of visitors on Sunday. An official of the park said the day’s footfall — nearly 2,000 — was quite encouraging for the employees. Pre-pandemic days, the footfall would be around 15,000 on weekends. The rides and the food court were among the top draws. “The crowd is going up steadily every weekend and we are quite excited as things are finally looking up,” said Abhijit Dutta, the MD and CEO of Nicco Park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Tallah bridge rail nod hope brightens||The railways might this week give clearance for construction of a stretch of the Tallah bridge that will come up over train tracks, officials involved in the project said on Sunday. Metro had on December 6 reported that work on erecting six of the 18 piers of the new Tallah bridge, which will come up between train tracks, was yet to start because the railways had not provided the necessary approval for the use of its land. A joint inspection involving officials of the state public works department (PWD), railways and Larsen and Toubro, the private company hired to build the bridge, was held on Saturday. Sources said the matter of pending permission from the railways was discussed among the officials. “We have received the general arrangement drawing (GAD). It will be approved and sent to the PWD soon,” the spokesperson for Eastern Railway said on Sunday. “The permission from the railways is expected to come this week,” a PWD official said during the day. The old Tallah bridge, which was a crucial link between Calcutta and the northern fringes, was pulled down a few months ago because it had worn out so much that engineers feared the structure could collapse any moment. The 240-metre stretch of the 750-metre-long Tallah bridge will stand over railway tracks. An engineer of the PWD said work on building the foundation and piers had started, barring the stretch for which the railways’s permission is required. “Six piers and five spans will come up along the 240-metre-long tract owned by the railways. The piers will be built on the railway land, besides tracks,” said a senior PWD engineer. “There are a total of 18 piers and we have started work on building 12 piers. After the railways gives its approval to begin construction on its land, we can start work on building foundations and piers beside the railway tracks,” said the engineer. The new bridge will cost the state government Rs 350 crore. The government will have to make an additional payment to the railways for using its land. The state government had blamed the railways for the delay in completion of the Majerhat bridge. While inaugurating the Majerhat bridge earlier this month, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said: “It is not that I am against the railways. I have been a railway minister and I know the rules. I am not blaming the officers or the department. I will blame the leaders who pull the strings from Delhi.” Construction of the Tallah bridge began in July and the deadline for completion of the project is February 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Students go online for fun||Birla High School Junior Section This year, teachers at Birla High School junior section tried to celebrate the Children’s Day in a different way to make the occasion special for the students and demonstrate the fact that they might not be in the same physical space but they were connected digitally. The programme commenced with a prayer song followed by a welcome address by headmistress Farida Singh. From dance preparations, ensemble performances to fashion shows, a plethora of events was live-streamed by teachers for students. Students were regaled with videos of teachers playing the mouthorgan, singing melodious tunes and presenting thoughtful messages. They celebrated with much enthusiasm and excitement from the comfort of their homes. “As students look forward to this day each year, we obviously did not want to disappoint them on this occasion. My teachers came together like always and planned a brilliant show for the students. The highlight of this special day was a video, where the teachers danced to the song, We’re all in this together, as it was shot in school and it gave the children a virtual tour of their beloved school that they were missing so much!” said headmistress Farida Singh. Asian International School Bollywood actor Jimmy Shergill interacted with students of Asian International School at a programme recently held online to mark the Children’s Day, in association with Young Metro. From doling out advice to mouthing a dialogue from his hit film Tanu Weds Manu, Shergill kept the children entertained. “We should not try to follow others, but carve out our own path and destiny. Fight your battles your way. It’s your life and your time zone. Don’t waste it by trying to be someone else,” said the actor to his virtual audience. According to him, who connected from a film set, his childhood memories especially the ones at school are his best. The students were also taken on a virtual tour of their school compund to relive the happier times. The teachers also put up a humorous play on online classes and its hurdles. “Stay happy and curious always. You teach us to be optimistic even in the most difficult situations,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. Birla High School, Mukundapur Birla High School, Mukundapur, has decided to provide some “we time” to the students of Class III onwards. Owing to which, once a week for 40 minutes, students are meeting in Google classroom without any adult supervision, so that they can freely interact with their friends which they used to do during recess or in-between classes when online mode of education was not in practice. “We found that children were missing being with their friends. So, we wrote to parents about this venture and after their approval, we started it. We are happy to receive positive feedback both from parents and children about this,” said principal Minnie Sengupta. Headmistress Hira Prasad said: “This enterprise would enable new students to bond with the class which helps them to adapt to the new surroundings.” Lakshmipat Singhania Academy Student achievers were awarded and a cultural programme was staged as part of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy’s 25th Founder’s Day celebrations recently held online. The chief guest for the occasion was Nakul Parashar, the director of Vigyan Prasar. The school choir began with a welcome song followed by the prize distribution. The Principal Award winners in different categories included Pranav Chowdhury, Shrishti Maheshwari, Pratham Gupta and Varun Choraria from Class XII, Ashlesha Bhagat, Priyanshi Saraogi and Kanishk Mehta from Class XI and Udayveer Agarwal from Class IX. Students of classes V to XI presented a drama, Wings of Change, that was a punch of four different stories on various aspects of life. It celebrated both the modern times as well as the bygone eras. Meena Kak, the director of the school, said: “Students need to build their RQ or resilience quotient, along with their intelligence quotient and emotional quotient for the future.” Nava Nalanda High School Nava Nalanda High School has not only been taking online classes since the start of the lockdown, they have also organised terminal examinations for all the classes. The system of taking the examinations has been very different from what it used to be. Question papers were uploaded in online groups beforehand and the students sat for the examinations under the online surveillance of the teachers. For the outgoing batch of the higher secondary, multiple choice questions were uploaded to help them prepare for the competitive examinations. The students gave the examinations online and the results got uploaded on the same day. However, principal Arijit Mitra feels: “This online teaching is just a stop-gap solution to the crisis. It can never be even a 50 per cent substitute of the normal classroom teaching.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Mechanics fall off balcony, three injured in Behala||Two mechanics were injured after they fell off a balcony on the top floor of a four-storey building in Behala while fitting an iron grille on Sunday afternoon, police said. A vegetable vendor was injured, too, as the two landed on his makeshift stall. Police said the accident happened around 1.30pm, when Bhola Shah, 45, and Dilip Das, 58, were fixing a grille on the balcony of a fourth-floor flat in Nilanjana Apartment on Diamond Harbour Road. “The flat was undergoing renovation. The mechanics who were fitting the grille on the balcony possibly slipped and fell,” said an officer of Behala police station. Residents of the area said the mechanics were lucky because their fall was broken by the bamboo roof of the vegetable stall. Or else they would have landed on the concrete and suffered far serious injuries. The greengrocer who was injured was Rashmoni Panja, 55, the police said. All three have been admitted to hospital. “The findings of a preliminary investigation suggests that the fall was accidental. We will find out whether they were wearing safety belts and helmets. No complaint has been lodged till now,” the officer said. A man riding a motorbike got injured after he lost control over the vehicle and hit a lamppost on Julpia Road in Haridevpur minutes past Saturday midnight, police said. Rajen Ghosh, 32, a  of Haridevpur, has been admitted to SSKM Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Private tech colleges seek consent to admit non-JEE students||The association of private engineering colleges in Bengal has appealed to the state government for permission to admit students who did not write any common entrance exam, a move that sources said has been prompted by a staggering number of vacant seats. The Association of Professional Academic Institutions said a section of Plus-II board students could not write the JEE this year because the exam was held ahead of the usual schedule. As the JEE board wanted to start admissions early, the test this year was conducted in February instead of April. Of the 34,000-odd BTech seats in private colleges across Bengal, 22,000 remained vacant after the three-phased centralised counselling by the JEE board ended on October 31. Since no more centralised counselling will be held, the state higher education department has allowed the colleges to admit students directly to fill the vacant seats. The colleges have been told to factor in the candidates’ ranks in the JEE (conducted by the Bengal JEE board) and JEE-Main (conducted by the National Testing Agency primarily for admission to the NITs) before selecting them for admission. But the association of private engineering colleges wants even those students who did not write the JEE in February to be considered for admission, on the basis of their Plus-II board exam marks. “With such a dismal status amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, colleges are finding it difficult to sustain…. We appeal to you for immediate action this year, particularly in this pandemic, to allow us to admit students who have not appeared for WBJEE and are without a rank. We request you to ensure sustainability of the self-financed colleges across the state,” the association’s letter to the higher education secretary, Manish Jain, said. “We request you to consider 10+2 students of specific stream in 1st year, as per the AICTE approval process handbook (APH) 2020-21 rules, as eligible this year for admission,” the letter written by Taranjit Singh, the president of the association, said. Singh said if a large number of students whose names figured on the JEE merit list did not take part in the three-phase centralised counselling, there was no point expecting that they would have a change of heart now and be willing to enrol. “Let the non-JEE candidates be given a chance to address the vacancy crisis to some extent,” Singh told The Telegraph. A member of the association said a number of students who cracked the JEE did not appear in the counselling or enrol because shrinking job prospects amid the Covid pandemic made them wary of paying the “steep” tuition fees charged by private colleges. “Luring the non-JEE candidates could be the last ditch attempt,” the member said. A state government order on November 30, which allowed the private engineering colleges to admit students directly, said prospective candidates with a “valid merit rank” in the WBJEE-2020 or the JEE-Main 2020 would be considered for admission. However, those with a merit rank in the WBJEE “shall be given preference”. “Further vacant seats, if any, can be offered for admission to intending diploma holders in engineering and technology as well as BSc passed candidates following the AICTE-20 guideline in the matter,” the order states. An official in the higher education department said the AICTE approval process handbook, which is being cited by the association while pleading for permission to admit students who did not appear in the JEE, did not say anything on whether common admission tests could be bypassed during admission. “Securing a rank in the JEE or JEE-Main is an essential qualification for studying BTech in Bengal…. After deliberation, we will inform the association about our decision,” the official said. The Odisha Private Engineering Colleges' Association (Opeca) had in 2018 submitted a proposal to the state government to allow non-JEE candidates to be admitted in first-year BTech in the 2018-19 academic session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake’s Duttabad residents hear two explosions||Two explosions were heard in Salt Lake’s Duttabad early on Sunday, residents said. The explosions were apparently heard around 2.30am in the neighbourhood, off EM Bypass, where one or two-room houses, many of them shanties, stand cheek by jowl. Nirmal Dutta, a Trinamul leader and the civic coordinator of the ward, said they woke up to the sound of the explosions. “We rushed out of our homes and saw dense smoke rising from a playground and an adjoining street,” said Dutta. He alerted Bidhannagar South police station over the phone and a patrol team was sent to the area. The policemen and some residents went around the locality but failed to track down anyone responsible for the explosions. “We have started an investigation and are looking for traces of explosives,” said the officer. Ward coordinator Dutta alleged that some BJP workers were behind the explosions. BJP leader Sabyasachi Dutta, who was earlier in the Trinamul Congress and had been a mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, said no one from his party had hurled bombs in Duttabad. “It is not even clear whether the explosions really happened or were figments of imagination of the Trinamul ward coordinator and his followers. There is no reason why anybody would hurl bombs in Duttabad at night,” said Dutta, who led a rally in the area on Sunday demanding peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Blind violinist plays to lift mood at the end of gloomy year||Two patients at a Salt Lake hospital were treated to mini private concerts on Saturday. A visually impaired violinist played Rabindrasangeet tunes in their cabins. Indranil Kesh, who suffers from total visual impairment, arrived at ILS Hospitals, Salt Lake, a little before 3pm on Saturday. His first stop was the lobby, where he played the tune of Aamar mukti aaloye aaloye. The audience — a handful of relatives of patients admitted to the non-Covid hospital. Kesh, who represented the Society for the Welfare of the Blind, an NGO, then went to the two cabins. The patient in the first cabin, Pallabi Singha, was admitted earlier in the morning with abdominal pain. Kesh played Aalok er ei jharna dharaye in front of her. “I enjoyed the music. I was in a lot of pain and was stressed in the morning. The pain is much less now. The music lifted my mood,” said Singha, a resident of Khardah, on the northern fringes of the city. Kesh’s second stop was the cabin of Monolita Guha, a Chetla resident who was admitted on Friday evening for gallbladder removal. There, too, he played Aalok er ei jharna dharaye as Guha listened in rapt attention. The mini concerts were organised to mark the World Violin Day on December 13. Kesh has been taking violin lessons since his school days at the Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy in Narendrapur. He is now pursuing a bachelor’s in English literature from Rabindra Bharati University. The youth from Burdwan was part of the school band that performed at several auditoriums in and outside Calcutta. Though deprived of sight, the sense of touch and sound are integral to his music. The V.G. Jog admirer remembers “sweating in panic” the first day he took the stage for a concert at the Ramakrishna Mission centre in Rahara. His favourite raag is Shivranjani. “We are extremely delighted to be able to organise this uniquely conceptualised event for patients and visitors, so that they are able to find some happiness at the end of this rather cumbersome year,” said Debasish Dhar, the group vice-president, ILS Hospitals. Biswajit Ghosh, the secretary of the Society for the Welfare of the Blind, accompanied Kesh to the hospital. “Visually impaired people get help from society. This is a chance of giving something back. This year has been gloomy. Being able to bring some cheer and a smile on the faces of people means a lot to us,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
14-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid patients and kin still pariahs to neighbours||An 89-year-old man and his 74-year-old wife, residents of Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas, had fever and arranged for a visit by a health worker to collect samples for the Covid test. Their help told them that she could not work for them because some neighbours asked her not to. A doctor at a private hospital, who lives in a complex near Garia, had fever for five days but was scared to get a Covid test done fearing ostracisation. She later suffered severe breathlessness and had to be admitted to hospital. Covid patients and their families across the city are still pariahs to a section of neighbours. State government officials, public health experts and social workers said that though the trend of ostracising Covid patients had ebbed, there were pockets in the city and its adjoining areas where neighbours were still creating troubles. The elderly woman at Ashoknagar had mild fever last Sunday. Her husband had sought help from the local Covid Care Network team to get their tests done. Their only daughter stays in Germany. However, last Monday, after a health worker visited their home to collect swab samples, some of the neighbours asked the couple’s domestic help to stop visiting their house, said Pradyut Karmakar, the secretary of the Ashoknagar unit of the Covid Care Network. “The elderly woman is bed-ridden for long. Their daughter called us from Germany seeking help. We arranged for a nurse to provide basic care to them but again, some of the neighbours objected,” said Karmakar. “However, we explained to them that the nurse would not be going to anyone else's house in the locality. After that they agreed.” On Tuesday, the tests came back positive and the couple were admitted to two private hospitals off EM Bypass. In the Garia housing complex, the doctor who had fever did not want to get tested fearing that her neighbours would immediately stop the domestic help and others from visiting her flat. When her condition worsened after five days, she was forced to get admitted to a private hospital off the Bypass, said one of her friends. The CEO of a private hospital said they were still getting Covid patients who were not getting tested fearing social boycott and were turning up at the hospital only after developing complications. “We are seeing a new type of untouchability during the Covid pandemic. Campaigns have been continuing for months against social boycott of Covid patients, but the practice still exists, though on a much reduced scale,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert and mentor of Covid Care Network, a social organisation comprising doctors, government officials and Covid survivors. “Now, it has taken a new and muted form.” In the initial months of the pandemic, there were frequent reports of neighbours barricading houses of Covid patients with bamboo poles. Such inhuman behaviour, Chowdhury and several government officials said, has now reduced. “However, we are getting complaints that neighbours are stopping domestic help, vegetable vendors and newspaper vendors from visiting houses where residents have tested positive for Covid. By doing this the neighbours are harassing the patients and their families and subjecting them to mental torture,” said Chowdhury. “In many cases, no one is able to identify who is preventing visits to patients’ houses because by now everyone is aware that it’s a social crime…. A lack of scientific thinking is triggering such behaviour.” A state government official said the absence of councillors and MLAs in awareness campaigns was responsible for the problem still persisting. In the weeks soon after the Covid outbreak started in Bengal, many elected representatives were taking an active role in spreading awareness about Covid and urging people to cooperate with those suffering from the disease and their families. This newspaper had reported some months ago that a doctor staying in Narendrapur had to seek the help of the police and the local councillor to prevent some neighbours from setting up barricades around her house after news spread that she had tested positive for Covid. The neighbours were also allegedly stopping vegetable vendors from going near the doctor’s house. An official of an agency that provides home health care said the nurses assigned to take care of Covid patients at home were facing rude behaviour from neighbours. "It was mostly happening in residential complexes. The practice has now mostly stopped except in a few places,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-207
