15-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta doctors provide medical aid at Singhu||Ten December nights in a tent. Twelve hours of work a day from a makeshift roadside camp. Meals at langars. The farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders features a team of Calcuttans. Its members carry stethoscopes, not placards. Anshuman Mitra, Mridul Sarkar and Soumyadip Ray, all Calcutta-based doctors and part of the non-profit Medical Service Centre, arrived at the Singhu border on December 2 evening to provide the protesters with medical aid. They were joined by three nurses and four volunteers, all members of their pan-India organisation, from Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi. Every day their camp opened around 9.30am and continued till sundown, treating people for common cold, allergies, upper respiratory tract infections, eye and skin infections and chronic conditions like hypertension and diabetes. After that, the team ran “mobile camps” looking for people in need of medical help. They slept in the portable tent but had to respond to emergency calls through the night. “The agitators welcomed us with open arms. They were very happy that a team from Calcutta had come to stand by their side,” said Sarkar, 43, who returned to Calcutta on Saturday. He added: “Delhi’s harsh winter, smog and pollution were behind the ailments of many. Some others needed treatment after facing water cannons, police batons and barricades.” His colleagues are still in Singhu. A couple of other doctors from the non-profit’s Calcutta arm have joined them. Sarkar, chief medical officer (paediatrics) with a private hospital in Calcutta, said the protesters’ resolve had left him amazed. When a 72-year-old woman reported at the medical camp with breathing problems, Sarkar had cited her age to suggest she return home. “I shall die here if I have to but will not return unless the farm laws are repealed,” Sarkar remembers her telling him. When another member of the medical team asked an elderly protester on a tractor how long he would be able to continue the vigil, the farmer held out his right palm. “This hand has steered tractors for decades. Don’t underestimate it. We are here for the long haul,” he said. Thousands of tractor trailers are parked along a stretch of highway that extends more than 12km from the Singhu border into Haryana. They have been turned into temporary homes with tarpaulin sheets. Sarkar and his colleagues had brought a portable tent and sleeping bags with them. The camp was formally inaugurated on December 3 by Sadbir Singh, Punjab state secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, and other farmer leaders. The non-profit had in the past conducted medical camps after natural disasters like the 1999 Odisha super-cyclone, 2004 tsunami and the 2013 Uttarakhand floods. Sarkar had been part of a series of camps in South 24-Parganas after Cyclone Amphan struck on May 20. The atmosphere at the Singhu border was different, he said. The lines in front of the camp kept growing by the day but, unlike the scenes witnessed at OPDs and clinics in Calcutta, none among the visitors was competing for slots or trying to jump the queue. “Everybody waited patiently. A young visitor made way for an elderly man despite having reached the camp earlier. The sense of common purpose and camaraderie was evident,” Sarkar said. Many of the protesters were patients of chronic hypertension, heart disease or obstructive lung disease and needed medicines every day. When they and Sarkar’s camp ran out of stocks, visiting doctors and medical students volunteering at the protest venue chipped in by donating medicines. A team of interns from a medical college in Amritsar handed over a variety of medicines to Sarkar’s camp. Every other day, young volunteers would come to Singhu carrying food, ranging from pizzas to bread pakoras. But Sarkar’s team ate mostly at the community kitchens or langars set up by the farmers. In between the long lines of tractor trailers, the agitating farmers and their supporters have set up more than 200 large langars and makeshift bathing and toilet facilities. The menu was usually rice, rotis, dal and sabzi with the occasional dessert. “We could walk into any langar and eat, no questions asked,” Sarkar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Warship launch at Garden Reach||The first of three stealth frigates, Himgiri, built by the Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Limited (GRSE) under Project 17A for the navy, launched into water at Garden Reach on Monday . The ship was  launched  by Madhulika Rawat, wife of General Bipin Rawat, the Chief of Defence Staff, who was the chief guest for the occasion. “China’s attempt to change the status quo on Line of Actual Control along the northern border during the Covid-19 pandemic necessitates high-level preparation on land, sea and air. I am fully confident that Indian Armed Forces will leave no stone unturned to safeguard our frontiers,” Rawat said. The contract for construction of three stealth frigates under Project 17A is the largest ever order awarded to GRSE by the defence ministry with a value of over Rs 19,293 crores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Tragic end to driving practise for a 64-year-old man||A 64-year-old man who was trying to brush up his driving skills and was at the wheel of his car apparently after five years, drove straight into a lake near his home in Behala and died in the car on Monday morning. A neighbour, who is a driver by profession and was with Ashok Kanti Roy to guide him, has been admitted to hospital. The victim, who had retired as executive engineer in the water department of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation four years ago, was last seen at the wheel around five years ago, younger brother Debashis Roy said. “Dada used to drive only in the locality. He had not touched the steering wheel for the last five years or so. I didn’t know that today he had gone out to drive. He called a neighbour who was to guide him,” Debashis told The Telegraph. The police said the Hyundai Santro that Ashok Kanti was driving smashed into a one-foot-high concrete wall of the lake in Jayasree Park and toppled over into the water. The lake is close to Ashok Kanti’s home. “The car had completely submerged in the lake. People in the neighbourhood were the first respondents. Many jumped into the lake and opened the doors to rescue the men inside,” said an officer of Behala police station. Ashok Kanti’s neighbour Subhas Banerjee, who was sitting next to him, was taken out first, Debashis said. Both were taken to a nursing home, where Ashok Kanti was declared dead. “A lot of water was pumped out from his stomach. Doctors tried a lot to revive him, but failed,” Debasish said. Ashok Kanti is survived by his wife and two sons. The elder son works in Bangalore, while the younger is a fashion designer in Calcutta. The car was later lifted out of the lake with a crane. There have been several incidents of people driving without proper training or supervision and causing accidents and even deaths in the city. In February 2019, a 30-year-old learner driver who had been illegally steering a vehicle unsupervised through Rashbehari Avenue knocked down a woman praying outside a temple. In February 2018, a woman who had been practising driving after a decade fatally injured a 70-year-old morning walker in Kasba. “This is a common phenomenon and accidents keep happening because people are careless. Driving without training and supervision could not only jeopardise other’s life on the roads but also makes the person at the wheel vulnerable,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. Many Calcuttans who have not driven for years and have become accustomed to chauffeur service said they could not drive again because of limited road scape and lack of open areas. “I had learned to drive 20 years ago. A few months ago I took out my car at night and tried to drive on EM Bypass. I realised my mistake within a few minutes. It could have had dangerous consequences,” said a retired executive. According to motor vehicles rules, there is no upper age limit for obtaining a driving license. An official of the motor vehicles department said that to get a licence, an applicant would have to qualify a test and produce a certificate stating that he or she had the required eyesight and fitness to drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Youth at wheel fatally hits cyclist on Prince Anwar Shah Road connector||A 23-year-old engineering graduate driving a Volkswagen Polo hit a cyclist while trying to avert collision with a guardrail on Prince Anwar Shah Road and then knocked down a pedestrian before ramming into a lamp post on Sunday night, police said. The cyclist, who was barely a few feet from his home, died. The pedestrian, who was standing by the roadside with his wife, had to be hospitalised with multiple wounds. The youth at the wheel, Subham Banerjee, has been charged under various IPC sections, including one related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder, after he was found driving in an inebriated state, police said. The section means the driver had full knowledge about the consequence of his action — that of allegedly driving drunk — and may lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. The police said Banerjee, who has graduated from a private university in New Town, was with one of his friends when the incident happened around 10.15pm on Monday. “According to CCTV footage and witness accounts, the car was coming from the direction of Jadavpur and heading towards EM Bypass. The person at the wheel pressed the brake at the last moment to avert a collision with a guardrail on the Prince Anwar Shah Road connector and the vehicle veered off towards the left and hit multiple people before hitting a lamp post,” said an officer of Garfa police station. The cyclist who was fatally injured was Ratan Sarkar, 48, a resident of Arya Vidyalaya Road, off Prince Anwar Shah Road. The injured pedestrian was Nilotpaul Biswas, 45, a resident of Bivas Guha Colony in Nayabad. The findings of a preliminary inquiry by the cops suggest that Banerjee, a resident of Sree Colony in Regent Park, had gone out with his friends and was on his way to drop a friend home when the accident happened. “It appears to be a case of speeding. Guardrails are essentially used as speed breakers at night. But in this case, the vehicle did not slow down in time and the driver pressed the brake at the last moment,” said an officer of the fatal squad of the traffic police. Banerjee was taken to Garfa police station, from where he was taken to a government hospital. The police said his medical examination suggested that Banerjee was driving in an intoxicated state. He has been charged under IPC sections 304(II), 308, 427 — dealing with culpable homicide not amounting to murder (part II), attempt to culpable homicide not amounting to murder and mischief — along with Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act that deals with drink driving.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||ICSE to activate 'online mode for submission' of marks obtained by Class XII for project work||The ICSE council has told heads of schools that it will activate the “online mode for submission” of marks obtained by Class XII students for project work on December 18. No last date to submit marks has been mentioned in a circular addressed to the heads of schools on Monday. The project is evaluated by an external or visiting examiner and a viva is conducted after which marks are uploaded by the external examiners, at least two principals said. “...all candidates confirmed to appear for the ISC Year 2021 Examination will have to submit projects in the concerned subjects offered by them for the Examination. Kindly ensure that the Project Work is submitted to the School by all the candidates within the stipulated time fixed by the school,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), in the circular. “The online module for the submission of project marks/SUPW grades will be activated on December 18,” he added in the circular. Since there is still no certainty as to when physical school can resume, several principals are anticipating that the evaluation by the external examiner could be conducted online, depending on the situation. The council has said if candidates are allowed to visit school to take viva, social distance should be maintained and viva must be conducted in a staggered way. Candidates who are unable to take viva at school, it may be conducted virtually or over phone. The CISCE in the circular has mentioned a list of subjects with a component of project work for the ISC 2021 examination. Principals of several schools said that since projects for some subjects were announced recently the council will give sufficient time to students to complete the projects and submit to the school. The CISCE has said that the project work could be submitted to the school in any of the formats which include handwritten projects or typed projects(in the hard copy or soft copy format) or scanned copy of the handwritten projects or power point presentation. “The visiting examiners should be provided with the projects of the candidates either in hard copy format or through electronic mode,” said the circular. The instructions by the council says : " The visiting examiners are required to evaluate the projects of the candidates in the school assigned."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Panel orders Midnapore hospital to pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Monday asked a private hospital in Midnapore town, which did not shift a grievously injured youth to a hospital with better facilities, to pay Rs 2 lakh as interim compensation to the family of the youth who died subsequently. The commission asked the family to approach the West Bengal Medical Council with their complaint of medical negligence. If the council passed an order in the family’s favour, they can go back to the commission, which will then decide on the final compensation, said retired judge Asim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. The commission cannot probe complaints of medical negligence. “Sayandeb Bhunia, 20, was admitted to St Joseph’s Hospital around 5.30pm on April 15. He suffered grievous injuries in a bike accident. We saw the X-ray report. The portion above his knees had fractured,” said Banerjee. “The family alleged there was no treatment during the golden hour after the accident. The youth was given only painkillers.” Representatives of St Joseph’s Hospital told the commission on Monday that a resident medical officer attended to the patient and a senior doctor examined him later. “The hospital said the patient was admitted at 5.35pm and the resident medical officer treated him. The hospital then informed a senior doctor, who is also an associate professor at Midnapore Medical College. The senior doctor went to the hospital at 9.30pm, four hours after admission,” said Banerjee. “The patient was practically without any treatment for four hours. The youth had vomited once. The senior doctor who examined him said the patient should be shifted to a better set-up if he vomited again. The hospital told us the patient’s condition was stable till 8.30am the next day, after which he slipped into a coma,” said Banerjee. The commission asked the hospital why it did not shift the youth to a better hospital. “The hospital said they had told the family that the patient needed to be shifted to a place with better facilities. But the patient’s mother said she could not take a decision till her husband came. We said it was natural for her to be not able to take a decision alone at that time,” said Banerjee. “The hospital should have been more humanitarian in its approach and shifted the patient to a place with advanced facilities. They could have shifted him to Midnapore Medical College,” the chairperson said. “We have ordered St Joseph’s Hospital to pay Rs 2 lakh to the family as interim compensation,” Banerjee said. Also on Monday, the commission asked Medica Superspecialty Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 50,000 to a person who was charged exorbitant rates for pathological tests when he was treated at the hospital for Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Bus owners’ appeal to South Point parents for fees||A section of school bus owners visited South Point school on Monday and handed over a letter to an employee requesting the management to urge guardians to pay at least 50 per cent of their monthly school bus fees so they could pull through during the pandemic. The owners had on December 4 visited DPS Ruby Park with the same request. There are around 4,000 operators of school buses in Calcutta and its adjoining areas. Most schools hire buses from these operators to ferry students to the institutions and back home. South Point school has around 25 buses of its own and hired 20 buses from outside operators. Some guardians have arranged for transportation of their kids through agreements with bus operators. Owners whose buses South Point has hired said the school paid them Rs 60,000 per bus every month for one round trip. After schools were shut down in March, South Point paid 50 per cent of the total contractual amount to the operators till June. Post-June, nothing has been paid, the owners said. The non-payment has left the bus owners struggling to pay salaries to their staff and EMIs for the loans some of them had taken to buy buses. “The contract carriage owners and operators submitted a letter to us with their appeal. The school has a contract with them for running some of our buses,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point school. “We have decided that we will continue to pay them 50 per cent of the school bus fees. The decision has now been taken.” There are around 250 schools in Calcutta and its adjoining areas and most have outsourced the operation of ferrying students to various bus operators. The hired buses bear the emblems of the respective schools. Depending on the number of trips a bus has to undertake, schools pay owners or operators between Rs 60,000 and Rs 80,000 per month per bus. The owners of school buses have been paying road tax of around Rs 4,000 every quarter, even though the owners of private buses and minibuses have stopped payment because of a waiver scheme announced by the state government. School bus owners said that unlike private buses and minibuses, their vehicles do not operate throughout the day. There are stringent rules that have to be met to ope-rate as a school bus and the insurance fees of these buses vary between Rs 45,000 and Rs 55,000. “We had written to the state government for waiving our road tax. We had even submitted our appeal to the chief minister’s office. Nothing happened. So we have decided to block the road near the chief minister’s residence next week to press our demand,” said Himadri Ganguly, of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association. “How long can we pull through in this state?” All schools in the state were shut down in March as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19. The state government is yet to decide on reopening schools. As paying their staff is increasingly becoming difficult, many school bus operators have started exploring alternative careers. Some are considering surrendering their school bus permits and applying for a commercial one. In October, Calcutta High Court had ordered that all private schools in Bengal, including those run by the Church, would have to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fees between April 2020 and a month after the schools resume in-person classes. The schools were barred from charging for facilities such as labs, sports and craft that students are not using during the pandemic. In November, the Supreme Court in its order declined to interfere with the Calcutta High Court directions to the private schools in Bengal. “There was no clear instruction in the high court order on transportation fees of school students, whether bus service was also a part of those facilities that schools have been barred from charging including labs, sports and craft,” Ganguly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Arrest for SIM cards with forged papers in Lake Town||A man who ran a shop that sold cellphones, accessories and SIM cards was arrested on Monday for allegedly selling SIM cards that were activated with forged documents, police said. Jogendra Ojha was rounded up on the basis of a complaint lodged by a senior official of a network provider with Lake Town police station, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The complaint mentioned that Ojha was selling SIM cards and activating them through forged identity cards, the officer said. “Ojha had been selling SIM cards in this fashion for several months. We are trying to find out the exact number of SIM cards he had and we are also trying to track down those who bought them from him,” the officer said. An applicant needs to submit genuine documents such as voter ID or driving licence to buy a SIM card. The retailer has to verify the documents and then forward them to the distributor, who will, in turn, send them to the service provider. After receiving the application, the service provider makes verification over the phone before activating the SIM card within 24-48 hours. The police said Ojha used to make extra copies of documents and photographs submitted by customers. “SIM cards were sold to other people on the basis of photocopies of the documents submitted by genuine customers,” said another officer. Ojha has been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 419 (punishment for cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document), among others. If convicted, he can be sent to jail for seven years. Ojha has been remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Postmen get e-bikes as Covid boosts parcel delivery in Calcutta||The pandemic has given a push to the parcel delivery business of India Post. And to deliver the parcels, postmen are coming to the doorstep riding e-bikes. The metamorphosis in the image of the mailman, from the runner of yore, carrying a sack full of letters over his shoulder and a lantern in hand, or even from those on foot or on bicycle in more recent times, has been necessitated by the shift in the nature of deliveries. “Parcel is a new trend of mail that is developing for both home delivery and commercial sectors. They require a different approach from letters. While a single mailman can handle a large number of letters for a small area, parcels are bigger and heavier,” said postmaster general, Calcutta, Niraj Kumar. So the city has been demarcated into zones, with a post office — designated as a nodal delivery hub (NDH) — chosen in each zone catering to not just its own area of service but a larger area encompassing the neighbourhood. “In a digitally integrated environment that post offices now have, we have assigned a location in each area where parcels can be handled in a more focused manner,” said Kumar. There are six NDHs in the Calcutta metropolitan area, with Bhowanipore and Salt Lake CC Block post offices being added on November 24 to the existing list of the General Post Office, Alipore, Dum Dum and Tangra. Because of the bulky nature of the parcels, e-bikes, three wheelers and four-wheelers are being procured. “We chose e-bikes as a postman’s footprint should not be carbon,” Kumar explained. The bikes are being rented, according to the need of each delivery hub. Parcels for the entire neighbourhood are gathered in each hub and mailmen from neighbouring post offices come to help with sorting before setting off for delivery. Though parcel delivery has been a growing business for some years, 2020 has been a catalyst. “During the lockdown, we were the only ship in the stormy waters and we saw a great surge in parcel delivery orders, to carry essentials like medicines. Our post offices were flooded with parcels. Even afterwards, the demand has remained high,” the postmaster general added. The bikes are easy to charge, he adds. The daily charging is done by representatives of the rental agency. This is not the first bid at mechanisation of the mailman’s delivery mode. “We had tried using mopeds experimentally in 1998. But the postmen refused to use them. The unions pointed out that cycling was a requirement for their recruitment but having a driving licence was not. It was an idea before its time,” recalled Gautam Bhattacharya, who retired as chief postmaster general, West Bengal circle, in April. “This generation of postmen is more open. Neither do e-scooters need licences to be driven,” he added. E-scooters were used in a pilot project in April 2018 at the Sarat Bose Road post office for parcel and speed post delivery. They were deployed for parcel network optimisation when the first NDH was inaugurated in September 2019 at the General Post Office. Since this March, four more NDHs have come up. Currently, a fleet of 51 e-scooters is deployed in the city for parcels, making mailmen on bikes an increasingly familiar sight. The highest number of parcels is handled by the Alipore post office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University cancels convocation, degrees to be mailed||Jadavpur University has asked graduating students to send their postal addresses to which hard copies of their degree certificates can be sent, officials said. The university has scrapped its annual convocation, usually held on December 24, “due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic crisis”. A resolution adopted by JU’s executive council at a virtual meeting on Sunday night says: “Neither in physical mode is feasible... nor the university has the necessary infrastructure to organise the annual convocation on virtual mode for four thousand and seven hundred recipients.” A notification signed by registrar Snehamanju Basu requests the graduating students to clear their dues online by December 20. The degree recipients have to send their mailing addresses to controllerexam@jadavpuruniversity.in in a format specified on the university’s website. They can collect their degree certificates from their respective departments in batches. The university will also upload digital versions of the degree certificates on the National Academic Depository, from where recipients can download them from December 24, a JU official said. The university consulted the higher education department before deciding to do away with the convocation. “The higher education department has kept the campuses closed across the state till December 31 because of the Covid pandemic. It would not be proper of us to seek permission for reopening the campus for a day, to hold the convocation, at the cost of risking the degree recipients’ health,” said a university official. The department has postponed its plan to let in-person classes resume at colleges and universities in December. “Since the degree certificates are a must for pursuing higher studies, we want to distribute the certificates at the earliest,” said a JU official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
15-12-2020||Calcutta||Bengal government nod to daily flights from Delhi||The Bengal government on Monday gave the green light to resumption of daily flights from Delhi to Calcutta “with immediate effect”, but the restrictions on flights from five other cities will continue. Several airlines said they would take a few days to resume daily flights from Delhi to Calcutta because of operational and other issues. The decision to allow daily flights from Delhi to Calcutta was taken after the director of the city's airport requested chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday to ease the restrictions, sources said. Mamata was at the airport on Monday to catch a flight to Bagdogra. The sources said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya requested her to lift the restrictions. “The airport director told the chief minister that many passengers were inconvenienced because of the restrictions. The chief minister told him that the number of Covid cases in Bengal would start rising if the restrictions were lifted,” said an airport official who was present when Mamata and the airport director were talking. “The chief minister said the restrictions would be lifted in a phased manner. Then she said her government would allow daily flights from Delhi,” the official said. Bhattacharya said he did talk to the chief minister during the day, but refused to divulge any details. Later in the day, Bengal home secretary H. K. Dwivedi wrote to the secretary of the civil aviation ministry, informing him about the state government’s decision to allow daily flights from Delhi to Calcutta from Tuesday. “....this is to inform you the government of West Bengal has decided to allow direct flights in Kolkata-Delhi sector on a daily basis with immediate effect,” the letter written by Dwivedi stated. “However, the restriction on flights coming in from five cities viz Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad for thrice a week shall continue as earlier notified.” Flight operations to Calcutta from the six cities, which had a high Covid prevalence, had remained suspended since July 6 following a request from the state government. From September 1, the state government allowed flights to arrive from these cities thrice a week. Now, flights from these cities are arriving on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Calcutta airport officials said the airlines could start operating daily flights from Delhi from Tuesday, but a number of airlines said it would not be possible for them to resume daily flights immediately. “The flights were cancelled till December 21. We received the information about the state government lifting restrictions on Delhi flights this evening. So, we have to discuss how to redeploy aircraft,” said a source at IndiGo airline. “We have to apply for slots both at Calcutta and Delhi airports. This will take some time.” An official of SpiceJet, too, said, the airline would not be able to resume daily operations from Tuesday. “We have to open bookings for the flights. Without that it would be an almost empty flight. Tickets cannot be sold overnight,” said an official of the airline. Airlines and travel agents have long been demanding lifting of the restrictions. This newspaper has reported several times that the airlines have requested the airport authorities to speak to the state government on the issue. Tour operators had written to the state government pleading for the restrictions to be lifted. “It’s a welcome move. The Delhi sector is more important now than before because of the air bubble connections to other countries. Many people from Calcutta have to go to Delhi for travelling onwards to places like London and New York,” said Manav Soni, chairman, eastern region, Travel Agents Association of India. “The one-way fare in the Delhi-Calcutta sector on the days the flights are operating is as high as Rs 10,000 if the ticket is booked 48 hours in advance,” he said. “We will appreciate it if the state government lifts restrictions on all sectors, particularly Mumbai. Airlines and tour operators are incurring losses because of the restrictions,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. “The government can introduce a clause of Covid testing on arrival for passengers from these cities.” The Calcutta airport authorities have set up a Covid testing facility at the old domestic terminal building for passengers arriving from London on Air India flights without undergoing tests before boarding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-206
