16-12-2020||Calcutta||Fearing ‘vendetta’, Suvendu seeks governor’s intervention||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Wednesday that former minister Suvendu Adhikari has sought his intervention so that the state police is dissuaded from implicating him in criminal cases out of “political vendetta”. Sharing the copy of a letter that Adhikari wrote to him, Dhankhar said that he was taking “expected steps”. The letter came to the fore hours after Adhikari submitted his resignation as an MLA amid speculations of him switching over to the BJP from the Trinamool Congress. “I am constrained to seek your intervention as constitutional head so that police and administration apparatus in the state is dissuaded from implicating me and my associate followers in criminal cases out of political motivation and vendetta,” Adhikari stated in the letter, shared by the governor on Twitter. Claiming that he had quit the ministry dictated by a sense of duty and public welfare, Adhikari wrote that this change of political stance is spurring those in authority to be in vendetta mode against him. He gave up the cabinet portfolios in the Mamata Banerjee government on November 27. “Unleashing police repression by implication in criminal cases on political considerations is certainly an alarming indicator of governance away from rule of law,” the former Transport minister wrote. Urging the governor to initiate appropriate steps so that those concerned in police and administration desist from implicating him in a politically motivated manner, he wrote “surely ‘political bonhomie’ with the ruling party or dispensation cannot be essential requisite for enjoying liberty and human rights, as is the situation presently’. Adhikari, a leader with a mass base, holds considerable clout in Purba Medinipur, Paschim Medinipur and some other parts of south Bengal. He played a significant role in the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram that catapulted Mamata Banerjee to power in the state in 2011.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
16-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta cyclists plead with top cop for space||Organisations of cyclists and cycling enthusiasts have written to Calcutta’s police commissioner on Tuesday with an appeal to allow bicycles to ply on all roads in the city. The organisations have said a growing number of people, many of them poor, are cycling to work to avoid crowded public transport amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The letter also said the city’s transport system should gradually start giving more space to cycles as they do not pollute the air. Given the annual phenomenon of poor air quality in Calcutta during winter, reducing tailpipe emission is necessary and that can be achieved by switching to green transport like cycle. Metro had on December 10 reported that the Calcutta police had launched a drive to prevent cyclists from moving on thoroughfares. Cyclists spotted on arteries are being asked to stick to lanes. Despite a notification restricting bicycles to lanes and bylanes, the police had been allowing them even on thoroughfares on “humanitarian grounds” during the pandemic as a large number of people had no option but to cycle to work in the absence of adequate public transport. But the resumption of suburban trains and a rise in the number of accidents involving bicycles have prompted the police to launch an awareness drive urging cyclists to stay away from main roads. “We write to appeal to you to continue the plying of cycles and other forms of non-motorised transport across Kolkata roads and integrate a cycle safe infrastructure into the current transport system of the city,” the letter read. Satanjib Gupta, one of the signatories of the letter, said there was an unfair bias against cyclists in the city. “Every time there is a talk of snarls on the road, the reaction is to keep cyclists away from roads. Has the administration ever thought about restricting private cars? Cars, used by far fewer people, take up more space. Cycles occupy very little road space but they are used by a large number of people, especially the poor,” said Gupta, the “bicycle mayor” of Calcutta, an honourary position given by the Amsterdam-based BYCS, an organisation that promotes cycling across the globe. “We are only appealing to the police commissioner to not restrict cycles from roads. Mumbai has very heavy traffic on its roads, but cycles are not restricted from the city’s roads. Same for Bangalore, which has also started making lanes for cycles in various places of the city,” said Gupta. “A lot of people, especially the poor who cannot afford to ride taxis, are riding bicycles to go to work nowadays to avoid crowded spaces like buses. The move to restrict cycles will put them in trouble.” The signatories of the letter also argued that a car-centric view would only add to the congestion and worsen Calcutta’s air quality. Every year, the city’s air quality drops to poor, very poor and severe levels during winter, according to the National Air Quality Index prepared by the Central Pollution Control Board. “Emissions from diesel-powered transport is an important contributor to the city’s air pollution. We have to think about greener and cleaner transport modes that do not pollute the air and cycles are one of them,” said Vinay Jaju, the founder of Bengal Clean Air Network, a citizens’ group fighting for better air quality in the state. Urban transport specialists have told Metro that in India the focus has been on moving cars over moving people, which is why cars have always been accorded priority on roads. But they have argued that transport policies should be built around moving people. A Calcutta police officer with experience in managing traffic for over three decades said narrow roads, encroached footpaths that force pedestrians to walk on roads and scant regard for traffic rules among many cyclists were some of the hurdles to allowing cyclists on all roads. “Most cyclists think traffic signals are not meant for them. They will move ahead despite seeing a red light. We are not against cyclists, but the fear is there will be many road accidents involving cyclists if cycles are allowed on all roads,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
16-12-2020||Calcutta||JU teachers assert right to return home||Teachers at Jadavpur University have said that “just as students have the right to agitate for their demands, teachers too have the right to return home after meetings”. Detaining teachers and officials for hours “in this pandemic situation”, they have warned, “can have severe, if not fatal, consequences”. The Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (Juta) has flagged the points in a letter to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das, days after teachers and officials were gheraoed by the students’ union of the engineering faculty over alleged lapses in the online Jadavpur University Management System (JUMS). That siege continued from around 4pm till midnight. “You will agree that just as students have the right to agitate for their demands, teachers too have the right to return home after meetings. Staying inside a confined space for nearly twelve hours in this pandemic situation can have severe, if not fatal, consequences, especially for those who suffer from various ailments, as many teachers and officials do,” reads the letter from Juta. VC Das declined to comment when Metro asked him about the letter. Aritra Majumder, a leader of the engineering and technology students’ union at JU, said: “Corona is not the sole crisis. We are of the view that demands regarding the results are of immediate concern to us…. Realising the importance of the demands being raised by the students, we would suggest the teachers rethink their stand.” Juta had on November 25 issued a statement blaming students for the resignation of two acting deans of science over the past couple of months and said they were noting with “dismay and concern” the harassment and humiliation a section of teachers was subjected to by some students in the science faculty. The latest friction between students and teachers had started when the Faculty of Engineering and Technology Students’ Union (Fetsu) led agitations on December 9 and 11 over alleged anomalies in the management system. According to Juta’s letter, the dean of the faculty of engineering and technology and two pro-vice-chancellors had been kept confined for several hours on December 9. On December 11, during a meeting of the JUMS Restructuring Committee, a section of students, “including, most unfortunately, some who were themselves members of the Committee, prevented other members of the Committee (teachers and officials), from leaving the meeting even after discussions had been concluded”, says the letter. The teachers were detained till 1.30am. The association has said that given the past few days’ events and the prevailing situation, its members would not join any in-person meeting. “They are, of course, willing to join virtual meetings, where their health and safety will not be jeopardised,” the letter says. Parthapratim Roy, the general secretary of the teachers’ association, who had signed the previous statement, told this newspaper that teachers and officials might have no option but to boycott meetings of the JUMS Restructuring Committee. “Amid the pandemic, they are keeping the teachers confined in a small room regardless of the fact that this could have fatal implications. Just as I had observed in regard to the activities of the science union, I will say student leaders in the engineering faculty don’t know where to draw a line,” said Roy. A JU official said two statements from Juta in as many months against highhandedness of students was bound to affect the image of the university. “One-third of the 1,253 BTech seats have remained vacant this year after the end of centralised counseling by the JEE board. About 15 per cent undergraduate seats in science and arts have remained vacant... Such a situation could not be conceived earlier and this could be partly attributed to the perception problem,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||Farm bill protest rally on Friday in Kolkata||A march from Rajabazar to Moulali has been organised on Friday to prot-est farm laws and express solidarity with the protesting farmers. A group of people who took part in a sit-in against the National Register for Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act from January to March, and was forced by the pandemic to call off the protest, has given a call for the rally. “We felt the need to raise our voice for the protesting farmers. One need not be a farmer to protest against the laws enacted by the Centre. This law is going to bring in the rule of a few oligarchs in the agricultural sector,” said Umar Awais, the convenor of the United Forum for National Integrity. “The laws allow hoarding of essential agricultural products. This will lead to increase in prices and we as consumers have to pay a very high price. A big corporation will hoard the products and then sell them at a very high price. We will be forced to buy at a high price,” he said. The organisers also want the minimum support price mechanism (MSP) to remain unaltered. “The MSP has saved farmers for so many years. Why this attempt to dilute the MSP?” asked one organiser. Jai Kisan Andolan, a farmers’ organisation affiliated to Swaraj India, will participate in the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||More Calcutta Metro trains on Sundays||The Sunday Metro fleet will go up from December 20, the carrier announced on Thursday. Starting December 19, passengers will not need an e-pass to enter Metro stations on Saturdays, it said. “Starting December 20, we will run 102 trains instead of 68 on Sundays,” said an official. Metro officials expect the Sunday passenger count to go up as winter sets in. The first trains will leave Dum Dum and New Garia at 9am, instead of 10am, and the first train from Noapara will leave at 9.09am, instead of 10.13am. The last train will leave Dum Dum and New Garia at 9.30pm, instead of 9pm. The last train from Noapara will leave at 9.25pm, instead of 8.53pm. The interval between two trains will be reduced to 15 minutes from 20 minutes. The authorities have also decided to do away with the system of e-passes on Saturdays. “Starting December 19, passengers will not need an e-pass to avail themselves of Metro services,” said the official. The carrier has already done away with the e-pass system on Sundays and, since Monday, during non-rush hours on weekdays. Since Monday, an e-pass has been mandatory only between 8.30am and 11am and again from 5pm to 8pm. Outside these two rush-hour windows, anyone can enter a station without an e-pass. Women, children (15 years and below) and senior citizens (60 years and above) do not need an e-pass throughout the day. An e-pass is needed to enter the station. A smart card is a must for a Metro ride, irrespective of the passenger’s age. The token system will remain suspended as of now, said an official. The number of daily passengers had been over 1,20,000 over the past few weekdays. But a third of the slots during the non-rush hours were remaining vacant, prompting the authorities to do away with e-passes during those slots even on weekdays. On Monday, the first day of the relaxed norms, the carrier ferried over 1,35,000 passengers. Last Saturday, the passenger count was over 1,00,000. Asked if doing away with e-passes would increase the risk of crowding on Saturdays, Metro officials said it was unlikely. “The passenger count during rush hours on Saturdays has been 40-45 per cent less than that on weekday rush hours,” said a senior Metro official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||Flyovers at Ruby and Avishikta crossings||The CMDA is mulling to build two short flyovers above the Ruby and Avishikta crossings instead of one running over the two, as was proposed earlier, an engineer of the organisation said on Tuesday. “A traffic survey of the two crossings has revealed that separate flyovers will be more beneficial to motorists than one long flyover,” the engineer said. Both flyovers will be about one kilometre in length. The old proposal was of one long flyover that would stretch from near the Ambedkar bridge on EM Bypass till the Prince Anwar Shah Road connector crossing. The new proposal will allow vehicles coming via the Rashbehari Avenue connector and headed for Patuli to bypass the snarl at the Avishikta crossing. The northern end of the flyover will merge with the Bypass at a point to the south of the Ruby crossing. “If there were one flyover, motorists from the Rashbehari Avenue connector headed for Patuli would not have been able to benefit from the elevated road,” a CMDA official said. Similarly, a separate flyover running over the Ruby crossing will benefit those vehicles from the Prince Anwar Shah Road connector that are headed for the Science City crossing. “We conducted a traffic survey and found that a large number of vehicles access the Bypass through the Anwar Shah Road connector and go towards Science City. Almost an equal number of vehicles approach the Bypass from the Rashbehari Avenue connector. Most of them are headed for Patuli,” the CMDA engineer said. “A single flyover would mean that these vehicles will have to move along the road below. They might get stuck at the crossings. For the benefit of these motorists, we are thinking of having two flyovers.” An official of RITES, which had prepared the proposal of a single flyover, said: “Our initial proposal did not have any ramp from the Kasba connector merging with the flyover near the Ruby crossing, but that could have been considered. CMDA has verbally communicated to us that they want two shorter flyovers…. Construction of two flyovers on the Bypass could be challenging,” the official said. The CMDA is also in talks with RVNL, which is building the New Garia-Airport metro corridor, to build a footbridge at the Ruby crossing. “We want people to be able to access the footbridge from all roads converging at the intersection. We will discuss with RVNL whether that is possible or not,” a CMDA engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Fake’ aviation school busted in New Town||Three men who were allegedly running a fake aviation academy in New Town were arrested early on Tuesday for allegedly duping a woman of Rs 1.5 lakh by promising her the job of an air hostess, police said. The accused have been identified as Kushwant Singh, 26, from Jharkhand; Rohit Singh, 25, from Madhyamgram; and Janmanjoy Roy, 27, from New Barrackpore. “They were operating 07 Bird Link Aviation Academy, a fake unit, on the fourth floor of Astra Tower in New Town,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “They were arrested after a woman, a resident of New Town’s Action Area II, lodged a complaint with the airport police station five days ago,” the officer said. According to the complaint, the trio had taken Rs 1.5 lakh from her for an air hostess’s job. They had also allegedly handed over an “offer letter” from the airline. Another investigating officer said the men would regularly pose as “consultants” engaged to hire people for various airlines. They would also post advertisements on social media and send bulk text messages. “Once a person responded, they would call him/her to their New Town office. In this case, the men had collected a part of the money from the woman in front of the airport to make it look authentic,” said the officer. When she did not receive an appointment letter, the woman visited the airline’s office with the “offer letter” and was told that the letter was fake. “We have arrested all three owners of the institute. We are finding out whether they had duped others and whether they have criminal antecedents,” said the officer. The accused have been charged under various sections of the IPC, including 420 (cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document). If convicted, they can be jailed for seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||Car in lethal crash was moving at ‘80kmph’||The Volkswagen Polo which killed a cyclist and injured a pedestrian on Prince Anwar Shah Road on Sunday was moving at approximately 80km an hour before the man at the wheel braked to avoid hitting a guardrail, police said. “Preliminary findings suggest the vehicle had skidded and hit the cyclist, who was standing closest to the car along a footpath. Then the car hit the pedestrian,” said an officer of the traffic department. The skid marks could be because of “locking of wheels” with sudden pressing of brakes, said another officer who is part of the probe. Specific details will emerge after the Volkswagen’s event data recorder is examined, the police said. Subham Banerjee, a 23-year-old engineering graduate, was at the wheel when the vehicle met with the accident. Lodged in the Lalbazar central lock-up, Banerjee has purportedly lamented the accident. “He said he wanted to do his masters, for which he was preparing. He is worried whether he would be able to complete his studies from inside jail,” an officer at Lalbazar said. Banerjee has been charged under IPC sections related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder, attempt to culpable homicide not amounting to murder, mischief and drink driving. The charges, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. He will be produced in court again on Thursday. The deceased cyclist, Ratan Sarkar, 48, is survived by his wife and two daughters. “I don’t know how we will survive,” said Sarkar’s wife Manju.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
16-12-2020||Calcutta||Jump in compensation for trafficking survivors||Three in nearly seven years. Eleven in the next seven months. A spurt in the number of compensations awarded by the state to trafficking survivors has come as a shot in the arm for rights activists. Till March this year, 14 trafficking survivors have received compensation from the state government under the West Bengal Victim Compensation Scheme, according to the state legal services authority (SLSA), the custodians of the corpus created by the government for disbursal of funds. The scheme that had come into force in 2012 had its ambit expanded in 2017. But till August 2019, only three trafficking survivors in Bengal had received compensations under it, according to information obtained through an RTI application filed by lawyers and activists. Between September 2019 and March this year, 11 survivors received the compensation. There have been compensation orders post-March as well but the amounts could not be transferred to the survivors because of lack of funds, said a senior official of the SLSA. “We have more cases where the compensation has been cleared but the amount cannot be disbursed because of lack of funds. Our coffers went empty in March. We are waiting for fresh funds from the state government,” said Durga Khaitan, member secretary of the SLSA. The recipients of the pending disbursals — over 90 — include survivors of acid attacks, Pocso victims and trafficking survivors. Trafficking survivors, lawyers, activists and researchers welcomed the rise in the number of compensations. In the third week of November, a 17-year-old trafficking survivor was awarded a Rs 9 lakh compensation by the district legal services authority in Calcutta. The amount was billed as the “highest ever” of its kind. The girl, 13 when trafficked from Odisha in 2016, was rescued by Calcutta police the same year from Sonagachhi. On November 3, a survivor from South 24-Parganas was awarded Rs 6 lakh compensation by the DLSA. She was trafficked in 2018 and rescued the same year from Bangalore. The amounts being given have gone up since the scheme was amended in 2017, widening its scope and the grounds on which a survivor can seek compensation. Compensations ranging between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 were common a few years ago, said activists. “There has been a significant shift in terms of the amounts received as victim compensation awards in the past three years. Lawyers now calculate compensation by breaking into separate categories the violations that victims suffered. They also use various judgments of different states as precedents,” said Nisha Mehroon, a sociologist and researcher who has been studying the issue of victim compensation in India. Mehroon is part of Tafteesh, a coalition of survivors of human trafficking, lawyers, researchers, rights activists and other stakeholders that has been instrumental in supporting survivors in their legal battles. The number of victim compensation applications being filed has also gone up substantially, activists said. “Earlier, an application filed even towards the later part of the year would be ranked as ‘number 2 or number 3’ of that year. Now, an application ranks in double digits,” said Pompi Banerjee, a social worker with Sanjog, an organisation working on survivors’ access to justice and rehabilitation. Increased awareness and better coordination between agencies have played a key role in the rise in the number of compensations. “The survivors are also feeling more courageous from seeing others getting compensated, and getting the support of police, NGOs and DLSAs. They are now looking at compensation as a right,” said Banerjee. The SLSA has prepared a database of acid attack survivors in Bengal awaiting final verification by the director general of police. “We are now preparing a similar database for trafficking survivors. The work got delayed because of the pandemic but has resumed,” said Khaitan. Several campaigns for legal officers in districts have been conducted to sensitise them in dealing with survivors. “The amounts under different headings in the West Bengal Victim Compensation Scheme were substantially increased in 2017. In the past couple of years, there has been an increased effort on the part of the SLSA,” said Joanna Shireen Sarkar, a lawyer with the International Justice Mission, another NGO that works for the rescue and rehabilitation of trafficking survivors. Sarkar had fought the case in which the survivor was awarded Rs 9 lakh in compensation. Compensation is still a long and cumbersome process fraught with legal hurdles, activists pointed out. In most cases, those trafficked are rescued from outside the state. The case papers of the police station in whose jurisdiction a woman/girl had been rescued is essential to settle compensation claims. The claims often get dragged because of the time taken to send and receive documents and the language barrier. “The survivors who have got compensation have had organisational support. It is not like the state is voluntarily knocking on their doors with money. For every woman who has got compensation, there are others who lack a support system that can help them in the legal battle,” said Kaushik Gupta, a lawyer in Calcutta High Court who works for trafficking survivors and is part of Tafteesh. The disbursement of the compensation has led to divided opinions. The SLSA wants three/fourth of the amount to be deposited in the recipient’s account with nationalised banks. Two trafficking survivors had challenged the condition in the high court. A single-judge bench had ruled in their favour in February this year. But the SLSA then challenged the verdict in a division bench which stayed the previous order and is expected to hear the case in January next year, said lawyers familiar with the case. “In many cases, we have found that the money a victim got in compensation was used by her family members in building a new floor or getting a sibling married, for purposes not aligned with the interest of the survivor. To prevent misuse of the money, the SLSA ordered that 75 per cent of the amount should be kept in monthly income schemes in a nationalised bank,” said Khaitan. A 21-year-old trafficking survivor from Kultali in South 24-Parganas, who was awarded Rs 6 lakh in compensation on November 3, said once she got the money, she would use it for business. She has learnt embroidery and takes small orders from a ramshackle shop her father owns. “I want to scale up the business,” she told Metro over the phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-205
