17-12-2020||Calcutta||Vijay Diwas celebrations in Calcutta||Lt Gen Anil Chauhan, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command, said during Vijay Diwas celebrations in Calcutta on Wednesday: “The People’s Liberation Army of China has carried out infrastructure development activities, including development of defenses, opposite two points in Arunachal Pradesh. We are taking reciprocal actions to meet emerging challenges.” Lt Gen Chauhan was presiding over the Vijay Diwas celebrations at Fort William, commemorating the victory of Indian armed forces and Mukti Bahini over Pakistani forces in the 1971 war, that led to the birth of Bangladesh. Wreaths were laid at Vijay Smarak by representatives of the three services — army, navy and air force — along with veterans from the tri-services and members of a Bangladeshi delegation. This year, a 72-member delegation from Bangladesh, led by Md Ali Ashraf, the chairman of the Parliament Committee on Government Assurance in Bangladesh, attended the programme. Senior army officers overseeing developments along the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh said most of the infrastructure development by the People’s Liberation Army of China was related to roads and tracks, which have been built to carry out patrolling. The People’s Liberation Army of China, he said, wants to move into those areas that are inaccessible. “They have tried developing some kind of model villages next to the border areas, where they are trying to settle down the nomadic Tibetan population,” Lt Gen Chauhan said. “This, though, is their internal matter.” He added: “The deployment along the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh is different from the eyeball-to-eyeball kind of contact we have with the Pakistanis along the Line of Control.... The Indian army is fully prepared to meet any challenges.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Rs 2 lakh compensation for baby’s death||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Wednesday asked Eco Hospital in Barasat to pay Rs 2 lakh to a family in compensation for being negligent towards a newborn. An attendant who was looking after the newborn in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) told the commission in a written statement that she had called the on-duty nurse when the baby was crying but the nurse did not turn up. “We have asked the hospital to pay Rs 2 lakh in compensation to the baby’s parents. We cannot say definitively why the baby died because no post-mortem was done, but we found the conduct of the paramedical staff such as ayah and nurses negligent,” retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said. The baby was born on November 4 and passed away the next morning. “The ayah said she informed the nurse that the baby was perspiring and crying, but the nurse told her to wipe the sweat off the baby’s face and switch on the fan. The nurse did not visit the baby,” said Banerjee. “Besides, the CCTV footage showed there were attempts to feed the baby in a supine position.” When the commission sought to know when the post-mortem was not performed, the hospital said they had advised the baby’s family verbally to conduct a post-mortem but they did not agree. Metro tried calling two numbers collected from the internet to reach the hospital, but the calls did not go through. The commission on Wednesday asked Ruby General Hospital to return Rs 50,000 to the family of a 63-year-old man who was treated for Covid. The man was admitted to the hospital on October 21. The patient’s family alleged that the bed charges were high and they had to pay Rs 81,478 after the insurance company refused to foot the entire bill. “We found the bed charges high. The rates of some pathology tests were high, too. The hospital also did not offer the patient any discount on medicines and consumables, which we had asked private hospitals to offer to Covid patients,” said Banerjee. The hospital’s representative told the commission they were helping the patient’s family get the amount the insurance company did not pay. “We have said the patient party will pay the hospital the money (Rs 50,000) if they get reimbursement from the insurance company,” Banerjee said. ILS Dum Dum was asked to offer a discount of Rs 25,000 to the family of a 69-year-old man who was treated for Covid. The commission also found rates of some pathology tests to be exorbitant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Plea to raise Calcutta bus fares||With the price of diesel at Rs 77.44 and passengers still few, the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates on Wednesday demanded a revision of bus fares. “The government had set up an expert committee to look into the revision of fares some time back. But several months later, there has been no word about the revision,” said Tapan Bandyopadhayay of the council. Despite suburban train services resuming, these bus owners said there hadn’t been any considerable rise in the number of passengers. The spiralling price of fuel has only added to their pain, the bus owners said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Air hostess among 3 dead in accidents||A 20-year-old air hostess died in a road accident near Vivekananda Setu while returning home with a friend on his scooter on Tuesday night. Police said Rittika Majumdar, 20, and Debaditya Singh, 21, were wearing helmets. They were returning home after buying shoes for Debaditya, an engineering student in Chennai. The scooter was plying along Kidderpore Road when it lost control and skidded near 11 Furlong Gate, not far from Vivekananda Setu. Rittika and Debaditya both were flung off and they fell on the road. A vehicle that was just behind the scooter ran over Rittika, an officer of the traffic department said. She died on the spot. Both were taken to a hospital in Howrah, from where Debaditya was discharged after treatment. Rittika was from Belur, while Debaditya is a resident of Chatterjeehat in Howrah. The identity of the vehicle that hit Rittika could not be ascertained till Wednesday night. “There were no CCTV cameras at the spot. We will request Howrah police to let us check the footage of CCTV cameras at the Vivekananda Setu toll plaza and in nearby areas,” said an officer of the city police. Two other fatal accidents were reported from the city between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. A 25-year-old youth, who was allegedly riding a motorcycle without a helmet, lost control of the vehicle and hit a lamp post along Belvedere Road around 11.30pm on Tuesday. “Joy Kishore Sharma suffered multiple injuries and was taken to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead,” said an officer of Alipore police station. The pedestrian escaped with minor injuries. The other accident happened on Prince Anwar Shah Road early on Wednesday. Sayan Dandopat, 19, a resident of East Putiyari, was returning home when his two-wheeler apparently skidded and rammed into the median divider around 4.30am. He was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where he died. The police said a preliminary investigation suggested he was not wearing a helmet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University allots rooms at Technology Bhavan for classes  ||Jadavpur University has decided to provide additional rooms to three science departments in the Technology Bhavan for conducting undergraduate and postgraduate classes. The extra rooms will help the authorities follow the Covid protocols once in-person classes resume. The move follows a letter by the head of the physics department to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das on November 26, in which he had said that in the absence of additional space, “it will be almost impossible to continue theory and laboratory classes for PG students, especially in this pandemic situation” once on-campus classes resume. An official of the university said the space problem was discussed between the heads of the seven science departments and the VC on Monday. And it has been decided that additional space will be given in the newly-constructed Technology Bhavan that stands opposite the alumni association office. The official said two rooms each for the physics, chemistry and mathematics departments would be allotted as of now in the building that came up in 2019. “We are going to provide rooms on the fourth floor of the building. Let the heads decide whether labs could be also carved out of the rooms,” said an official. These three departments have a large number of students, he said. “The load will be shared as the classes can be split between the UG science building, PG science building and the Technology Bhavan.” The requirements of the four other science departments will be met in phases, an official said. A teacher of the physics department said: “For the 45 students studying each in MSc first year and MSc second year, there are two classrooms and three rooms which serve as labs.” The crunch of space is so acute that four to five students work on a single instrument, standing in close proximity. Benches have been stacked up so that as many as 45 students can be accommodated in a room. The situation is equally bad in the chemistry and mathematics departments, which have 41 and 70 students at the masters’ level, respectively. The seats are almost double at the undergraduate level. This had forced the heads of the seven science departments to write to the VC on December 2. “We request the administration to take the necessary steps to enhance the infrastructural facilities as we have been experiencing difficulties in running our undergraduate courses with the increased numbers of intakes over the years.” The university’s space committee, which was tasked by the VC to find space for the departments, identified the building where rooms have been allotted to the three departments. “We are addressing the issue of space crunch in the science departments to the maximum possible extent,” said VC Suranjan Das. A member of the committee said the building was developed, among others, to house the Centre of Sophisticated Analytical Instrument Facilities (SAIF). In November 2018, the university had been identified by the Centre’s department of science and technology as one of the four SAIF centres. “The university did not appear on the final list,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Panic calls’ from students amid uncertainty over boards||Uncertainty regarding board exams and the manner in which they will be conducted have become a cause for concern, especially for Class XII students, several heads of schools said. In at least two institutions, counsellors and teachers have received “panic calls” from students. When and how the exams will be held and whether they will be able to attend practical classes before the boards are some of the queries students are asking their teachers. If students have to keep up a momentum in their studies, they need a date, a principal said. “In the absence of this, it is difficult for them to stay focused.” “Even for the academically bright, the pressure and uncertainty make them break. It tells on their performance and attitude. Even though they are good in studies, their confidence begins to crack. The nine months at home have made it worse,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. “The students are also asking when they will be able to do the practicals,” said Father Rodney Borneo, the principal of Loyola High School. By this time in other years, the students know when the board exams will begin and end and they have a schedule to follow. All of this has been upset by the Covid pandemic. The anxiety has been generated by the uncertainty because no one knows what is in store, said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. “It is very hard to sustain that level of motivation. If board exams start in February or May, how can the preparations remain the same?” she wondered. Ireland said by this time every year, students are in “top gear”. To keep up that pace in their studies for weeks and months without a date can take a toll on them mentally and physically, he said. “A deadline helps them plan their studies. Since that is missing, they are getting worked up,” said Joeeta Basu, who teaches economics to classes X and XII. Class XII students are worried about college. “We are receiving calls from students and parents regarding board exams and though we try to tackle it, the pressure is there. The Class XII students are under more pressure because they are thinking about the time after the exams,” said Anil Jha, senior coordinator at an ISC school. Many students have already applied to foreign universities and some of them have got conditional offers. “I have got conditional offers from a few universities in the UK, but the final offer will depend on the board results. Usually, their intake begins in August and September and the concern is whether we will be able to join in time,” said Class XII student Siddhanth Gupta. “In the initial stage of the lockdown, we felt we would get more time to study but now this more time has landed us in a state of uncertainty,” he said. Academics and teachers feel colleges, both in India and abroad, will make considerations because this is a worldwide phenomenon. But they agreed that thestudents’ ap prehensions were valid. “The students are anxious about their college admissions. Though as academics we think colleges will consider, anxiety for individual students does not get reduced because it is a question of their future,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls. A long gap between syllabuses being completed and the board exams might result in students “slackening”, some teachers fear. “The postponement of board exams is also lulling some of them into a false sense of security,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. In at least two city schools, counsellors and teachers have been speaking to Class X and XII students to allay their fears. “Our counsellor is speaking to the students to calm them about the boards and to answer their queries to help reduce their anxiety,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Some senior Calcutta doctors still Covid-shy||A year into the pandemic, a section of senior doctors at government hospitals is still reluctant to be at the bedside of Covid patients, a tendency that at least two members of the government’s Covid monitoring team said was affecting treatment. The team members, who are visiting hospitals in Calcutta and districts, including government medical colleges, said the problem of senior doctors avoiding Covid patients still existed at many units, though on a much lesser scale compared with initial days of the pandemic. The members, all of whom are doctors, said the condition of many patients would not have turned critical had experienced doctors monitored them better. The team recently sent several reports to the state health department stating that senior doctors were reluctant to be at Covid patients’ bedside. “The issue has again recently come to our knowledge. We have asked the senior doctors of the monitoring team to visit Covid wards and see the condition of patients and whether their condition is being monitored properly,” a senior health department official said on Wednesday. A senior doctor, who is part of the monitoring team, said he had recently visited the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, where he had asked senior doctors, along with the medical superintendent and the principal, to accompany him to the wards. “But senior doctors refrained from visiting the Covid general ward or the critical care unit,” said the doctor. “We could see the management of some patients was not done properly because only junior doctors were physically examining them.” Manju Banerjee, the principal of the medical college, denied the allegation. “At our hospital, all senior doctors are examining patients at the bedside. There is no problem in patient management,” Banerjee said. Another member of the monitoring team said he had seen a similar reluctance among senior doctors at the Burdwan Medical College and Hospital. Suhrita Paul, the principal of the medical college, denied any negligence in Covid treatment. “I don’t know about other hospitals, but in our hospital senior doctors are examining patients,” she said. The problem exists at other medical colleges, too, the member of the monitoring team said. “Junior doctors at several hospitals told me their seniors were not physically examining patients. They are giving advice based on the parameters juniors are recording,” he said. A doctor, who is part of the Covid management team at a private hospital in Calcutta, said it was important for experienced doctors to physically examine a patient to detect small signs that could prevent the condition from turning critical. “Pulmonary embolism, clotting of blood in the pulmonary artery that can lead to stroke, is common among Covid patients. An experienced doctor can pick up the early signs of stroke and that can lead to better management of the patient,” the doctor said. Some Covid patients suffer from diabetic ketoacidosis, a serious complication of diabetes that occurs when the body produces high levels of blood acids called ketones. According to doctors, the condition develops when the body can’t produce enough insulin. “There is a typical breathing pattern by which we can say the patient is in an early stage of diabetic ketoacidosis and management can start immediately. A not so experienced eye might miss the sign,” said the doctor. A member of the state health department’s monitoring team said that at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, they had seen the condition of several patients with diabetic ketoacidosis had turned critical. “These patients need to be given a high amount of fluids as they lose body fluid and electrolyte. But if no senior doctor is attending to the patient, the intake amount of fluid might not be accurate,” the member pointed out. A junior doctor at a state-run Covid hospital in Calcutta described how senior doctors were refraining from seeing patients closely. “The senior doctors, who are around 60 or above, are seeing patients in the emergency ward or the outpatient department. In the emergency ward, they are examining the parameters like oxygen saturation and then doing the paperwork for admission. For this they need not go close to the patient,” said the doctor. “At OPD, too, they are seating several feet away from the patients.” According to the doctor, at the ward or critical care unit, senior young doctors and their juniors are intubating Covid patients and managing them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||App cab driver robs passenger in Calcutta||A woman who had hired an app cab last Saturday saw the driver speed away with her bag containing cash, which she had withdrawn from an ATM during the trip, while she was taking out other belongings from the boot. The app cab driver, identified as Ramashish Kumar, 24, was arrested on Tuesday evening based on the woman’s complaint. Police said Jyoti Sharma, 32, had hired the app cab from Chandni Chowk to travel home to the Regent Park area. On the way she withdrew money from an ATM kiosk near the Rashbehari gurudwara. “The driver saw the passenger withdraw money from an ATM and was looking for an opportunity to steal her wallet. When she reached her destination, the passenger stepped out to retrieve her belongings from the boot, leaving her bag and a water bottle on the rear seat of the car. The driver took advantage of the situation and sped away,” said an officer of Regent Park police station. Sharma ran after the car and alerted passers-by, but Kumar sped away. Apart from Rs 10,000, the bag contained Sharma’s identity documents, including her Aadhaar card. Armed with the registration number and other details of the car, the police launched a search for the accused and tracked him down to Deshapran Sashmal Road, near MR Bangur Hospital, on Tuesday evening. The police found Sharma’s Aadhaar card in the driver’s wallet and Rs 3,600 was found in the dashboard. Kumar, the police said, was originally from Gaya in Bihar and was staying in Tangra. Senior officers said it was best not to leave any personal belongings inside a hired vehicle while stepping out even for a few minutes. “Since the vehicle in this case was an app cab and details of the vehicle and the driver were available, it was comparatively easier to track it down. Things get complicated when similar incidents happen in yellow cabs and complainants fail to provide the vehicles’ registration numbers,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
17-12-2020||Calcutta||Water supply alert for south Calcutta||Water supply to large parts of south Calcutta, including Bhowanipore, Kalighat, Gariahat, Jadavpur, Tollygunge and Behala, will be suspended from 10am on Saturday as the Garden Reach water treatment plant will be shut down for upkeep, Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials said. The supply will resume on Sunday morning, the officials said. Maheshtala and Budge Budge, in South 24-Parganas, will be affected, too, as they get their daily potable water from the Garden Reach plant. The CMC goes for one of two shutdowns of water supply every year to repair leaks or for general maintenance. This is the first time since the pandemic hit in March that the Garden Reach network will be shut down, CMC engineers said. The Tallah network, which supplies water to the entire north Calcutta and parts of central and south Calcutta and Bidhanangar, faced a similar shutdown last month to repair a leak. An engineer said portions of southern suburbs, especially along EM Bypass, that receive water from the Dhapa water treatment plant will not be affected. A statement issued by the CMC mentioned that Garden Reach, Jadavpur, Tollygunge, Behala, Maheshtala and Budge Budge will not receive water from 10am on Saturday. “Parts of Bhowanipore and Kalighat will also be impacted,” said a CMC engineer. All places in boroughs X (Tollygunge, Jadavpur, Golf Green, Jodhpur Park and Dhakuria), XI (Garia, NSC Bose Road, Ranikuthi and Bansdroni), XIV (Behala) and XV (Garden Reach) will be impacted, the statement said. Parts of boroughs VIII (Ballygunge and Gariahat), IX (Alipore, Chetla and Kidderpore), XII (Kasba and Garfa) and XVI (Joka) will be affected, the statement said. A senior CMC engineer said the shutdown was necessary to undertake repairs as well as maintenance work. “There are several booster pumping stations in the Garden Reach water supply network. The motors and pumps in these stations, as well as in the Garden Reach water treatment plant, work throughout the year. They need some break for maintenance. Suspension of water supply for some hours allows the maintenance work,” the engineer said. “We will also replace the valves, which help regulate water supply, in 60-inch diameter water transmission lines. These are high diameter water pipes and called transmission main lines. In some places we will also connect two such main transmission lines during Saturday’s shutdown,” said the engineer. Linking two lines makes the water supply network more integrated, the engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-204
