18-12-2020||Calcutta||Picture Perfect!||Train your lens on sights in your Salt Lake, New Town, Ultadanga, Bangur avenue or Keshtopur locality. Mail us your photographs with your contacts at saltlakett@gmail.com. No picture should be more thab 1.5 MB. The chosen enteries will be published and be in contention for our annual photography prizes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Boost for young talent||South Point High School The Interact Club and Nature Club of South Point High School recently organised the annual inter-school fests Udaan and Vrikkshya in association with The Telegraph Young Metro on a virtual platform. The theme for the fests this year was Mother nature and the new normal. In total, 18 online and offline events were organised for students of classes IX to XII from 10 participating schools. The online inauguration ceremony reflected on the previous years of the fest. A video recording of students from the school choir singing the school song and opening song marked the start of the event. Renowned Kathak exponent Malabika Mitra graced the occasion as the chief guest. The offline events such as Gharana (dance), Jhankar (fusion band), Picturesque (photography), MediaActive (journalism and blogging) and HoopScoop (basketball) required participants to submit video recordings of their performances a day prior to the fest. For the online events, the live performance of the participants was watched by the judges on the digital platform. Some of the online events were VerBattle (debate), Mime-time (dumb charade), S’ watch’-out (poster making), QFiesta (quiz) and A Minute to Win it! (talent show). The results of all the competitions were announced at the closing ceremony. Actor Riddhi Sen (picture left), an alumnus of the school, was present at the closing ceremony and announced the names of the winning schools. He shared some of his fond memories at the school. “This is a wonderful initiative at a time when we are missing out on social interactions. I appreciate the school’s effort. Whatever education I received from this school is not just conventional education but the teachers and the school have always supported my dream of becoming an actor,” said Riddhi. The host school was declared the overall winner but according to the tradition, they passed the title onto the first runner-up Patha Bhavan. DPS Ruby Park eventually became the first runner-up and the second runner-up position was secured jointly by M P Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School and Bhavan’s Gangabux Kanoria Vidyamandir. “It is important for us to continue with the usual activities of the school, albeit virtually. Udaan and Vrrikshya hold a special importance in the school calendar and we were well aware of the excitement that the students enjoy organising it. Therefore, it was decided that they be guided to host the event virtually. Brain storming sessions in virtual meetings led to regular events being customised for the new normal,” said principal Rupa Sanyal 
Bhattacharjee. Calcutta International School conducted an online poetry competition for the junior and senior section students recently. The theme for the online competition was This is Now, based on the pandemic and the pandemic-induced changes. The initiative not only motivated the students to exercise their creativity, but also brought forth their perception about the sudden changes in the world. The poems by the participants highlighted stark comparisons of the present with the past, the struggles humans dealt with during the lockdown and curiosity and anxiousness about the future. The competition was divided into two categories for classes VIII and below and from classes IX to XII. The school digitally released an anthology of the poems along with the artwork by the students. “Given the situation where the schoolchildren find themselves locked within the four walls of their home, unable to mingle with the friends and teachers, we thought writing poems will give them that essential platform to encapsulate their emotions and their thoughts. Hence, the poetry competition! As the principal, it gives me enormous joy to read the poems and see the spark of creativity in our students. It assures me that our students are growing up to be thoughtful citizens of the world,” said principal Munmun Nath. Come 2021, Aditya School of Sports (ASOS) will become a hub of grassroots development programmes in sports for Bengal. Be it in football, basketball, archery or shooting, the school will provide world class facilities and expert coaching from professionals in all kinds of games. Its strategic partnership with India On Track, an organisation that creates platforms for training and development of youths to help them achieve sporting excellence, will help the aspiring sportspersons get the scope to learn their game of choice from the best in the business. India On Track has acquired the rights from LaLiga Football Schools to set up and operate football-training centres in India under the brand of LaLiga Football Schools, India. It has also partnered with the National Basketball Association to set up and operate NBA Basketball School programmes across India. “Once the pandemic is over, the LaLiga Football Schools  and the NBA Basketball School programme will send foreign coaches every three months to train the young players here. This is for all our students at Aditya Academy as well as the students who want to join. We will first conduct the training programmes in our Barasat and Dum Dum compounds and then float it to other districts of Bengal. We will start some facilities in January, and once the schools reopen, we will start the full-fledged training programmes,” said Aditya Group chairman Anirban Aditya. ASOS has also tied up with Joydeep Karmakar Shooting Academy for shooting and Dola & Rahul Banerjee Sports Foundation for archery. Olympian shooter Joydeep Karmakar will start training the students in the Barasat facility from January. “We shall leave no stone unturned to produce champions of tomorrow. We are excited and sure that these facilities will be exploited by students to live their dreams,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Ninety eight and still going strong||So popular is he that a couple of years ago they had to carve out space from their garden and build an extra living room just to accommodate his unending guests. Even during the pandemic he gets phone calls that keep him occupied for up to three hours a day. And then of course, there is WhatsApp and Facebook. He doesn’t sound like it and certainly doesn’t look it, but on December 14, Chandrasekhar Bose of IB Block turned 98. “I got about 450 calls,” he laughs. “Many wanted to come but we discouraged them due to the pandemic. Only one friend — Gunin Chatterjee of JC Block — handed me a copper vessel through the window. He said drinking water from it will keep me healthy.” Bose likes his biryani, fish fry, jilipi and KFC and has a memory so sharp he can, in the same breath, recount incidents that happened 95 years ago as well as the trade union strike that took place last month. In fact, it is a trade union that is Bose’s heartbeat. Attracted by the Marxist philosophy from a young age, he joined the Communist Party of India in 1944. “I must be its senior-most member,” he smiles. Bose also joined Hindusthan Co-operative Insurance as clerk in 1944 and was a founder-member of the All India Insurance Employees Association in 1951. “I served as general secretary, vice-president and president of the body and am still a working committee member at the all-India level,” he says proudly. Leaves used as paper India in the 1920s was a far cry from what it is today. “We saw struggle, war, partition…” begins Bose, the third of four brothers. His father, however, had brought home a second wife who bore seven daughters and three sons. Bose grew up in places like Jessore, Khulna and Gaya, and had his share of fun. “I remember my hatey khori clearly. It happened when I was three,” smiles Bose, reminiscing. “I used taal leaf as paper, sharpened bamboo strips (konchi) as pen and dissolved coal as ink.” Memories of August 15 Bose recalls how animated Indians would get listening to the news on the radio in the early days of World War II. “Germany was advancing and Britain retreating... That was enough for us to rejoice,” he recalls. The war meant shortage of medicines, food, dhutis... After receiving industrial training Bose had wanted to start a detergent factory but the raw materials were not available due to the war. That’s what led him to join the insurance sector. “I remember August 15, 1947 clearly,” he smiles. “Most of us didn’t report for work that day. We hit the streets. Tram rides were made free and the gates of Raj Bhavan were thrown open so people could walk in, admire the interiors and even jump on the sofas, claiming ownership of the same.” But the best part about Independence Day was the ceasefire among Hindus and Muslims. “They forgot the bloodbath of a few days back and embraced one another in collective joy,” he recalls. For comrades’ cause When Bose joined the workforce, he says insurance companies didn’t play fair. Those in power would only appoint people from their own villages, there was no parity in pay structures, funds would be misappropriated… The turning point for Bose came when he witnessed a Class IV staff being humiliated and fired for no fault of his. From then on, he devoted his life to his colleagues. “The union was formed 10 years before I was born and Baba has always maintained that the union is his first child,” smiles Bose’s son Somsankar, who has now retired from CESC. “In fact, due to his activities in the union, Baba was terminated from office twice. Both times he was reinstated after agitation by the union. Baba’s marriage had been fixed long before this but due to his job instability he refused to get married till his company was nationalised in 1956 and brought under the banner of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC).” Bose retired in 1983 but remained president of the union till 1994. He remains a guiding light to the body, attending meetings, offering advice and contributing articles for their journal Insurance Worker, of which he was editor for the first 32 years. Members come to visit Bose from all over the country with gifts — petha from Agra, kalamkari lungis from Andhra Pradesh… A few years ago when Bose expressed his desire for a smartphone, grandson Suryasekhar gifted him one once he got his first job. “But it was a former union member who taught Baba to use the phone,” smiles Somsankar. “Now he uses email, social media… he has over 300 pending friend requests on Facebook as we speak!” Age is not a factor for Bose, who visited Siliguri for a meeting in 2019 and Visakhapatnam and Varanasi in 2020, before the pandemic. “My task now is to groom the next generation of leaders,” he says. Beaten with khorom One of the most important changes over the past century seems to have been in the status of women in society. Bose’s mother was married at the age of nine. And this was considered late. His aunt was married off at two! “My mother was extremely pampered in her parents’ house — they used to parade a herd of goats before her every day and she would pick which one she wanted for lunch,” he says. But all changed when she was married off. Suddenly the child would spend her days carrying heavy bronze utensils to the pond to wash, something she never had to do before. “My father had a short temper and would beat her mercilessly with his khorom (wooden slippers), sometimes resulting in miscarriage. He would beat his second wife too and any children he found at arm’s length. We would hide and cower in fear,” grimaces Bose. In a fit of rage, Bose’s father would banish his mother off to her parents’ house — sometimes for years. Bose followed his mother wherever she went. Bose penned his autobiography four years ago in which his mother’s unhappy marriage was dealt with in detail. “I contemplated whether or not to write all that but then after reading, many people have come and confessed that mine isn’t a solitary case. This was the story in most households back in the day. A woman’s identity was that she was her husband’s wife and if she displeased him, beating was the natural response.” Bose hastens to add that this wasn’t unique to India. “Have you heard of the phrase ‘rule of thumb’? It  comes from a time Englishmen were asked to beat their wives with sticks no thicker than their thumbs!” The nonagenarian is an advocate of gender equality and insists on robust participation of women at every meeting he attends. His own wife, Asoka Basu, was a strong individual in her own right. She taught at Bethune Collegiate School since the 1950s and then at Bidhannagar Government High School, BD Block, in the 80s. “She was a good Rabindrasangeet singer, a student of Subinoy Roy. I had recorded her singing and I enjoy listening to the CDs now,” Bose says. She passed away in 2016. Life in Salt Lake Bose moved from Paikpara to Salt Lake in 1998. He now lives with his son, daughter-in-law Chandana and grandson. Somsankar credits much of his father’s health to Chandana. “Till before the pandemic, we would get all his parameters checked every two months. He only has diabetes and high blood pressure and his doctors are fond of him as he is hale and hearty. My wife is very particular about his health and in fact we still haven’t allowed domestic helps back into the house to eliminate chance of Covid infection,” he says. While Bose finds Salt Lake a peaceful neighbourhood to live in, he finds many residents here to be know-it-alls. “I have been a part of welfare groups here but left when I saw they have no discipline or order,” he says. “Now I relax in the garden under the winter sun, read papers, watch TV serials but what I enjoy most is simply pondering over my past,” he smiles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Making hay with home delivery||Bored homemakers, out-of-work youths, crafty businessmen…. Many a resident has hopped on to the home delivery bandwagon during the pandemic. Some are making dal-bhat for senior citizens, others biriyani and pizza, or even delivering vegetables. In a world where leaving home has become a risk, these businesses are helping many trudge along while providing the owners a source of income in this uncertain economy. Business out of boredom Four homemakers had been mulling starting a business for years now but finally took the plunge this fateful year. “Our sons were in either the same school or coaching centres. We moms would drop them off at chemistry tuition in CA Block and catch up at CA Park or City Centre,” says Debarati Biswas, one of the four. When their sons graduated during the pandemic, the moms suddenly realised they had a lot of time to kill. “We started looking for options and took a franchise of Pithe Bilashi in Lake Town near the Big Ben clock tower,” she says. Well, that’s where the outlet is, but the meals are all getting home-delivered. “No one would be willing to sit at a restaurant while Covid is in the air and so it worked out fine for us,” says Debarati, busy packing off Chingri Malaicurry Patishapta and Mutton Polanno. “We are getting picnic orders too.” One not-so-fine July morning, Kalpana Mukherjee of DLF New Town Heights announced to her husband that she was starting a home delivery. “Months of doing nothing but jhadu-pocha-bartan was spreading negativity,” says the lady who has worked in the hospitality industry across the world. “I find cooking to be a stress buster and that’s what I wanted to do. My grandkids call me Ammu and so we named the venture Ammu’s Kitchen.” Kalpana started by advertising her dishes on the ladies’ WhatsApp group in the complex and now gets three or four orders every day for her parathas, Chicken Korma or Kashmiri Dum Alu. One customer orders all his meals from her. Then there is Rahul Arora, chef and owner of popular restaurants like Bon Appetit and Paranthe Wali Galli across the city, including at Salt Lake’s AD Block, where he lives. “Mine are budget restaurants that caters primarily to school and college students. With these institutions shut it’s not feasible to run them but I was going insane without being able to cook for customers,” says Rahul. But when friends started requesting him for some fancy dishes, claiming only dal-bhat outlets were delivering during the lockdown, he decided to do something about it. “I now cook cuisines you won’t get anywhere in the city — Turkish, Balinese, Javanese, Konkani — but only on Sundays. People pick it up or get it delivered and I have an upper limit of 10 orders as the meals are complex and I’m a one-man army now.” Survival strategy Bobby Halder took to delivering eggs after she lost her business in the lockdown. “I used to run a cloud kitchen and prepare meals for students and the elderly but all students left their hostels and PG accommodations and went home, leaving me high and dry,” she says. Bobby now sells eggs in Bangur Avenue and delivers to customers nearby “It was a survival strategy.”. When Santanu Dey realised footfall was dwindling in the lockdown, the fish vendor from Muchibazar near Ultadanga started an online fish, fruit and vegetable delivery system and launched an app called Barite Bazar. They have a physical store near the Bengal Chemical Metro stop too. “The fish is cut to pieces and cleaned at Muchibazar. It is then packed and supplied to households across Salt Lake, Lake Town, Kestopur, Kankurgachhi and Phoolbagan. Not all are old customers; there are many new ones who started ordering during the lockdown and became loyalists. The market has increased by more than 20 per cent,” said Dey. Waiting in the wings For some, cloud kitchens were in the pipeline for months or even years. “We have been planning Shahi Khansama for a year and a half and would have launched around Poila Baisakh but for the pandemic,” says Biswadeep Chakraborty, who along with partner Atanu Pal, has started the cloud kitchen in EC Block. “Restaurants were mushrooming till last year but our research says that 80 per cent of them downed shutters within two years due to overheads. Rent alone, in a decent location, costs up to a lakh a month. We are planning seven or eight branches of this restaurant across Bengal and most of them would be in the cloud kitchen format,” he says. Eventually Biswadeep launched the venture in time for the Pujas. Kloud Kitchen, another venture in EC Block, was to open in March but got postponed to June. “We have a chain of restaurants across the country but this is our first one in cloud format. “A chunk of our customers comprises corporate clients such as banks and they were initially scared to order food from outside. Now they are ordering in bulk and we are sending out at least 50 orders a day,” says Uday Rawal. They serve Chinese, Indian and tandoori food. Government bodies aren’t left behind either. The West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation (WBCADC), a wing of the panchayats and rural development department, has set up a kitchen at Mrittika Bhavan, DD Block, near Rabindra Okakura Bhavan, where a canteen run by self-help group women serves food. The home delivery initiative took off during the lockdown. “We had bought six vehicles in February to roam the lanes of Salt Lake with our groceries, fish, meat and vegetables. In March, we extended the service to New Town but when the lockdown started, our minister (Subrata Mukherjee) wanted us to help the entire city. So we started taking home delivery orders from all over,” says Soumyajit Das, administrative secretary, WBCADC. “The pandemic is giving equal opportunity to all. People are not stepping out of home to go to big restaurants so the fight between big capital and small capital is being fought on a level playing field as it is all down to home delivery now. This is an opportunity for self-help groups,” he adds. The management of Rang De Basanti Dhaba has launched a cloud kitchen under a separate brandname, Curry & Crust, from a floor above its Sector V restaurant for home delivery of Indianised pizzas (Turn to Page 7 for more). Recalling the trying months of the lockdown, Abhimanyu Maheshwari, founder and CEO, Zing Restaurants, says: “Sales went down to zero at the restaurant but home delivery never stopped. Even before the pandemic, 50 per cent of our sales came from home or office delivery. We wanted to expand our offerings in this segment.” In a post-pandemic world, he points out, credibility of a brand will play a big role. “Customers are looking for hygiene and safety standards,” he says. Waiting in the wings For some, cloud kitchens were in the pipeline for months or even years. “We have been planning Shahi Khansama for a year and a half and would have launched around Poila Baisakh but for the pandemic,” says Biswadeep Chakraborty, who along with partner Atanu Pal, has started the cloud kitchen in EC Block. “Restaurants were mushrooming till last year but our research says that 80 per cent of them downed shutters within two years due to overheads. Rent alone, in a decent location, costs up to a lakh a month. We are planning seven or eight branches of this restaurant across Bengal and most of them would be in the cloud kitchen format,” he says. Eventually Biswadeep launched the venture in time for the Pujas. Kloud Kitchen, another venture in EC Block, was to open in March but got postponed to June. “We have a chain of restaurants across the country but this is our first one in cloud format. “A chunk of our customers comprises corporate clients such as banks and they were initially scared to order food from outside. Now they are ordering in bulk and we are sending out at least 50 orders a day,” says Uday Rawal. They serve Chinese, Indian and tandoori food. Government bodies aren’t left behind either. The West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation (WBCADC), a wing of the panchayats and rural development department, has set up a kitchen at Mrittika Bhavan, DD Block, near Rabindra Okakura Bhavan, where a canteen run by self-help group women serves food. The home delivery initiative took off during the lockdown. “We had bought six vehicles in February to roam the lanes of Salt Lake with our groceries, fish, meat and vegetables. In March, we extended the service to New Town but when the lockdown started, our minister (Subrata Mukherjee) wanted us to help the entire city. So we started taking home delivery orders from all over,” says Soumyajit Das, administrative secretary, WBCADC. “The pandemic is giving equal opportunity to all. People are not stepping out of home to go to big restaurants so the fight between big capital and small capital is being fought on a level playing field as it is all down to home delivery now. This is an opportunity for self-help groups,” he adds. The management of Rang De Basanti Dhaba has launched a cloud kitchen under a separate brandname, Curry & Crust, from a floor above its Sector V restaurant for home delivery of Indianised pizzas (Turn to Page 7 for more). Recalling the trying months of the lockdown, Abhimanyu Maheshwari, founder and CEO, Zing Restaurants, says: “Sales went down to zero at the restaurant but home delivery never stopped. Even before the pandemic, 50 per cent of our sales came from home or office delivery. We wanted to expand our offerings in this segment.” In a post-pandemic world, he points out, credibility of a brand will play a big role. “Customers are looking for hygiene and safety standards,” he says. For the greater good GC Block Community Kitchen was started in May when residents, particularly senior citizens, were pleading for help. “On one hand, they suffered without cooks and on the other cooks went without jobs,” says the block’s executive committee, member Jhumpa Ghosh. “So we worked out an arrangement where a cook who lives in a garage of the block was allowed to prepare meals at the community hall. Her family helped her pack and deliver the food to residents who ordered,” says Ghosh. They now cater to nearby blocks on a regular basis and when the cook — Malina Mondal — makes biryani, orders pour in from as far as AJ Block at the other end of the township. Even after domestic helps returned to work, some residents continue with the service as it is fuss-free and eliminates the need to go shop. Indrajit Bhattacharya, a CL Block resident, had been planning a vegetable delivery business. “But the lockdown forced us to start the project prematurely, when we saw the plight of elderly. They were afraid to go to the markets and also unable to access the digital platforms of grocery apps,” he says. “My father is a food technologist and through our primary business of processing and export of seafood, we were already tied up with farmers across Bengal and Odisha,” Indrajit continues. So in April, they began Bengal Fresh Farms from which customers could order over phone and WhatsApp. Their website launches after Christmas and they are adding meat, fish, poultry etc to their list. “We are aiming for 1,000 customers per day by the end of this financial year.” Debdeep Kar is a philanthropist who supports animals and needy children. About a month back, he and a partner started a home delivery unit called Hungry Genie next to AE Market. “A chunk of the profits is going to charity,” he says. They are now serving Italian, Russian and Mexican food. “We have space for a few diners to sit and eat but most people prefer to eat at home now,” Debdeep says. Covid challenges Those like Kalpana are facing manpower shortage. “The first thing I needed for this business was containers to pack the food but nothing suitable was available online. My husband is unwell, mother is 85 and so I’m not leaving the house,” says the lady who finally found a delivery boy to transport her food as well as fetch her ingredients and containers. But Kalpana did not even have a domestic help till December, let alone someone to help out with orders. “My family forced me to get one and I agreed as I didn’t want to be fiddling with water during winter. The help now does my housekeeping as well as washing and chopping for my orders. But I am not taking anyone else so I cannot expand till the pandemic is over,” she says. Shahi Khansama is investing heavily in technology. “We shall use augmented reality to interact with customers. Anyone pointing his phone at our logo may see, for instance, a video of how his biriyani was made,” smiles Biswadeep. But the Gurgaon-based company building this technology had a setback due to the pandemic and work was stalled. Biswadeep has now signed up another company. “We were to fly to Iran to buy spices too but now that won’t be possible; we had wanted to take up stalls in Bidhannagar Mela and all the other fairs this winter but now there’s no telling if the fairs will take place at all.” Happy hearts Despite the challenges, the entrepreneurs are satisfied. “We are learning something new everyday,” smiles Debarati of Pithe Bilashi. “If one of us is unable to come to the centre now we feel restless.” Kalpana had shifted from Jal Vayu Towers to New Town Heights shortly before the lockdown so she hadn’t even had time to make new friends. “Now even if neighbours are coming to pick up the grub with masks on, at least I get to see and speak to them. Besides, I’m feeling happy and creative now,” says the lady who has also applied for a certification from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). “I might be the only home delivery joint to seek this but given my background in the hotel industry, I want to play by the book.” The experience has been liberating for Rahul too. “At one point of being a chef, you’re no longer cooking, just seasoning. Your juniors are doing the actual cooking. And if you run a popular restaurant you have to cook what sells. I made a Khow Suey after 10 years as my regular customers do not want this. But now I’m building a personal rapport with customers. A piece of me is going out with my meals,” he says. Rahul has, in fact, come to love it so much that even after his restaurants reopen he wants to hold Sunday meals on his terrace for a limited number of diners. “Home delivery may be convenient but the customer’s only interaction is with a box with a logo. Where’s the element of warmth? Being served by someone in a mask feels like someone’s out to draw your blood! That’s not how old school hospitality works,” he says. Additional reporting by Showli Chakraborty and Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Bengal govt recommended to give OBC-B status to Baishnab Bairagis||The West Bengal Commission for Other Backward Classes has recommended to the state government that the Baishnab Bairagi community be given the OBC-B status, the chairperson of the commission, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, said on Thursday. The commission held an online meeting with members of the Baishnab Bairagi community on Thursday. The community had applied to the commission for inclusion into the other backward classes (OBC) category, said Banerjee. “The commission unanimously decided in favour of sending a recommendation to the state government to include the Baishnab community in the OBC-B category,” he said. He said the OBCs were classified into two categories. Those who are socially and economically better off are in the OBC-B category and the rest are in the OBC-A category. Banerjee said the Baishnab Bairagi community would be included in the OBC-B category if the state cabinet approved the commission’s recommendation. “The government will then publish a gazette notification that will make the community a part of the OBC-B category,” he said. But it will not make all members of the community eligible for reservation in government jobs and admission to schools and colleges. They have to apply for an OBC-B certificate. If an individual fulfilled the economic and other criteria, the government will give an OBC-B certificate to that person, after which she or he will become eligible for benefits, Banerjee said. Members of the Baishnab Bairagi community mainly live in the Rampurhat subdivision of Birbhum district, Banerjee said. During the online meeting, community members from Rampurhat as well as from Murshidabad and Burdwan spoke with the commission, he added. “The Baishnab community people are very poor.... Their employment opportunities are also limited,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||State health department issues post-Covid management guidelines||Covid patients in hospital should visit a doctor for a check-up on the 14th and 28th day from discharge and then at least once every month for a year, say the guidelines for post-Covid management of patients issued by the state health department. The schedule may be altered according to a patient’s clinical condition. The guidelines, issued on Wednesday, have also suggested that people in home isolation visit a doctor within seven days of the end of their 17-day home isolation from the onset of symptoms. The guidelines have mentioned that even mild Covid-19 may lead to long-term symptoms like cough, fever and fatigue. Doctors who have been treating Covid patients said the emerging nature of the disease was one reason why people who have recovered from the infection are suggested follow-up consultations at regular intervals. They said it was still early to list all complications of Covid, which is why long-term monitoring is necessary. “Patients should follow up on the 14th & 28th day post-discharge. Then monthly for next 1 year. Follow up schedule may be altered according to patients’ clinical condition,” the guidelines said. “First follow up within one week from completion of 17 days’ home isolation”, is the recommendation for people who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms and were not admitted to hospital. The guidelines also mention some tests like blood sugar level, ECG, D-dimer (to detect any blood clot in arteries) and chest X-ray. The frequency of the tests will vary depending on the severity of the illness. Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a doctor at Beleghata ID Hospital who has been treating Covid patients since March, said the disease was not even one year old in India and regular check-up post-recovery was necessary to prevent further complications. “Many Covid patients are showing complications immediately after recovery. The disease is impacting various organs,” said Bandyopadhyay. “Covid-19 is still an emerging disease. We do not yet have enough evidence to definitively say what the long-term complications are. That is why people who have recovered need to remain under regular monitoring.” The Telegraph had on December 11 reported that there were a number of cases in the city of people suffering a cerebral stroke or cardiac arrest a few weeks or months after recovering from Covid. Doctors classified these, as well as other serious problems like infections in the brain, as some of the severe post-Covid complications. Bandyopadhyay said fibrosis of lungs, a condition marked by damage of lung tissues, had turned out to be a common post-Covid complication. A number of non-diabetic persons became diabetic following recovery. Another doctor said some Covid patients suffered from diabetic ketoacidosis, a serious complication of diabetes that occurs when the body produces high levels of blood acids called ketones. The guidelines state those who had moderate or severe illness should get a blood sugar test and chest X-ray done a month after recovery and then every six months. A doctor said it was also important for people who recuperated at home to consult a doctor after their 17 days’ home isolation ended. “No doctor could examine the person during the home isolation period. A lay person may not give due importance to a symptom, but that can turn into a major problem if neglected for a long period. It is always advisable to consult a doctor after the home isolation ends,” said the doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||March 2021 milestone for Tallah bridge ||Construction of five piers on the Shyambazar-end of the Tallah bridge and two on the Dunlop-end will be over by March 2021, the state government has decided after a recent review of the pace of work of one Calcutta’s biggest infrastructure projects in the north. PWD engineers have been accordingly briefed and a blueprint on the work to be done over the next three months has been readied. The foundation for construction of two of the six piers that will come up between railway tracks will also be over by March-end, senior officials in the know said. “There are two immediate deadlines. The first milestone will be reached by March-end. By August 2021, work worth nearly Rs 160 crore, of the total project cost of Rs 340 crore, will be completed,” said a senior PWD official. “That means that by August, roughly 40 per cent of the construction work of the Tallah bridge will be over.” The new schedule of work and the deadlines were drawn up soon after the railway sent its approval for the construction of six piers between seven pairs of railway tracks to hold a 200m-long deck slab of the bridge. The state government had in September sent a detailed proposal to the railway about how it wants to go about constructing the six pillars. The railway’s clearance is required since the Tallah structure will be a railway overbridge. A formal go-ahead from the railway reached the state government a few days back. prompting PWD officials to take stock of the work done so far in Tallah and draw up a blueprint. “We will take blocks on movement of trains of the Circular Railway in Tallah at night for the foundation work of two of the six piers that will come up on the railway land,” a PWD engineer said. The bridge will replace the one that was pulled down a few months ago following reports from engineers that it could collapse any moment. The bridge, which will be a key link of Calcutta with northern suburbs, will have two spans on either side of the flat deck in the middle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Beds too few at obstetrics ward of SSKM||SSKM Hospital’s gynaecology and obstetrics department has patients double its capacity, with many women sharing beds. Reasons: options for women in need of gynaecological care have shrunk as a number of government hospitals have been turned into Covid treatment centres; and a perception that SSKM is safer because Covid patients are not admitted there. Some big government hospitals in the city, such as the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and MR Bangur Superspeciality Hospital, have become dedicated Covid treatment centres or have Covid wards. “These hospitals used to handle hundreds of child births. Now, many people are wary of going there to avoid coming in contact with Covid patients,” a health department official said. SSKM has “holding wards” where patients are kept after admission. Those who test positive for Covid are shifted to hospitals that treat such patients. SSKM officials said the crush of patients in the gynaecology and obstetrics department had forced them to look for space where beds for obstetrics could be set up. The search has been necessitated by the steady rise in the number of child delivery cases at the hospital. In March, when the Covid-19 outbreak started in Bengal, SSKM’s gynaecology and obstetrics department had seen a seven per cent rise in the number of child births compared with the average pre-pandemic monthly figure. November saw almost 100 per cent rise and the authorities fear December could be even worse. The department had 110 beds. In June, another 36 were added. “We had found space on the ground floor of Woodburn Block, where we created an extension of the obstetrics ward. But that is far from enough, given the steady rise in the number of patients,” an official at SSKM said. Despite the increase in capacity, two women are at times asked to share a bed. “We will add another 24 beds, taking the total count to 170. The old outpatient department of the ophthalmology unit was defunct and we were planning to set up an eye bank there. But given the situation, we have to create a temporary gynaecology and obstetrics ward of 24 beds there. The facility will become operational by next week,” said the official. However, a doctor of the department said that even the latest addition would be inadequate. “We used to perform around 500 child deliveries every month. In November, there were 939,” said the doctor. The pressure on the department increased further after suburban trains resumed on November 11. The SSKM authorities and health department officials cite unavailability of beds in other hospitals amid the pandemic as the primary reason for the rush of patients to SSKM. The Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and MR Bangur Superspeciality Hospital used to handle hundreds of child births every month. “MR Bangur hospital has been turned into a Covid hospital. A large number of women from south Calcutta and southern fringes would deliver babies at MR Bangur,” said an official of the health department. An official of MR Bangur hospital said doctors of the gynaecology and obstetrics department had been shifted to Baghajatin State General Hospital, where they are mostly handling OPD patients. Calcutta Medical College would handle about 12,000 child births a year on an average, catering to patients mostly from central and north Calcutta. The hospital has 800 beds dedicated for Covid patients. The NRS Medical College and Hospital has 110 beds dedicated for Covid. “Many people are scared of going to these hospitals, fearing they would be infected with the coronavirus,” a health department official said. Chittaranjan Seva Sadan and Sishu Sadan Hospital in Hazra had to stop admissions intermittently as several of its doctors contracted Covid, health department officials said. Rehana Khatun, from Park Circus, had queued up at SSKM’s gynaecology and obstetrics OPD on Thursday. Asked why she did not go to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, which was nearer home, the woman said: “SSKM is a better hospital and also there are no Covid patients here.” “The footfall at the OPDs of SSKM is near normal, around 10,000 every day. Before the pandemic, it used to be around 11,000 daily. The OPD turnout is almost back to normal because SSKM is a non-Covid hospital,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Milder strain of dengue a mercy in Covid-hit year||More than 200 people have been affected by dengue in Salt Lake and parts of Rajarhat from January till mid-December, senior officials of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. According to the civic body’s records, last year the figure of people suffering from dengue had crossed 1,300 by this time. Over 20 men and women had died and several hundred were affected by the vector-borne disease in the past three years, the civic records showed. The superintendent of Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital Partha Pratim Guha pointed out that the severity of the dengue outbreak was “less than one-tenth of last year”. The reason, he said, was the prevalence of a milder strain of the virus this year. “We have to send aliquots from our dengue positive cases to the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) for genetic mapping. According to their report, it is the mildest type that is prevalent this year. It is neither too virulent nor predominant. The nature of the disease is such that any one strain appears in an environment at a time. It is a huge relief that we are not having to battle dengue side by side with Covid-19 infections. Had any of the other three types of dengue manifested itself this year, we would have been in a soup,” Guha explained. The flip side is the apprehension of a more severe strain next year. Though the dengue season is on its way out, the civic authorities are not taking it easy. Pranay Kumar Ray, a member of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation who holds the health portfolio, said that they were taking a variety of measures to ensure that dengue cases did not rise given the current pandemic situation. According to him, they have tweaked the strategy of fighting dengue and have nearly put a stop to fogging, a practice where mosquito repellents are sprayed from a gun mounted on the back of rickshaw vans. This has been done keeping in mind that there might be Covid-19 patients inside a locality and airborne chemicals might make it difficult for them to breathe. On Tuesday, corporation workers used boats to spray larvicide in the waters of the Kestopur Canal. A three-man team rowed up and down the canal near Baisakhi to spray larvicide. According to Ray, the civic health teams are conducting sanitisation drives and spraying disinfectants across all the wards to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A separate set of health workers on the other hand is spraying larvicide and conducting door-to-door visits across all the 41 wards to check whether there is any accumulation of fresh water in any of the multistoried buildings or standalone house premises. “We have been requesting all residents to ensure that there is no accumulation of stagnant water on the rooftop of their houses and on the house premises,” said another civic official. Several private nursing homes and hospitals in and around Salt Lake said that they had a regular stream of dengue patients but fatalities have not been reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Bengal boys to take field in Argentine colours||At 11.35am GMT on Thursday, a consignment of 26 Argentina football jerseys landed at Heathrow airport all the way from Calcutta. Tracking its progress online was a bunch of Bengalis in London. On Saturday, they would put on the colours of La Albiceleste and take the field in memory of Diego Maradona. The emotions that the talismanic footballer’s death have ignited in the community in Blighty will result in a match defying biting cold and Covid-19 fears. “We’ll start at 3pm, half an hour before sunset. The temperature would be around 5 degrees Celsius then,” said Pratik Dutta, who had the jerseys flown over from the Maidan market. The two teams will be named Boca Juniors (Argentina) and Napoli (Italy), in a nod to the two club teams Maradona served with passion and distinction. “Their jerseys proved difficult to source and our memories are linked more to the Argentina colours. So we settled for the home and away jerseys of the 2018 World Cup,” said Dutta, who saw Maradona from the Salt Lake stadium gallery in 2008. “I got passes as we used to play in FD Park in Salt Lake, close to Subhas Chakraborty’s house.” The then sports minister had organised Maradona’s tour. A trophy, engraved with the words Diego Maradona Tribute Cup, has reached Srijit Bhaumick’s house in Hayes. Both Srijit and Pratik are 1986-born and missed seeing Maradona in his prime. “But I had him in my life because of my brother, a fan. Our room was full of posters, football video cassettes and sports magazines.” In the squads will also be seniors like Sourav Niyogi and Suranjan Som, the president and vice-president respectively of Bengal Heritage Foundation, the umbrella under which the match will be held. “Like most Calcuttans, we were introduced to live international football — and Maradona — through the 1986 World Cup. He is an integral part of our childhood,” said Som. Which is why when they met on Zoom after Maradona’s shock demise, everyone wanted to pay a tribute. “Initially we thought of a football quiz. But Srijit insisted on a match. Others were hesitant because of the cold, but later came around,” said Niyogi. The Goals Gilette Corner, a practice facility in west London, was booked. Covid cast a shadow on the match earlier this week when London  was put under a stricter lockdown. “We are in Tier III now. Though organised outdoor sports has been allowed, only the players can attend. We also had to reduce the size of the squads.” Now it is down to 13 in each team. Since not everyone is in shape, the match will be a 50-minute affair. “Some of us will take turns, letting the young Turks carry on full time,” said Niyogi, who has started running daily. To compensate for the reduced participation, the prize distribution will occasion a virtual meet on December 22, an evening bound to be soaked in football nostalgia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-202
18-12-2020||Calcutta||CU sets domicile term for admission to a BTech seat||An engineering aspirant intending to take part in the decentralised counselling for admission to a BTech seat under Calcutta University has to be domiciled in Bengal. CU introduced the condition in the notification issued on Wednesday announcing counselling for 89 of the 237 BTech seats that have remained vacant after centralised counselling by the JEE board. The notification signed by Amit Roy, the secretary of the faculty council of engineering and technology, says: “Participating candidates must be domicile of West Bengal. Domicile of other states shall not be eligible.” A CU official said the university had not set any such condition in the centralised counselling. But from the time Jadavpur University had introduced the domicile clause last year for admission to BTech courses, CU had been under pressure from a section of teachers and students to do the same. Submission of online applications for admission started on December 16 and will go on till December 21. Candidates whose names figure on the state JEE merit list will be admitted in order of merit. A member of the CU’s faculty council for engineering and technology faculty said the criteria that need to be fulfilled to become eligible for domicile quota seats would be the same as what was spelt out in the information bulletin of JEE 2019. “Only those candidates will be treated as domicile of West Bengal who are either, a) residing in West Bengal continuously for at least for 10 (ten) years as on 31.12.2018; b) whose parent (s)is/ are permanent resident(s) of West Bengal having permanent addresses within the State of West Bengal,’’ the rules read. The four-year BTech programme was introduced at CU in 2015. Until 2019, the engineering seats for students in the state-funded university were open for students from all states. “The rationale for the reservation is that students from Bengal were being outnumbered by candidates from other states in engineering courses. The same rationale was cited while introducing the quota in JU last year,’’ said an official of CU. When asked why the university did not introduce the domicile clause when the JEE board had started centralised counselling in August, the official said another section of teachers opposed the domicile quota on the ground that an established university should not be shutting its doors on deserving students in the name of reservation. “A domicile quota in my opinion will erode the institute’s regional diversity, which is an extension of a university’s inclusiveness,” said a teacher of computer science and engineering known for his opposition to reservation. Sources said the higher education department sought to know from CU in August whether the university had introduced the domicile quota at the time of centralised counselling. “The university could not resist the pressure anymore and settled for the domicile quota months before the Assembly elections. The department had overruled legal constraints cited by the JEE board in implementing the domicile policy for engineering courses at Jadavpur University from 2019,’’ said another teacher. Sources on the campus said the dean of engineering and technology faculty council has convened a meeting on December 22 with the heads of the departments and on agenda is how to introduce the domicile quota during the centralised counselling in 2021. The notification says the dates of counselling for the 89 vacant seats will be announced later. CU’s vacancy figure last year was 50.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Forum holds health camps||The New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum has started a Sunday camp to be held over the next two months to bring doctors and pathology labs closer to residents across the township. The first camp took place last week in DB Block next to the Newtown School. Coming Sunday, there will be one at Jal Vayu Towers and another in DA Park, that will also cater to residents of Balaka Abasan. New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum will be holding more than 10 health camps across the three action areas in December and January. “The elderly are scared to visit hospitals now so we are bringing specialists from as many disciplines as possible and holding the camps in open-air parks,” said joint convenor of the forum Samir Gupta. A total of 12 camps will be held, with more than one on some Sundays, he added. The first camp, at DB Block, was inaugurated by psychiatrist Kedar Ranjan Banerjee, a resident of AL Block, New Town. “This is the first camp of its kind here and it was desperately needed. Sixty people have enrolled but even more and coming,” said Amit Kumar Basu, secretary of DB Block Welfare Association. “Not everyone can afford private healthcare and there have been times when our residents could not even find someone to fix a saline on them.” Rudrasish Banerjee, a resident of the block, had come with his mother mainly for her eye check-up. “We live in a big city but healthcare here is minimal. We are glad something like this is happening,” he said. Besides eye care, there was ECG, blood pressure and sugar tests, and consultation with doctor and dietician. “More than half the patients getting their blood test done today didn’t even know they had high blood sugar,” said Amit Singh, from Metropolis Health Care Chinar Park, who was doing the test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||CMC brings property tax waiver letter at defaulter doorstep||Civic officials have started reaching out to house owners with letters of intimation informing residents about their pending property taxes and requesting them to submit an application by December 31 for waiver of interest and penalty. Since the roll-out of the waiver scheme on October 1, this is the first time civic officials are going door to door to hand over the letter of intimation, which would otherwise be sent by post to the defaulters. With just about a fortnight left to submit the waiver application, officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said they were trying to offer a “gentle reminder” to defaulters so that they could avail themselves of the benefits. Property tax defaulters together owe the CMC Rs 2,500 crore. “A demand notice will be issued immediately on receipt of the waiver application. The person concerned can then pay the amount either in full or in instalments within the specified dates and get full or partial waiver,” said an official of the CMC’s assessment department. Over the last few days officials from each ward have started visiting houses and apartments with letters of intimations, along with a pamphlet for each defaulter where details of the waiver scheme are printed on one side and the format for application seeking waiver on the other. The letter of intimation has details of the amount left unpaid till March 31 this year and the cumulative amount due to the CMC with interest and penalty. Forms are available both online and offline and can be submitted online or at any of the CMC’s common collection centres or any of its e-Calcutta citizen service centres. Bills can be collected online or at these centres. There are 20 such centres in the city. By applying for the waiver scheme, a defaulter would just have to pay the principal amount if it is paid within February 28, 2021. The waiver on penalty will be 99 per cent and that on the interest 60 per cent if the amount is paid by March 31, 2021. “For housing complexes or apartments with a considerable number of defaulters we are even prepared to accept cheques if they want to pay collectively,” said the official. “The associations or the committees will fix a date and inform us when an official will go and receive the cheques before handing over receipts.” The outreach programme comes around a time when the state is learnt to be preparing to hold the civic elections in Calcutta by end-March. Ahead of the elections, the state government wants to wrap up the process of recovering as much as possible the outstanding amount from property tax in Calcutta, officials in the know said. “There are several housing complexes and apartments where the amount due on property tax ranges between Rs 16 lakh and Rs 25 lakh,” said an official. “Even if half the amount is recovered through this waiver scheme, it would be quite an amount.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||CC Block clinic starts with resident doctors ||So out of reach have doctors become during the pandemic that residents themselves are now trying to create makeshift platforms to bring doctors closer to patients. Newtown CC Block Residents’ Welfare Association has struck an arrangement with resident doctors who have agreed to tend to patients in the common space on the ground floor of one of their co-operative buildings. Open-air venue The makeshift clinic is at Need Co-operative Housing Society, housed at CC 45, in Street 245. A nearby landmark would be Biswa Bangla Gate. A table, a chair and a makeshift bed for inspection have been set up in an area cordoned off with curtains. “I am a child specialist but during the pandemic I have been getting calls to treat adults too. They have nowhere to go as all doctors have been refusing them,” said Atanu Banerjee, one of the doctors who will be sitting at the clinic. “I myself am a senior citizen but have gone on house visits and even tended to patients sitting outside medicine shops.” Banerjee then spoke to the block association to start the clinic. “We had long wanted to start something like this but seeing people’s helplessness during the lockdown accelerated the process,” said vice-president of the association Biman Samaddar. “New Town looks like a rich man’s abode from afar but what about labourers? The doctor’s fee paid by a rich man is often the monthly income of labourers.” Other resident doctors who will be chipping in are Asok Mukherjee and Subrata Dey. “I’m currently a resident of Shyambazar but have a house being built in CC Block,” said the head of the cardiothoracic surgery department at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. While he supports the initiative, he has arranged for his junior colleague, Subhajit Sharma, to come here regularly. “The incidence of heart attack itself has reached pandemic proportions in our state but most patients of high blood pressure don’t even know what they suffer from,” said Dey. “If clinics like this can get them to check their sugar and pressure, it could save lives.” There was also Himangshu Sekhar Patra, a physician who wants to help but is unable to do so at the moment. “My hospital is in Howrah and commuting takes time. We are overworked and after wearing two masks the entire day I am left with a bad headache and no energy to volunteer. I shall consider lending a hand after the pandemic,” he said. Secretary of the association Atanu Mahapatra said the clinic would be functional four to five days a week with details to be finalised soon. Some more doctors are keen to join the movement. “While we are calling this initiative Charitable Doctors’ Clinic we have not made it free as it would then not be taken seriously. The fee for residents is Rs 300 and that for labourers, caretakers and other needy people is Rs 50,” he said. Also present was the state-level assistant secretary of Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha, Sourav Chakrabarti. He cited how once everyone was flocking to a village in Maslandapur for a supposed miracle cure for all diseases — mud and water. “We tested the concoction, found it dangerous for consumption and tried to break the congregation. We  faced massive backlash and despite all our logic and reasoning, the mob had one question that had us hanging our heads in shame: ‘Will you take responsibility for our health?’ Our country spends a miniscule amount on health and there is a desperate need for such clinics to bail out needy patients,” Chakrabarti said. The first patient at the clinic, on Sunday, was three-year-old Avipsa Sen, who had stomach ache. “We have our backs against the wall whenever my daughter falls ill,” said her mother Archana, the wife of a caretaker in a nearby building. “I have to cycle to far-off places in search of a doctor with Avipsa tied to the rear seat so she doesn’t fall off.” “Instead of waiting for the government to come up with a solution, it’s good that the association started this,” said Avijit Roychoudhury, chairman of the co-operative, where the clinic has come up.  Eventually they want to shift the setup to some other permanent space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Celebrating Satyajit Ray’s centenary||Satyajit Ray would have evolved his own style of filmmaking had he lived to make films for the Internet age, felt speakers at the Bengal Club Library Event celebrating Ray’s centenary in an online adda. The master of the big screen had made telefilms like Sadgati and Pikoo and would not have minded making films for OTT platforms, they said. OTT platforms or over-the-top streaming services are offered to the viewer directly via the Internet. Talking about the multifaceted Renaissance man, who was at once a children’s storyteller, a film director, an illustrator and a music director, filmmaker Goutam Ghose said: “Ray belonged to a Bengal Renaissance family where everyone had a scientific bent of mind but practised the arts. He loved to travel and whenever he wrote about a place he would write about its geographical location along with its art and culture. Bengalis learnt a lot about Jaisalmer from his Sonar Kella.” After the death of Sukumar Ray, the family went through a lot of upheaval but Ray’s mother Suprava Ray did everything to nourish young Ray’s mind, including sending him to Visva-Bharati to be with Rabindranath Tagore. “Notations of Beethoven, Bach were his bedtime readings,” said Ghose. About the writer Ray, son Sandip said: “Though he wrote Feluda, Professor Sonku for children, he got letters and phone calls from his adult readers more than children. And he also made more money writing Feluda, Professor Sanku and Tarini Khuro stories than he did by making films.” He imbibed his characters with a Bangaliana and yet rooted them in an internationalism that was also reflected in himself. Just as Professor Sanku would wear western clothes for his international conferences, so would Ray wear jackets and scarves at international film festivals. But he would be found in khaddar dhuti panjabi at home in Calcutta, pointed out Aparna Sen who played Mrinmoyee in Samapti. Talking about how she bagged the role, Sen said: “Manik kaka came to our house when I was 11 years old. It was my sister’s birthday and I was in a skirt. He was then looking to cast someone for Aparna in Apur Sansar and he had one look at me and said ‘Na, e bodo chhoto’ (she is too young).” Conjecturing what Ray would have done had he not made films, Ghose said he would have been a symphony composer. Sen thought he would have been a great painter. A student till his last day, he would eagerly learn anything that was new to him. In his kheror khata for Sadgati, he would practice writing the Devnagri script, said Ghose. Dhritiman Chatterjee was the actor Ray found very easy to work with. When Chatterjee shot for Pratidwandi, his shots were approved at one go with no retakes, said Sandip. Ray had spent an hour with Chatterjee before deciding to cast him for Pratidwandi. “In that one hour, we discussed everything, from films to politics. He watched me very closely all the time,” recounted Chatterjee. While rounding up the session, every panelist agreed that they missed the presence of Soumitra Chatterjee in this adda to celebrate Ray’s centenary. “He should have been here with us,” said Ghose, lamenting how his death had brought a pall of gloom on Bengalis collectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Global pizza gets a desi twist||The tandoor is the new birthplace of the pizza. Sauce has made way for curry. And oregano flakes have been replaced by a mix of masala-roasted jeera, kasuri methi etc. Welcome to a desi version of the archetypal Italian flatbread with toppings. The Rang De Basanti kitchen, known for its north Indian specialities, has diversified into pizza-making and a new cloud kitchen in Sector V has been christened Curry & Crust: Tandoori Pizza, keeping both its core competence and its new venture in focus. In keeping with post-pandemic trends, it is a delivery-only brand. The offerings, which are the result of experiments carried out over a month and half, are what the man behind the brand, Abhimanyu Maheshwari, calls “globalised pizza”. “Indian curries are our strength so we thought why not marry it with another popular dish? Our pizzas are targeted at global sensibilities but carry the comfort and familiarity of home,” says the founder and chief executive officer of Zing Restaurants, which owns both the brands. Maheshwari, who started his career as a sandwich maker at Subway, where he worked part-time for three years during his undergraduate studies in Rochester, New York, hit upon the idea of thickening the curry that is the soul of north Indian gravy dishes and using it in place of sauce on a flatbread. The range of desi toppings — keema masala to chicken tikka — followed. Currently the menu has nine standalone offerings. “Take our Kadhai Chicken Tandoori Pizza. The flatbread base has been reworked. On it, we have used kadai gravy as the sauce base. On top of it, mozzarella and cheddar cheese have been spread with capsicum, onion and tomatoes. Once the Kadhai Chicken pieces are added, the pizza goes straight into — not the oven but — the tandoor,” said chef Somir Das. And it tastes fine! They have even devised their desi version of garlic bread — lasoon naan! The most popular vegetarian pizza on the menu is a corn and saag one (picture left). Here spinach is blanched and tossed with corn as the topping alongside the cheese. There are options in pav bhaji and paneer too. “Yesterday, we were trying out fish and chips as toppings. The possibilities are endless,” said Maheshwari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Blooming flowers bring much peace and joy||One can only imagine how tough the lockdown has been for Nimai Chand Gupta, a 79-year-old widower who has had to live much of this year all by himself. What kept him going, perhaps, was a hobby he picked up two or three years ago — gardening. Without help, he is unable to do much of the heavy lifting and doubts if his blooms this winter will be as abundant as before but if they keep him happy, they will have done enough. After March, I left Salt Lake all of four times, each time to bid the final goodbye to a loved one. Then, in September, my full-time domestic help of 10 years left. Now I am all alone. In such a bleak scenario I am turning to my plants. I have done up my front yard, backyard, drive way and terrace but each has its own pros and cons. The front yard, though a small patch, is fertile. It grows Spinach, Coriander, Mustard, Radish, Bitter Gourd, Chichinge… I used to have flowers here too but they would get stolen. The backyard is deprived of sunlight ever since some construction was done in a neighbour’s house. It has Neem, Banana, Lemon but the trees never bear fruit. Why, I have two Papaya trees of the same age — one in front and one at the back. The one in front has grown to a height of two storeys whereas the one at the back is just waist-high! A Mango tree in the backyard receives sunlight on one side and early this year, only that side had filled with little Mangoes. Along came Amphan and brought them all down. My domestic help made pickle out of it but I can’t stand pickle. I usually carry it to the US when I visit my sons but there’s no telling when that will happen now. I usually gift lots of vegetables to neighbours but even that had to be stopped due to Covid. So I alone ate the Brinjal, Palong Shak, Pui Shak and Lady’s Finger that grew here. I have always kept busy with plays, quizzes, debates or simply by helping out in the neighbourhood so social distancing is difficult for me. I’m killing time in the garden as much as I can. I’m preparing for Dahlias, Chrysanthemums and Marigolds this winter but it’s not easy dragging sacks of soil or lifting heavy buckets with my back and knee ache. Flowers bring me much peace and joy. Earlier this month, a Hibiscus bloomed in the terrace that was yellow with a deep pink centre. It was so beautiful that it made my day. The doctor has asked me to walk five miles daily so I wear my Fitbit smart watch and walk on the terrace and driveway, counting my steps and looking at the lovely flowers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta cyclists meet traffic cop at Lalbazar||A group of cyclists met the deputy commissioner (traffic) of Calcutta police at Lalbazar on Thursday and reiterated their demand that cycles be allowed on all roads in the city, some of those present at the meeting said. The police have banned cycling on arterial roads of Calcutta. Cyclists were allowed on arterial roads after the Covid outbreak started in March because many people were forced to cycle to work and other places in the absence of public transport. But recently the police launched a drive to stop cyclists on arterial roads. Sources have said that over time this would be followed by prosecution. Metro reported on Wednesday that cyclists and cycling enthusiasts had written to Calcutta’s police commissioner with an appeal that bicycles be allowed on all city roads. “After we wrote to the police commissioner, we were asked to meet the deputy commissioner (traffic). During Thursday’s meeting, we told him that the restriction on cycles should go. Cycles should be allowed on all roads. We told him how many cities across the world are promoting cycling,” said Gargi Maitra, a member of Bengal Clean Air Network. Several cyclists have said that riding bicycles has become a necessity for many now, especially the poor. During the pandemic, people can avoid crowded public transport by cycling to work. “We are not talking about recreational cycling. We are talking about cycling for need, cycling as a safe mode of transport during the pandemic,” a cyclist said. Raghu Jana, the convener of Kolkata Cycle Samaj, a platform for cycle owners and cycling enthusiasts, said the police should stop imposing fines on cyclists for riding on arterial roads. “I told the deputy commissioner that the police should not fine people for riding bicycles on roads. Fine only if a cyclist violates a traffic rule,” said Jana. Rupesh Kumar, the deputy commissioner (traffic), told Metro: “I met them (cyclists) and listened to what they had to say.” The cyclists also referred to the annual phenomenon of poor air quality in the city in winter and stressed the urgent need to reduce tailpipe emissions. “Cycles are a good alternative to vehicles powered by diesel and petrol. Cycles do not pollute the air. Cycles take less space than cars but move more people,” one of them said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
18-12-2020||Calcutta||Of blooms and thorns||Unusual shapes, a wide range of sizes, varied textures and beautiful blooms — cacti are and other succulents are a category like no other. They are hardy plants and grow readily in deserts as well in Salt Lake. There are innumerable kinds of cacti are and other succulents in the wild and today we shall find out about some under the Echinopsis head. This robust species ranges in shape from globular to tall and columnar, with flowers and spines that differ greatly in size and colour. This diversity is due to the current amalgamation into one genus of the former genera Echinopsis, Lobivia, Pseudolobivia, Soehrensia and Trichocereus, which originated in countries such as Chile, Argentina, Ecuador and Peru. About 150 species of this group include night-flowering plants that have several flushes of summer blooms as well as others that flower erratically in the daytime from spring to summer lasting one or two days. The round fruits of this species are generally green. Most cacti of this group can be grown without much care. Amongst 100 species of this group are names like Echinopsis densispina, oxygona and backebergii. Let us look at the brief description of some of them below. Echinopsis Forty-Niner: Like all Echinopsis hybrids, this pleasant-looking cactus was developed to create a more handsome and larger body. It was also meant to produce flowers of a more vivid colour. Its bright golden blooms open at dusk, at intervals throughout spring and summer, and fade after 24 hours. Their necks can be up to nine or 10 inches long. This sun-loving globular plant is very robust. Echinopsis Mammilosa: This small cactus produces flowers when only three inches in diameter. It opens on summer nights and again, lasts for about 24 hours.  Protect this plant from unsightly scarring and grow it in the full sun. Echinopsis Marsoneri: Often the shape and spine of this cactus vary. In summer, short-necked flowers which are gold with a red throat appear on the sides of the stem. This cactus remains happy with sun or shade. The spectacular black-throated flowers of this species are the main attraction. It has long been known as Lobivia. The stems cluster to form a small group that in habitat is almost buried, particularly in the spring when the heads are flush with the ground and difficult to see. There are various flower colours of this type including yellow, red and orange. The Marsoneri grows better in northern Argentina, high in the mountains where it is very cold. As such it will survive in very cold weather if kept dry. The large roots store water to help it survive. Propagation will be better done by cutting, which can be easily rooted. Echinopsis Chamaecereus: This is also known as Peanut Cactus. This small slender plant has very short, white spines and spreads rapidly to form a cluster of creeping candle-like stems. It flowers profusely, producing funnel shaped blooms, which open fully in the sun during late spring or early summer. The small berries are spiny. The plant prefers slight shade and is easily grown from offsets. The columnist, patron of Bidhannagar, expired earlier this year. This is his last column.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-203
