19-12-2020||Calcutta||Pen-and-paper ICSE and ISC: Gerry Arathoon||The ICSE and ISC exams will be pen and paper and there must be at least two months of on-campus classes before the boards can take place, the chief executive and secretary of the council, Gerry Arathoon, said on Friday. “It (the board exams) will have to be a pen-and-paper exam. Online exams will not be practical given the connectivity problem and issues of availability of laptop for a section of students. Two months of rigorous teaching has to be done (in the school) before the board exam. The Class X and XII students will have to come to school for practical classes, to complete projects, for revision and clearing of doubts,” Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), told The Telegraph over the phone. The council chief conveyed this message to 1,500-odd principals online in the annual meeting of the Association of Schools for the ISC on Friday. “Not all students have laptops and they are using smartphones. All parents cannot afford to buy laptops. Many of them are unable to pay the fees so can they buy a laptop? There are parents who have had salary cuts also,” said Arathoon. Speaking about poor connectivity, he said that even during the online meeting there were interruptions. “We lost connectivity four times.” Arathoon said he had written to the chief ministers of all states to allow schools to “reopen partially” from January 4 for the students of Classes X and XII to attend practical classes, “doubt clearing” lessons and do project work. The council has also requested the chief election commissioner to share the election dates of the states that are set to go to polls in April and May, so the council can “finalise” the schedules of next year’s ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. “Once we know the dates, we can form the schedule of the board exams. Bengal is one state where elections are due,” said Arathoon. There are about 430 ICSE and 250-odd ISC schools in Bengal. Usually, the Class X board exams begin in March and Class XII begin in February. “I cannot see the board exams taking place in February or March because schools have not reopened yet,” Arathoon said. “Students have attended online classes but they need to be in school for teaching lessons, practical and revision.” All schools have been closed since March as a precaution against Covid. Schools have been conducting online classes. But many teachers said that for practical classes, showing the experiments online is not enough, the students have to do it themselves. Arathoon said schools have to tell the parents to let their children attend on-campus classes. “At least parents of Classes X and XII will have to be educated by the schools. The importance of sending the children to school will have to be communicated to them. Of course the SOPs have to be maintained. Gradually we have to inculcate some kind of assurance to parents that children will be safe and only then can the boards be conducted successfully in school,” he said. “There are parts of Arunachal Pradesh, Darjeeling, remote areas in Odisha and Chhattisgarh where connectivity is a huge issue. As Mr. Arathoon pointed out, since connectivity is not proper throughout the country, a pen-and-paper exam is the best solution,” said Sujoy Biswas, the president of the Association of Schools for the ISC. Principals who attended Friday’s meeting agreed with the council. “Two months is a good time span to give the students proper practice and bring them to school in a staggered manner,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||JU asks engineering aspirants to apply between December 22 and 26 ||Jadavpur University has asked engineering aspirants to apply between December 22 and 26 to fill the 487 BTech seats that have remained vacant after the centralised counselling by the JEE board. According to a notification issued on Friday, all general category candidates who have qualified JEE 2020 with a valid general merit rank of 10,000 or less and reserved category candidates having qualified JEE 2020 with any valid general merit rank and not admitted to any undergraduate degree programme under faculty of engineering and technology, Jadavpur University, may apply. The university has 1,253 seats and close to 40 per cent seats have not found takers during the three rounds of online counselling by the board that had started in August and ended in late October. The students already admitted to any BTech programme in JU may also apply only if they desire to change the programme they are admitted to. When the state government in early December had allowed engineering colleges to select students for admission on their own, the vacancy stood at 450 at JU. By the time JU issued the notification for decentralised counselling, the figure rose to 487. In computer science and engineering, considered to be the most coveted stream attracting the top-notch students from the state JEE, over 50 seats have remained vacant. In electronics and telecommunication engineering close to 50 seats have remained vacant while in information technology its 36. Where are the enrolled students heading to? An official of the engineering and technology faculty at JU said even as the university had been filling seats in the first three rounds of centralised counselling, enrolled students started backing out after counselling for the NITs began in mid-October. “With the Joint Seat Allocation Authority starting its counseling, a large number of students who had opted for JU backed out and took admission in NITs, like NIT Suratkal, NIT Trichy. This led to a situation where more one in the three seats has remained vacant at JU,’’ said the official. Amitava Datta, the new dean of engineering and technology said: “After the admission process gets over, we will engage our quality assurance cell to find out why so many seats remained vacant’’. The problem of seats remaining vacant is not only restricted to JU. In Calcutta University as many as 89 out of 237 BTech seats have remained vacant, prompting the university to start decentralised counselling. Metro had reported on Monday that the association of private engineering colleges in Bengal has appealed to the state government for permission to admit students during the decentralised counselling who did not write any common entrance exam, a move that the association said has been prompted by a staggering number of vacant seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Members-only Midnight Mass at Church of North India||St Paul’s Cathedral and other churches under the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India will allow only church members for the Midnight Mass on December 24 this year. At St Paul’s Cathedral, after the Midnight Mass, visitors will be allowed to take a round and leave, a church official said. “We are allowing only the members this year for the Midnight Mass. Usually there is a huge gathering every year including non-Christians who come to St Paul’s Cathedral to seek blessings. After the midnight mass visitors will be allowed for a while and they will have to leave after that,” said Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India (CNI). The Midnight Mass at St Paul’s Cathedral starts at 11pm and goes on for one-and-a-half hours. The bishop said visitors will be allowed for an hour after that. “We have sent the message through our priests that only members will be allowed,” he said. “At St Paul’s Cathedral, for the Midnight Mass, we are not expecting more than 150 people and since our seating capacity is much more, we will be able to maintain proper distancing,” said Reverend Canning. The state government has allowed a maximum of 200 people in closed spaces as a precaution against the Covid pandemic. “On Christmas (December 25) visitors will be allowed inside St Paul’s Cathedral following the safety protocols. The other churches will also be open for visitors because people come to seek blessings,” the bishop said. Police will also help manage the crowd so that not many people enter the premises all at once, he said. “This year, because of the pandemic, the crowd will also be limited. Not everybody, especially the elderly or the children, are venturing out or coming to the church like they do in other years,” John Ghosh, the secretary of the Calcutta diocese of the CNI. There are about 30 churches in the Calcutta diocese, including St Paul’s Cathedral, St Thomas’ Church Free School Street, and St James’ Church. Many among them have the Midnight Mass. This Christmas Eve, there will be no Midnight Mass in the Roman Catholic churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta. Instead there will be an Evening Mass that should end by 9pm, Archbishop Thomas D’ Souza said in a circular issued to priests in the first week of December. There are 65 churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta, including the Church of Christ the King in Park Circus, St Thomas’ Church in Middleton Row, and St Ignatius Church in Kidderpore. Water supply to parts of south Calcutta, including parts of Bhowanipore, Kalighat and Gariahat will be stopped after 10am on Saturday. The whole of Behala, parts of Kasba, Jadavpur, Tollygunge and places off NSC Bose Road, between Garia and Tollygunge, will also be affected. The supply will resume from Sunday morning. The water supply will be stopped to undertake maintenance and repair works. The Tallah network, which supplies water to the whole of north Calcutta and parts of central and south Calcutta and Bidhanangar, faced a similar shutdown last month to repair a leak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Mishap kills another cyclist on Rashbehari Connector||A bicyclist died after being hit by an autorickshaw in front of the Siemens building on Rashbehari Connector on Thursday night, police said. At least four cyclists, including Thursday night’s victim, have died and several others got injured in road accidents in past one month. In all the cases, the cyclists were hit by vehicles moving faster. Satyam Naskar, 35, a resident of Anandapur, was crossing Rashbehari connector in front of the Siemens building when a Gariahat-bound autorickshaw hit him and fled. The offending vehicle was yet to be traced till Friday evening. The incident happened around 9.30pm on Thursday. Officers of Kasba police station took Naskar to a private hospital on EM Bypass, from where he was shifted to SSKM Hospital. Naskar succumbed to his injuries at 2.30am on Friday. Following a nod from the state cabinet in June, the police had permitted the movement of bicycles on lanes and bylanes of the city for the convenience of those using cycles to commute in absence of public transport during the pandemic. Although the official notification had allowed the movement of cycles only through smaller and medium roads, the police were also allowing their movement on thoroughfares on “humanitarian grounds”. However, with the rise in number of accidents involving cycles, the city police had stopped extending the permission from this month and carried out awareness drives to keep cyclists away from thoroughfares. The presence of cycles has also reduced vehicular speed on thoroughfares, a police officer said. The Rashebehari connector, where the accident happened on Thursday, is one of the 62 thoroughfares of Calcutta where cycle movement is restricted within stipulated hours. According to a government notification, cycles are allowed on this stretch only between 11pm and 7am the next morning. Officers probing the case said that the cyclist was trying to cross the road when the signal was green and traffic was moving. “We understand that a cycle is the cheapest and most user-friendly mode of transport for hundreds of people who either want to avoid public transport during the pandemic or have no public transport connectivity. But their presence of the main roads generally reduces the average speed of other vehicles,” said an officer of the traffic department. “With increasing volume of traffic, cyclists are most vulnerable to accidents as they do not wear helmets,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||How to curb drink-driving minus breathalysers||Calcutta police commissioner Anuj Sharma on Friday asked his officers to find a way to curb drink driving in the city even if police were unable to use breathalysers for detecting presence of alcohol in a driver’s blood during the pandemic. Police have stopped the use of breathalysers to prevent chances of transmission of the Covid-19 infection since the outbreak of the pandemic. The top cop, while addressing officers of the rank of officers-in-charge and above during the monthly crime conference, said even if cops were unable to use the machine (breathalyser), they should find a way to curb the menace of drink driving in the city. On Sunday night, a 23-year-old youth, who was allegedly under the influence of alcohol, killed a cyclist and injured a pedestrian with his Volkswagen Polo on Prince Anwar Shah Road. “We have to find a way to do this (prosecute for drink driving),” an officer quoted the top cop as saying. The police commissioner also reminded that in absence of traffic during the lockdown period, the police have had a relatively lighter period as there was no traffic to manage, sources quoted him. However, with all establishments opening up during the unlock phases, the volume of traffic has increased manifold compared to what it was during the lockdown period and has become a cause of concern for motorists and pedestrians alike. In the present scenario, the prosecution rate for drink driving in the city has also gone down in absence of use of breathalysers whose readings are used as evidence while prosecuting a person under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act. A person can be fined Rs 2,000 or jailed for six months if found driving after drinking beyond the permissible limit of 30mg in 100 ml of blood. Second and subsequent offence attracts a fine of Rs 3,000 and two years’ jail. With the year-end and Christmas approaching, the possibility of cases of drink driving may increase too, a section of the police feels. Sharma also expressed concern over the soaring number of road accidents in the city in the past few weeks, sources said. Three fatal accidents were reported in the city between Thursday night and Friday morning. A 75-year-old motorcyclist — Dilip Kumar Biswas, who was wearing a helmet — died in an accident on Strand Road on Friday morning. The police said Biswas, who was riding the two-wheeler, had first overtaken another two-wheeler and was trying to overtake a bus when he apparently lost control and rammed into a lamp post near Prinsep Ghat around 9.50am. He was taken to SSKM Hospital where he was declared dead. A younger relative, who was riding pillion, escaped with minor lesser injuries. In Thakurpukur, a 78-year-old pedestrian Nimai Mondal died after a truck lost control and hit three static auto rickshaws on Diamond Harbour Road and then went on to knock down two pedestrians, killing one of them. The incident happened on Friday afternoon. On Thursday night, a cyclist received fatal injuries after being hit by an autorickshaw on Rashbehari connector. An officer who attended the crime conference on Friday said Sharma had also asked to intensify the night patrol and focus on anti-crime drives in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Rally to protest against the three farm laws in Calcutta||Social activist Albee Khan had come from Howrah’s Pilkhana, businessman Umar Awais who stays in Rajabazar shut his business for a day, retired sales professional Amitava Chakraborty came from Metropolitan off the EM Bypass against general advice for elderly to stay at home during the pandemic. About five hundred people from various walks of life matched steps in a rally between Rajabazar and Moulali on Friday afternoon to protest against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre and in solidarity with farmers who have been camping on the borders of Delhi demanding that the laws be repealed. The Calcuttans iterated the demands made by the farmers — repeal the three laws and do not leave farmers at the mercy of “a few oligarchs”. “I came only to attend this rally. If we cannot protect our farmers, its impact will come on us too,” said Albee, who was in the front row of the rally. “The Centre is trying to hand over the agricultural sector to a few large corporate houses and we will not let that happen,” she added with a firmness in her voice. Chakraborty, 65, said that the new farm laws will drive more farmers towards suicide. The clauses of the new laws are such that the farmers have to be content with whatever  price they are offered by the corporates. “Farmer suicides are very common in our country. Farmers are forced to kill themselves because of huge debts, because they cannot recover their investment. The new laws will make their economic conditions worse and drive more farmers towards suicide,” he said. A group of people who took part in a sit-in against the National Register for Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act from January to March before the pandemic forced them to call off the protest, gave the call for Friday’s rally. The rally was held under the banner of United Forum for National Integrity. Protests, marches and meetings against NRC-CAA as well as the three farm laws have been taking place in Calcutta since the lockdown restrictions were eased. Most of the protesters are common people without any political affiliation. The protests are again drawing spontaneous outpouring of people. Friday’s rally started at 2pm from Rajabazar. Slogans like yeh kanoon wapas lo, kala kanoon wapas lo were raised by the protesters. The demonstrators blocked the Moulali crossing for five minutes. A street side meeting at Moulali followed the march. Awais added that he was also particularly opposed to withdrawing the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism and allowing hoarding of essential commodities under the new laws. “The large companies will buy off very huge quantities from the farmers and then sell them at a price they wish. The bill will not only impact farmers, but each and everyone of us,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Bridge repair at Kalighat, Baghajatin ||Two of Calcutta’s bridges, one in Baghajatin and another in Kalighat, would undergo thorough repair that would help the structures bear more vehicular load, the urban development department has decided recently. The concrete used for constructing the decks slabs of the Baghajatin bridge that stands over railway tracks on EM Bypass would be strengthened and its entire underbelly would be covered with a carbon-fibre wrap to reinforce the structure. Following this, steel props would be set up to hold the concrete deck slab of the bridge. For the Kalighat bridge, special bonding agents would be used to fill up micro-cracks that have developed on the structure. A steel casing would be used around the structure like a jacket and the bridge will get an anti-corrosive paint. It would take close to a year for completing the task for each of these bridges and there would periodic traffic blocks to facilitate the repair works, officials said. A government-appointed committee running a health check on bridges and flyovers had earlier flagged these two structures for their poor condition. The committee had suggested immediate demolition of the 56-year-old Kalighat bridge and had said the rail-over-bridge in Baghajatin on EM Bypass should be gradually replaced with a new structure because of its condition. During a recent review of the health of some of the bridges and flyovers across Calcutta, the urban development department opted for thorough overhauling of these two bridges instead of replacing them after structural engineers offered alternatives whereby the longevity of these two structures could be enhanced by at least five years. A budgetary allocation of around Rs 45 crore has been made for the repair of the flyovers, which remain key links for parts of east and south Calcutta. “Recent practices in repair of bridges and flyovers globally were studied and a set of recommendations has been drawn up about how these two structures would be repaired,”  said a senior official of the CMDA, the implementing agency of the overhaul. “The company that is awarded the contract for each will have to follow them to the T.” Built in 2002, the rail overbridge at Baghajatin near Highland Park on EM Bypass left engineers and structural experts shocked when in 2017 some chunks of concrete started peeling off. An inspection later revealed that the structure had been weakened. The expert committee scanning the health of the Kalighat bridge had found acidic vapour from the waters of the Tolly’s Nullah beneath the bridge has corroded parts of the underbelly. The steel reinforcements of the bridge were heavily corroded and the superstructure was damaged in several parts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Rs 25,000 discharge summary fine to Health Point Nursing Home||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on Health Point Nursing Home in Paddapukur for alleged negligence in preparing the discharge summary of an 85-year-old man. Tapas Kumar Bir, a resident of Palm Avenue in Ballygunge, was admitted to the intensive care unit of the nursing home on October 31 with Covid-19, pneumonia and other complications. He was discharged on November 16 but eventually passed away on December 6. Upon reaching home after discharge in an hospital ambulance, a caregiver and an ayah had found “bruises all over his body”. Bir’s daughter filed a police complaint, alleging her father was beaten up at the hospital, besides approaching the commission. “The hospital denied the allegation…. His daughter shared the pictures of the bruises…. From the pictures, we inferred that they were blood clots, a Covid-19 complication that should have been treated,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. The hospital is said to have told the commission that there was no such mark at the time of discharge but Bir had earlier been treated for blood clots. “The same was written on his bed ticket, according to the hospital. But there was no mention of it in his discharge summary. We have fined them Rs 25,000. We have also warned that in the future, at the time of any discharge, the hospital should not only explain to the patient party the treatment in detail but also have the same documented,” said Banerjee. The commission ruled on several other complaints: ⚫The commission imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on CMRI for medical negligence in the treatment of a 69-year-old woman from Habra in North 24-Parganas. During the hearing, however, the complainant (the patient’s son) said he was satisfied with the hospital’s response. ⚫A private nursing home in Park Lane was asked to refund Rs 50,000 taken during the admission of a 58-year-old woman from Baruipur. ⚫The commission  slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh on a nursing home in Howrah’s Amta for alleged medical negligence in treating a pregnant woman. The complainant, the woman’s husband, wanted “justice”, not compensation. The commission asked the hospital to pay the amount to an orphanage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
19-12-2020||Calcutta||Tiljala ATM loot arrest in Haryana||A man who was allegedly a part of the gang that had broken into an ATM kiosk in Tiljala and fled with Rs 13.5 lakh last month, was arrested from Haryana on Thursday night, police said. The vehicle that was used in the crime has been seized. The police tracked down the Mahindra Scorpio in which the gang had fled from Calcutta to Haryana (via Uttar Pradesh) by checking hundreds of CCTV footages starting from Tiljala’s CN Roy Road to Mathura’s Mahuvan (Uttar Pradesh), over 1,300km from Calcutta. The Haryana-based gang had deliberately used a second-hand vehicle that was still registered in name of its first owner to avert police glare. The ATM robbery was carried out on November 20. The CCTV camera was smeared with black paint. The police found out about the Mahindra Scorpio after examining footages from CCTV cameras installed on the road outside the kiosk. “The route of the vehicle was tracked after scanning over 100 CCTV footages from the city, adjoining districts, till Mathura in Uttar Pradesh,” said a senior police officer. Once the number plate of the vehicle was clearly visible, the police tracked the person in whose name the car was registered and found that he was no longer the owner. From him the police got the details of the car’s new owners. During the probe the police found leads that hinted that the gang was from Mewat in Haryana. A team from Lalbazar went to Mewat and zeroed in on Mohammad Shahid, 29, a gang member. “Although this was an inter-state crime, the gang operated on the basis of the information provided by a local source. The gang was working in close coordination with a Calcutta youth who gave them information about ATM kiosks that did not have security guards or were located on deserted stretches,” said an investigator. The police did not divulge details about the Calcutta contact saying it might hamper the progress of the investigation. Police suspect that the same gang is behind the other ATM robberies reported in November. Similar ATM robberies were reported in Howrah’s Dhulagarh, Michaelnagar in the airport area and Narayanpur in Barasat before the Tiljala robbery. In all these cases, the ATMs were broken using gas cutters. Based on the statement given by the accused in police custody, a search has been launched for the remaining gang members. Shahid has been brought to Calcutta on transit remand and has been booked for theft and breaking open a machine that contained money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
