20-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Gas-leak’ fire during puja kills Calcutta woman||An elderly woman who got burned while performing puja at her home a few days ago died of the injuries at a nursing home on Friday evening. Manjula Dutta, 60, a resident of Bosepukur Prantik Pally in Kasba, was performing her daily morning puja around 6.30am on December 12 when the accident occurred, police said. Cops suspect that the fire had broken out because of a leak in the LPG cylinder at her home. “The moment she lit a match stick in her puja room, there was a big fire and her apparel caught fire,” said an officer of Kasba police station. She was admitted to a nursing home on BB Chatterjee Road where she succumbed to her injuries on Friday. Although cops have not found any foul play during preliminary investigation, an unnatural death case has been registered with Kasba police station. Her body has been sent for post-mortem. Senior officers said they had not received any complaint from the family till Saturday. “A forensic team had visited the spot. The cause of the fire appears to be because of their LPG leak. It is very important to periodically get the LPG pipes — that connect the cylinder to the gas oven — checked. This could have serious consequences,” said a senior officer. Earlier this month, another elderly woman had died of burn injuries because of an LPG leak. Chaya Nag, 74, was cooking at her daughter’s home in Radha Madhab  Dutta Garden Lane in Beleghata, on December 7, when an LPG cylinder leak triggered the fire. Her daughter, who was standing near her, was also injured. A forensic official said it is very important to have proper ventilation in the kitchen to prevent accidents even if there is a leakage. Several homes keep their windows closed in winter. “If the gas gets trapped, the chances of a fire increase manifold the moment a match stick is lit or there is any source of ignition,” said the forensic official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
20-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta school accounts: Action stations||On a deserted school campus, the clatter of the keyboards and the ringing of phones is constant in one room. Welcome to the accounts office, the most busy place in the school in the last few months. The mailbox is full, the phone calls are incessant and the personnel in the school accounts office are buried in calculations. One template that could be followed for all students is no longer effective and the accounts offices across schools are doing calculations specific to individual requests. Questions from parents range from how much they have to pay if they opt for waiver in the last two quarters, or how much they need to pay if they want the fees adjusted for the previous months where they have paid 100 per cent, or how much they have to pay if they opt for instalments. “In some cases, parents are calculating on their own and paying. The accounts office then has to tally and tell them what is due,” said the principal of a school in south Calcutta. In several schools, for 2,000 to 3,500-odd students on their rolls, there are at the most two to three people in the accounts section and in smaller schools, there is one person behind the counter. In one school, the accounts office has asked the management for recruitment, in another, the school has provided them with a help desk. One has asked a few teachers to help. There are instances when the regular working hours have been extended or work is being carried home, unlike what used to be, at least two school officials said. “Schools had computerised their accounts so three people handling the accounts was comfortable. But now the calculations are long and unique and hence, the work has increased tremendously,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. The school has deputed an additional workforce of four people to help out. “Earlier, we would reach out to parents with printed notices but now it is via emails or the school app. There has to be follow-up phone calls also,” said Prasad. Previously, each class had a particular fee slab and parents who defaulted, were sent emails. “The receipt of payment too was uniform and easy to calculate. But now parents are calculating the 80 per cent according to their interpretation and the school has it own numbers. Besides, there are some who can not pay 80 per cent. There are many variants to the amount of payment and with a large number of students, calculation is a nightmare,” said Brigadier (retd) V. N. Chaturvedi, the secretary general of Vidya Mandir Society, which runs Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School and Birla High School Mukundapur. The management of at least two schools agreed that with fresh and different payments being made everyday, doing an analysis on the exact figures is a daunting task. “The calculations have become cumbersome. The accounts office has to check whether a student is entitled to additional waivers,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point, which has 12,000 students. In Calcutta Girls’ High School, the support staff are lending a hand to the accounts office by tallying numbers. “Its a huge task now because they also have to make manual reconciliations. And we cannot ask people from other departments because accounting is a specialised job,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal. In The Newtown School, there are three hands now instead of four. “One person had to quit for personal reasons and the department is asking for more hands. But it isn’t easy to find a replacement,” said founder-director Sunil Agarwal. “The volume of data has increased and it is difficult to handle now because almost each ledger is different and has to be dealt with individually,” he added. The accounts office also has to bear the brunt of parents’ grievances on emails and over phones. “With so many emails everyday, it is difficult to answer each promptly,” said a school official. A senior accountant in a city school said the calculations have gone up this year because the fee has been revised several times this year. “It is hard to keep a tab of who is paying and who is not. Parents have been asked to send emails but not all of them are doing so,” said Uttam Sardar, accounts manager at Indus Valley World School. In Chowringhee High School, the management has requested a few of the teachers to help out with the calculations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
20-12-2020||Calcutta||North winds bring down Celsius in Calcutta||The mercury plunged to 13.1 degrees Celsius in the city on Saturday, the coldest day of the season so far, riding strong north-westerly winds. The Met office has predicted a cold spell over the next four-five days, with the mercury tipped to dip to sub-12 degrees in the next few days. The minimum temperature on Saturday was two notches below normal and three notches below Friday’s minimum temperature. Over the last few days, the cold winds had started picking up intensity. On Saturday, they swept through the city and its neighbourhood, dragging the minimum temperature to 22 degrees, three notches below normal. The temperature was not abnormal for mid-December, a Met official said. But the temperature in the city had been on the high-er side for a better part of December and Calcuttans welcomed the plunge that heralded the onset of their favourite time of the year. The sky was clear in the morning and people clad in woollens and jackets made a beeline for Alipore zoo, Eco Park and other public attractions. “The cold is here to stay. The minimum temperature is likely to dip to under 12 degrees in the coming days. The minimum temperature is unlikely to go above 15 degrees over the next five days,” said GK Das, director, India Meteorological Centre in Calcutta. As the evening crept in, people were seen making bonfires out of newspapers to keep themselves warm. The roads became deserted earlier than usual. Salt Lake and areas along VIP Road, EM Bypass and near the airport became particularly chilly. Weather officials said the chill was because of the winds blowing in from north India at over 15kmph. In Delhi, the chill was biting and the minimum temperature dropped to 3.9 degrees Celsius on Saturday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
20-12-2020||Calcutta||Web check-in no longer mandatory at Calcutta airport||Calcutta airport has done away with compulsory web check-in. Following this, the long queues at the entry gates of the terminal building have shifted to the check-in counters. “The bureau of civil aviation security (BCAS) recently informed the airports and airlines that web check-in, although preferable, is not mandatory anymore...,” Kaushik Bhattacharya, director of Calcutta airport, said on Friday. But for the manual check-in, a passenger has to pay Rs 100 as a processing fee. Several airports had requested the civil aviation ministry to ease the safety norms for entering the terminals. After that, the BCAS issued the new advisory. When passenger flight operations resumed in late May after the lockdown, the civil aviation ministry had made web check-in mandatory. Metro had earlier reported about that the long queues at the entry gates of the departure section of the airport’s terminal were leading to passengers reporting late at the boarding gates and delay of flights. The problem, according to the airlines, occurred because many first-time fliers would come to the airport without web check-in and many of them did not have smartphones. The airlines later started redirecting these passengers to their ticket booking counters at Gate 3C, which led to congestion at the counters. “Now, the congestion has reduced significantly both at the entry gates and the airline booking counters,” said an official of a private airline. But there are long queues at the check-in counters, especially on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, when flights to and from Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur are allowed to operate. The state government lifted the restrictions on Delhi flights last week. An official of a private airline said apart from the time taken for check-in, there was also the problem of some passengers raising questions about airlines charging Rs 100 extra for  the manual check-in. “Many passengers are asking why they have to pay extra,” said the official. The restrictions on allowing only one piece of registered luggage has also been eased, said airline officials. For every additional piece of check-in baggage, airlines are charging Rs 700. “But this process is taking a long time,” said an airline official. Airport director Bhattacharya said because of the new problem, they have opened the check-in island, which was closed till a few weeks back, for installation the inline baggage-screening system. Of the four check-in islands, one termed ‘A’ was closed for months. “The US agency has told us that their officials would come for inspection in January. So, we are allowing manual screening of baggage for this island,” said Bhattacharya. Security check-in counters are now another point where congestions are taking place, said airline officials. Recently, automatic tray retrieval system has been introduced where the trays for screening of hand baggage are mechanically retrieved. “...At times the system is malfunctioning,” said an airline official. Airport officials said they were trying to resolve the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
20-12-2020||Calcutta||Vaccine storage hub identified at Bagbazar||The state health department has identified the warehouses of two central medical stores in Bagbazar that could be a hub for storing Covid-19 vaccines in Bengal once the inoculation process starts. Infrastructure, including new electric connections and space for accommodating large walk-in coolers as part of the cold chain system, is being strengthened at the central medical store and the central family welfare store in north Calcutta, under the directorate of health services. There are nine deep freezers at the stores in Bagbazar and additional space is being culled out for more “vertical refrigerators” which are not meant for domestic use. The state government would be shortly receiving 19 walk-in coolers, each with around 2,000 square feet capacity, for storing the vaccine packs, from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. A bulk of these coolers will be kept at the two warehouses and a few will be sent to the districts. Primarily, arrangements are being made for storing the vaccine-packs at a temperature ranging between two and eight degrees Celsius, with a provision for bringing the temperature down to as low as minus 20 degrees in these coolers. Senior officials said they were yet to receive guidelines from the health ministry on the desired temperature for storing the vials. “The idea is to increase the capacity of storing dosages from the existing 3.5 crore dosages to around six crore,” said a senior official of the health department. As part of the preparation for the proposed roll out of the Covid-19 vaccine, the health department has already started training key personnel who will then train vaccinators across districts. There are around 20,000 vaccinators in Bengal and a programme for the trainers was held at an EM Bypass address on Friday. The next one will be held in Siliguri for north Bengal shortly. “A key element of the cold chain system is ‘cold chain points’. There are 941 cold chain points across the state. In Calcutta, we would be adding several hospitals apart from the medical college and hospitals in this system,” said a senior official of the health department overseeing the preparations for storing vaccines. “We will use the facilities of health units across 16 boroughs under the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Since the vaccination would be done in phases, there shouldn’t be any problem,” the official said. Since end-October, when the state government started collecting details of health care workers in private and government health establishments for administering the Covid-19 vaccine on priority basis, the health department received close to six lakh applications. Senior officials said they expect the figure to go by around 50,000. “The mission director of the Nation Health Mission is the director of this programme and will prepare the final list of healthcare workers in Bengal,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
20-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools await clarity on pre-board exams||Several schools are either waiting for further clarity before announcing the dates of their pre-board exams or reconsidering the dates if they had already been announced in the light of the announcement by the ICSE council that the board exams for Classes X and XII will be pen-and-paper and there has to be two months of classes on the campus before the boards. Several school heads said that they would prefer to have the rehearsals in school if they get the go-ahead from the state government and parents agree to send their children to school. They agreed that if the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has said that the boards will be in the pen-and-paper format, the rehearsals should be conducted the same way. “For the entire academic year, the students have not had one full-length exam. Before the pre-boards, they usually have two. The pre-boards ideally should be a practice before the finals,” said the head of an ICSE school. St James’ School, St Xavier’s Collegiate School, Our Lady Queen of the Missions School Salt Lake and The Future Foundation School are some of the schools that are yet to announce the pre-board dates. Loreto House, The Heritage School and Sri Sri Academy have sent out dates but said they are not “watertight but flexible” and subject to change, depending upon the  situation. “We are waiting for an indication from the council regarding the board timetable and only then will we announce the pre board dates. We don’t want to schedule the pre-boards long before the boards. Students get into a rhythm of studying and writing and a long gap between the boards and pre-boards will spoil that,” said Terence Ireland, principal of St James’ School. Ireland said that ideally the pre-boards should be in the pen-and-paper mode if the boards are to be so and for that they would have to be allowed by the state government to resume classes on the campus. In many schools, the exams have been unit tests or of a shorter duration of 40 to 50 marks spanning for about an hour. “The idea of pre-boards is to simulate a board exam. How can a unit test be a rehearsal?” asked Ranjan Mitter, principal of The Future Foundation School. He said they are waiting for clarity from the council and state government before giving out any dates. “We have not announced the dates yet and if we know parents are willing (after the state government’s permission), we can conduct it in pen-and-paper and try to give students the experience of writing long answers,” said Sister Sherly Sebastian, principal, Our Lady Queen of the Missions School Salt Lake. Loreto House has communicated tentative dates to the students of Classes X and XII, which could be January end and beginning of February. “We have told parents these are tentative dates. We will reconsider and change the dates if schools are allowed to resume on campus classes because we will prefer to have offline rehearsal exams,” said Aruna Gomes, principal of Loreto House. The campuses are closed since March and schools have been conducting online classes and also online exams. The last time that the board examinees across many schools wrote a full-length two-hour or three-hour paper was only in February in the last academic year. Teachers said that students might have lost touch with the practice of writing out long answers and sitting at a stretch for two or three hours without a break. Schools will try to make use of the two months of on-campus classes to conduct the pre-boards to give students a shot at writing out the papers before the finals. “The Class X students have had no experience of an offline exam. It would be beneficial to both the board classes to write a mock exam on pen-and-paper format,” said Seema Sapru, principal of The Heritage School. “We might consider postponing the dates further depending on the government directive,” she added. At Sri Sri Academy, too, the pre-boards dates are “not watertight”. “We will not have the rehearsals earlier than January end but even that is flexible depending on the situation. We will wait for the state government to tell us when it is safe to resume on campus classes and make use of the two months to have the pre-boards,” said Suvina Shunglu, principal of Sri Sri Academy. St Xavier's Collegiate School will have a meeting with teachers and parents of Classes X and XII in January, before taking any decision about pre boards, said prin-cipal Father M. Thamacin Arulappan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-201
