21-12-2020||Calcutta||Sweet shoots of recovery: Calcutta bakeries||Business, slow for the past eight months, has started picking up in the run-up to Christmas, said owners of confectioneries and bakeries in Calcutta. For some, business has been gaining in momentum since the beginning of December, and for others, demands soared over the past five days or so. “December has been much better and the sale has gone up by up to 25 per cent. It is definitely better than what it was during Diwali. But it is still not what it was in other years,” said Lovey Barman, director, Kookie Jar. The popular picks at Kookie Jar include Christmas fruit cakes, Christmas pudding with brandy butter and cakes with Santa Claus and Christmas tree. Saldanha’s offerings include walnut cakes and the coconut macaroons, while Mrs Magpie fare of 40 items have among them fruit cakes, date and walnut cakes, marzipans and mincemeat cake loaves. The owners of confectioneries and bakeries hope the demand uptick would sustain at least till the first week of January. “Orders have been picking up over the last five days and we hope the trend will continue through the festive season,” said Saldanha owner Debra Alexander. “In previous years people would plan in advance. But this year we are getting more last-minute orders…. We are happy that our clients are back. In fact, the last few days have exceeded our expectations.” With an upswing in sales, Mrs Magpie has started a “Christmas pop up” at Survey Park, which will later be turned into a cafe. “For us things started returning back to normal post-September. It has been a challenging year. In the current situation, everyone is tired of being at home and are coming out,” said Sohini Basu, the proprietor of Mrs Magpie, which has been getting Christmas orders since the beginning of December. At Convent Lane’s Cafe & Bakery, an initiative of Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre, it was a busy Sunday. “We had thought that we would not be baking this year, but inquiries started coming from November and we started baking on December 10. It will continue till December 24,” said Sister Monica Suchiang, the director of KMWSC. “It is good because we can make up for some of the losses the Cafe suffered during the lockdown.” The Cafe & Bakery baked 50kg on Sunday and slots were given to clients to collect their cakes mixed and baked. Kookie Jar has slashed its Christmas cake variety this year. “We would have 20 special items in previous years, but this year we have five or six. Usually, in winter there would be people from across the world and country in Calcutta, but it has not been so this year,” said Barman, of Kookie Jar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
21-12-2020||Calcutta||People throng city malls on last Sunday before Christmas||People thronged malls in the city on the last Sunday before Christmas, brushing aside Covid-19 fears and ushering in a spirit of festivity that is typical of this time of the year. Long queues of private cars and app cabs were seen entering City Centre in Salt Lake, South City Mall and Acropolis Mall from afternoon and the crowds swelled as the evening set in. The malls were all decked out for the occasion, with giant Christmas trees and other installations. Babysitting fathers standing outside shops with little children unable to stay still mirrored the mood as much as hassled mall guards struggling to spray sanitisers on the hands of visitors. Here’s what Metro saw at three malls in different corners of the city. The lights and the decoration on the mall’s facade drew admiring glances from passing motorists as well as those headed for shopping. The entire ground floor has been decorated with lights and models depicting a Santa-themed fairground. Outside, there were lit-up Christmas trees. Traffic along the mall-bound flank of Prince Anwar Shah Road from the Jadavpur crossing was slow. For every five cars moving down the road, three were seen entering the mall. By 5pm, the mall’s parking lot, which can accommodate around 2,500 cars, was nearly full. New Town resident Suman Kandoi and her husband Pradeep were at the mall with their son Aryan, who is in preschool, on Sunday afternoon. Suman said she was well aware of the risks of being in a crowded place but she and her husband were keen on showing the Christmas decorations to their son. “This is the time of the year when children and adults alike look forward to Santa Claus. We could not sit back home. We are all wearing masks and brought sanitisers,” said, Abir Mukerjee, a resident of Behala, who had gone to the mall to catch up with friends. The group had an adda session at the food court before settling down for lunch at one of the restaurants in the mall. The mall’s general manager, Deep Biswas, said that footfall was steadily increasing with every passing weekend. On Sunday, he said, the footfall crossed 50,000. The footfall on Friday and Saturday were 20,000 and 30,000, respectively. “We have decorated the entire mall to spread the Christmas cheer and many people are coming to have a look at them. People are taking photographs before shopping or heading for the food court or one of the restaurants in the mall,” Biswas said. The store manager of a denim wear outlet said the number of shoppers had increased compared with last month. “Sales are picking up…. This weekend has been quite promising,” he said. The Salt Lake mall saw a steady crowd all afternoon and evening. While many shoppers said they were there to pick up winter wear and accessories, there were many who headed to restaurants at the mall. The food court did brisk business, too. Suranjana Ray Chaudhuri, an undergraduate student at St Xavier’s College, caught up with friend Aindri Panja at the decked-out mall. “We are here to buy a few jackets. We will also eat before stepping out,” said Suranjana. Sukanta Mukherjee, the mall head, said crowds had been swelling since Friday. “We have been getting a good response over the past couple of days. The crowd peaks in the evening, when all the decorations are lit up. We are expecting the tempo to sustain throughout this month,” Mukherjee said. The mall’s façade and the entrances were decorated with huge red bells, which turned out to be among the most sought-after backdrops for selfies. Inside, snowmen, Santa Claus driving a sleigh and a huge Christmas tree added to the cheery ambience. A steady stream of private cars and app cabs headed for the dropoff point and the parking lot of the Kasba mall. Sonam Agarwal, 28, was shopping for faux jewellery and accessories. “I have come here to get some accessories like earrings and a top for New Year’s Day. My shopping is almost done, but I could not resist the temptation to come out here with my friends,” said Agarwal. The group would have dinner at a pub in the mall before heading out. “Sales in December are down to 74 per cent of previous December, but we expect 2021 to be as good as or even better than 2019,” said mall general manager K. Vijayan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
21-12-2020||Calcutta||Zoology graduates in Howrah hold off ‘hunters’||Three young men in a Howrah village confronted a group of alleged hunters armed with spears and axes and carrying a kill of animals on Friday. The three, in their early 20s, stood firm for over three hours, not letting the group of six escape. Some other villagers accompanied them in the vigil. A team of foresters eventually arrived at the spot and apprehended the alleged hunters. The three men are zoology graduates from Shyampur Siddheswari Mahavidyalaya in Howrah, around 75km from the heart of Calcutta. They are also members of a local environment club started by a zoology teacher of the college. Soumyadip Santra, Suprakash Adak and Supriyo Dhara, who live in Benapara village in Bagnan, were out on a round of birdwatching in the morning when they got a call from a resident of a neighbouring village, Chandanapara. A group of alleged hunters had entered the village and killed an Asian palm civet. “We rushed to the spot. The group had six members with spears and axes. The carcasses of a male palm civet and five squirrels were at their feet,” Santra told Metro. The men were chasing a female palm civet when Santra and his friends confronted them. A group of villagers who had been bystanders till then now joined the protest. The stand-off started around 11.30pm. Seeing the protesters’ ranks swelling, the hunters tried to escape but were stopped by Santra and his friends. “We stood in the way and made it clear we were not going to budge,” said Santra, who is pursuing a master’s in biotechnology. Santra and his friends are volunteers of Human and Environmental Alliance League (HEAL), an NGO. On Friday, Santra called up a HEAL member, who in turn alerted the forest department. A team of forest officers arrived after 3pm and arrested the alleged hunters. The men, charged under Section 9 (hunting) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, face a jail term ranging between six months and three years if convicted. “The arrested persons are residents of West Midnapore. They visit forests of south Bengal and collect honey and kill animals and birds for food,” said Raju Sarkar, the divisional forest officer of Howrah. “All credit goes to the young men. They showed great courage and determination.” Santra, Adak and Dhara are members of Eco Club, a local platform for nature lovers started by Prosenjit Dawn, assistant professor of Zoology at the Shyampur college. “They are active members of the club and conduct regular awareness campaigns in schools in Bagnan and Shyampur blocks. The campaigns are pictorial so that the children do not get bored. They tell children not to kill snakes and help them identify different types of snakes,” said Dawn, who joined the college in 2017 and started the club a year later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
21-12-2020||Calcutta||Howrah-Haldia monsoon rally brings cheer||The rally season is here with Just Sportz organising their Monsoon Drive, a Time-Speed-Distance (TSD) rally between Panchla in Howrah and Haldia in East Midnapore on Saturday. More than a dozen cars fought it out in the rally. Rallyists from across Calcutta, as well as from Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu, drove for nearly 250km after they were flagged off from the Country Roads Resort in Howrah’s Panchla. They drove around the picturesque banks of the Haldi river on the way to Haldia. Once in Haldia, the drivers and navigators had a challenging course set on a field that had to be negotiated at night. Unlike a speed race, the winner in a TSD rally is not the motorist who crosses the finish line first. Instead, moments before the flag-off, the navigator is handed a “tulip”, which is a booklet with directions related to distance and speed motorists need to maintain at different stages of the rally. The team with the most accurate speed and time record wins. A number of such events had to be cancelled since March because of the Covid pandemic. Monsoon Drive came as a breath of fresh air for rallyists. Joydeb Ghosh, who participated in the rally with brother Arindam on the co-driver’s seat, said they had been itching to be on the rally tracks again. “There have been nearly no events this year in and around Calcutta. Rallying is a sport that requires continuous practice and we were cooped up in our houses. When this event was announced, we knew we had to be here,” said Ghosh, a veteran of several rallies. For Sheikh Alivia, for whom this was the first rally, it was “quite a challenging experience”. “It was a great experience for me and I am hooked to the adrenaline rush,” said Alivia, a resident of Haldia. Suchandan Das, one of the organisers of the event, said that despite having nearly no sponsors, they decided to go ahead with the event simply for the love of motorsports. “It has been a difficult year for everyone. We love motorsports and we have to keep organising events so that more and more people join this sport,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
21-12-2020||Calcutta||Through the stained glass, vividly||Seated in the drawing room of her Auckland Square apartment, Katayun Saklat, painter and stained glass artist, though not necessarily in that order, speaks about her exceptional life and her art, as a number of her assistants come and go, pleasantly interrupting her for instructions. Saklat, 82, is a charming and exuberant personality and the room is a bit like her. But then it is also her gallery, Gallery Katayun. There are paintings on the floor, against the tables and chairs, and of course on the walls — a mix of still lives and portraits. An easel, with work in progress, stands near a door. Above the settee hang three large paintings. The one in the middle is a striking portrait of an old Parsi woman, who was an older friend of Saklat, sitting inside the Tower of Silence. Another shows her parents. Two others feature another striking old Parsi woman, who suffered from Alzheimer’s. The people in her paintings are distinct presences, sometimes disturbingly. Gallery Katayun, started in 1989, used to hold regular shows till a few years ago here. Now it still holds shows, but at other addresses. Saklat also uses the apartment for her stained glass work. It has been her home since the early 70s. But speaking of homes, Saklat goes back to her first one. She grew up in a large three-storey house in Grant Lane. “It was a happy house. There was always something happening there,” said Saklat, trying also to explain the constant activity around her now. Saklat was born in a Parsi family settled in Calcutta. Her father worked in the Singer sewing machine company. He was the first Parsi to be born in Srinagar and had settled in Calcutta after his marriage. In the Grant Lane house, each whimsical floor had its own spectacle. The family — Saklat was the youngest of three sisters — led its own bustling life. And there were lots of people. “We never locked our doors in that house,” she said. Later, through her, a lot of contemporary art would also move in. But art was there already. “We never bought pictures to hang on the walls,” said Saklat. Her father was a natural artist. All the frames on the wall contained monochromatic sauce pen stick sketches, mostly landscapes, by him. Her mother painted in oil on satin fabric — on saris and cushion covers and tea cosies household objects. Those were finely detailed. After studying at Calcutta Girls’ High School, Saklat had enrolled at JJ College of Arts in Mumbai, then Bombay. But she did not like being taught commercial art at JJ and came back to Calcutta to enrol at Government Art College first and then at Indian College of Arts and Draughtsmanship. She thinks that the teaching of art can really improve here. What are we taught here?... Not even anatomy, she said. But at Indian College of Arts she had met graphic artist Arun Bose as a teacher. Here she also met her group — young artists who would set up a studio together, at the Grant Lane house. Other than Saklat, this group included Bikash Bhattacharjee, who would become famous later, Amal Ghosh, Mrinal Danda, Maya Danda, Smriti De Roy and Panchunarayan Gupta, “a fine watercolourist”. These were the early 60s. The studio was set up by the artists themselves on the first floor of the Grant Lane house. They put together everything themselves, from the easels to a loft for paintings. Bhattacharjee’s famous doll series was inspired by a doll that belonged to Saklat’s niece. Saklat also painted the chubby doll in a white dress. But by the time the artists were done with it, the niece had grown up enough to not want the doll any more. On the floor below, artists Lalu Prasad Shaw and Suhas Roy were tenants, who had decided that the Saklats would be their landlords. One can imagine the heady atmosphere in the house, the young minds fired by imagination, the laughter, the conversation. “But we had to wind up by 8pm every day, as our family had to have dinner together,” said Saklat, who has always supported young artists and stressed the need for encouraging environments. As it often happens, some of the artists in the group moved away. But Bhattacharjee remained a regular. When in the early 70s the Saklat family moved to the Auckland Square apartment, Saklat, one of her sisters and Bhattacharjee set up Gallery 52 in Chowringhee Road. The Grant Lane house features on the cover of the catalogue of an exhibition in 2009 that was held in Gallery K2, with which Saklat was associated closely. The painting, beautifully done, shows the top two floors, as if standing on their own. Soon after the family to the new apartment, Saklat’s life would take a turn. In those days, she was also feeling a little guilty about being dependent on her father financially. Saklat was beginning to get known. However, even if art wins appreciation, it often pays very little. In 1973, she was in the UK and got three grants from the British Council. She had always wanted to learn an old craft. So when she heard about the noted stained glass artist Patrick Reyntiens, who taught stained glass making in Buckinghamshire, she decided to learn it from him. In her first encounter with Reyntiens, she saw him perched two-storeys high, fixing something. He showed her two small bits of blue glass, from that height, and asked which one she liked. “There are 3,000 shades to choose from. The glass here is like pigment in painting.” The effect can light up the dreariest building. Perhaps it was not a coincidence that Saklat chose stained glass. One can see how light and colours appeal to her. “Stained glass can change the environment,” she said. Two of her best works have been installed in the city. One is a glass wall, which is ceiling to floor and wall to wall, a landscape with birds, butterflies and an island in the middle. This is owned privately. The other is a large window of several panels, inside the Fire Temple, depicting the seven Amesha Spentas (seven archangels) with Zarathushtra in the middle. In 1998, she held a 100-piece stained glass exhibition for Art Today in New Delhi. The exhibition space looked stunning. Her stained glass works abound with fishes and mermaids. Stained glass cannot be installed anywhere; there must be light falling on it. “The north light is good for stained glass,” she said. And the work changes, with every change in light. Very recently, Saklat has taken up the challenge of metal staining work. It looks like a brave new work. But the past is always present. The paintings she is working on now seem to take her back to the past. One is a family portrait, of herself with her parents and sisters. The other of her principal at Calcutta Girls’. The third features a lot of butterflies. She has borrowed them from her mother’s tea cosies. “I cannot do them so well, though,” said Saklat. “It’s only now that I realise that she was a much better artist than I am.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
21-12-2020||Calcutta||Santa lands with gifts for kids in two villages||Santa came calling on hundreds of underprivileged children in two pockets on the southern fringes of the city on Sunday, days before the festival that celebrates the spirit of giving. Most of the children are Muslims. They received gifts — new clothes, cakes and stationeries — from a group of Jesuit priests from St Xavier’s College, Calcutta. The drive was organised by the association of former students of the college, most of whose current members are Hindus. A team of volunteers from the St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association, led by Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, and a couple of other priests, was part of the drive on Sunday morning. The team’s first stop was Pailkahala village in Nepalganj, South 24-Parganas, around 40km from the heart of Calcutta. The alumni association has been running a free primary school in the village since 1999. Around 100 children who are students of the school were given new clothes, cakes, chocolates, pencils and notebooks. Over 100 residents of the village, parents of the students, got blankets, mosquito nets and hand sanitisers. “The true celebration of the birth of child Jesus has to be with the children, especially those who are less privileged, as Jesus himself was born among the poor. Santa has, this time, brought a permanent gift to the children of the village as the efforts are on to upgrade the school,” said Father Savio. Pailkahala is a Muslim-majority village. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, many villagers worked at garment manufacturing units, in Metiabruz and adjoining areas as well as in other states. The pandemic had forced the closure of many units, posing livelihood challenges to the residents. “The school now is till Class IV. We are planning to upgrade it till Class VIII and introduce meals for the children once the school resumes. We are committed to the all-round development of the children,” said Firdausul Hasan of the alumni association, who was part of Sunday drive. The team’s next stop was a rural campus run by the college at Raghabpur in South 24-Parganas. Around 150 students of the Raghabpur campus also got new clothes, cakes and stationeries. “We need to help Jesus in the helpless, who are knocking at our hearts. Christmas prompts us to do loving things – not only to those we love, our families and friends, but also to reach out to those who have nothing to celebrate because of their sad and desperate situations,” Father Savio said at Raghabpur. Sanjib Koner, the secretary of the alumni association, said “the gift boxes gave us the scope to become secret Santa Claus”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
21-12-2020||Calcutta||IIEST norms for fair test on digital platform||IIEST has set a slew of conditions so students could be brought under invigilation during the semester exams from Monday, which the Shibpur institute will conduct through a digital platform. “During the entire period of examination, camera of your (students’) device (webcam or mobile camera) has to be kept on and audio to be kept off and you shall be proctored by the faculty members. Adoption of any unfair means shall be dealt with as per institute rules and practices,” read a notice issued by the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) on Friday. Proctored examinations are timed exams during which the faculty monitors the examinees’ computers and webcam video and audio through a platform called Google Meet. Through the monitoring the institute wants to ensure that the students do not consult books or online articles or take help from others while writing the answers. “The audio of the device has to be muted so that an examinee does not get to speak to anyone else. On Google Meet the provisions like switching on the camera, muting the audio are available. As we don’t let the examinees talk to each other while they write the test sitting in a hall, we won’t allow them to talk to each other during the exam on a digital platform,” said an IIEST official. “Sharing and copying answers, or part thereof, shall be treated as unfair means. Examinees adopting such means can have their papers cancelled. The examinees shall not communicate with each other during the examination,” said deputy registrar (academic) Nirmalya Bhattacharya, who signed the notice. Metro had on December 10 reported that IIEST had initially wanted to hold the semester exams on the campus to ensure the process remained fair and transparent. But the proposal had to be dropped because a large number of students declined to enter the campus amid the pandemic. “We have introduced a slew of mechanisms so that the tests being held on digital platforms could involve invigilation and be conducted in a transparent manner,” IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said. The notice issued by the deputy registrar (academic) stated that a Google Classroom would be created for the tests and the examinees would be added to it. “The examinees have to join the Google Classroom at least 10 minutes before the start of the day’s exam,” said an IIEST official. “Fifteen minutes will be given after the end of each day’s test for the examinees to upload scanned copies of their answer scripts on the Google Classroom, failing which the answers will not be evaluated.” Kurukshetra University, in Haryana, had in September decided to get the invigilation done through Google Meet and WhatsApp video call during online exams. A member of the IIEST Senate said that since the final-year BTech students had last month written the final-semester supplementary exams on the campus, the institute was exploring the possibility of holding the mid-semester exams (the ones that will start on Monday) in the same way. But while only 59 students had written the supplementary exams, held on November 11 and 12, over 3,000 will write the mid-semester tests, to be held over December and January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
21-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Covid survivors campaign against waste burning||A group of Calcuttans is running awareness campaigns in the city urging people to refrain from burning waste, which damages lungs and can have serious impact on people who have recovered from Covid-19. The novel coronavirus, which causes Covid, is known to affect the functioning of the lungs. A good number of people suffer from breathing problems even weeks after recovering from Covid, doctors said. Several members of the group, Covid Care, are putting up posters with the message to not burn waste. The group, comprising mostly people who have recovered from Covid or their family members, was formed to help Covid patients in home isolation get their essential supplies such as medicines and food. But its members are now also focusing on issues like air pollution. “Covid-19 is leading to lung fibrosis, which is scarring of the tissues of the lungs, in many recovered people. This is affecting breathing. Burning of waste generates a lot of toxic elements, which, if inhaled by people with lung fibrosis, will further worsen the condition of their lungs,” said Sudipa Mukherjee, a founder member of the group and a doctor at Howrah District Hospital. The posters, written in Bengali, have been pasted at many places in Dhakuria, Selimpur, Behala, Howrah and Shibpur, said Mukherjee. It says that people should not burn fallen leaves, plastic bags, discarded crates of eggs and other waste. The posters point out that the smoke generated by these items when they are set on fire damages lungs. “People should refrain from burning waste for a better environment, for one’s own health and everyone else’s health,” the posters read. Metro has reported several times about the practice of waste burning in Calcutta. The ultra fine particles, especially PM2.5 (so called because they are smaller than 2.5 micron in size), emitted during the burning of waste can enter deep crevices of the lungs and trigger a host of critical ailments. The particles float in the air close to the ground for a long duration during winter. Since air close to the ground is cold, it does not rise up and get replaced by fresh air. As a result, the emitted particles remain trapped close to the ground and enter the lungs. Every winter, Calcutta’s air quality routinely becomes poor, very poor and severe. Pulmonologist Ajoy Krishna Sarkar said the smoke emitted by waste burning can lead to hypoxia — a condition marked by inadequate supply of oxygen to tissues — in people with reduced lung functioning. Many people who have recovered from Covid have to deal with reduced lung functioning because lung tissues get scarred. “People who have lung fibrosis because of Covid-19 already have a problem in the exchange of gases, which is the main function of the lungs. They were given oxygen support at hospital  because their lungs could not take in adequate oxygen. When these people are discharged, they have to depend on oxygen in the ambient air,” said Sarkar, clinical director at Peerless Hospital. “When the percentage of oxygen in ambient air further drops , because of waste burning, these people can have serious problems because they will not get adequate oxygen necessary for the body to perform its functions.” Covid Care members are also urging ward coordinators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to spread their message. “We have started mike campaigns from autos. We are also approaching ward coordinators to campaign against waste burning in their wards,” said Subir Gupta, a group member whose wife had contracted Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-200
