22-12-2020||Calcutta||CAMRI Hospital asked to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation||The CAMRI Hospital in Burdwan was on Monday asked to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to a patient party by the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission after it was found that a doctor, with a diploma in gynaecology, had operated a patient for breast tumour. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, told a news conference that doctor members of the commission said during the hearing that a doctor with a degree in gynaecology could not conduct a breast tumour surgery. “A Burdwan resident complained that a doctor with a diploma in gynaecology had performed a breast tumour surgery on a patient,” said Banerjee. “Fortunately, nothing happened to the patient, who was later treated at Burdwan Medical College and Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai.” The commission asked Woodlands Hospital to pay Rs 20,000 to a woman who complained that her one-month-old son had developed an infection in one of his legs because the nurses did not check the condition of his skin after fitting an oximeter in one of his legs. Banerjee said the woman sent a picture of the boy’s leg on Monday and there were marks of the infection in the skin. “We found the nurses’ conduct negligent and asked the hospital to pay Rs 20,000 to the family,” he said. The commission asked Sanjivani Nursing Home in Hooghly’s Sheakhala to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to a woman who was admitted there when she was pregnant. “The woman gave birth to a baby but she developed an infection, for which the family had to spend Rs 1.5 lakh. We have asked the hospital to pay Rs 50,000 to the family,” Banerjee said. The commission also asked Medica Superspeciality Hospital to offer Rs 10 lakh discount to the family of a 45-year-old man who died there from Covid. “The hospital had billed Rs 39 lakh for the treatment. We decided to fix a rate of Rs 1 lakh for ECMO (an advanced type of mechanical life support) treatment for each day,” said Banerjee. “At Rs 1 lakh a day, the bill should be Rs 31 lakh for 31 days. We also asked the hospital to offer another Rs 2 lakh as discount. The man’s father said they had already paid Rs 27 lakh and had spent all their savings to clear the bill,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Bengal govt asks hospitals to follow rates and refund||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Monday asked Nightingale Hospital to accept the rates of the Bengal government’s health scheme and return to a government employee the portion of a surgery’s cost that will not be reimbursed under the scheme. The employee, 40, alleged that the hospital had forced her husband to sign a declaration that they would not claim reimbursement under the health scheme. The woman underwent an orthopaedic surgery at the hospital in September 2019. She also complained that the doctor who performed the surgery told her that the implant she needed would cost much more than the rate offered by the health scheme and she had to pay the price fixed by the hospital, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The declaration made by the woman’s husband will become null and void. We have asked the woman to file reimbursement claims under the West Bengal Health Scheme. The hospital has to pay back the woman the amount that will not be reimbursed under the scheme,” said Banerjee. “The woman complained that she had been charged Rs 71,000 extra for the implant. The health scheme rate says the implant would cost Rs 5,500, but the hospital charged her Rs 76,789,” Banerjee said. The bill for the surgery was Rs 1.33 lakh. “The woman said the doctor told her that the surgery could not be done at the rate mentioned in the health scheme. She also said her husband had written the declaration under duress,” said Banerjee. An official of a private hospital said the implant rates mentioned in the health scheme were for indigenous implants, whereas most doctors were trained in handling imported ones. That is why many doctors do not want to perform implants on patients admitted under the health scheme, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Gariahat tram depot to be converted to set up a 'Tram World'||A part of the Gariahat tram depot near Ballygunge Phari has been converted to set up a “Tram World” to commemorate 140 years of the tramways by the Calcutta Tramways Company, which was registered in London on December 22, 1880. The Tram World will have old tram bogeys, some of them built as early as 1938, displaying old pictures and replicas of tram cars, including a few from other countries like the US and Australia. It will also have a special section for vintage cars, curated by the Classic Drivers Club of Calcutta. The Tram World will house a concert area, lounges, waiting room, food court apart from a photo gallery capturing history of the tram movement over the ages in Calcutta. The museum will be thrown open on December 23 for eight hours from 10am against an entry ticket of Rs 30. “The idea is to capture the glory of the tramcars from the bygone eras and present them to the youths of this generation in a mix of art, music and love for heritage,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, managing director of the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC). Trams started their journey in Calcutta in 1873 with horses drawing them. In 1902, the first electric tram car began its service between Esplanade and Khidderpore. As more and more tram tracks got laid across the city, the number of tramcars grew, helping the service survive several political and social turmoils including the two world wars and India's battle for independence. In 2014, the transport department had inaugurated “Smaranika” a tram museum by refurbishing a vintage 1938 tram car and showcasing tram memorabilia. Over the years, the number of visitors to this car has dwindled prompting a section of tram conservationists to wonder if the state government was really keen on preserving one of the cleanest modes of transportation in Calcutta. “The seating arrangement in Swaranika doesn’t reflect the tramcar of the 1930s. It has been converted into a restaurant. So, it is anything but a museum,” said Debasish Bhattacharya of the Calcutta Tram Users Association. “The rolling stock of several models of the early years, the eight-wheel cars, have not been preserved so what will be on show inside the museum? Some of the trams inside this so-called museum have been apparently painted in red, blue, green which is a pity.” Experts, who have been advocating for a clean and green transportation system, have often cited how governments around the world have been investing on streetcars, trams and light rails to make commuting more accessible. Berlin, for instance, has improved upon its ageing tram systems. Over the last few years, service of trams in Calcutta has taken a severe beating. From 37 routes covering 70km in the 1960s, only six routes covering about 20km were left operational till Amphan happened. Now five routes have been restored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
22-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Something is amiss with our planet’||The Covid-19 pandemic shows how globalisation can trigger changes in the much longer-term history of the planet, a historian based in the US told a Calcutta audience at a virtual programme on Friday. Dipesh Chakrabarty, professor of history at the University of Chicago, gave the Alexander Duff Memorial Lecture organised by Scottish Church College. The lecture was initiated in 2013 to commemorate “the association of the college with its founder”. The topic of this year’s lecture — The Planetary Age in Human History. “My personal pleasure is actually enhanced by the fact that my father was a student of this college. He took his honours degree in physics sometime soon after the college changed its name from Scottish Churches College to Scottish Church College,” Chakrabarty said at the outset. His lecture straddled between capitalism, globalisation and climate change, true to the speaker’s introduction by Supratim Das, the vice-principal of the college. “He has been driven by the question — what history is, what it was yesterday and what it may be tomorrow. We find an amazingly expansive range in his writings, from a genealogy of the discipline of history in late colonial India to the way of thinking about the dilemmas in which humans find themselves today in the wake of climate change, the pandemic and other related problems,” Das said of the speaker. Some excerpts from Chakrabarty’s lecture and answers to questions that he took later. The current pandemic, the rise of authoritarian and xenophobic regimes and sentiments across the globe, discussions of renewable energy, fossil fuels, climate change, extreme weather events, global warming, loss of biodiversity, the Anthropocene and so on — all signal to us, however vaguely, that something is amiss with our planet and that this may have to do with human actions. The Covid-19 pandemic is the most recent and tragic illustration of how the expanding and accelerating process of globalisation can trigger changes in the much longer-term history of the planet. The current moment of the Covid-19 pandemic belongs not only to global history of capitalism and its destructive impact on human life, it also represents a moment in the history of biological life on this planet when humans are acting as the amplifiers of a virus whose host reservoir may have been some bats in China for millions of years. Bats are an old species. They have been around for about 50 million years. Viruses for much, much, much longer. In the Darwinian history of life, all forms of life seek to increase their chances of survival. This new virus, the novel coronavirus, thanks to the demand for exotic meat in China, jumped species and has now found a wonderful agent in humans that allow it to spread worldwide. Because humans, very social animals, now exist in very large numbers, in very big urban concentrations on a planet crowded with them and most of them are extremely mobile in pursuit of their livelihood opportunities. Humans will win their battle against the virus, and as a human being I really hope we do, but the virus has already won the war. This pandemic is no doubt an episode in the Darwinian history of life and the changes it causes will be momentous both in our global history and in the planetary history of biological life. I think the lockdown strategy worked very well in slightly richer countries where you not only locked down people but you also gave them money to subsist on. Australia, for instance, introduced a wage contract, whereby they paid people almost 70 per cent of their wages for a whole year. A lockdown works well if the entire nation decides to undergo some privation, so that the national savings are spent more on the vulnerable people. But if you don’t give the poor any money and just simply lock them down, what will they eat and how will they eat? It very much depends on what kind of social contract the nation represents. In my own sense, about India, unfortunately, is that it does not represent the kind of social contract that welfare states do. Planetary processes — like the carbon cycle, the hydrological cycle, the nitrogen cycle, the way the ocean water circulates or the glaciers — have until now operated mostly independent of human activities. But they have been central to the flourishing of human and other forms of life. The more we acknowledge our emerging planetary agency, the clearer it becomes that we now have to think about aspects of our planet that humans normally just take for granted as they go about the business of their everyday life. Take the case of the atmosphere and the share of oxygen in it. The atmosphere is as fundamental to our existence as the simple act of breathing is. For the last 375 million years, since the evolution of large forests, the concentration of oxygen has been maintained by certain processes of the planet at a level that ensured that animals did not suffocate from the lack of oxygen and forests did not burn up from an over-abundance of it. Dynamic and diverse processes maintain the atmosphere in its current equilibrium. Oxygen is a reactive gas. So, the air needs a constant supply of fresh oxygen. Some of this oxygen comes from tiny sea creatures called the plankton. If human activities affecting the sea and raising the temperature completely destroyed the plankton — which might happen if the sea level temperature rose by six degrees Celsius, we would thereby destroy a major source of oxygen. In short, humans have acquired the capacity to interfere with planetary processes but not necessarily, at least not yet, the capacity to fix them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to offer concession in fees in the next semester||St Xavier’s University will offer a concession in fees in the next semester, from January to June, to those who will need it because of the pandemic-induced financial constraints. “We will offer the waiver in the coming semester as well. There could be students whose families are still coping with financial constraints because of the pandemic. So, if they apply, we will offer them a waiver. The waiver could go up to 50 per cent,’’ Father Felix Raj said. In the last semester, the university had offered a blanket 20 per cent concession in semester fees to all students. When asked whether the applicants for the concession have to produce any documents like income certificates, Father Felix Raj said: “They don’t have to produce anything. We have faith in our students.’’ The semester fee at St Xavier’s University ranges from Rs 40,000 to Rs 45,000. An official of the university said the earnings from the fees had dropped by several crores following the blanket 20 per cent concession in the last semester. “Still we decided to come to the aid of the students who are feeling the pinch of the virus-induced shutdown. Already we have received four to five applications,” he said. Another official said many had suffered a pay-cut or even lost jobs. “Those who rely on business are reeling under a slump. We have to think about the problems of our guardians,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee decries religious hatred ||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurated Calcutta’s biggest public Christmas festival on Monday and said a “typical type of religious hatred” is brewing across India, threatening “secularism” and “the Constitution” of the country. “We love our Constitution. It is our pillar. But can you tell me whether this Constitution is being thoroughly nurtured, accepted? And in real sense, is secularism in India (being nurtured)? No. I am sorry to say, it is a typical type of religious hatred, policies going on,” Mamata said at the opening of the 10th edition of the Christmas festival at Allen Park on Park Street. Her comments came a day after Union home minister Amit Shah ended his two-day tour of Bengal and said the process of framing Citizenship (Amendment) Act rules -- part of a citizenship matrix that many communities have said is divisive — would start once vaccination for Covid-19 begins. “I want to condemn this (politics of hatred) today because this is a place where I can raise my voice," Mamata said. She stressed that the Christmas festival “stands for unity, stands for peace, stands for solidarity, stands for love and everything”. She underscored that this spirit of unity and solidarity stemmed from participation of people irrespective of their religion in the festivities. “This is the only place in our country where we celebrate festivals like this. It is like Puja... Just like this we celebrate our Id, our Christian festival and all the festivals. Because we are one, we are together. Unity is our strength and divided we fall, that’s why we pray for unity,” said Mamata. At last year’s programme, too, the chief minister had referred to religious hatred and spoken about ways to combat it. She had referred to the Centre’s move to do away with the seats reserved for the Anglo-Indian community in Parliament and wondered whether it was possible to exclude one community by scrapping seats. At Monday’s programme, seated on the dais with Mamata were Reverend Thomas D’Souza, the archbishop of Calcutta, and Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India. In the audience were people from all walks of life and from all communities. From Allen Park, the chief minister went to St Xavier’s College to inaugurate the Pre-Christmas Programme. There, too, she stressed the need for peace and unity. “Christmas brings unity, peace, happiness to love each and every person…. It unites the world family,” Mamata said at the college. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, spoke of how the joy of Christmas encompassed everybody, going beyond the confines of the religious border. “Christmas is the most wonderful time of the year with so much joy all around. Not just for Christians, but all for various reasons,” the principal said. “Today more than ever, Jesus needs to be born in our life and in our world. Our world is darkened by human selfishness, pride and sin,” he said. Also present on the occasion was Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University. Reflecting on the spirit of the Christmas festival, Father Felix Raj told Metro: “In Bengal, Christmas is now going beyond caste and religion…. Everyone participates in the Christmas festival.” Referring to the chief minister’s message for maintaining unity, he said: “We must stand up to religious hatred to protect our secularism and the Constitution.” The chief minister praised St Xavier’s College and said it was one of the best institutions in the world. “I want to see St Xavier’s College as the number one,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Cheating after chats on site for matrimony||A man from Nigeria has been arrested from his rented accommodation in Faridabad in Haryana for allegedly duping a Lake Town woman, who had posted her profile on a matrimonial website, of more than Rs 80,000, police said. Edwin Ngoesine Anideh, 29, was arrested on December 17 on the basis of a complaint lodged by the woman with the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake in August, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The woman had mentioned in her complaint that she had posted her profile on a matrimonial website. A few months ago, she was contacted by a man who identified herself as Kalpesh Patel, an Indian settled in Canada, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “Preliminary investigations revealed that the complainant was contacted by the man from Nigeria, who had posted a fake profile on the matrimonial site pretending to be an Indian staying in Canada,” the officer said. The two started chatting over the matrimonial website’s messenger service and eventually exchanged cellphone numbers. “A few days later he told her that he had sent her gifts, including jewellery and cosmetics. from Canada. He then called her and said the bag containing the gifts had been seized by the airport authorities and that she had to pay customs and other duties to retrieve it. The man then gave the woman another cellphone number and asked her to transfer Rs 80,800,” the officer said. The woman transferred the amount but no gifts reached her. She then tried calling up the man several times but could not get through to him. Finally both cellphone numbers ceased to be active, prompting her to lodge a complaint. The cops, too, faced delays in tracking down the man because the phone numbers were inactive. No clues emerged even after putting the numbers under electronic surveillance. Edwin was produced in a court in Haryana and brought to the city on transit remand. “It seems he has cheated several women in this fashion,” the officer said. He has been charged under various IPC sections, including 420 (cheating). A few days ago, the Nigerian used one of the numbers and the police tracked it down to Faridabad. A team was sent there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Great conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn decoded||The year 2020 is full of surprises. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, almost everybody on Earth is affected. But the objects in the sky move on in a regular manner, without any change in their pattern. Often you come across celestial events which are rare and spectacular. On the night of December 21, there was a rare event of the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn. Jupiter and Saturn appeared extremely close to each other, and to the naked eye, for those who could see them through the evening haze, it was quite an effort to separately identify them. The angular difference between the two was about 0.1 degree. In comparison, the full moon subtends an angle of about 0.5 degrees. Jupiter takes 11.86 years to go round the Sun once, whereas the orbital period of Saturn is around 29.5 years. That is the reason why every 19 years and seven month apart, Jupiter makes an extra turn around the Sun, and comes in conjunction with Saturn. So, the Great Conjunction occurs periodically after every 20 years on average. But their apparent separation varies at every conjunction, depending on their position compared to Earth. A conjunction is an apparent phenomenon caused by the observer’s perspective: the two objects involved are not actually close to one another in space. Two celestial bodies visually appearing close to each other, as seen from Earth, is called a conjunction. These two giant planets have not appeared so close since July 16, 1623, and that is the reason sky lovers and enthusiasts were getting excited about this celestial treat. Before that, the closest observable Jupiter-Saturn conjunction was in the medieval times, in 1226. The next occasion when these two gas giant planets will come comparably close will be March 15, 2080. But seeing is not always believing. Though the two planets will be almost on top of one another, on the December 21 night their actual distance from each other was around 735 million km. For the city of Calcutta and its neighbourhood, the sunset was around 4.57pm, whereas the Saturn-Jupiter duo went below the horizon around 7.10pm. So, starting from some time after the sunset, with the brightness of the sky going down, enthusiasts in large numbers were ready to observe this rare celestial treat for just over an hour. The response was mixed. Some people could see the event nicely and a number of them enthusiastically arranged for live streaming over social media using small telescopes, but for some, mostly within the city limits, dust and light pollution in addition to low-lying fog disrupted proper viewing. The enthusiasm and interest generated by the people from all sections of society and among all age groups was very encouraging from the point of view of public interest about celestial events and the awareness of our cosmic environment. December 21, 2020, was special. In addition to the second closest conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn since the invention of the telescope in 1609, it was the longest night of the year as well! December 21 was the winter solstice day in the northern hemisphere, when the earth’s north pole is tilted at its maximum away from the Sun. This causes the longest night time of the year. The night time duration in Calcutta was about 13 hours and 15 minutes. Debiprosad Duari is the director, research and  academic, MP Birla Institute of Fundamental Research, MP Birla Planetarium||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||Motorists may be asked to count fingers or walk straight to check whether they are drunk or not||This season, motorists may be stopped at random and asked to count fingers shown by a traffic cop or walk in a straight line to check whether they are drunk or not. The old and familiar tests may not be the best, but there are few alternatives to curb drink driving at a time the use of breathalysers has been ruled out because of Covid-19. If anyone is found faltering at the manual tests on the road, cops will ask him or her to accompany them to hospital for an alcohol test. The police have not been using breathalysers over the past few months to prevent possible transmission of the Covid-19 virus. As a result, the prosecution rate for drink driving has come down and that led to an increased possibility of accidents. Calcutta police commissioner Anuj Sharma had on Friday asked his traffic team to think of ways to tackle the problem of drink driving amid the pandemic. Lalbazar sources said senior officers of the traffic department had been contemplating different ways to detect drink driving without the use of breathalysers. “I have asked traffic personnel to take action against drink driving as this aspect had got slightly de-prioritised because of the pandemic. They have been asked to work out measures for having the person driving under the influence of alcohol tested, keeping all prescribed safety measures for Covid in place,” Sharma told Metro. In the absence of breathalysers, the police have been depending on their instincts to stop and check motorists at random. Some of those who are suspected to be drunk are being taken to government hospital for an alcohol test. “We cannot sniff a person these days because of the fear of Covid transmission and social distancing norms. We have to guess whether a person is drunk or not. But it is very difficult to convince motorists to visit hospital for the test without any evidence,” said a traffic cop. A source said that as a part of the test, a driver may be asked to count the number of fingers shown by a traffic cop. An incorrect answer might indicate the driver is not in his senses under the influence of alcohol. “A motorist may also be asked to walk in a straight line. Those who are drunk are likely to flunk the test,” the source said. “Those who will fail the test will be taken to hospital. If the test at the hospital confirms the presence of alcohol, he or she will be prosecuted under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act,” an officer said. The permissible alcohol content is 30mg per 100ml of blood. A person can be fined Rs 2,000 or jailed for six months if the alcohol content in his or her blood is found to be more than that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
22-12-2020||Calcutta||20,000 volunteers to vaccinate 6 lakh health-care workers in Bengal ||The state health department is talking to voluntary organisations to draw up a list of around 20,000 volunteers who will vaccinate around six lakh health-care workers in Bengal in the first phase of Covid vaccination. Officials of the health department said they talked to representatives of several voluntary organisations on Monday seeking their support in providing volunteers. Such talks will continue over the next few days. According to the plan, each vaccination facility will be run by a representative of the health department and four persons from an outside agency. Each facility will vaccinate 100 people a day. If the infrastructure permits, more than one vaccination facility can be set up in one compound. “We have started making preparations for these facilities in medical colleges and hospitals across Calcutta. We will also support private health-care facilities with more than 100 employees enrolled for vaccination to set up vaccination centres,” said an official of the health department. The department has started training key personnel in handling Covid-19 vaccines once they reach the cold-chain systems. The state has around 20,000 vaccinators. On Friday, a training session was held for some of them at an address off EM Bypass. Those who attended the programme will visit districts and train other vaccinators. The second round of training will be held in Siliguri from Wednesday. A vaccination facility or a booth will have three rooms. There will be two big rooms, where recipients will gather and wait for some time after taking a shot. The vaccine will be administered in the third room. According to preliminary estimates, 6,000 such facilities will have to be set up across the state in the first phase of the vaccination drive, “A recipient will have to wait for at least half an hour in the resting room after taking a shot. Two persons will monitor his or her condition during the period,” an official at Swasthya Bhavan said.  “There will be a gap of 28 days between the first and the second dose of the vaccine. A recipient will be certified as ‘vaccinated for coronavirus’ a fortnight after administering the second dose.” According to the plan, a health-care worker who has registered for vaccination will be assigned the centre closest to his or her registered address. The recipient will be informed about the date and time of the vaccination. Once a candidate turns up at a facility or a booth, a guard will check the registration details and ask him or her to wait in the designated room. A volunteer, to be known as Vaccinator-II, will run another round of checks to confirm the identity of the recipient and that she or he is scheduled to receive a dose that day. The candidate will then be taken to the vaccination room, where a trained vaccinator from the health department, to be known as Vaccinator I, will administer the dose. After the jab, the recipient will be guided to the resting room where two other persons will keep a watch for any ailment that might develop after the shot for at least half an hour. If the candidate develops no complications within this period, he or she will be free to step out, health department officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-199
