23-12-2020||Calcutta||Thirty shanties destroyed in fire; traffic hit on Bypass ||More than 30 shanties were gutted near Bengal Chemical on Maniktala Main Road on Tuesday evening and traffic on EM Bypass was severely hit as affected residents gathered on the artery and a stretch of it had to be closed to facilitate fire-fighting. There were no reports of any injuries till late on Tuesday. Flames were detected inside a shanty around 6.30pm and, fanned by the northerly winds, they soon spread through the thickly populated pocket adjoining Purbasha Housing Estate, police and fire services department officials said. Around 20 fire tenders took nearly two hours to control the blaze. As firefighters began their operations, police had to close down a stretch of the EM Bypass, particularly the flank through which Ultadanga-bound vehicles move. Senior officers said the stretch of the Bypass near Bengal Chemical was closed to traffic from around 7.20pm till late at night and traffic had to be diverted through various roads, including Beleghata Main Road and Narkeldanga Main Road. Most of the Ultadanga-bound vehicles were directed towards Salt Lake from the Chingrighata crossing, the police said. On the Bypass, at one point, the snarl extended till the Parama crossing on the Ultadanga-bound flank. Some of the vehicles headed towards Ruby hospital from Ultadanga were diverted through Salt Lake from the Hudco intersection. “Several families ran out of their burning houses with their belongings and gathered on the Ultadanga-bound flank of the Bypass. Traffic had to be diverted till the time an alternative arrangement could be made for their night shelter,” said a senior police officer overseeing traffic movement. According to preliminary estimates, at least 35 shanties were gutted. The fire is believed to have started in the kitchen of a shanty. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, reached the spot and said the displaced families would be accommodated in a community hall nearby. “The CMC will make necessary arrangements for the rehabilitation of the displaced,” Hakim said. “The chief minister has directed that all arrangements be made for those who have been affected by the fire.” The police said residents alerted the fire department only after their attempts to douse the flames failed. A section of residents alleged that fire tenders reached the spot nearly an hour and a half after they were alerted. The delay, they said, caused the fire to spread. “The first set of tenders reached from Maniktala and gradually additional fire tenders started reaching from fire stations nearby. It takes time for these vehicles to reach a particular spot,” said Sujit Bose, the fire and emergency services minister. “A forensic team will visit the site on Wednesday and the experts will be able to ascertain the exact cause of the fire,” said Jag Mohan, the director general of fire and emergency services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Alarm foils Ballygunge Circular Road ATM robbery attempt||A man who allegedly broke the glass barrier of an ATM kiosk on Ballygunge Circular Road and was trying to break open the machine was arrested early on Tuesday after an alarm linked to the kiosk went off at Ballygunge police station. “The alarm at the police station went off half an hour past Monday midnight, indicating that someone was trying to rob the ATM. On rushing to the spot, our team found a youth inside the kiosk. He had smashed the glass barrier of the kiosk and was trying to break the ATM machine,” said an officer at the police headquarters in Lalbazar. The accused was identified as Sukanto Gayen, 20, a resident of the Peyarabagan slum, not far from the ATM kiosk. The kiosk did not have a guard. Last week, Calcutta police had arrested a Haryana-based gang that had allegedly been involved in breaking and robbing ATM kiosks in Calcutta and possibly elsewhere, too. The police said the gang used to smear the CCTV cameras inside ATM kiosks with black paint so that nothing was visible in the footage. They apparently used professional burglary tools to break open ATMs. The youth who was arrested on Tuesday did not seem to have applied the modus operandi of that gang. “Prima facie, this youth does not appear to be a member of that group. He will be subjected to a medical test,” an officer of Ballygunge police station said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Detentions shed light on New Town fires||Fires on New Town’s grasslands are being lit for reasons ranging from burning waste to scaring away snakes, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority said. Residents’ resistance groups, the NKDA and police have caught several people setting fires on grasslands. All the men were questioned and a wide range of reasons — driving out snakes, making a safe passage for cattle to graze, waste burning and “starting fires just to see the grasslands go up in flames” — have emerged. Some of the men were found to be waste collectors not listed with the NKDA, the official said. The men said they did not want to carry the non-recyclable items to a dumping ground. The Telegraph had reported on several occasions how fires on grasslands have made it difficult for the residents to breathe. They are forced to keep doors and windows shut because of the dense smoke. The fires also have a devastating effect on the habitat of a variety of birds. A senior NKDA official said they held a meeting with officials from the forest department and NGOs to chalk out a strategy to prevent fires on the grasslands. New Town’s Action Area II has large swathes of grassland that are frequented by birdwatchers from across the city. The grasslands are home to many birds because they provide a steady food supply. The birds include seed eaters like species of munias and weavers, insectivorous birds like Pipit, Lark, Eurasian Wryneck, Siberian Rubythroat, and birds of prey that feed on rodents such as Black Shouldered Kite, Indian Spotted Eagle, Common Kestrel and Pied Harrier, among others. Debashis Sen, the chairman of the NKDA, said that they had sent out a request to all housing complexes, cooperative housing societies and standalone buildings not to hand waste to unauthorised collectors. “If need be, the residents can visit the zero waste shop near the New Town bus stand where there are provisions for segregated collection of waste items,” Sen said. A retro-fitted water tanker has doused 12 fires in different places following alerts from the NKDA cell that gets real-time inputs from drones that scan the township for such fires, he said. The areas where the tanker has doused fires include a large grassland near the Hanuman Mandir behind Eco Park, a grass-land near the headquarters of the Border Security Force’s South Bengal Frontier, and one near Alia University. “We are actively campaigning and putting up signs asking people not to set such fires. Although we have let some people off with stern warnings, we are now mulling legal action and calling the police when we spot anyone starting a fire,” Sen said. Metro had earlier reported that the New Town authorities have formed a cell that flies drones over grasslands and empty plots to try and stop people from setting dried grass, shrubs and waste on fire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||CMC to build booster pumping station to boost water supply||The civic body will build a booster pumping station-cum-reservoir at Buroshibtala, bordering Behala and New Alipore, to address water deficiency in the area, an engineer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said on Tuesday. The station, which will take about 18 months to be built, will benefit about 15,000 people living around Hindustan Sweets, Jyotish Roy Road, Malakar Para and Indrapalli, said the coordinator of Ward 117, Amit Singh. Singh added that the residents had dug trenches in several places in the area to collect the potable water from taps. “The water pressure is so low that water does not reach any tap that has its mouth above the road surface. People have to climb down into the trenches to collect water.” He said all taps in the area have been fitted at a level below the road where the water supply lines run because of the low water pressure. According to the CMC engineer, the semi-underground reservoir with a capacity to hold 13 lakh litre of water, will receive potable water from the Garden Reach water treatment plant. “The booster pumping station will increase the pressure and the flow of water. Once the high-powered pumps push the water into the network, the pressure will increase and people will receive more quantity of water,” he added. The chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, will lay the foundation stone of the pumping station on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Bus strike threat over dues ||Private bus operators of around 10 routes across Calcutta have threatened to suspend their operations from Wednesday till the state government clears the dues for transporting personnel and materials during the lockdown and even after the unlock process started. Operators said that between March 26 and September 30, the state government had hired their buses to ferry personnel from hospitals and other government-run establishments to different locations. After the lockdown was withdrawn in phases, the transport department said it would pay the amount it owed to the operators but that has not happened till date. “Over 40 buses and minibuses were hired during the period. The outstanding amount is in excess of Rs 52 lakh. The owners of the buses on around 10 routes have told us that they would suspend their operations from tomorrow till the dues are cleared,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Mini Bus Owners Association. “The owners have been struggling to remain afloat during the pandemic and the state government has made the situation even worse by not clearing the dues. Unless the owners get their dues, they can't pay their workers.” The buses the government hired run on the New Alipore-Ruby, Park Circus-Purbachal Housing Estate (Salt Lake), Majerhat-Kidderpore, Rajabagan-Howrah, Esplanade-Akra Phatak and Pailan-Howrah station routes, among others. On Tuesday, a section of bus owners and their staff demonstrated at the office of the transport department in Kasba demanding that the dues be cleared immediately. The agitating owners and employees said they would wait for another 10 days before heading to Nabanna with their demands. “The price of diesel is around Rs 78 a litre. There aren’t enough passengers and even then we have to keep running the buses because the service is considered essential. But what about our payments? Isn’t it essential?” asked an owner, whose bus runs on the 42C route. Transport department officials said buses were hired during the lockdown for Rs 1,910 a day and minibuses for Rs 1,580 a day. The state government provided fuel and paid money to the staff to buy tiffin. “The bulk of the payment has been done. The rest is in the process of getting clearance from the finance department,” said an official of the transport department. The operators said they had been paid part of the promised amount in June. Since then, they have not got anything.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||St Xavier’s postpones convocation to February||St Xavier’s College has postponed its convocation from January 16 to February 28. The ceremony will be held on the campus but on a smaller scale because of the Covid pandemic. Although 2,700 students (undergraduate and postgraduate) have graduated, the college will invite only the 35 medal recipients to receive the honours in-person. “The convocation ceremony is usually held on January 16 every year, which also marks our foundation day. But this year’s pandemic has changed the situation temporarily and the ceremony has been deferred to February 28,” principal Father Dominic Savio told Metro. Swami Atmapriyananda, the vice-chancellor of Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda University, will be the chief guest. The ceremony will be live streamed on digital platforms like the college’s Facebook page and YouTube. The recipients who to go the campus will have their temperatures checked with thermal guns and security and volunteers will ensure all protocols are followed, a college official said. The college will courier the degree certificates. The students can also go to the campus in a staggered way to collect their degrees from their department. “The college will upload the digital version of the degree certificates on the National Academic Depository so that the students could download them,” said Dominic Savio. Why has the convocation been deferred? The odd-semester (first, third and fifth) exams that are usually wrapped up by December got delayed and will be held in January, because of which the college thought it prudent to hold the ceremony in February, a college official said. “This year, the academic session started in September instead of July because of the Covid-induced shutdown. As a consequence, the exams will be held only in January. Teachers and other officials will be busy conducting the exams so we thought it would be wise to hold the ceremony in February,” the official said. Father Savio said they wanted to push back the event expecting the situation to improve by late February. “According to some health experts, the virus is expected to get more virulent during the winter. So, we wanted to choose a time that would be well beyond winter,” he said. If the medal recipients want to attend the convocation with their families, they have to alert the college authorities so necessary arrangements to maintain distancing can be made, another official said. “We want to keep the congregation comprising medal recipients, their family members, teachers, officials within 200 in keeping with the norms set under unlock VI guidelines.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Vehicle that killed air hostess identified||Police have identified the goods vehicle that had fatally hit 20-year-old air hostess Rittika Majumdar near Hastings before fleeing last week and arrested the driver. “Bishnu Paswan, 41, the driver, has been arrested from his BK Pal Avenue house. He has been charged with causing death due to negligence, under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code,” said an officer. Rittika, a resident of Howrah, was returning home with a friend on a scooter when the accident happened last Tuesday. Investigating officers learned that the scooter was trailing an app cab, whose driver suddenly pressed the brakes. “With the app cab suddenly coming to a halt, the two-wheeler got disbalanced. The scooterist as well as Rittika, who was riding pillion, fell on the road. Before they could get up, a goods vehicle that was behind them ran over the woman,” said an officer. A case against an “unknown” vehicle was initially started. As there were no CCTV cameras on the spot, the police had to initially depend on statements of Rittika’s friend, who was driving the scooter, to form an idea about the goods vehicle. Footage of CCTV cameras close to the accident spot did show a goods vehicle cross the stretch within a few minutes of the accident. The vehicle, which was carrying cardboards to a factory in Dhulagarh in Howrah, was identified and its owner tracked down. The police learnt the name of the driver from the owner. Several offending vehicles that cause accidents and flee the spot remain unidentified in the absence of CCTV camera footage or statements from witnesses. The accident that led to the death of the air hostess is one of the few cases in which the police have been able to identify the killer vehicle and track down the driver despite the absence of CCTV cameras at the crash site. Last year, offending vehicles in around 40 road accidents had remained unidentified. Officers in the traffic department said that if the offending vehicle remained unidentified, the victim and his or her relatives found it difficult to claim the accident insurance money. “Apart from the insurance issue, getting to know the identity of the offending vehicle means a lot to the family of a person who dies in a road accident,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Belle Vue to set up two units in New Town||Belle Vue Clinic will build two units in New Town, which, once operational, will more than double the hospital’s bed count, an official of the hospital said on Tuesday. The hospital will also expand the capacity of its nursing college in New Town. The two new units — one near Ecospace and another behind Hidco Bhavan — will together have 564 beds. The Loudon Street unit has 312 beds. Belle Vue’s bed count will rise to 876 once the two units are ready. The MP Birla Group, which owns Belle Vue, will invest Rs 603 crore to build the two hospitals and expand the capacity of the nursing college, the official said. The two hospitals together will require an investment of Rs 500 crore. “The unit that will come up near Ecospace will have 164 beds and will be opened by April 2022. It will be a general hospital and will function from an eight-storey building in front of the nursing college,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. “The other one will be a 400-bed multi-speciality hospital. It will come up on a 2-acre plot behind Hidco Bhavan. It will be opened by March 2024.” Tondon said the treatment cost at the general hospital would be “low”. “People covered under the Central Government Health Scheme and West Bengal Health Scheme and those with Swasthya Sathi cards can come to this hospital,” he said. “We are also expanding the capacity of our nursing college. There is an acute shortage of nurses in the state. If more nurses graduate every year, the shortage problem can be addressed,” he said. The college, Priyamvada Birla Institute of Nursing, started in 2019. Tondon said that 150 students — 100 general nursing and midwifery (GNM) students and 50 BSc nursing students — were admitted last year. “This year we have already admitted 200 students, taking 50 more BSc nursing students than last year. Next year, we will admit 50 post-basic nursing students and 10 MSc nursing students,” he said. Post-basic is a three-year course for nurses with a GNM degree. The number of seats in each of the courses will keep increasing over the next few years. “Once the expansion is complete, we will admit 700 nursing students each year,” said Tondon. The first batch of 100 GNM students will graduate in 2022. The Loudon Street unit will add 60 beds by March 2021. “The bed count will go up from 312 to 372. We will add 15 dialysis beds there,” Tondon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
23-12-2020||Calcutta||Trust breached, elderly couple duped||A woman who had been hired to assist an elderly couple living by themselves in Salt Lake, especially to help them with their banking transactions during the pandemic, allegedly siphoned off more than Rs 20 lakh from their bank account. The woman has been arrested. Benoyendra Kumar Das, 83, and his wife live alone in their CJ Block house in Salt Lake. The couple’s son lives in the US and their daughter is married to an army officer who is posted in Kashmir. The couple’s children hired Ritajaa Thakur, a resident of New Alipore, to assist their parents. Das said they completely depended on the woman in her early 30s to carry out banking transactions on their behalf and also pay household bills. Das has retired from the International Labour Organisation and been running an NGO that promotes safe practices in mines across the country. He said he had also entrusted Thakur to run back-office operations of the NGO from their house. “In July, she took my debit card on the pretext of paying our landline bill. She also took my cell phone, whose number is linked to multiple bank accounts, and activated Internet banking without my knowledge,” Das told The Telegraph. Subsequently, she is said to have withdrawn cash and used Das’s card at different establishments and spent around Rs 20.8 lakh. Many elderly people who stay alone in the city are avoiding trips to banks amid the pandemic as a precaution against Covid-19 and also to avoid the hassle of standing in a queue in the sun for long durations. Many who live alone are seeking assistance from the police through the Saanjbati and Pronam outreach programmes for the elderly run by the Bidhannagar commissionerate and Calcutta police, respectively. There are still a number of elderly people who depend on domestic help and others to carry out banking transactions on their behalf. Das, however, was only alerted on December 6, when a bank employee called him up and asked why he was making such withdrawals. He then alerted his daughter, who got her husband to request one of his friends from the National Defence Academy to help them out. Shantanu Ghosh, who recently retired from the army as a colonel, visited Das’s house and got in touch with the bank. “It was clear from the banking records that someone else had been making these bank transactions. We then contacted the police and filed a complaint,” said Ghosh. The complaint led to the arrest of Thakur. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said she had used the money to book a car, go on multiple outstation trips, buy expensive perfumes and cosmetics as well as dresses. Thakur has been charged under various sections of the IPC, including 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust). She was produced in a court in Salt Lake on Tuesday and was remanded in police custody for four days, Lawyer Soumyajit Raha, who appeared for Das, sub-mitted in the court that Thakur had deceived an elderly couple “to fund her flashy lifestyle”. “The couple require regular medical treatment and have been duped by a woman they trusted,” Raha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-198
