24-12-2020||Calcutta||Fill hearts with love, concern for the needy||God is ever longing for us. Man too longs for God eternally. God’s longing and our longing meet  in Jesus. In Jesus God became man to fulfil all these yearnings and lead us to heaven to be with him forever. Narrating the birth of Jesus, St Luke writes that (step father) “Joseph went up to Bethlehem (for the census) with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child. While they were there, the time came for her to give birth. She gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them in the inn” (St Luke 2/7). We can take a look at our life in the light of this scene. First we look at helpless Joseph with Mary in pain out in that very cold, knocking everywhere but hears, “Sorry, no place”. It is the warmth of our hearts which God wants from us for the needy. In them, Jesus is knocking. What ought we do to him in the guise of the shelter less or helpless? Jesus was born among animals in the manger. The animals gave him company and warmth. He stoops to the lowest place to be born, coming quietly, as an infant. God stoops very low in total humility to defeat the pride of Satan to save us from sin. He wants us to be humble and serving. Also often it is the unexpected persons who come to our rescue than our friends. Similarly, let us also help those in difficulty. We see the angel appeared to the shepherds and said: “I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all”. The shepherds were outcasts. Being lowest and humble like Jesus, they receive the good news of salvation first. Like the shepherds let us be humble yet joyful, offering our  simple hearts filled with kindness, concern, love and hope in the dark world of today. A great company of angels appeared, praising God, “Glory to God in heaven and on earth peace to those on whom his favour rests”. These favoured ones are totally committed to God, are righteous,  at ease with God and others. That way they have deep peace of God in their hearts. Let us establish this peace to be God’s favoured. Pope Francis at Midnight Mass of Christmas reflecting on the birth of Jesus in Luke 2/7 tell us,“That holy night Mary gave us Jesus, the Light of the world. A simple story that plunges us into the event that changes our history forever. Everything that night became a source of hope. In the Child of Bethlehem, God comes to meet us and make us active sharers in the life around us. He offers himself to us, so that we can take him into our arms, lift him and embrace him. So that in him we will not be afraid to take into our arms, raise up and embrace the thirsty, the stranger, the naked, the sick, the imprisoned. In this Child, God invites us to be messengers of hope to those bowed down by the despair born of encountering so many closed doors. In this child, God makes us agents of his hospitality”. We look at this season. Christmas is the most wonderful time of the year when we have so much joys all around. Not just for Christians, for all for various reasons. But above all there is real joy to the world because Jesus is born anew bringing the Good News that God has become man in Jesus to save us from sin and selfishness. That is the real significance of Christmas, that is the cause of real joy. Real celebration is when we realise this and do our part to make it really happen in our lives. In this season God showers abundant joy and blessings on the world. But we need to do something, make a little effort, before we can personally experience this joy in our lives, in our families and in our world. How do we do that? Well, that is rather easy to explain but pretty hard to practise. Let us look at the word JOY. It is made up of three letters: first J, then O, and lastly Y. J stands for Jesus, O for Others, and Y for You. JOY therefore is: Jesus, Others, before You. To know joy in our lives we need to place Jesus first in everything. Secondly, we need to try to please others before pleasing oneself. Others before me, that is the recipe for joy. That is how we can convert the Christmas “joy to the world” into a personal “joy in my life” now and always. We know that those who practise J-O-Y enjoy peace, happiness and joy. But those who practise “self first” are finally always the unhappy and miserable ones, like the innkeeper who turned Joseph and Mary out in the cold or Herod who wanted to remain king by killing Jesus. On the positive side we have the outcast shepherds who leave everything to experience the Good News by coming in contact with Jesus, the Light that shone in darkness. They shared that Good News with all. We too are called to do likewise. Today more than ever, Jesus needs to be born in our life and in our world. Our world is darkened by human selfishness, pride and sin. We need Jesus to reconcile us with God and one another. We need a Bethlehem experience in our life. The joy of Christmas is not for a day or a season. It is an eternal joy, a joy that no one can take away from us because it is the joy of Jesus Christ himself made present in our hearts through the Holy Spirit who dwells within us (St Paul to the Romans 5:2-5). The first to hear the good news of Jesus’ birth were not the rich, the powerful or the religious and political leaders but the ordinary, the insignificant poor. Jesus came to empower the powerless, to seek and save the lost, to heal the sick, to raise the dead, to show us God the Father’s unconditional love and concern for us in Jesus. Let us realise all these so that Jesus may be reborn in our hearts and lives at this Christmas. We keep alive in our hearts the words of Pope Francis, “May the cry of the little Child of Bethlehem shake us from our indifference and open our eyes to those who are suffering. May his tenderness awaken our sensitivity to recognise him in all those who arrive in our cities, in our histories, in our lives. May his tenderness persuade us to be agents of hope and tenderness to all people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Discounts for Covid patients applicable to all: Panel||All advisories issued so far by the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission for treatment of Covid-19 patients will now be applicable to patients admitted in private hospitals with other illnesses, too, the commission’s chairperson said on Wednesday. Some of the advisories include providing discounts over the maximum retail price (MRP) of consumables and medicines and offering patients a cheaper version of a medicine if the doctor does not prescribe a specific brand. The commission also fixed the bed charge a hospital can bill on the day a patient is discharged. The decisions were taken at a meeting of the members of the commission at Nandan on Tuesday afternoon. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said they had decided that all advisories that were applicable to Covid-19 patients would now be applicable to other patients as well. “We have so far issued 17 advisories and these were not meant only for Covid-19 patients. However, some hospitals thought so. We made it clear in today’s advisories that non-covid patients too will get these benefits,” said Banerjee. “Advisory number 19 says that all non-Covid patients will now be covered under the advisories,” added Banerjee. The commission had in August issued advisories asking private hospitals to offer at least 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent discount on consumables. Consumables include gloves, personal protection equipment (PPE) and masks. The commission had also said that if hospitals were unable to offer the discount, they should allow a patient’s family to buy medicines and consumables from outside. The commission had found that medicines and consumables were among the costliest components of a patient’s bill. The discounts provide patients and their families with some relief. The new advisory issued on Wednesday meant that the discount will now be available to non-Covid patients, too. An official of a private hospital said that offering discounts on the MRP on all medicines to all patients would mean a huge revenue loss for them. “MRP of a medicine is fixed by the Drug Controller General of India. A private hospital does not do anything illegal by charging the MRP because laws allow us to charge up to that price. We agreed with the discount proposal for Covid-19 patients since we are going through the pandemic,” the official said. “But offering a similar discount on all medicines and to all patients, even the ones who have opted for deluxe beds, will mean a good amount of revenue loss for us. The commission also needs to think about the sustainability of private hospitals.” One of the advisories issued in August said that bed charges should not exceed the March 1 rates for patients.That will now be applicable to non-Covid patients, too. Another advisory had capped the doctors’ consultation fee at Rs 1,000 a day if the doctor visited the patient once a day and Rs 2,000 a day if the doctor visited the patient more than once. The commission chairperson said a hospital would not be able to charge a patient an extra day’s bed charge if the patient was discharged within an hour of completing 24 hours’ stay at the hospital. “If the patient is released within the next one hour, no bed charge can be taken. If the patient is released between one and six hours, one-fourth of a day’s bed charge can be taken, for release between six and 12 hours half of a day’s bed charge can be taken and for release after 12 hours, a full day’s charge can be taken,” Banerjee said. The commission has also decided to set up a health hub where all facilities, from pharmacy to rehabilitation, will be available under one roof, Banerjee said. “We have requested Sugata Dasgupta from RG Kar Hospital’s critical care department to make a concept note and submit it to us in a month,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Seven injured after pick-up van overturns||A pick-up van carrying 29 people overturned on the AJC Bose Road flyover injuring seven passengers, two of them critically, on Wednesday afternoon, police said. The passengers were returning from Babughat after performing the last rites of a family member when the pick-up van lost control and overturned, the police said. The accident happened around 4.25pm near the east-bound ramp of the AJC Bose Road flyover, which connects it to the Parama flyover. Findings of a preliminary investigation by traffic cops suggest the Tata 407 in which the family was returning was travelling at a high speed and lost control metres ahead of the spot where the flanks towards the Parama flyover and the Park Circus Seven-point crossing bifurcates. “It is apparent that the vehicle was moving at a high speed and overturned near the spot where the flyover lands towards the Park Circus Seven-point crossing. Initially, we had thought that the driver was among the injured. But later we realised that he was missing,” said an officer of the traffic department. Hundreds of vehicles that were heading east on the AJC Bose Road flyover were stranded for nearly an hour after the accident. Traffic was affected on AJC Bose Road, DL Khan Road, Red Road, Park Circus and the city-bound flank of the Parama flyover. The EM Bypass-bound vehicles were diverted through AJC Bose Road and the Exide crossing, while vehicles headed for the city from the Bypass were diverted through the Park Circus seven-point crossing. The police said members of the Mahali family — who live at Bamunpara Lane near Palm Avenue — were returning from Babughat after performing the last rites of an elderly member of the family when the accident happened. Of the 29 passengers, 14 were women. Seven of them have been admitted to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, the police said. The vehicle’s owner was contacted for the details and mobile number of the driver, whose last location was tracked down to a place near Tiljala on Wednesday evening. A case of rash and negligent driving, dangerous driving has been started against the driver, the police said. Senior officers in the traffic department said ideally all vehicles should slow down at turns and bifurcations on flyovers to avert accidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Dakshineswar Metro set to start in February||Metro trains should start running up to Dakshineswar by the end of February, an official said on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, a train undertook a trial run on the Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch of the north-south Metro line for the first time. Once operational, the new Metro link will benefit thousands of office-goers, students and others from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Belghoria and other areas on the northern fringes. Ever since the Tallah bridge was closed last year (it has since been demolished), a large section of these commuters has been accessing Metro through Noapara station, which cannot be easily reached. Because of the diversions following the closure of the bridge, the bus routes to Dum Dum from BT Road have become more congested. It will take more than three years for the new Tallah bridge to come up. The 4.1km Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch on elevated tracks goes via Baranagar station. An air-conditioned rake left Noapara station around 10.30am on Wednesday. It made one round trip, reaching Dakshineswar station and coming back to Noapara. Metro general manager Manoj Josh and other senior officials of the carrier and represen-tatives of RVNL, the agency building the new stretch, were on the train. Joshi examined the stretch from the motorman’s cabin. “The trial run was smooth. We will conduct more trial runs as required. A final clearance from the CRS (commission of railway safety) will be needed before commercial services start on the route,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. A section of Metro officials had been eying a January launch of the Dakshineswar link. But a senior official of the carrier said commercial runs till Dakshineswar were likely to start in February. “Today was the first trial. Some last-mile work is being completed on the stretch. The signalling system is also being tested. Once the stretch is ready, we will invite the commissioner of railway safety for an inspection. The entire process should take a couple of months,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Drink swoop is back, 26 drivers booked in Calcutta||As many as 326 motorists were prosecuted on Tuesday night for violating traffic norms. Twenty-six of them were allegedly driving under the influence of liquor. Booking motorists or bikers for drink driving had stopped during the pandemic because breathalysers could not be used as a precaution against the coronavirus. The drive resumed on Tuesday night after a gap of nine months, without breathalysers, amid mild protests from motorists. The majority of the prosecutions for drink driving were reported from Park Street, Theatre Road, Loudon Street, Bentinck Street and Waterloo Street and from the Sovabazar and Golpark crossings, between 10.30pm on Tuesday and 1am on Wednesday. Sources said 26 people were prosecuted for drink driving. The drive is likely to continue, deputy commissioner (traffic) Rupesh Kumar told Metro. As many as 104 motorcyclists were prosecuted for riding with more than one pillion rider, while another 163 were booked for driving without a helmet. In the absence of breathalysers, the police on Tuesday night depended on their instincts to detect drunk motorists. “Instead of directly asking whether a motorist had consumed alcohol, we started a conversation by asking if all the papers (of the car) were in place. By carefully listening to how the person spoke, we tried to assess whether he was intoxicated. If there were any doubt, we asked motorists to accompany our men to hospital for an alcohol test,” said an officer posted in Ballygunge. Many officers posted on Theatre Road and Park Street faced resistance when cars were being signalled to stop. “A man who was driving an Audi said: ‘Oho, abar e-shob keno? Apnara e-shob keno koren? (Why all this again? Why do you do all these things?)’,” an officer said. Those who resisted going to hospital for an alcohol test were told that non-compliance would attract stricter sections of law. More than one motorist in several pockets of the city cited the common excuse of “pandemic-induced stress” after being caught driving in an intoxicated state. A person can be fined Rs 2,000 or jailed for six months if the alcohol content in his or her blood is found to be more than 30mg per 100ml of blood. Second and subsequent offences can attract a fine of Rs 3,000 and two years’ jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University VC quit threat after gherao||Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das told teachers on Wednesday night following another round of confinement of teachers by students: “In such circumstances, myself and my two Pro-VCs feel that we should not continue to remain in the office.” One of the two JU pro-VCs, Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, three deans and some senior teachers were gheraoed by the student leaders of the engineering and technology faculty till late Wednesday night after a discussion over restructuring the Jadavpur University Management System (JUMS) ended in a deadlock. JUMS is a software used to publish results online and it has faced complaints of errors. VC Das said the pro-VC and others had agreed to an in-person meeting after the student leaders promised that they won’t resort to confinement. “But what followed was a complete breach of trust,” VC Suranjan Das told teachers in his message. Aritra Majumder, chairperson, engineering and technology students’ union, said: “Nobody has been confined. The JU authorities are not listening to our grievances.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Woman killed in New Town hotel room||A woman in her twenties who had checked into a New Town hotel with a man on Tuesday night was found murdered in the room hours later, police said. The male companion was missing. The body of Chumki Ghosh, from Midnapore, was found wrapped in a blood-stained blanket on the bed when hotel officials entered the room using a duplicate key after waiting more than an hour for the guests to answer the door. The man had submitted an identity document at the reception that said his name was Amit Ghosh. “They had said they would check out at 7pm. When they did not, the hotel staff went to check and heard television sound from inside. But when no one responded to the knocks on the door for more than an hour, hotel officials used a duplicate key to enter the room. They found the body on the bed, wrapped in a blood-stained blanket,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar police. CCTV footage from the hotel showed the man had left around 4pm. The police said a broken liquor bottle, suspected to be the murder weapon, was found in the room. A note in Bengali that read “Toke ami marte chaini, marte badhdho holam (I did not want to kill you, but had to)” was also found there. The police have summoned the woman’s husband. “Marks all over the body suggest she tried to resist the killer. There were multiple stab wounds,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Hunt hard for oxygen cylinder in Calcutta||The Covid-19 pandemic and a rise in the incidence of lung diseases during winter have resulted in a demand for oxygen cylinders this December that is higher than other years, said suppliers and home healthcare service providers. A 74-year-old woman of Ballygunge Place, who has survived a cerebral stroke, needed oxygen support last week. Her daughter said she approached several pharmacy stores in the area but was unable to hire a cylinder. “My mother’s hemoglobin level had dropped and she needed oxygen support. Since 9am I had been trying to get an oxygen cylinder. I approached several pharmacies in and around our locality but could not get one. Then I approached a nursing home in the locality, but there, too, no cylinder was available for rent,” said the daughter. She got an offer to purchase a cylinder for Rs 12,000, which she did not accept. “Finally I got a cylinder in the evening,” she said. Pharmacies that stock oxygen cylinders in bulk and home healthcare service providers said the demand for oxygen cylinders and concentrators, a device that concentrates the oxygen from gas by removing nitrogen, have been in high demand since the Covid-19 outbreak. “The demand for oxygen cylinders and concentrators had increased compared with last year. Since the second week of November, it has gone up even more. Many elderly people who don't have Covid are in need of intermittent oxygen support,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, the unit head of Apollo Home Healthcare in Calcutta. On Wednesday, he said, all 100 oxygen cylinders and concentrators of the service provider were engaged on rent. “The sale of oxygen concentrators has gone up this winter compared with previous years. Earlier, we would sell two to three concentrators a month. But in November we sold 15. The sale in December is likely to be the same,” Bhattacharya said. Life Care, a pharmacy on Hazra Road that provides oxygen cylinders on rent, said the demand was very high. The store has 200 cylinders, each containing 1,320 litres of oxygen. “On an average we have 20 cylinders in our stock every day and the others are given on rent. Now, more than 15 cylinders are being hired by customers daily, which is much higher than what it used to be last year,” said an employee of the store. “Earlier, we had to refill cylinders once a day, but now on some days we have to refill twice.” Doctors said Covid-19 and winter were the two factors responsible for the spurt in demand. “Government guidelines say a Covid patient admitted in hospital and requiring oxygen support should be released only if the person is off oxygen for 72 hours. But in many cases, where the patient has underlying conditions like asthma or COPD, we are advising them to keep an oxygen cylinder at home for at least a few weeks,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, an expert in infectious diseases and member of the Covid treatment team at Peerless Hospital. “In addition, this time of the year many people suffering from COPD or other pulmonary diseases need oxygen support because of a rise in the air pollution level.” Also, many nursing homes that do not have piped oxygen supply are hiring cylinders more than before because of Covid patients being admitted there. Life Line Diagnostic Center Cum Nursing Home on Wood Street would require cylinders for around 20 patients daily. The number has gone up to 30 since August, said an official of the nursing home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||Madhyamik and HS exams put off to June||The Bengal government has accepted proposals from the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education that next year’s Madhyamik and Class XII board exams be deferred to June. Usually, Madhyamik (Class X) is held in February and the school-leaving exams are scheduled for March. “We received proposals from the board and the council about holding the exams in June. The government has approved the proposals and suggested that the schedule be fixed accordingly. If there is a change in situation, they will see to it,” education minister Partha Chatterjee said, while inaugurating a college in Behala. An official of the secondary education board said it had been proposed to the state government that Madhyamik be held from June 1 to 10. “The dates have been suggested assuming that the pandemic will continue over the next few months and the Assembly elections will be held in April or May,” the official said. The HS council has proposed that the exams be held in the second half of June. “The final dates will be announced by the board and the council in a day or two,” said a department official. The students who will write the board exams next year have not attended any in-person class since the third week of March because of Covid. An official in the school education department said they were working on a plan to reopen schools in mid-January for plus-II science students to attend practical classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
24-12-2020||Calcutta||A Christmas unlike any other||Churches will have to restrict the number of the faithful praying on the premises and they are trying to find various ways to do it. One church has increased the number of services both on Christmas Eve and Christmas compared with other years and another is making use of the parish hall on the premises to have a Bengali Mass there. This Christmas is not like last Christmas and the challenge for most churches is to contain the number of people and yet allow most to pray and participate. “On one hand is the law and maintaining numbers and on the other is the faith and devotion of the people. We are trying to do our best by maintaining the distancing norms and taking precautions because many people might turn up during Christmas time,” said Father Basil Mandi, parish priest, Church of Christ the King in Park Circus. The Church of Christ the King will have the Bengali Mass in the parish hall and the English mass in the church on December 24. Several churches have asked people to register beforehand. “In less than a week’s time we had to close registrations because we had reached this year's capacity,” said Father Orson Wells, parish priest, Church of Our Lady of Vailankanni in Picnic Garden. The church will have six services on Christmas Eve, instead of the usual three; and six on Christmas, instead of the usual four. The church has a seating capacity of 400 and could easily accommodate 600 by placing extra chairs in previous years, Father Wells said. “This year, we are keeping it to 50-odd people per service and hence more services,” he said. “This year is unprecedented and so some of the churches are having to do things they have never done before,” said Father Dominic Gomes, vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta. Some churches, like St Thomas’ Church on Free School Street, have blocked alternate seats to maintain distancing protocol. “We have blocked seats to maintain distance but simultaneously kept arrangements for chairs so that if people turn up, they can sit on the sides or in the courtyard,” said Reverend Shreeraj Mohanty, presbyter-in-charge of St Thomas' Church Free School Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-197
