25-12-2020||Calcutta||Message of peace by the archbishop of Calcutta on Christmas Eve||The archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’ Souza, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary on Portuguese Church Street, in Burrabazar, on Christmas Eve. A feeling for one another and a feeling that everyone belongs to one humanity is what the world needs, the archbishop said in his Christmas message on Thursday. “We need peace, we need love, we need unity, we need brotherhood, sisterhood, we need compassion and a feeling for one another and a feeling that we all belong to one humanity,” the archbishop said. Calcutta police commissioner Anuj Sharma and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’ Brien were also present. The traditional Midnight Mass was brought forward in Roman Catholic churches because of the pandemic. At the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary, the Mass started at 7.30pm. “But that does not take away the spirit of Christmas in any way,” the archbishop said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||‘Steel jackets’ for Tallah pipes||Pipes carrying water to the city from Palta in North 24-Parganas are being covered with “mild steel jackets” to prevent damage during the ongoing Tallah bridge construction. Water from Palta is stored in the Tallah tank. Eight pipes supply around 230 million gallons of water every day from the 111-year-old reservoir to large parts of north, central and south Calcutta. Six of the pipes run to the east of where the old Tallah bridge stood, and one each to the west and north. A ninth pipe is on standby. The Tallah reservoir gets its supply from Palta, 21km north, through three pipes. Engineers from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have identified seven of these pipes, including the three that bring water from Palta, to be covered with mild steel jackets. Jacketing will involve putting an encasement of steel around the pipes to protect them from external damage. “These are very old pipes. During the construction of the new Tallah bridge, these pipes are likely to be subjected to heavy vibrations underground. As a result, they could develop cracks,” said a senior CMC engineer overseeing distribution of drinking water across Calcutta. “By wrapping a mild steel jacket on each of them, we will prevent any injury to the outer walls of these pipes that may result in leakages,” he said. The CMC produces 440 million gallons of potable water every day to cater to around 45.6 lakh people. A little over half the volume is routed through the Tallah tank, which was inaugurated in 1909. Engineers said they had identified patches on the underground water pipes that were vulnerable to cracks and needed to be wrapped with a mild steel jacket. A team of engineers has collected details of the alignment of the pipes from the PWD, which is executing the Tallah bridge construction project. These pipes are from the British era and their diameter varies between 42 and 68 inches, a PWD official said. “Unless the jacketing work of the pipes from Palta is completed, we can’t begin our work of building two piers on the Dunlop-end of the flyover. We have set March as the deadline for finishing this work,” said a senior PWD official. The proposed Tallah bridge, which will connect large parts of north Calcutta including Dunlop, Sinthee, Chiria More with Shyambazar, will have two spans on either side of the flat deck in the middle. These two spans, each measuring about 280 metres in length, will stand on 12 pillars. The deck in the middle, about 230 metres in length, will stand on a set of six pillars. The arm of the bridge that will go towards Chitpore railway yard, spanning around 250 metres, will stand on a set of two pillars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Commission order to six hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Thursday ordered several private hospitals to pay compensation to patients or their families. Woodlands Hospital was asked to pay Rs 50,000 to a patient’s family for putting pressure on them to shift the patient, who was critically ill and on ventilation, to another hospital after the person tested positive for Covid, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said. The hospital argued they were not treating Covid patients in June, when this incident happened. But the commission said that was no excuse for the hospital to ask the family to shift the patient. “It was not right for the hospital to force the family to take the patient away,” said Banerjee. The commission asked Fortis Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 50,000 to a woman who underwent orthopaedic surgery there. Banerjee said the hospital had charged the patient more than the “package amount”. The insurance company refused to pay the bill. “The insurance company said some of the tests were done unnecessarily and the patient’s stay at the hospital was also prolonged,” said Banerjee. “The bill was more than the amount mentioned in the package under which the woman was admitted. We have asked the hospital to offer a discount of Rs 50,000.” Divine Nursing Home was asked to offer a discount of Rs 2.31 lakh on a bill of Rs 5.81 lakh to a 63-year-old person who was treated in the hospital for Covid for 16 days in August. “The hospital had overcharged in almost all segments. It also did not offer discounts on medicines and consumables. We have asked them to take Rs 3.5 lakh of the bill amount,” he said. The commission also asked Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals to withdraw criminal cases against a patient and his father who could not pay Rs 2.87 lakh out of the Rs 9.87 lakh bill amount. The patient’s mother said her husband’s travel and tourism business had shut down during the lockdown and he took to hawking goods to run the family. “The man’s son was first admitted to Fortis Hospital, where the treatment cost Rs 5 lakh. A surgery was required, for which the 21-year-old youth was admitted to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals,” Banerjee said. “The estimated cost of the surgery was between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 6 lakh, but the family was handed a bill of Rs 9.87 lakh on the day of discharge,” said Banerjee. The patient stayed at Apollo for over 18 days. “We have asked the hospital to withdraw all criminal complaints and also not press for the remaining amount. The family has paid Rs 7 lakh,” Banerjee said. A penalty of Rs 5,000 was imposed on AMRI Salt Lake for not offering a patient a discount on medicines and consumables. R Flemming Hospital was asked to offer a discount of Rs 37,000 to a patient party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Woman raped in Baguiati||A woman in her 30s was allegedly gang raped inside a car in Baguiati by two men, at least one of whom was known to her, police said. The men — Surojit Dey and Bishu Dewal — have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||CESC to claim dues in EMIs from November cycle||Private power utility CESC on Thursday said it would start collecting the amount kept “in abeyance” for the months preceding June, over 10 equated monthly instalments, from the November billing cycle. The decision was taken to prevent inconvenience to consumers, CESC said. “First of all, the amount is being divided into 10 installments for the ease of payment of consumers. Then, this is being done from the November billing cycle, which will include around six months of relatively cooler conditions, usually marked by less consumption,” said Avijit Ghosh, vice-president (distribution services), CESC. “Moreover, only the monetary amount that had been kept in abeyance will be collected, with no impact on the rate slabs for the units consumed for the 10 bills, November onwards.” The announcement came around four months after the RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group-owned utility — enjoying a virtual monopoly in the sector for 33 lakh consumers over a 567sq km area comprising Calcutta and its immediate neighbourhood — had announced that the actual due amount for the months preceding June was being kept “in abeyance”. The bills from the November cycle would include a header called “Adjustments” for the dues, which will be explained in detail overleaf, in every bill. “For instance, if the total amount kept in abeyance was Rs 1,228, an amount of Rs 122.8 would be added to every bill from the billing cycle of November this year to August next year. So if the bill for November was going to be Rs 1,000 otherwise, it would be Rs 1,122.8, approximately,” said Ghosh. Some consumers, however, have already started expressing doubts over the announcement. “I thought that the amount kept in abeyance was already being taken as EMIs in the bills, as the bills for the past couple of months have been much higher than usual, despite no need for air-conditioning…. This announcement is surprising,” said Ballygunge resident Sumita Chatterjee, a 64-year-old investment consultant. In July, the utility had said bills suddenly seemed inflated because it was adjusting dues from the March 23-June 7 period when actual meter readings could not be collected because of the lockdown. During the period, CESC had said, it had only collected from consumers an average of the six months’ bill preceding the period. But, after hundreds of the utility’s 33 lakh consumers cried foul over allegedly inflated — “absurdly high” — bills, CESC kept the dues “in abeyance”. The bills of June, issued in July, became the subject of countless jokes and memes on social media, with numerous notable civil society members joining in and protests erupting at CESC offices in some parts of the city. As the Opposition started turning it into a political issue, the Mamata Banerjee government intervened and the utility revised its June bill, along with an explanation of its method of calculation for the revision printed on the bill, which only those consumers who did not already pay were expected to pay. Those who had already paid the previously issued June bill did not have to pay anything and the adjustment for their payment was given subsequently. “Let’s, once again, keep in focus that all this was done as a consumer-friendly initiative,” said Debasish Banerjee, CESC managing director (distribution).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Cyclist, bus passenger killed in two accidents||Two men died in separate accidents in the city between Wednesday night and Thursday afternoon. One of the victims, a cyclist, was knocked down by a truck. The other was run over by the bus he was trying to get off, police said. Cyclist Netai Ghosh, 70, a resident of Jyotish Roy Road near Buroshibtala, was hit by a goods vehicle on Diamond Harbour Road, in front of the Siddheshwari Kali temple, around 12.20pm on Thursday. He was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital, where he was declared dead. The driver has been arrested. Accidents involving cycles have been on the rise in the city, prompting the police to re-impose restrictions on their movement on thoroughfares. According to a police notification, cycles are restricted on Diamond Harbour Road between 7am and 1pm and from 4pm to 10pm. Around 8pm on Wednesday, Sanjay Tiwari, 25, a resident of Parnasree Pally, slipped and fell while getting off a bus on Deshapran Sashmal Road. He was crushed under the rear wheels of the bus. Traffic cops suspect the bus driver was driving rashly and trying to speed off before passengers could alight properly. The driver fled. The police have seized the bus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Bus owners to resume service tomorrow||Bus and minibus operators on around 10 routes across Calcutta have decided to resume their operations from Saturday after the state government said it would clear their dues within a few days. The government owed the operators money for transporting personnel and materials during the pandemic. “The state government has already paid the bulk of the amount. The finance department has decided to release the pending amount shortly and it would be passed on to the bus owners,” said a senior official of the transport department. Following the assurance, the agitating owners have agreed to roll out their buses from Saturday. The owners, who said the government owed them Rs 42 lakh, threatened to disrupt services again if the government went back on its promise. On Wednesday and Thursday, many commuters had to struggle reaching their destinations across Calcutta as private buses on around 10 routes went off the roads. Among the affected routes were Esplanade-Akra Phatak, Pailan-Howrah, New Alipore-Ruby rotary and Park Circus-Purbachal Housing Estate (Salt Lake). The transport department had hired close to 40 buses and minibuses to transport personnel, including frontline health workers, and materials such as sanitisers, masks and medical equipment during the lockdown. Between May and June, some of the buses were used to ferry migrant labourers who had returned from other states to places in Nadia, Bankura and Purulia. “Between March 26 and September 28, the state government had hired the buses on an emergency basis. The owners received a part of their dues till June. We were told the rest would be cleared within a month,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Mini Bus Owners Association. “As the year draws to an end, the transport department has told us that the outstanding amount would be cleared within the next few days. The protesting owners have decided to resume operations from Saturday.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Club votes for sweeping change||Calcutta Club will have a brand new team at the helm with as many as 10 new faces, including the incoming president, making it to the top decision-making body of the elite social institution for 2020-21. Scientist Partha Ghose, who has never been a managing committee member, has become the new president of the club, capping months of efforts by a section of influential members and past presidents to usher in radical change in the club management. The elections that were held at the end of the annual general meeting on Wednesday saw the exit of seven members of the management committee. Moreover, the senior-most member of the outgoing committee, who usually becomes the president, was also voted out. About 1,600 out of the 3,000 eligible voting members of the club exercised their franchise. The AGM was held amid a controversy that flared over accusations of financial irregularities, which prompted the Union ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) to write to the club seeking its response to whistleblower complaints of financial impropriety. Members of the club have already voted for a forensic audit of the books of accounts. Speaking to The Telegraph shortly after the election results were announced late in the afternoon, Ghose laid out his priorities for the year: “The Club needed a radical change, and the members have voted for that. It is a completely new committee. We will try to restore the prestige and the traditions of the Club, bringing in transparent, honest and efficient management and also restore the bonhomie which is what the Club is for.” The controversy In a letter on December 14, the MCA had sought a detailed response from the club within 10 days based on a set of accusations that were levelled by a member of the club. The Calcutta Club Ltd is governed by the rules and regulations of the Companies Act 2013 as it is classified as a company under Section 8, which deals with non-profit entities. The grievances listed in the MCA’s letter flow from a report of veteran member Nirupam Halder, a member of the internal audit committee. Halder had raised questions about the cost overrun in the renovation of the Men’s Bar, investment of provident fund money amounting Rs 86 lakh in troubled companies such as Dewan Housing Finance Ltd, Reliance Capital Ltd, Reliance Home Finance Ltd and IL&FS Ltd, a Rs 1-crore investment in Yes Bank's Tier-1 bonds as well as expenditure of Rs 24.65 lakh on building a solar panel. The report gained support from a section of influential club members, including a few senior members who forced an extraordinary general meeting on December 12 — the first time in the history of the club that such a meeting was convened. Three resolutions were passed at the EGM with an overwhelming majority, including the decision to carry out a forensic audit of accounts. There are 13 members of the management committee of the Calcutta Club, which includes the president and the immediate ex-president. The 11 other members are chosen through a poll during the AGM, which took place on Wednesday. A separate poll takes place simultaneously for the post of president. Nine members of the outgoing committee had denied any wrongdoings mentioned in the report. Sandip Ghose, who as a member and whistleblower wrote to the MCA, said on Thursday: “Heritage institutions like Calcutta Club are run as much by tradition as by rules. Not only was the ‘culture’ diluted, but people also forgot that being a company under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013, some minimum standards of governance has to be maintained and decisions cannot be bulldozed by the majority.” Club president Ghose, who was also chairman of Satyajit Ray Film & Television Institute, said the committee would appoint a reputable firm to carry out the forensic audit. “We will take action based on the findings and inform the MCA. A preliminary report has already been sent,” Ghose said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||HS theory papers from June 15||The West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education on Thursday announced that the theory papers of next year’s school-leaving exams will be held from June 15 to 30 and the practical tests from March 10 to 31. Council president Mahua Das said details of how the pen-and-paper tests would be held adhering to the physical distancing and other Covid protocols would be worked out later. The examinees will write their first language papers on June 15. The statistics, geography, costing and taxation, home management and family resource manage-ment papers are scheduled for June 30. The theory tests will be held from 10am to 1.15pm. “Three hours and 15 minutes are allotted for reading the questions and writing the answers,” said an official of the council. The Bengal government had on Wednesday accepted a proposal from the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education that next year’s Class XII board exams be deferred to June. The schools have been asked to send the marks of the practical exams to the HS council by April 20. “The schools should ensure that the students appear in the practical exams in small batches so physical distancing norms can be observed. Other health protocols will have to be followed as well,” said the official. Several teachers wondered whether students will be prepared to take their practical exams in March because not a single practical class has been held since the campuses were shut down in March as a precaution against Covid-19. Several teachers’ organisations have demanded that the schools be reopened for the plus-2 science students to attend practical classes before they appear in the HS exams. Told about the demand, an official of the council said: “The school education department has to take a call on this.” Why is there a gap of two-and-a-half months between the practical test dates and those of the theory papers? Another council official said the theory papers have been scheduled for June because the entire process of the Assembly elections would be spread over April and May. “Since Madhyamik is likely to be held in the first half of June, the HS exams have been scheduled from June 15,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Terror has no link with colour||Terror has no colour, nor does love, said a priest of the archdiocese of Calcutta at the Christmas Eve celebrations at Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur. In the same way, violence has no colour, said Father Rodney Borneo on Thursday evening. He voiced his reservations about the term “saffron terror”, because he said: “Terror does not come from clothing, it resides within a person.” “Today, many are using a word which pains me and that is saffron terror. What is this? Terror has no colour...if I wear white, do I become a good person, if I wear green, so I become a good person, and if someone wears saffron, he becomes bad? No. Violence has no colour, violence is in the heart,” said Father Borneo, the principal of Loyola High School. Father Borneo was the guest of honour at the programme held at the main temple of the ashrama. In the audience were saffron-clad Ramakrishna Mission monks. “Doesn’t matter what I wear — green, saffron, white. All three make our national flag and in it is our love,” he said. “Today, sitting in a temple I want to say that love (bhalobasha) has no colour... in the same way violence (hinsa) has no colour.” Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, has been celebrating Christmas Eve for over four decades, said Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the ashrama. “We keep having inter-faith dialogue at our Ashrama in Narendrapur and also other centres. We uphold the harmony of religions and we have Christians, Muslims, Hindu students studying and staying together,” Swami Sarvalokananda told The Telegraph. “Christmas should not only be a day for cake cutting and lighting of candles, but we should follow the teachings of Jesus Christ,” the monk said in his address at the Christmas Eve programme. Father Borneo said in his address: “My request to all of you is that we should not speak wrongly of any religion. If religion is bad, that is not religion. Religion means love, religion means forgiveness, religion means mercy.” “Peace to people of goodwill. Goodwill means good for both you and me,” he said. Father Borneo also reminded the audience of 2018, when as a Christian priest he felt at home in the same temple where the Christmas Eve programme was being held. “The pandemic has not been able to change that.” Swami Sandarshanananda spoke on the relationship between the ideologies of Sri Ramakrishna and Jesus Christ. Swami Shastrajnananda, principal, Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous) Narendrapur, delivered the vote of thanks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Headlines 2020                    ||January Hat trick for book fair- The International Kolkata Book Fair was held at Central Park for the third time in a row. The shift in venue over the three years happened as the older venue — Milan Mela opposite Science City — was under renovation. The inauguration date this time was altered to January 28, a day before Saraswati puja. February Metro starts- After more than a decade of construction, the East-West Metro finally took off on February 14. AC Block’s Rajib Roy was the first to buy a token and 173 more passengers boarded the first train from Sector V to the stadium with him. The trains still go near-empty as the route is just from Wipro to Phoolbagan now. The last leg from the stadium to Phoolbagan was opened in October. Market on wheels- A vegetable-on-wheels service was launched on February 26 whereby vegetables, fish, meat etc would be sold on vehicles that would roam the township. The facility was inaugurated by minister Subrata Mukherjee at CA Market and the initiative was taken by state comprehensive area development corporation under the panchayats and rural development department. During the lockdown they increased their area of service immensely. March NSG hub - A regional hub of the National Security Guard was opened opposite Uniworld City. The centre was inaugurated on March 1 by home minister Amit Shah. The complex has residential space to house 460 persons with family as well as office accommodation and modern training facilities, such as baffle firing range, indoor shooting range, obstacles, swimming pool, sports complex and artificial rock craft wall. Cables go underground - Work started on March 5 to build underground conduits to carry cable television and broadband wires in Sector V. The project by Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) cleared the skies, making it neat to look at and safe for motorists and pedestrians. The first phase of work has now been completed. Tank comes crashing - A water tank at Post and Telegraph (P&T) quarters in CC Block collapsed on March 12. No one was hurt but residents were inconvenienced by water shortage. They claimed to have been complaining about the run-down state of the complex to the authorities (department of post and BSNL) for years but no repairs were done. They are yet to start rebuilidng the tank. Digital locker - India Post started its first digital parcel lockers in Sector V and New Town. The service eliminates the problem of no one being home to collect mail. To avail of the service while booking the delivery, one has to put c/o Postmaster, Nabadiganta IT post office or c/o Postmaster, New Town Action Area 1 post office as one’s address. The receiver receives a tracking number that he, at his preferred time, can go to the locker with, enter and take out the parcel. First Covid patient - Fifty-one year old Gopi Agarwal of AD Block became the first Salt Lake resident to test positive for Covid-19 on March 31. He was admitted to hospital and returned home after recovery. No one else at home tested positive but his son, driver and cook were sent to the quarantine centre in New Town. His daughter and wife stayed home. May Amphan-uprooted trees replanted- The cyclone uprooted at least 5,000 trees in Salt Lake and another 3,000 in New Town but some residents across the townships immediately gathered forces and replanted as many as they could. The authorities did their bit too. NKDA began a drive to plant 10,000 trees. Much of the damage caused by Amphan in Salt Lake parks, however, remains. June Hotel shuts down- Swissotel, the five-star property attached to City Centre 2, shut down after the contract between its owner the Ambuja Neotia Group and the French hospitality chain Accor expired on June 30 after 10 years of operation. Since then, the Taj group has taken it over and the new hotel is expected to open in 2021. Jagannath in car- With traditional Rathyatras ruled out by the court due to the pandemic, two Salt Lake groups ferried Jagannath, Balaram and Subhadra idols by car. Members of Bidhannagar Sree Chaitanya Bhagabat Samaj ferried the idols from BF Block and those from Bidhannagar Ramakrishna Vivekananda Kendra from their DD Block centre. Rest of the celebrations were subdued. Drive-in tests- A walk-in and later a drive-in Covid-19 swab collection centre (in picture) opened at New Town Mela Ground. The facilities were set up to reduce the chance of getting infected with Covid-19 at the test centre. The kiosks are shut till January 5 while Saras Mela is on. August First complex with safe house- Greenwood Sonata became the first housing complex in Bengal to receive government permission to set up a safe house for asymptomatic or mild Covid cases. The order was dated August 19. Though the safe house still functions, not a single resident has checked in. Free Covid test- Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation began tests for Covid-19 at the swimming pool complex opposite Mayukh Bhavan from August 3. The tests are free of cost and open to all. Ganesh puja online- In perhaps the first of its kind in the township, Ganesh puja was streamed live for devotees. The location of the Yubak Sangha Club puja was undisclosed to avoid a gathering. Till last year, it would be held at PNB Island. Karunamoyee theft attempts- Five burglaries were attempted between August 29 and 31 in the flats of Karunamoyee. Residents claimed the thieves were acting up as the streetlights in the area lay damaged since Cyclone Amphan back in May. New Town platinum award- The township received platinum certification from the Indian Green Building Council, that is a part of the Confederation of Indian Industry. In 2018, the township had won gold certification and applied again. This time they scored with initiatives on rainwater harvesting, cycle lanes, electric vehicles, waste segregation etc. September Cycle-sharing app- Chartered Bike, an Ahmedabad-based cycle sharing company, began operations in New Town on September 29. Minister Firhad Hakim launched the service. Users need to download an app, fill it with a Rs 100 deposit and then ride for up to half an hour free of cost. The cycle is locked and unlocked using the app and has to be picked up and dropped off at one of their six stands at Biswa Bangla Gate, New Town bus terminus, near Reliance Fresh, outside Axis Mall, Novotel, and Dongfang Electric (near the Central Mall petrol pump). October Smart cycle stand- New Town got its first smart cycle stand on October 12 on a footpath outside the Nazrul Tirtha underpass. The shed has space for 70 cycles besides CCTV and facility to charge e-bikes as well as cell phones and an LCD screen for information such as on the weather. The stand is manned by security guards. Corporation board tenure ends- The tenure of the Trinamul Congress-run board at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation ended on October 15. A new board is to be elected but polls are being delayed due to the pandemic. Intermittent work is now being carried out by a board of administrators, led by Krishna Chakraborty, who was the mayor. Water for Salt Lake- Salt Lake started receiving four million gallons of filtered water a day from the New Town water treatment plant. This additional water supplements the seven million gallons drawn daily from the Tallah water treatment plant all these years. So the township no longer needs to draw underground water. The service was inaugurated by minister Firhad Hakim on October 3. Zero waste shop- A waste museum-cum-shop of upcycled waste materials opened on the Major Arterial Road opposite New Town bus terminal. The store collects waste materials from across the three action areas and Sector V, and engages women of an NGO titled Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage to turn them into bags, furniture, jewellery and home decoration, that are up for sale. Open-air gym- An open-air gymnasium and workout zone were inaugurated in Eco Urban Village near the Owl Junction in New Town. Opened on October 16, the gym was set up after residents revealed in a survey that they wanted to work out in an open space because of the pandemic. The gym is built along the lines of callisthenics parks and outdoor fitness stations, popular in South Korea, Europe and Australia. Fire at FD Block puja- A fire gutted the puja pandal of FD Block on October 29. The day being Trayodashi, the rituals were over and there were no visitors at 6.15am, when it happened. No one was injured but the idol was still in the pandal. The fire brigade doused the flames in 45 minutes but the source could not be ascertained. November Speed cameras for New Town- Speed cameras were installed at regular intervals on the Major Arterial Road. Along with CCTVs, the speed cameras were connected to an Artificial Intelligence (AI) module to monitor vehicles, alert police of any abnormal driving and help reduce accidents. Smart bus stand- A Wi-Fi-enabled bus stand came up in front of the Coal India building in New Town on November 5. The bus stand tells commuters the expected time of arrival of the next bus, its route and when it is likely to reach its final destination. The brightly-lit stand also has a snacks counter and functions as a night cafe and newspaper stand so that the stretch does not become desolate after sundown like many streets of New Town. December New Town polyclinic- A ground-breaking ceremony was held on December 9 for a polyclinic in Action Area 1, near Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Govt College. The medical centre would come up on two acres. It is being built as a two-storeyed structure where outdoor consultation will take place. Mysterious AJ Block death- The charred skeletal remains of a man are found on the roof of a two-storey house in AJ Bock on December 10. A woman who lived in the house, Geeta Mahensariya, and her younger son Vidur are arrested. Tests reveal that the skeletal remains are of her elder son Arjun. Coffee House opens- The prettiest coffee shop in town opened near New Town’s Amity University on December 3. The two-storied building is a modern one but with a touch of nostalgia in its architecture as homage to the original shop in College Street. It starts drawing so much footfall that Hidco switches to online booking facility, the price of which is adjustable against order. Monali Thakur Where: Central Park fairgrounds When: January 9 What: The singer performed at  Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav) Swara Bhaskar Where: Central Park fairgrounds When: February 4 What: The actress spoke at a panel discussion on “Media, literature and society” at the Book Fair Soumitra Chatterjee Where: HB Park When: March 8 What: The veteran actor, who passed away recently, was the special guest at a Basanta utsav event organised by Ward 34 PK Banerjee GD Block Left us on: March 20 Indian football legend Pradip Kumar Banerjee passed away after being hospitalised for more than a month. Banerjee, a right-winger, was an integral part of India’s gold medal-winning team in the 1962 Asian Games which scripted a historic 2-1 triumph against South Korea in Jakarta. He also had successful coaching stints with top clubs of Indian football, the arch rivals Mohun Bagan and East Bengal. Hari Vasudevan CD Block Left us on: May 10 Renowned historian Hari Vasudevan, who was a specialist on Russian and European history, succumbed to Covid-19. He was 68. Vasudevan, who had a doctoral degree from Cambridge University, taught history at Calcutta University and was associated with a host of other institutes. Dibya Sundar Das AA Block Left us on: May 13 The yoga practitioner, who travelled across the world to spread the discipline, breathed his last at the age of 68 at the Institute of Neurosciences where he was admitted three months earlier. A trained homeopath, Das had founded the first centre of the World Yoga Society in Salt Lake in 1986. The Society now has 10 centres in the city and 162 affiliated centres across the world. He was a disciple of yoga guru the late Yogindra Bishnu Charan Ghosh. Abani Mohan Joardar HB Block Left us on: June 12 Former West Bengal minister and sitting Trinamul Congress MLA Abani Mohan Joardar died at his residence after prolonged illness at the age of 79. The former IPS officer had joined the party in 2010 and was first elected from the Krishnanagar north assembly constituency in 2011. He had held the portfolio of correctional services in the government before quitting on health grounds. Arnab Basu The Residency, City Centre Left us on: July 2 The owner of popular confectionery brands Mio Amore and Winkies died after a prolonged battle with cancer on Thursday. He was 65. His company has over 300 Mio Amore stores in West Bengal and Odisha. He had brought the brand Monginis to eastern India in an arrangement with a Mumbai company, taking it in a new direction. The chain, that started with a shop in Dhakuria in 1992, expanded to over 300 outlets, including 220 in Calcutta. Ashoke Mustafi FD Block Left us on: July 30 The veteran cricket coach, who gifted the Bengal Ranji Trophy team as many as 20 cricketers, breathed his last after a cardiac arrest at the age of 86. He was suffering from heart-related ailments and was hospitalised in April. Sourav  Ganguly trained under him at the Dukhiram Coaching Centre, run under the Aryan Club galleries, which was once considered the nursery of Bengal cricket. Mustafi had played two first-class matches for Bengal in 1958-59. In 1992, he joined Howrah Union before taking charge of a coaching centre near his residence in FD Park. Radhikaranjan Pramanik AA Block Left us on: December 13 The Trinamul Congress leader and five-time former MP died at the age of 87 years. Pramanik, who joined Trinamul after being expelled from CPM in 2003, was MP from Mathurapur in South 24-Parganas. Earlier, he was an MLA from Magrahat East. He was a former head of the mathematics department at Surendranath College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Cycle theft outside mart||The use of bicycles is on the rise in New Town but thefts are also being reported. Ivy Mondal, a resident of CE Block, had her cycle stolen on December 20 from outside the NKDA market near the New Town bus terminus. “When I started asking around for it, locals said four cycles and a vano had got stolen from there last week,” says the IT sector employee. The lady has always used bikes as her primary mode of transport for work and leisure. She and her brother had locked their bikes outside the market at about 10am but within half an hour hers was gone. “I lodged a general diary (GD) with the police and an officer escorted me back to the market for investigation.People said cycles thefts were becoming common in the vicinity,” says Mondal. An officer of the New Town police station, however, said they had not witnessed any surge in bike thefts. “But it is possible that many do not lodge complaints,” said the officer. “It is best to keep cycles in places like malls, where they give you a token while parking your bike and charge a fee against it. They assure security.” To this, Mondal has another complaint. “Many so-called posh areas do not even allow bike parking!” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they were working on infrastructure. “We have built a smart cycle stand near Nazrul Tirtha and are finalising the model for more. We want to stands at places that draw crowds, like the NKDA markets and malls.” The smart cycle stand has CCTV surveillance and security guards among other features.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Churches to play safe ||The happiest day in the Christian calendar will have to be celebrated with caution in 2020. Some churches will be celebrating online, others will put up big screens outside their halls… Thousands throng Kestopur’s Emmanuel Church on Christmas. “It gets so crowded that one can’t even cross the street up to a kilometer away. Police and volunteers struggle to control the crowd,” says Sudipendra Mondal, a member of the largest church in Kestopur Christian para, who is closely involved with the running of the institution. This is exactly what they fear this year and is the reason why they have decided to shut down the church after 2pm on December 25. “Otherwise, devotees will keep coming all evening and social distancing will go for a toss.” Last year, the City Living Assembly got such a big gathering for Christmas they moved out of their regular premises at CK Block’s IPHE hall and into Nazrul Tirtha. “This time, we are back to IPHE. The capacity here is about 150 people and we are expecting about 120 to show up. To enforce distancing, we shall erect a big screen in the driveway so some people can sit out there in the open too,” says pastor Jennith Israel. Like every other institution, churches have been holding online classes since the lockdown, but most of them began offline classes a few months ago. “We wanted to resume offline classes in January but devotees urged us to start sooner so we began three weeks ago,” says Israel. Meanwhile, they have purchased professional cameras and editing software and created a studio in his DLF New Town Heights apartment to continue streaming online. “We are getting over a thousand views daily and have started doing a lot of sermons in Bengali, which are being followed even from Bangladesh.” Pastor Purnendu Sinha was eager to resume offline classes. “Attention is not focussed during online sessions,” he says. Their classes have shifted out of IPHE hall to a new church building behind the airport. “We have many Salt Lake-based devotees who are now coming by app cabs. We have a capacity of about 100 people and around 70 are showing up every Sunday. We are sanitising the space the best we can.” At Emmanuel Church, a bench for five is being occupied by no more than two. “And instead of handing out hymn books, we are projecting the hymns on a big screen for all to follow,” says Mondal. “I am feeling very uncomfortable asking people not to come to church on Christmas but there is no choice,” says reverend Sujoy Sarkar of the same church. Sarkar and his family were down with Covid-19 after the church had reopened after the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Feast at home||The X-Mas tree is adorned, and the children are gleefully hanging their stockings. But isn’t a family celebration incomplete without a hearty homemade meal? After all, what better way to celebrate with your loved ones than cooking up a gourmet festive meal for them? Whip up this easy Christmas feast, and watch your family lap up these delicious delights. Roast Chicken with Apples and Cranberries Ingredients ⦾ 4 medium bone-in chicken thighs ⦾ Salt and pepper to taste ⦾ 1 tablespoon butter ⦾ 1 tablespoon olive oil ⦾ 3 medium apples, peeled, cored and sliced in half, in thick slices ⦾ 1 cup fresh cranberries ⦾ 3 sprigs fresh rosemary For the Maple Glaze ⦾ 1 tablespoon olive oil ⦾ 1 garlic clove, minced ⦾ 3 tablespoons balsamic vinegar ⦾ ¼ cup maple syrup ⦾ Salt and pepper to taste Method Season chicken on both sides with salt and pepper. Heat butter and olive oil in a medium skillet over medium-high heat until pan is hot. Sear chicken for two to three minutes on both sides. Remove pan from heat and arrange apples, cranberries and rosemary sprigs around chicken. Roast chicken at 180ºC for about 20-25 minutes or until chicken is tender. For the Maple Glaze While the chicken bakes, make the sauce: In a small skillet over medium-high heat, heat olive oil. Then saute garlic in oil until just fragrant. Stir in vinegar, maple syrup and season with salt and pepper to taste. Bring sauce to a boil, then reduce heat to medium-low and let simmer until reduced and thickened, for about five to eight minutes. Once the chicken is done, drizzle with maple sauce and enjoy with some simple herb rice and sauteed vegetables on the side. Ingredients ⦾ 500g blanched and chopped tomatoes ⦾ 3 tablespoons unsalted butter ⦾ 1 small onion, diced ⦾ 2 garlic cloves, minced ⦾ 1 tablespoon dried basil ⦾ 1/2 cup cream ⦾ 1 tablespoon brown sugar ⦾ 1/4 cup bourbon whiskey ⦾ Lemon wedge ⦾ Salt and pepper to taste Method Preheat a thick-bottomed pan on medium-high heat. Melt the butter. Add the onion and garlic and cook until softened for about four minutes. Next, add dried basil and tomatoes with some blanching liquid to pan. Bring to a boil and reduce heat to a simmer for about 17 to 20 minutes. Mash the tomatoes as they cook and soften. Once cooked, take an immersion blender and blend the soup in the pot. Next, add the cream and brown sugar. Stir to combine. Now add the bourbon, salt and pepper to taste. Pour prepared soup into glass shooters and garnish. Enjoy hot or cold. Ingredients For the buns ⦾ 2¼ cups all-purpose flour ⦾ ½ teaspoon salt ⦾ 4½ teaspoon instant yeast ⦾ 1 tablespoon white sugar ⦾ 2 tablespoon butter ⦾ 1¼ cup milk For the filling ⦾ ½ cup cranberry/strawberry jam ⦾ 200g whipping cream Garnish lIcing sugar to dust Method In a large bowl or the bowl of a stand-mixer fitted with a kneading hook, stir together the flour, salt, yeast and sugar. Warm the butter and milk in a small saucepan until the butter has melted. Let the milk cool slightly. Pour the milk/butter mixture into the flour and knead to form a soft and just slightly sticky dough. You may need to add additional flour. Remove dough to a greased bowl and cover with plastic wrap to rise until doubled, about 1 hour. Turn the dough onto a floured board and cut into eight equal-sized pieces. Roll each one into a ball, placing them on a parchment-lined baking sheet as you go. Set the oven at 180ºC. Dust the buns lightly with flour and cover with a tea towel. Let rise for 10-15 minutes more. Bake for 18-20 minutes until they are pale golden on top and sound slightly hollow when tapped on the bottom. Remove the buns from the baking sheet to a cool slightly. To serve make a cut in each bun without cutting all the way through. Spoon a good dollop of cranberry /strawberry jam inside. Spoon or pipe whipped cream on top. Dust with icing sugar and serve this easy holiday dessert. Ingredients For the pastry ⦾ 1¼ cups all-purpose flour ⦾ ¼ teaspoon table salt ⦾ 8 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, cut into cubes ⦾ ¼ cup plain thick curd ⦾ 2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice ⦾ ¼ cup ice water ⦾ 2 egg yolks, beaten For the mushroom filling Ingredients ⦾ ½ cup shredded parmesan cheese ⦾ ¾ cup cream cheese ⦾ ½teaspoon black pepper ⦾ Salt to taste ⦾1 teaspoon dried thyme ⦾ 1 tablespoon olive oil ⦾ 2 cups button mushrooms, sliced Method For the dough In a large bowl, mix the flour and salt together. Add the cubes of butter and using a pastry blender create a coarse pea-like mixture. In a small bowl, combine the curd, lemon juice and water. Add this to the flour mixture. Using a wooden spoon, combine everything until a dough ball is formed. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for an hour. For the filling In a medium skillet, heat olive oil over medium heat. Add sliced mushrooms and thyme leaves with a pinch of salt. Stir occasionally for five to seven minutes, until soft and fragrant. In a small bowl, mix together the parmesan, cream cheese, black pepper and a pinch of salt. To assemble the gallete Heat oven to 200ºC. On a lightly floured counter, roll out the dough into a 12-inch round (or you can divide the dough and make two to three mini galettes). Transfer the dough to a parchment-lined baking sheet. Spread cheese filling onto the dough, leaving a  two-inch border. Scatter the thyme and mushrooms over the top. Fold the border over the filling, pleating the edges. Brush crust with egg yolk glaze. Bake for 30-40 minutes till golden brown. Remove and let cool for five to 10 minutes before serving. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Food, music in carnival on VIP Road||The service road by the airport-bound flank of VIP Road is wearing a festive look with the stretch from Ultadanga to Bangur Avenue illuminated. Poush Parbon Christmas Utsab was inaugurated on Thursday and welcoming visitors is a 25ft Santa Claus and an equally tall baul. “There are 70 stalls, mostly selling a variety of food items from both branded eateries and local entrepreneurs,” said fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, the president of Sreebhumi Sporting Club which is organising the event. The branded stalls include Arsalan, Aminia and Sher-e-Punjab for north Indian cuisine and Haka for Chinese. There will be sweets and savouries from Monginis, Balaram Mullick & Radharaman Mullick, Mishti Katha, Gokul and Bika. Peethe will be prepared live. Specialities like mihidana of Burdwan and moa of Joynagar will also be on offer An equally big attraction will be the line-up of artistes every evening (see box). “We will have two stages — one in front of Gokul Banquet and another on the Golaghata side. There will be live performances at both ends, with one being reserved for the folk singers. That way, the crowd will not gather at one place. The audience chairs will also be placed at safe distances,” said joint secretary of the utsab committee Dibyendu Kishor Goswami. The carnival, open from 4pm to 11pm, ends on January 1. Music Medley Dec 25: Saikat Mitra Dec 26: Raghav & Srikanta Acharya Dec 27: Nachiketa & Jayati Chakraborty Dec 28 & 29: To be announced Dec 30:Aditi Munshi Dec 31: Iman Chakraborty and a host of Zee Bangla Sa Re Ga Ma Pa singers Jan 1: Manomoy Bhattacharya & Lopamudra Mitra||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Santa in our life||Samita Mukherjee, BE Block My Santa is Partha Mitra, BE Block My family and I will never forget the help from our neighbour Partha Mitra when my father, the late Haridas Sarkar, had developed Covid-19 complications in August. I was confused when I was urgently asked for a minimum of two bottles of blood as my father was passing blood in his urine through the catheter for two days and his haemoglobin level was sinking. He was very aged and had heart ailments too. At that time, there was acute shortage of blood in the city as donors were scared to come forward due to the pandemic situation and blood donation camps were not happening. No one in my small family was able to donate blood at that time (due to other reasons). I alerted Mitra about the situation, with a request for blood. Within an hour, he organised two donors from among his junior colleagues. The two bottles blood mitigated the crisis at the point. It was an extraordinary support, which I felt as both a daughter and a medical practitioner. Shila Mukherjee, HB Block My Santa is Rabishankar Mukherjee, Bally Both my husband and I are super senior citizens and stay on our own. During the lockdown months, my husband’s condition deteriorated to the extent that he became bed-ridden and almost senseless. My husband’s cousin’s son Rabishankar Mukherjee bailed us out through that period and continues to help us. Since neither of us is in a position to go to the bank to draw his pension, every month Rabi came to hand us some cash to meet our expenses. He also brought over fruits and medicines when our children, settled abroad, were unable to arrange for home delivery. Since he is employed in the essential services sector, he was active even during lockdown and would drive over from his Beleghata office on his two-wheeler. His help has been invaluable. Monika Mukherjee, FD Block My santa is Gourhari Roy, FD Block I must mention the services rendered by Gourhari Roy, the guard posted for the last five years in the under-construction building opposite ours. He is from Namkhana in South 24-Parganas and seems to be around 55 years of age. During the lockdown months, when we were too scared to let our domestic help come, he was the one who ran the errands for not just me but also two other houses in the immediate vicinity. One night this summer especially comes to mind. The gentleman next door was then in the last stages of cancer. I was walking in our driveway after a late dinner when I spotted him pacing about on the street. Though I was surprised to see him I did not say anything then. But when I again him on the street early in the morning, I could not help but ask. He said the gentleman passed away that night. With their own caretaker away at his native village and the couple’s children unable to come from out of town, he was the one who stood by the lady through the final hours. No amount of tips can compensate for such support. Indranil Guha, BE Block My Santa is Basab Aich, BE Block My uncle was in a Bypass hospital for a long time but as his situation was not improving, my cousin wanted to shift him to AMRI Hospital here. There was no vacancy. It was due to our block president Basab Aich’s intervention that we finally got a bed at 11pm. Again, when our neighbour next door fell in the bathroom and broke a hip bone, no ambulance was ready to take her to hospital. Being a COPD patient, she had breathing trouble. They thought she was suffering from Covid-19. Again, it was Basabda who arranged for an ambulance. He also helped us out when a tree fell in front of our house during Cyclone Amphan. Romita Dey, GC Block My Santa is Rekha Das, HB Block In the initial days of the lockdown, I was trying to do everything on my own as both my house helps had gone on leave. Soon I hurt my back and my spondylitis acted up. The doctor advised rest and wearing a back support brace. My daughter could not visit due to the lockdown but my cook Rekha Das managed to come to work. Apart from cooking, she used to do all the shopping and also cleaned the house, without asking for extra pay. I live alone and I can’t imagine how I would have managed without her taking on extra workload.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
25-12-2020||Calcutta||Trends 2020||App of the year Zoom Move over Facebook and WhatsApp. This year, professional life moved to video conferencing mode, be it for online teaching or office meetings, with Zoom being the most popular platform. Multiple members of the house were locked in separate rooms or spaces attending class, invigilating or appearing in exams, or holding group discussions. It brought its own set of challenges. While children complained of strained eyes and wavering attention and teachers faced technical hurdles like getting logged out of their own classes, on a lighter vein a middle-aged New Town software professional who has got used to his siesta after months of working from home, was roused from his slumber by repeated calls from junior colleagues to tell him that his snore could be heard at the post-lunch Zoom meeting. Though his video was off, he had forgotten to “mute” himself! Even family meetings used the app for virtual birthday or anniversary celebrations. Many of the blocks or housing complexes which could not hold community lunch over the puja days salvaged their Vijaya Sammelani by going online. Many complexes deputed younger members to help the elderly neighbours install the app on their phone or computer. Cultural programmes during Durga puja too took the virtual route. Technical hitches were common, with comments like “Mashima, apnar gola shona jachchhe na” or “Uncle, please come closer to the screen” preceding every performance. But they soldiered on undeterred, delighted at getting to connect with neighbours after months of isolation. Accessory of the year Mask A piece of cloth that has made lipsticks lose relevance is mankind’s greatest shield against the deadly enemy. Ever since the safety protocol was announced, face masks started flying off the shelves, or footpaths. Now that masks are flooding the market, their sellers pervade the entire strata of the sales and services community — from the chemist outside AE Market to the cobbler behind Baisakhi Abasan. While the pristine white N95 and three-ply surgical masks were what sold in the initial days, often at a premium, in no time did the austere medical masks find competition in fun variants. Thus people started sporting their patriotism with tricoloured wear or their support as an East Bengal or a Mohun Bagan fan, all at Rs 15. By the Pujas, virus couture evolved, in silk, denim, polyester or even the stretchable elastene. Many a youngster ordered masks online, matching with their Puja buys, or picked up trendy stuff from City Centre. The wedding season saw options in chiffon, sequins or even beaded ones. Even bridalwear encompassed the face cover. Matching masks come free with Benarasis these days. The jury is out on whether they are medical-grade or not, but they do make great style statements and rescue the wedding look. Transport of the year Cycle The sale of the humble two-wheeler increased manifold as people shunned public transport and took to travelling solo and safe. Some people have started cycling to work daily as far as even Santoshpur from Salt Lake. Calcutta Police, which had barred cycles from plying on 62 roads from 7am to 11pm, relaxed norms in terms of timing, giving cyclists a free run except on main roads and flyovers, since June. New Town is also encouraging the use of cycles. New Town Business Club started holding coaching classes at the football stadium in August, which takes place on Sundays, from 3.30pm to 5.30pm. The authorities are laying grade-separated cycle tracks along the roads to segregate the slow-moving two-wheelers from the speeding mechanised vehicles. So far, 30km track is ready. An app-based cycle renting service has been started (see page 4). A residents’ body, called NTFN Cycle Club, was founded on September 16, which now has about 140 members and meets every weekend. Three cycling festivals have also been held — in August, October and December. Name of the year Kovidh A 17-year-old Tegharia boy found himself turning heads this year because of his name: Kovidh Sarkar. And he has to explain ad infinitum that his name means ‘wise’ in Sanskrit, and has nothing to do with the virus. “It is irritating at times,” he admits. It started in end-February, when at the school assembly, a teacher commented: “Kovidh, what have you done to the world?” “I didn’t get his joke and kept thinking all day. Then I recalled that my mother had mentioned Covid-19 that morning itself,” he told The Telegraph. When his father contracted the virus, they went for a test at Apollo Hospitals. “They were calling out names for confirmation. Everyone turned to stare at him on hearing his name,” said mother Priti. Things came to such a pass that Kovidh’s father suggested changing his name but his mother refused. “I had searched long and hard to come up with this name before his annaprasan. He has been living as Kovidh for 17 years, long before this virus came. Why should he have to give up his name because of this coincidence?” she argues. Kovidh, she asserts, will carve out a career path positive enough to erase the negative association that his name now evokes. Band of the year West Bengal Police Jazz Orchestra Corona, corona, corona/ Corona ke barte debo na... At the height of lockdown in April, when people were bewildered and depressed at being confined at home, men in khaki, who comprised the state police band, moved from one thana area to another, entertaining and educating people in equal measure about the unseen enemy — coronavirus. Over 11 days in early April, the seven-member band performed across the Bidhannagar and Barrackpore Commissionerate areas, often doing multiple shows per day. The song that became a big hit was a cover of Suno na suno na sunlo na from the Shah Rukh Khan film Chalte Chalte. “Since then, I have had to sing it at least 50 times in public gatherings,” smiles sub-inspector Apurba Majumdar, the lead vocalist who reworked the original lyrics. The song, shared on the commissionerate website, has drawn 3.66 lakh likes and been shared 1.08 lakh times. Majumdar was even invited to compose the theme song for the Kestopur Prafullakanan (West) Durga puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-196
