26-12-2020||Calcutta||Fire breaks out on a large swathe of grassland opposite in New Town||A fire broke out on a large swathe of grassland opposite Westin Hotel in New Town, near Eco Park, on Friday afternoon. The Telegraph photographer spotted the smoke from Eco Park, around 1km away, and rushed towards the site. He alerted a police team on the way and the cops got in touch with the fire brigade. One fire tender took 30 minutes to control the flames. A group of people who stay in a cluster of huts near the grassland used bamboo sticks to beat the grass and the bushes to prevent the fire from spreading, while another group poured buckets of water on the flames. This newspaper has reported on several occasions how fires on grasslands have made it difficult for residents to breathe. They are forced to keep doors and windows shut because of the smoke. Such fires also have a devastating effect on the habitat of a variety of birds. Fires in New Town grasslands are lit for reasons ranging from burning waste to scaring away snakes. An exhibition on Soumitra Chatterjee titled Aparajito Soumitro began at the Academy of Fine Arts in Calcutta on Friday. The exhibition organised by Prachi Protichi is a tribute to the thespian by painters and sculptors of Bengal and Bangladesh. “Soumitra was a true Bengali in every sense and he inspired generations of actors, elocutionists, poets, painters and sculptors of both the countries. This exhibition is a tribute to his legacy,” said Tapos Mallik, convener of Prachi Protichi. According to Mallik, nine works of nine Bangladeshi painters, 24 Indian painters and seven Indian sculptors are on display at the exhibition open for public till December 31, from 5pm till 8pm. “Organising the exhibition at the time of the pandemic was indeed a challenge as we had to get the paintings from Bangladesh.... So many people, including officials in both India and Bangladesh, helped us put together this exhibition,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Christmas revelry at Calcutta||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Crowds throng Park Street on Christmas ||Park Street had to be closed to traffic for around two hours on Christmas evening after the number of pedestrians on the “party street” suddenly surged, leaving no space for vehicles. Thousands of people — young and old — went to Park Street to see the lights and soak in the festive mood, rare in a year reigned by the pandemic, throwing traffic out of gear. As Park Street became out of bounds for vehicles following the crowd surge, traffic stalled on Chowringhee Road. South-bound traffic had to be diverted through Outram Road, Ho-Chi Minh Sarani and Camac Street. The ripple effect stretched to Esplanade, Red Road and the Park Circus seven-point crossing as hundreds of vehicles had to be diverted in different directions. Fewer people compared with previous years visited Park Street on Christmas Eve, possibly because of the pandemic, leading police to guess that the footfall would be low on Christmas evening, too. As planned by the administration, the lights and decorations were scaled down this year and no food stalls were allowed on footpaths to discourage people from visiting Park Street. However, all expectations were proved wrong as thousands descended on the 1.5km stretch, resulting in a gathering the city has not witnessed since the Covid outbreak in March. Senior officers said that although they had a back-up plan, they did not think it would have to be enforced because of the pandemic. “There were families with children, there were couples and aged people, too. Despite our repeated announcements to wear masks and keep walking, most of them were removing face coverings to click pictures. Many were also queuing outside bars and restaurants,” said an officer of Shakespeare Sarani police station, who was posted on Park Street on Friday. A senior police officer said the sudden surge of people forced them to prevent vehicles from entering Park Street. “There was no option. There was hardly any space for vehicles to move,” the officer said. Park Street was split into two flanks for pedestrians to move in either direction. In the last few years, the party corridor — between the Chowringhee Road crossing on one side and the Wood Street intersection on the other — would be closed to vehicles on Christmas Eve and Christmas evening. The road would be reserved for pedestrians on the two occasions. “This year there was no such formal plan to discourage revellers from thronging Park Street,” an officer said. Many who went to Park Street said they had not stepped out with family even during Durga Puja. “This is the last festival of the year. My kids were really excited. We did not step out even during Durga Puja. I thought it would not cause any harm if we followed all Covid norms and spent some time on Park Street. I have asked my children not to touch anything,” said Ishan Ghosh, a resident of Thakurpukur. “From 7.30pm, we started to push the crowd on either side of the road and make way for vehicles. By 8pm, Park Street was clear for vehicles. The crowd had also thinned by then,” said an officer of Park Street police station. Traffic movement on and around Park Street became normal by 9pm, the police said. Elsewhere Christmas celebrations were muted across many of the city’s usual holiday hotspots because of Covid. From Victoria Memorial in the heart of the city to Eco Park in New Town, there were much less revellers compared with previous years. The familiar sight of families enjoying picnic at Alipore zoo, the Maidan and Eco Park was missing. “We are just here for an outing. We won’t have food outdoors as the virus is still around and the risk of contracting it is still very much real,” said Sharmila Chakraborty at Eco Park. At Nicco Park, the few revellers who had turned up were happy that they did not have to wait to board a ride. Park officials failed to recall the last time the footfall was so low on Christmas. “Today’s footfall was 5,000. On Christmas last year, the footfall had been 15,000,” an official of the park said. Alipore zoo had around 30,000 visitors on Friday, down from 68,000 on Christmas 2019. “Not a single group has hired me for a ride till now today,” Mohammad Shamim, whose horse carriage takes revellers around Victoria Memorial, said on Friday afternoon. “Last year by this time I had taken at least 10 groups on joy rides.” Additional reporting by Snehal Sengupta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Goa emerges top draw for Covid-wary travellers||Thailand is out of bound because of Covid-19 and so are other countries of the region, prompting many Calcuttans whose favourite holiday destination is south-east Asia to fly to Goa to spend the year-end festive season. Kochi, Rajasthan, the Andamans and a few other places are also drawing tourists from Calcutta, but Goa, with its beaches, waterfalls and old churches, seems to be the main attraction. What has made Goa the top draw, apart from direct flights, is the fact that many hotels there are offering rooms at much cheaper rates compared with other years because of lack of international tourists, who typically drive the demand during this time. SpiceJet launched it’s five-days-a week Calcutta-Goa flight on Friday. An official of the airline said 180 of the 189 seats were booked on the inaugural flight. “The seats on the next few days’ flights are selling well. Most flights to Goa have more than 150 seats already sold. Our market survey had shown a lot of demand for Goa from Calcutta, so we decided to launch the flight,” said Debjit Ghosh, regional sales head (east), SpiceJet. “The flights to Kochi and Port Blair are also chock-a-block during this period. Many tourists are using Kochi as a transit destination before going onwards to the Maldives,” said Ghosh. IndiGo airline, which, too, has a direct flight to Goa, had its flight almost full over the past few days, said sources in the airline. Officials at the Calcutta airport said seats on flights to other destinations, apart from those to metro cities, were remaining unsold. Most of the passengers on those flights are returning to their places of work. “For many years, southeast Asia, particularly Thailand, has been a favourite Christmas and year-end destination for Calcuttans. The best alternative for that is Goa and this winter we have many clients who used to go abroad asking tour operators to make for them short holiday packages for Goa,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. He said about 50 per cent of the people who would earlier visit southeast Asia during the Christmas-New Year window are mostly travelling within the country this year and the bulk of them are going to Goa, Punjabi said. A few are headed for international destinations like Dubai and the Maldives. Hoteliers in Goa said the yield this time was low because international tourists were not coming and they had to depend almost fully on domestic tourists. Apart from regular commercial flights, a number of chartered flights ferrying foreign tourists would land in Goa in winter every year. “This year the bookings are good but the yield is less because of lack of international tourists and big spenders. We had to offer rooms at cheaper rates,” said Sudesh Shankar, one of the directors of Yu Hotel in Candolim, north Goa. He said the hotel was more than 75 per cent full but the rooms were offered at rates 25 per cent less compared with the tariff offered during this period, considered the peak season. Another hotelier said the tariff for regular rooms at his north Goa property would vary between Rs 22,000 and Rs 25,000 per night during Christmas-New Year window. This time the tariff has come down to Rs 17,000. Ryan Rodrigues, the director of Spazio Leisure Resorts at Anjuna in north Goa, said his property, too, was having about 75 per cent occupancy but only after offering discounts on tariff. “From the usual Rs 7,000 per room per night, we had to bring down the tariff to Rs 4,500,” Rodrigues said on Friday. He said many small and medium hotels were not getting enough guests because people were generally preferring known brands to ensure safety amid the pandemic. Apart from Goa, tour operators said Rajasthan and the Andamans were attracting tourists, too. Tourists headed for Port Blair need to carry Covid-negative certificates and get tested within 48 hours of departure for the islands. “Despite that many people have booked seats on flights to Port Blair,” said an official of a private airline. Tour operators have also got group bookings for places like Rajasthan and Kerala, but there are fewer members in each group compared with previous years. “Earlier, one group would consist of 30 to 40 tourists. This year we have brought down the number to around 15,” said Raktim Roy, the  managing partner of Dolphin Travels, a city-based travel agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||386 booked for Christmas Eve road offences||As many as 386 motorists were prosecuted on Christmas Eve for violating the traffic norms in the city. Among them 21 were booked for drink driving and more than 300 for riding two-wheelers without wearing helmets or riding with more than one pillion rider. The majority of the cases involving two-wheelers were reported from the Shakespeare Sarani, Park Street and Loudon Street areas, while most of the cases of drink driving were reported from the Sovabazar crossing and the Golpark area. Calcutta police have started prosecuting motorists for drink driving after a gap of nine months following a number of accidents involving men driving in an intoxicated state. All 25 traffic guards in the city have been asked to remain alert against traffic violations in the festive season and prevent accidents. More than 180 lives have been lost in road accidents this year till now. Last year, the death toll from road accidents stood at 267. “There was minimal traffic on the roads for several months because of the lockdown. We want the trend of fewer accidents to continue and will try to restrict fatalities through strict enforcement of rules and prosecutions,” said a senior officer of the traffic department. As many as 93 cases of riding two-wheelers without helmets, riding with more than one pillion rider and dangerous driving were reported from Theatre Road, Loudon Street, Park Street and Camac Street on Christmas Eve. The police said vehicles —both four-wheelers and two-wheelers — were speeding down Park Street and Theatre Road. “Most of the motorcyclists who were stopped said: ‘Aajker din ta chhere deen’ (leave us at least today),” said an officer posted on Park Street. Despite the handicap of not being able to use breathalysers to detect the presence of alcohol in blood, the police have started a drive against drink driving. Breathalysers are not being used as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19. The drive was started days after a Volkswagen Polo, driven by a 23-year-old-youth allegedly under the influence of liquor, had fatally hit a cyclist and injured a pedestrian on Prince Anwar Shah Road earlier this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||IISER partially resumes research activities||IISER Kolkata, which had suspended all research activities because of a rise in the number of Covid cases on the campus earlier this month, resumed the activities with restricted attendance on Monday. A notice issued by the dean of students’ affairs at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) says: “Research work is now allowed and 3 persons are allowed to work at a time in a standard 750 square feet research lab and two persons are allowed to work in a smaller lab.” “List of Laboratories will be kept at the Security Gates. Security personnel will strictly follow the norms of 3 persons at a time regulation and will have the right to refuse the entry of the fourth person,” the notice says. “Research activities have been resumed,” said Sourav Pal, the director of the Kalyani institute. An official of the institute said the situation was reviewed on December 18 and a decision to resume research partially was approved. All students are required to submit a copy of “Covid-19 negative report” to the respective department/section offices. “Day scholars must carry the Covid-19 negative report while entering the campus,” said the official. The administrative committee of the institute had on December 4 discussed the Covid situation with members of the students’ affairs council and decided to suspend research till December 27. “But an improvement in the situation has led to partial resumption of research activities from December 21. We have completed mass testing for students,” said a member of the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Meet with hospitals on govt scheme||The state health department has called a meeting with private hospitals on Monday to discuss how to ensure they do not refuse patients covered under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. Health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said the meeting had been convened to see to it that patients holding Swasthya Sathi cards were not denied treatment at private hospitals. “We are expecting an increased demand in Calcutta since a lot of people are enrolling for the Swasthya Sathi scheme,” Nigam said on Friday. “There are 1.43 crore beneficiaries across the state now. We are anticipating that the numbers will grow by 2 crore in the entire state.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced in November that the state government would bring all residents of Bengal under the fold of Swasthya Sathi, a cashless health insurance scheme launched by the state government in December 2016. The scheme offers health coverage of Rs 5 lakh per annum per family. The state government pays the premium. “We have been invited to a meeting to discuss the role of private hospitals in implementing the Swasthya Sathi scheme. The scheme will benefit many people, but there are certain things that need to be discussed,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “Will private hospitals also admit patients with Swasthya Sathi cards for primary or secondary care, or only for tertiary and advanced care? If patients requiring primary and secondary care flood private hospitals, beds will get occupied,” said Barua, who is also the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Lakhs of people are filling in forms for the Swasthya Sathi scheme during the Duare Sarkar campaign, as part of which government officials are holding camps in all localities where people can enrol for various government schemes, said an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). The CMC is responsible for Duare Sarkar camps in Calcutta. Many private hospitals are not willing to admit patients under the Swasthya Sathi scheme and the West Bengal Health Scheme, which is meant for state government employees only, as the rates are very low. “The Swasthya Sathi rates are even lower than the West Bengal Health Scheme rates. It is difficult for private hospitals to sustain if patients under the Swasthya Sathi scheme flood hospitals,” said an official of a private hospital in the city. “A C-section delivery at our hospital costs Rs 60,000 if the patient pays in cash. For a person with cashless medical insurance, it will cost Rs 50,000. The rate is Rs 15,000 under the Swasthya Sathi scheme,” said the official. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission recently asked a hospital to conduct an eye surgery free of cost since the patient had a Swasthya Sathi card. It asked another hospital to refund to a patient the amount that is not reimbursed under the West Bengal Health Scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||South Point school introduces mode of online communication||South Point school has introduced a mode of online communication where parents can raise issues concerning their children through the school portal. The message will directly reach the department concerned and, if not addressed, will be escalated  to the higher authorities of the school. The idea is to limit the need for guardians to visit the school office, a takeaway from the pandemic. Guardians could raise issues concerning academics, transport, fees and IT services, and make applications for certificates online without visiting the school. “Till now, guardians had to visit the school office for all kinds of enquiries and requisitions. But in view of the ‘new normal’ forced by the pandemic, we have worked towards providing a solution which will not only limit the need for guardians to visit the school office unless absolutely imperative but also ensure accountability and responsiveness in respect of the guardians’ communications with the school,” a notice from the principal says. The school portal, introduced in April, is used to send notices to the parents. The module is called “help desk” and it can be accessed through the school portal through the parents’ log-in credentials. “During the pandemic we have noticed that parents had to face the hassle of dropping applications to school and in some cases they did not reach the departments concerned. This online communication mode will ensure more transparency, accountability and ease of communication for parents without having to visit the school,” Krishna Damani, trustee of the school, said. The notice says that the issue raised by the guardians will directly reach the department concerned and will be addressed in a timely and effective manner. “Escalation system is automatically built into the solution, in case a timely response is not sent to the guardians,” the notice says. “If a parent has made a requisition and the school requires more information regarding the matter, the parent will have the option of providing it through the portal,” a school official said. “Certificates or documents can also be provided online. Since we have a huge number of students, we are trying to streamline the entire system,” Damani said. During pre-Covid times, parents mostly communicated with the school regarding things like if a student needed to leave the school early or if a student would not need the school bus. For issues like these the parents needed to send applications to the school. During online classes issues related to bandwidth and connectivity, choice of subjects, fee status come up for discussion, a school official said. Guardians also get notification if there is any update on their requests, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Four deerskins, 9 Tokay geckos seized in Kultali and Namkhana||Four deerskins and nine Tokay geckos were seized in two raids in Kultali and Namkhana in South 24-Parganas on Friday. A forest department official said this confirms an active poaching racket was working in the Sundarbans. Two of the deerskins were soaked in turmeric. “This indicates that those were fresh kills. The others were from relatively older kills. All four skins were seized from 62-year-old Manoranjan Jana, from Ukilerhat Namkhana,” a senior forest department official said. During questioning, Jana said he and a few other men would set up snares in the Sundarbans to trap deer. “They would skin the trapped animals and keep the carcasses buried for several days before selling the meat to people they knew. They would not sell the meat to strangers for fear of getting caught,” the official said. Based on a tip-off that some men were looking to sell deerskins, foresters from South 24-Parganas contacted Jana through their network. “After receiving confirmation that the skins were with him, we conducted a raid early on Friday and seized them. We arrested Jana, who had brought the skins,” said Milan Mondal, the divisional forest officer of South 24-Parganas. Jana was part of a group that would venture deep into the mangroves to set snares and kill animals and birds, another forest department official said. “We are trying to track down the other members of the poaching ring,” he said. Another team from the same division, based on information they had received, contacted four men who were looking to sell Tokay geckos. The geckos were seized from a house in Kantamari in Kultali, where the men had gathered to sell them. The four — Asit Siuli, 30, Krishnapada Mondal, 36, Paritosh Naskar, 34, and Ardhendu Baidya, 35, all residents of Kultali — were arrested. “Nine geckos were alive and one was dead. They were going to sell the dead one, too,” a forest official said. The Tokay gecko is a species of Asian lizard characterised by orange spots on the skin and a shrill croak. The reptile is found in rainforests, particularly in the Northeast, apart from Nepal, Bangladesh, Indonesia, the Philippines and New Guinea. It is protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972. “The Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 bans wildlife trade but wildlife poaching and trafficking has become a multi-billion dollar trade. Southeast Asia is the largest market for wild animals and birds from India and Calcutta is a key point in the corridor,” a forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
26-12-2020||Calcutta||Man injured in pick-up van mishap dies||A man who was among the people who got injured after a pick-up van overturned on the AJC Bose Road flyover on Wednesday afternoon died early on Friday. The condition of six others injured in the accident is serious, doctors at the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital said. Ranjit Roy, 42, was admitted to the NCB ward of the hospital after being rescued from the accident spot. He was put on ventilation on Thursday, doctors said. Following the death, police amended the charges and drew up a fresh case under Section 304 (II) of the IPC against the driver of the pick-up van, who is yet to be arrested. Section 304 of IPC deals with culpable homicide not amounting to murder. “Clause II makes the driver guilty of being knowledgeable enough to understand that the manner in which he was driving the vehicle could cause death if it met with an accident,” a police officer said. On Wednesday, around 4.25pm, the pick-up van carrying 29 people overturned on the AJC Bose Road flyover injuring seven passengers. They were returning from Babughat after performing the last rites of a family member. The accident happened near the east-bound ramp of the flyover, which connects it to the Parama flyover. Investigations revealed that the Tata 407 in which the family was returning was travelling at a high speed and lost control metres ahead of the spot where the flanks towards the Parama flyover and the Park Circus seven-point crossing diverge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-195
