27-12-2020||Calcutta||International Calcutta Book Fair postponed till Covid-19 situation improves: Guild official||Organisers of the International Calcutta Book Fair have finally decided to postpone the annual event for several months till there is an improvement in the Covid-19 situation, an official said on Sunday. The Publishers and Booksellers Guild had initially decided to postpone the 45th edition of the book fair to a later date, the official said. The book fair was originally scheduled to be held from January 27 to February 7. The fair will be held once there is an improvement in the pandemic situation and the threat of infection lessens, he said. "With normal international flight movement yet to begin and with the school, college campuses closed, we cannot put the health safety of lakhs of people at risk," Guild president Tridib Chatterjee told reporters. Regulating the entry of people in a book fair of this magnitude, and not giving book lovers access to over 700 stalls on the fairground will not be feasible, Chatterjee said. "It is more advisable to wait for some more time till the situation improves," he said. The Calcutta book fair cannot be held on the lines of a local fair as it will then lose its international character, he asserted. International book fairs such as the London Book Fair have already been postponed. The 44th International Calcutta Book Fair in 2019 had attracted over 15 lakh bibliophiles in 10 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||Call to Firhad Hakim sheds light on death-certificate delay||A Calcuttan called up the outgoing mayor on Saturday to complain about delay in getting a death certificate. The outgoing mayor and now the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s (CMC) board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, admitted that he has received several complaints on delays in getting birth and death certificates. Hakim received the call during the weekly phone-in programme, Talk to CMC, where citizens can tell him directly about any complaint regarding civic services. “I have received several complaints about delays in getting birth and death certificates. I have asked officials why this delay is happening,” Hakim said after the weekly programme. A death certificate, issued by a local physician if someone dies at home or by a hospital if someone passed away in a hospital, has to be submitted at the cremation ghat or the burial ground. The family of the deceased is handed over a two copies of the death certificate issued by the CMC after the funeral is over. A CMC official said people also approach CMC offices when they require more copies of certificates or when they have lost the certificate or if they wanted to make some corrections. The civic body issues birth and death certificates from both its headquarters on S.N. Banerjee Road and from the borough offices in the 16 CMC boroughs. Before the Covid-induced pandemic, people used to queue up at the CMC headquarters as well as at the 16 borough offices to submit applications for birth and death certificates. The CMC used to restrict the number of applications each day and many complained that they had to return without being able to file the applications. After the pandemic began, queues have been prohibited and people have to submit their applications in drop boxes. “There is no limit on applications now. We are not being able to process all applications received in a day. As a result the applications are piling up,” said an official. Before the pandemic, CMC officials sitting at the counter used to check the applications before receiving them. They could communicate the absence of any required document immediately, said a senior CMC official. Nowadays, people have to write the problem and what they want in a white paper and give necessary documents and drop the applications with the attached documents in the drop box. CMC officials check the application and call the applicant and give a date to collect the certificate, if all documents are in order. “Our officials have to call the applicants if some document is missing. The entire process is getting delayed,” said the senior official. Hakim added on Saturday that he has asked the municipal commissioner to create a mobile app where people can file their applications. “We will give a date and time by when people would get the certificate,” said Hakim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||Madhyamik to be held from June  1 to 10 ||Madhyamik 2021 will be held between June 1 and 10, the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education announced on Saturday. The exams are usually held between February and March every year but the pandemic and then the state elections, whose final dates have yet to be announced, forced the delay. Each day’s test will start at 11.45am and continue till 3pm. The first 15 minutes will be allotted to the examinees for only reading question papers. The first examination will be of the first language followed by the second language examination on June 2. Geography exam will be held on June 3 followed by history on June 5 and mathematics on June 7. The life sciences exam will be held on June 8 followed by physical science on June 9. Madhyamik will end with the optional elective subjects exam on June 10. The dates for the tests in shorthand, typewriting, music will be announced later, a circular issued by the board says. Typewriting and shorthand exams will be conducted in Calcutta and Siliguri. The computer practical exams will be taken by individual schools and the practical for the vocational subjects will be conducted by the sector skill council or the individual schools. Last month, the state government had pruned Classes X and XII syllabuses, as on-campus classes could not be held because of Covid. The decision to hold board exams for Classes 10 and 12 in June came after Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ ruled out conducting them at least until February 2021. The higher secondary examinations scheduled for June 30 have been put off and a fresh date will be announced for that day’s exams. The decision was taken in view of Hul Divas, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Thursday. Hul Divas is observed on June 30 in memory of Sidho and Kanhu Murmu, who led the Santhal rebellion on June 30, 1855, against colonial oppression. Several organisations had written to the government requesting that the exams not be held that day, the minister said. Exams in statistics, geography, costing and taxation, home management and family resource management were scheduled to be held on June 30. The HS exams that begin on June 15 were earlier scheduled to end on June 30. The council had announced on Friday that exams of theory papers would be held between June 15 and 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||41 prosecuted  for drink driving||As many as 41 motorists and motorcyclists were prosecuted for drink driving in the city on Christmas night. The number of prosecutions on Christmas night was almost double the count on Christmas Eve and the highest on a single night in the past nine months. The majority of the prosecutions for drink driving were reported from the Sovabazar crossing, Rashbehari Avenue and Garia. Without breathalysers to detect the presence of alcohol in blood, the police stopped vehicles at random and used their instincts to identify if the person at the wheel was intoxicated. Breathalysers are not being used as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19. In Sovabazar, some of the motorcyclists who were unable to stand properly were sent to the hospital for an alcohol test, the police said. They were prosecuted after the percentage of alcohol in their blood was found to be higher than the permissable level. In Golpark, the police found more than one case where the person at the wheel was reeking of alcohol, making it easier for the cops to ask them for an alcohol test. Some motorists resisted, saying a “test was unnecessary”. They were made to undergo the test in the hospital before being prosecuted. At the Sovabazar crossing, the majority of the 12 prosecuted for drink driving on Friday night were motorcyclists, said an officer of Burtolla police station. “We ensured that only the driver or the motorcyclist was taken to the hospital for the alcohol test. Those riding pillion or other passengers in case of four-wheelers were asked to go home,” said the officer. Traffic cops said during the pandemic, they had been taking precautions to ensure no one was unnecessarily exposed to hospitals. Nine people were prosecuted on Boral Main Road near Garia and four at the Rashbehari Avenue and Sadananda Road crossings. One person was prosecuted for drink driving at the Theatre Road and Loudon Street crossings, where maximum cases of the offence were reported earlier this week. A 20-year-old motorcyclist was injured after an unidentified vehicle hit him on Picnic Garden Road around 2.45am on Saturday. Bikash Roy, a resident of Panditiya Road, was taken to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, police said. He was treated and later discharged from the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||Virus toll on creative segment||The relaxation of the lockdown curbs since July notwithstanding, six out of every 10 small to mid-size enterprises in the creative sector in India are uncertain of surviving beyond October 2021. Almost two in 10 enterprises are facing permanent closure. The second edition of a study on the impact of Covid-19 on the creative economy in India, released on December 22, provides a comparison of the situation since the outbreak of the pandemic, the national lockdown (March-June) and the period following the phased relaxation of the lockdown curbs (July-October). The Taking the Temperature Report has been developed by the British Council, in partnership with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and the Art X Company. The first edition was released on July 7. A third edition is due in March. The first two editions together comprise responses from nearly 750 organisations and individuals. “Creative industries comprise sectors like advertising, architecture, arts and culture festivals, crafts, design and fashion, literature and publishing, museums, heritage and public monuments. They also include new media arts including gaming, film and video; performing arts including music, dance, theatre; public and street art; TV and radio; venues including theatre, cinema, galleries and parks; visual arts including painting, illustration, photography and sculpture,” the report says. Micro, small to mid-size enterprises (MSMEs) and self-employed groups make up to 88 per cent of the creative sector in India, according to the report’s first edition. Some of the key findings of the second edition: ⚫Sixty-seven per cent of the surveyed respondents are uncertain that they can survive for more than a year with current resources and funding ⚫Individual professionals and artisans are facing short-term hand-to-mouth existence even as sectors are adapting to digital and live business models to stay afloat ⚫Ninety per cent of the sector fears the long-term impact of social distancing ⚫The creative economy is contracting — 16 per cent of the sector is facing permanent closure ⚫Some of the workforces are leaving the creative economy The report makes a slew of recommendations in the wake of the feedback from the respondents. The monetary recommendations call for loans and grants to arts organisations under the CSR funding plan, micro-grants to freelance artists, gig workers and artisans and timely disbursement of existing grants. “While the first report helped to understand the immediate impact of Covid-19 on the creative economy; the second report reveals the diminished economic conditions that creative organisations and artists are now faced with,” said Jonathan Kennedy, director, Arts India, British Council. Many enterprises have turned to the digital platform to cope with the crisis. Malika Dudeja Varma, daughter of kantha revivalist Shamlu Dudeja, works with around 1,000 women in 10 villages across Bengal. She deals in a variety of kantha products. From late March to mid-May, things came to a grinding halt for her. The standstill prompted her to start a website. “We kept the organisation afloat because of the digital thrust,” said Varma, who was not part of the Taking the Temperature report. The study stressed the need for government support to the creative sector to grapple with the pandemic, highlighting the role of different states. The cultural affairs department of Assam provided Rs 2,000 per month in April, May and June to over 18,000 artists’ families of the state. Financial aid provided by the Bengal government has benefited 1.95 lakh folk artists. States like Uttarakhand and Manipur also extended financial help to artists, the report pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||Fresh mask call after ‘leniency’||Around 200 people were booked for not wearing masks on Christmas out of the teeming masses that took to the city’s streets to soak in the festive spirit. Health experts and doctors said the figure was too small and there was need for everyone to be more cautious during this season. Between morning and noon on Friday, police said 106 people were booked across Calcutta for not wearing masks. At 9pm, the figure had gone up by another 103, with the majority of the prosecutions from popular spots including the Maidan, Victoria Memorial, Cathedral Road, Alipore zoo, Park Street, Camac Street, Theatre Road and New Market. Most were prosecuted under section 68 of the Calcutta Police Act (that deals with penalty for drunkenness or riotous or indecent behaviour in public) with a maximum fine of Rs 100. “Most of the offenders said their masks had fallen from their pockets in the crowd. Others said they had left it behind in their car because it was difficult to breathe in them in a crowded place,” said a senior police officer. “A few others said they had stepped out for a few minutes to get daily items from the market,” the officer said. But why is the figure so small? Senior police officers said several hundreds of masks were distributed to those found not wearing one, across all nine divisions in the city. The intention was to spread awareness and remind defaulters to be cautious of the virus instead of dampening the festive spirit. “When thousands are out on the streets, you can’t go around booking everyone not wearing a mask. We used loudhailers to continuously spread awareness about using masks,” said an officer overseeing arrangements across five zones in and around Park Street. “The average number of daily prosecutions for not wearing masks is over 100,” the officer said. On Friday evening, Park Street had to be closed to traffic for around two hours on Christmas evening after the number of pedestrians on the “party street” suddenly surged, leaving no space for vehicles. Thousands of people — young and old — went to Park Street to see the lights and soak in the festive mood, rare in a year reigned by the pandemic, throwing traffic out of gear. Many said they had stepped out for the first time since the start of the pandemic. Some said they had not stepped out with family even during Durga Puja. Several senior doctors, who have been treating Covid patients for the last few months, said the reluctance to either put on masks or maintain distance in a crowd on the roads would increase the susceptibility of patients who may not be aware whether the coronavirus infection would be mild and asymptomatic for them or turn severe. “The number of asymp-tomatic cases would go up and since lesser numbers are turning up for tests, this could be dangerous,” said Ajay Krishna Sarkar, a senior pulmonologist at Peerless Hospital. “But what is more alarming is that no one knows if the infection will remain mild or leave him/her in a critical state. So, there can be no two ways about maintaining the standard precautions,” he said. There is no particular pattern in the infection. “It can be the heart, the lungs, the kidneys or just about any other organ in the body. So, if one thinks I have a strong immunity and don’t need to wear a mask, it can be disastrous for the person and others who are in contact with him/her,” said Himadri Chakraborty, who leads a team of doctors across state-run Covid hospitals in parts of Bidhannagar, Baranagar, Dum Dum, Barasat and Barackpore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
27-12-2020||Calcutta||The link between literary studies and ethics||The inaugural Krishna Bose Lecture on the occasion of the 90th birth anniversary of the teacher, social worker and three-time parliamentarian was delivered on Saturday by Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, University Professor, Columbia University, who described Bose as one who fought for social justice. “If ever there is an example that literary work opens up for a practical interest in social justice, Krishna Bose is proof,”  Chakravorty Spivak said. The academic started the memorial lecture on a personal note and elaborating on Bose’s training in literary work, she referred to legendary teacher Tarak Nath Sen who taught them literature at the erstwhile Presidency College. “We spoke frequently of Presidency College, as it was then, and the importance of our early literary training.  I have often said the training into literary studies opens the imagination towards ethics because it teaches us, if we have professors such as Professor Sen, to suspend ourselves and go into the text on its own terms…. Professor Krishna Bose was a teacher of English for 40 years at City College, becoming the head of the department and finally the principal of the college. If ever there is an example that literary work opens up for a practical interest in social justice, Krishna Bose is proof,” she said. “It is examples such as hers that allow us to fight for the contemporary world which has lost its turn towards the ethical because of its interest in speed and efficiency alone and misplaced digital idealism. In my country of residence and my country of citizenship — the United States and India — we are suffering from this loss and, therefore, apart from all else, I feel the need to celebrate such persons as Krishna Bose, few and far between, in a global context today,” Chakravorty Spivak said. Bose had died on February 22 this year. On behalf of Netaji Bhawan, Sugata Bose and Sumantra Bose, sons of Krishna Bose, invited Chakravorty Spivak to inaugurate the lecture series. Reflecting on Krishna Bose’s practical interest in social justice, Chakravorty Spivak said: “As Sugata was saying, she should be very much better known by the English colleagues because of the connection between the literary study and a genuine interest in social justice, which goes towards political activism. So I spoke in some detail about her as an example of the scope and range of imaginative activism in the real world nurtured by literary education and pedagogy.” Sugata Bose, Gardiner Professor of Oceanic History at Harvard University, told Metro later that Chakravorty Spivak had offered “a very astute interpretation of my mother”. “After all, she (Krishna Bose) was an academic, a writer and teacher. Yet it must have been that literary and scholarly training that instilled in her the ethics to fight for social justice in public life. So the two worlds are not unconnected. That is what she (Chakravorty Spivak) was saying that, you know, the academic word and world of public service are inextricably connected. That is what she (Krishna Bose) was able to show. Not everybody is able to straddle both worlds. My mother could,” Sugata Bose said. Reflecting on the point of  misplaced digital idealism flagged by Chakravorty Spivak, Sugata Bose said: “The connection has to be deep. It simply cannot be achieved through speed and efficiency. Or else, it leads to a digital divide.” A bronze bust of Krishna Bose was unveiled in the driveway of Netaji Bhawan before the start of the lecture on Saturday evening. Krishna Bose’s website, krishnabose.com, was relaunched, too. The even concluded with Krishna Bose’s recorded recitation of the poem “Proshno (Query)” by Rabindranath Tagore. The hour-long lecture was held inside the auditorium on Netaji Bhawan, following physical-distancing norms. The chairs where the audience was seated were placed far apart from each other and the audience was asked to wear masks. The audience included several eminent Calcuttans, among them Jayanta Sengupta, the curator of Victoria Memorial, and oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-194
