28-12-2020||Calcutta||Tourist dead in Sikkim hotel||A 54-year-old tourist from Calcutta died in his hotel room at Lachung in North Sikkim on Friday from natural causes according to preliminary investigation, though the police have filed a case of unnatural death. Biswajit Chakraborty of Jadavpur had reached Lachung, located at an altitude of 9,600 feet, along with family and friends on Thursday. On Christmas, he complained of breathlessness and decided to stay behind in his hotel room with his wife while his son and friends went out sight-seeing. Police sources, quoting his wife, said Chakraborty, a diabetic, could not cope with the high altitude of Lachung. “Since he said he was having difficulty in breathing, his wife decided to stay back in the hotel to take care of him. Unfortunately, he passed away before medical help could reach him,” said a source. Chakraborty’s body was sent to the STNM Hospital in Gangtok for post-mortem on Saturday and later handed over to his family. “We have registered a case of unnatural death though preliminary investigation suggests he died of natural causes. The actual cause of his death will be known once we get the autopsy report,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Father Francois Laborde passes away||Father Francois Laborde, a priest of the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Calcutta who spent over five decades building schools for the poorest and working for the physically challenged in Bengal, passed away on December 25. He was 93. Father Laborde, who for the past year was staying at the residence of St Joseph’s Hospital in Midnapore, had come to India from France in January 1965 and got involved in projects to improve the living conditions of residents of slums in Howrah, according to a statement issued by the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Calcutta and Howrah South Point. He developed centres in Howrah and the association is now known as Howrah South Point. The statement said Father Laborde was a recipient of Legion d’ Honneur. People can pay their respects to the priest at Mata Maria Girja — at 192/2 Andul Road, Shalimar — from 8am to 10.30am and again from noon to 1pm on Monday. Two Holy Masses will be held the same day — one at 11 am at Mata Maria Girja and the other (funeral mass) at Saint John’s Church in Sealdah at 3pm. Both masses will be presided over by Archbishop Thomas D'Souza. “Archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’Souza, and the whole family of Howrah South Point have the deep sorrow to inform you about the passing away of Father Francois Laborde. At the same time they are grateful for the life of this noble and energetic soul that has built an inspiring social enterprise in more than 50 years — rehabilitation homes, schools for the poorest, the handicapped or the marginalised children, medical facilities and health programmes for the most underprivileged people in Bengal...” the statement said. In Howrah, Asansol and Jalpaiguri, there are nine rehabilitation homes, four formal primary schools and five non-formal schools. The statement said Father Laborde would often say: “A great joy is to work together-Muslims, Hindus, Christians- for the service of the most deprived without any distinction of creed or caste or language. The only way for us, human beings, to become really human is by taking care of the marginalised. Because these broken persons are our brothers and sisters and we live in solidarity with them. For that, we have first to accept our own brokenness,otherwise we are not so fit to cure the brokenness of others.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Eco Park glass hall being rebuilt||The New Town authorities have started rebuilding Utsari — a glass hall on Eco Island inside Eco Park — that was completely destroyed by Cyclone Amphan in May, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. The glass house has hosted several programmes featuring chief minister Mamata Banerjee, state government officials and guests from abroad. Dinner parties of several editions of the Bengal Global Business Summit were held at the glass hall. “The glass panes with which the walls of the hall were made shattered during the cyclone. Even portions of the concrete roof were damaged, prompting engineers to go back to the drawing board,” said an engineer of NKDA, the agency that looks after the civic amenities of New Town. “We had to make several design changes to make the glass walls more durable and the hall as storm-proof as possible.” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said work on rebuilding the glass hall started last week. “We have decided to use stronger glass sheets,” he said. The restoration is expected to take at least six months. An engineer said toughened glass panes were used to build the hall that was ravaged by the cyclone, which struck south Bengal on May 20. “This time toughened glass of a higher grade and more thickness will be used,” the engineer said. “The glass house is an iconic structure from where one can enjoy a stunning panoramic view of the park and the water body. We want to restore it to the best of our capabilities,” said the engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat canal to be restored||A stretch of a canal that had been blocked to build the Majerhat bridge will be restored by the middle of January, government and Calcutta Municipal Corporation engineers said. raising hopes that Kidderpore and Mominpur would face less waterlogging next monsoon. Known as the boat canal, it drains out rainwater from large parts of Kidderpore and Mominpore into the Hooghly. The PWD had blocked a 33-metre-long stretch of the 2km-long canal to facilitate the construction of the Majerhat bridge. The affected stretch is just below the bridge. The block was thought to be one of the reasons for recurrent waterlogging in the Kidderpore and Mominpur areas in the past two monsoons. “We will start restoring the canal in the first week of January. The restoration is part of the scope of the project of building the Majerhat bridge,” said a senior engineer of the PWD, which built the bridge. An engineer of the department said blocking the water flow in the canal was necessary to build platforms where engineers stood during the construction of the bridge. Sandbags were placed on two sides to block the water. A large diameter pipe was installed so water could flow bypassing the blocked section of the canal. But it still created problems for residents of Kidderpore and Mominpore, an engineer of the CMC said. “The pipe was a poor alternative. It failed to work as efficiently as the canal. The block was one of the reasons the Kidderpore area got frequently waterlogged during the monsoon in the past couple of years. But without blocking the water flow, the bridge could not have been built,” the CMC engineer. “The PWD has promised that it will complete the restoration by January 15. We are hoping there will not be any serious waterlogging problems in the area this monsoon. We will also finish desilting old sewer lines under Dent Mission Row and another drainage line under Bhukailash Road (by the monsoon). The combined impact of all these could be no or very little waterlogging this monsoon,” said the engineer. The canal was blocked when the construction of the 646-metre-long bridge began in December 2018, said the PWD engineer. The bridge replaced the one that had collapsed in September 2018. The sewage from wards 76, 77 and 78 — which cover areas like Kidderpore, Kabirirtha, Bhukailash Road, Fancy Market and Mominpore — flows through the boat canal, said the engineer. The sewage water from these places collect at a drainage pumping station, from where it is pumped into the canal. The CMC has also planned to dredge the remaining stretch of the boat canal. “We have plans to desilt the remaining stretch of the canal. The target is to complete the dredging before the next monsoon,” said one CMC engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Lessons and laurels for Calcutta teens||Calcutta Business School Calcutta Business School, a part of Shikshayatan Foundation, has been reaching out to students through a series of webinars, virtual conferences and corporate talks, and acting as an interface to connect them to the corporate sector. The series of webinars and around 20 virtual conferences were organised with two main objectives — to give a sense of direction to the students during the pandemic and to build a bridge between academia and industry and create a clear visible roadmap for students to follow, who would be joining as a young workforce shortly. The industry connect programmes saw stalwarts and corporate heavyweights such as Exide Industries deputy MD Subir Chakraborty, Sudip Datta, PwC senior partner and Pepsico director D.N. Sarkar encouraging students to be objective and advising them how to shine in their careers. The students, who took part in the programmes, were enthralled and sat captivated throughout sessions. They asked questions to the corporate and industry stalwarts, who were happy to quench their thirst of  knowledge. “Since 2016, we have been thinking that we will have an online chapter to reach out to many students. The pandemic actually gave us the opportunity to start online classes and organise a number of webinars. The professors are taking note of a few things like how the students are responding, whether they are engaged in class or not and if required, they are trying out new methods. Hopefully, we will be able to be in a better position where we will also find out the gaps and move forward,” said the Shikshayatan Foundation’s secretary general Bratati Bhattacharyya. Birla High School Vidya Mandir Society organised a virtual felicitation ceremony for the students of Birla High School who came out with flying colours in the All India Senior School Certificate Examination (AISSCE) 2019-20.The toppers from all the three streams — arts, commerce and science— were felicitated for their academic excellence and recognised for their participation in the co-curricular activities. “We felicitate the toppers every year and this year, given the prevailing situation, we recognised their efforts on a virtual platform. Such recognition boosts the confidence of the toppers to achieve more in life and is an inspiration for those yet to appear for the boards,” said principal Loveleen Saigal. Sushila Birla Girls’ School Toppers of the All India Senior School Certificate Examination (AISSCE) 2019-20 from all the three streams — arts, commerce and science — of Sushila Birla Girls’ School were felicitated recently on a virtual platform. The Vidya Mandir Society had organised the event, attended by many dignitaries associated with the society and the school. All the toppers received 30g of silver medallion as reward and the words of encouragement from the dignitaries. “Our students have made us proud. They should be congratulated not only for their hard work, but also for believing in themselves which enabled them to overcome all obstacles,” said principal Koeli Dey. Fun-Learn Day Boarding School Fun-Learn Day Boarding School has made socio-environmental voluntary activities (Seva) a compulsory subject for all its students to create a positive and vibrant community around the school in the Garden Reach area. On the eve of Christmas, the school turned into a secret Santa for the underprivileged children in its neighbourhood. The school authority gifted new clothes to more than 100 children of the community. “By teaching our children the importance of caring for the weak, we will make them compassionate and confident human beings,” said school founder Udita Chakraborty. Tulipians Academy Tulipians Pre & Primary schools didn’t let Covid-19 hinder the growth of the children with special needs as they have been holding regular online classes for them. They have also started activity-based therapy classes called Winspiration for them. These classes include music and movement therapy, play therapy activities, speech therapy sessions and concentration building activities. They conduct these sessions five days a week. They introduced kids to zumba and sports with a difference over the weekends to add the fun factor. They are holding school sessions in the morning and then therapy-based lessons in the evening. So, the teachers are connected with their students throughout the week. “We started online learning on March 25. We knew this entire process would initially be alien to our students and the acceptance of virtual schooling would take time. It was a challenge to plan programmes on virtual platforms in such a way that the kids who are hyperactive or having autism or with cerebral palsy could actually focus on the screen, could concentrate and give their attention. The flow of these online classes was needed to be extremely well planned,” said Tulipians Pre and Primary schools’ founder director and chairman Nirmal Verma. Tulipians first started sending homeschooling assignments, guiding the parents with step by step implementation. “Gradually every month, they introduced a new activity, so that the interest and inquisitiveness of the kids would continue for a long time,” said principal Roopee Verma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Book Fair not in January, dates uncertain: Guild||The 45th edition of the International Calcutta Book Fair will not be held in January because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Publishers and Booksellers Guild that organises the annual event, said. The guild also said it was not in a position to say when the fair would be held next year. The book fair was scheduled to be held from January 27 to February 7. “We are not in a position to organise the book fair this time amid the pandemic. We are not even sure when it can be held. It would have made little or no sense holding the fair in January with just a limited number of book lovers visiting just a handful of stalls. That's not what the International Calcutta Book Fair is all about,” guild president Tridib Chattopadhayay said. “Publishers from several countries who were scheduled to participate in the fair have expressed their inability to turn up. Besides, international flights have been on hold.” With less than a month to go for the inauguration of the fair, guild members had met at a College Street address just ahead of Christmas to discuss what to do. It was unanimously decided that the fair would lose its international branding if it was organised on a small scale with just a handful of regional publishers. More than 700 stalls are set up at the book fair. Had the organisers gone ahead with the plan to hold the fair next month, there would have been less than half that many stalls. The 2019 edition of the fair, which was held at Central Park in Salt Lake, had recorded a footfall of around 2 million. The state government had organised buses for book lovers to visit the venue from different corners of the city and its suburbs and to return home. The International Calcutta Book Fair features on the calendar of the International Publishers Association (IPA) in Geneva. Guild officials said the final dates of the book fair would be decided in consultation with the IPA. This edition of Calcutta Book Fair would have had Bangladesh as the theme country. The neighbouring country is celebrating the centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman, the father of the  nation, and the golden jubilee of the country’s independence. Officials of the Publishers and Booksellers Guild said that initially there were plans to rescheduled the fair in March, but even that has been ruled out as of now. “The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and Assembly elections will be held next year. So it would not be wise to fix the dates of the fair right now,” said a guild official. “In 2007, the fair was held in end-February.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Cats and dogs ‘caged’ in Calcutta complex||A resident of a housing complex on EM Bypass has been charged with cruelty towards animals after a woman from a nearby complex accused him of caging cats and dogs in his apartment, police said. The complainant — a 45-year-old woman — had heard cries of dogs and cats from a nearby housing complex. On enquiring she found that some pets had been kept in cages inside an apartment in the neighbouring housing complex. “The woman had come to the police station to lodge a complaint related to cruelty towards animals. She gave a written complaint. We found the complaint cognisable and have started an FIR based on it,” said an officer of Survey Park police station. The police started an inquiry and learnt that a man who has an apartment in a complex near the one where the complainant lives kept cats and dogs in cages. The officer also apparently came to know that the owner of the apartment did not usually live there and the pets were looked after by a domestic help. “A case has been drawn up against the owner under Section 11(l)(e)(g)(i) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960,” said an officer. The sub-clauses under the section deals with the offences of confinement of animals in cages that are insufficient in terms of height and width for their free movement, negligence regarding proper exercise of pet dogs and keeping them chained and abandoning pets without valid reason causing starvation, pain or thirst. “The owner will be summoned to the police station and asked about the allegations against him,” the officer said. “We will examine the circumstances under which the dogs and cats were allegedly caged.” There have been multiple instances in the city of pets having suffered during the lockdown and forced to remain confined in the owners’ home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
28-12-2020||Calcutta||Tiger fitted with radio collar in Sunderbans||An adult male tiger was fitted with a radio collar before being released in the Harikhali forest of the Sunderbans to study it’s behaviour and track its whereabouts in the mangroves. The exercise was carried out by the wildlife wing of the state forest department in collaboration with the WWF. While earlier data from radio-collared big cats was used to decode home range and territory in the Sunderbans, foresters want to ascertain their movement pattern near human settlements. The male tiger was caught by foresters on Saturday for the purpose of fitting the radio collar and was released back into the wild on Sunday afternoon. Chief wildlife warden V.K. Yadav said the project was being jointly executed with WWF-India’s Sunderbans chapter. “We have plans to put radio collars on a few more tigers in order to better understand their movement, habitat utilisation as well as to safeguard them by preventing man-animal conflicts,” said Yadav. A senior forester in the Sunderbans said monitoring the range of big cats was difficult because of the terrain and tide timings. Nowhere else in the world do tigers face such severe difficulties. “They have to negotiate the nettles of mangrove that stick out on the banks of creeks like needles, they have to frequently swim and along with negotiating the extremely harsh terrain, they have to hunt as well,” said the forester. The landscape coordinator of WWF-India’s Sunderbans chapter, Ratul Saha, said the tiger could be tracked through satellite as well as portable Very High Frequency (VHF) range receivers. “The idea is to gauge the extent of negative interactions between tigers and humans that will help all stakeholders to develop strategies to reduce conflicts among humans and tigers,” said Saha. The collar weighs around 1kg and beams signals to a satellite at regular intervals. They have an automatic dropoff mechanism, which will enable field workers to take the gadget off the big cat through remote control. The field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, Tapas Das, said they had planned to radio tag at least two more tigers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
28-12-2020||Calcutta|| Amphan havoc worst in world this year: UK report||Cyclone Amphan, which had struck south Bengal on May 20, accounts for “the biggest displacement” in the world caused by a natural calamity this year, according to a report released in the UK on Sunday. Amphan, the report says, also qualifies as the costliest tropical cyclone of the year. The report, titled Counting the Cost 2020: A Year of Climate Breakdown, is prepared by Christian Aid, a London-headquartered relief and development agency. “Cyclone Amphan which affected countries in the Bay of Bengal, including India ... displaced 4.9 million people, accounting for the biggest displacement due to an extreme weather event anywhere in the world in 2020,” the report says. “Cyclone Amphan was one of the strongest storms on record in the Bay of Bengal, with sustained wind speeds of 270 km per hour. It was also the costliest tropical cyclone of the year, with losses amounting to more than US$13 billion. At least 128 people were killed by the cyclone, which caused great damage in cities in India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Bhutan,” the report states. The references used in the report show Bengal had to bear the brunt of the economic loss inflicted by the storm. “We had calculated the Amphan cost to be Rs 1 lakh 3 thousand crore, which is quite close to the cost mentioned in the international report,” Bengal’s disaster management minister Javed Khan said on Sunday evening. “However, we have so far received only Rs 1,000 crore from the Centre.” Khan said about 2.7 million houses were partially or fully damaged by the storm. According to the report, the economic impact of Amphan ranks fourth on the global climate related disaster list of 2020,  after US and Caribbean hurricanes, floods in China and fires on the west coast of America. The report also states that India has suffered the highest damage caused by events triggered by climate change, with 2,067 lives claimed by floods. The floods in India also caused 4 million displacements, second to Amphan. “It is clear that the impacts of Amphan and the floods in India cumulatively endangered the maximum number of lives and livelihoods than anywhere else in the world and their economic impacts were equally high,” said Kat Kramer, the author of the report and Christian Aid’s climate policy lead. The report lists 15 of the most destructive climate disasters of 2019, which had cumulatively inflicted a loss of around $150 billion, calculated primarily on insured losses. Which means the actual costs are likely to be higher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
28-12-2020||Calcutta||People in Calcutta gather in support for Amartya Sen||A gathering in front of Paschimbanga Bangla Akademi on Sunday protested the treatment being meted out to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen by the Visva-Bharati authorities. Many of the protesters said the university authorities were trying to silence the author of  The Argumentative Indian  because he dared to argue against the policies being pursued by the Narendra Modi government. According to the Visva-Bharati estate office, it had recently prepared a list of “illegal occupants” that includes the name of Sen as his house, Pratichi, occupies around 138 decimals while the original lease was given on 125 decimals. Sen had last week old The Telegraph: “The Visva-Bharati land on which our house is situated is entirely on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry. Some additional land was bought by my father as free hold and registered in land records under mouja Surul.” The protest by students, teachers, cultural activists, politicians and others started around 3.30pm. Poet Joy Goswami said it should have been a matter of pride for Visva-Bharati that a person like Amartya Sen stays in Pratichi. “Instead, the university authorities are defaming him,” Goswami said. “The objective of the attack (on Sen) the Visva-Bharati authorities have launched at the behest of the Centre is to attack the very essence of The Argumentative Indian. The BJP will not brook any voice of dissent. They will not tolerate any criticism,” said actor-director-playwright and state minister Bratya Basu. “The sole crime that Amartya Sen might have committed is that he dared to speak against the BJP.” The Argumentative Indian is a collection of essays that discuss India’s history and identity, focusing on the traditions of public debate and intellectual pluralism. Sen had last week said in response to a question from The Telegraph: “Having been born and brought up in Santiniketan, I could comment on the big gap between Santiniketan culture and that of the VC, empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi, with its growing control over Bengal.” Many of the protesters were college and university students from the city as well districts. They carried posters that read “Amartya Sen-er apomaan, Bangalir apomaan” (insulting Amartya Sen amounts to insulting the people of Bengal). Rimona Das, a third-year student of Sarojini Naidu College for Women in Dum Dum, said she joined the protest because the attack on Sen had hurt her sentiments. “How can I, being a Bengali, tolerate the insult to Amartya Sen? I have taken a stand. Nobody has pushed me for this. The actions of the university have hurt my sentiments. I am not even aware whether any political party is organising the protest,” said Rimona. Standing next to her was Debanjana Banerjee, a first-year student of West Bengal State University, Barasat. “The BJP is saying it will build Sonar Bangla, at the same time it is humiliating Bengalis. Amartya Sen has an opinion of his own, which you may not like. But does that mean you will call him an illegal occupant?” asked Debanjana. Sayani Bhaumik, a student of Netaji Subhas Open University, saw signs of autocracy in the attack on the Nobel laureate. “It is like imposing your writ on whoever dares to argue. This is autocracy,” said Sayani. Poet Subodh Sarkar said Visva-Bharati was relentlessly trying to malign Amartya Sen in the hope that he would finally stop questioning its ideology and policies. “We have seen these attempts in Delhi. Now, the BJP is doing this in Bengal. They want to silence this argumentative quality of the country,” he said. Shankar Bose Thakur, a script writer attached to a theatre group, said the BJP government at the Centre was doing what the Pakistan government had done in the then East Pakistan in the 1960s “The Pakistan government had constantly hurt the Bengali sentiment and culture in East Pakistan. The BJP is doing the same,” he said. The hour-long protest ended with everybody singing Tagore’s song “Banglar maati, Banglar jawl”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-193
