29-12-2020||Calcutta||Increase frequency, demand tram users||A group of tram users and enthusiasts has demanded that more tram routes be restored and the frequency of tram services regularised so that a growing number of passengers can avail of one of the cleanest forms of mass transportation in Calcutta. Members of the Calcutta Tram Users Association (CUTA) said despite trams being the most environment friendly mode of transportation, the number of routes has shrunk over the years and the state government has done little to ensure that passengers can board and get off tramcars safely in the middle of thoroughfares. "Tram tracks have been dereserved but not enough platforms have been built for passengers to safely board trams. Several popular routes have been either done away with or truncated," asked Debasish Bhattacharyya of the CUTA. "The transport department is keen on converting tram compartments into air conditioned chambers by burning diesel. Why do we need all this ?" Trams started their journey in Calcutta in 1873 with horses drawing them. In 1902, the first electric tram car began its service between Esplanade and Khidderpore. As more and more tram tracks got laid across the city, the number of tramcars grew. Over the last few years, service of trams has taken a beating. From 37 routes covering 70km in the 1960s, only six routes covering about 20km were left operational till Amphan happened. Now, five routes have been restored. On Saturday, several tram-lovers and conservationists gathered outside the Esplanade tram depot to protest against the transport department's apathy in increasing frequency of tram services. Supporters held placards and posters demanding that the frequency of tram services be increased to an interval of 10 minutes. "This will increase patronage as well as income of West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC)," read one of the posters. The West Bengal Transport Corporation, which runs the trams of Calcutta, has been off late trying to popularise trams as an alternative mode of transportation. Apart from converting trams on some routes like Esplanade-Shyambazar into ACs, the transport department has recently introduced the concept of an art gallery on trams and library on the wheels. A tram museum has also been inaugurated at Gariahat tram depot to commemorate 140 years of the tram operations by the Calcutta Tram-ways Company, which was registered in London on December 22, 1880. "At the tram museum inside Gariahat depot, they have painted some trams in red, green and blue. Can you do this? Have you seen old prototypes of vehicles painted in such bold colours, say, at the London Transport Museum?" asked one of the protestors who had gathered near "Smaranika", a tram museum that was set up inside a renovated tram at the Esplanade depot in 2014. Senior WBTC officials said the state government has always been keen on restoring some of the routes but construction of the East-West Metro has come in the way. "All our efforts so far have been how to attract more passengers to trams and not the other way round," said a senior official. "There are challenges and even police are not keen on starting some routes where the trams move against the flow of the traffic. But we are at it."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Teachers visit Calcutta slums to help kids with writing skills||Teachers working with a city NGO have started visiting children in slums who in the past seven or eight months have picked up several things from online classes, but not writing skills. Many among them are first-generation learners and hence, cannot turn to their parents for help with their assignments. Their parents are contractual labourers, rickshaw-pullers and domestic help. Most of them cannot read or write and these children, in the age group of four to six, are solely dependent on the teachers. As the centres of Calcutta Rescue had to be shut down because of the Covid pandemic, the children were stuck at home with no guidance till May, when the NGO started online classes. “Over seven months they have learnt rhymes or songs during these classes. But when it came to writing, many were unable to pick up,” said Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator at Calcutta Rescue. In December, the teachers started going to the slums on a bus. And classes are being held for an hour, four days a week, on the bus. The teachers are visiting around 12 slums in areas like Girish Park, Mechua, Nimtala, Tallah Park and Bagbazar. To maintain physical distance, each seat in the bus doubles as a study desk for one child.  “We have been teaching them online for so many months, but we need to see whether they are recognising numbers, letters and absorbing what we are teaching,” said Chatterjee. For writing skill, children have to be told how to trace and how to hold a pencil, and for this proper guidance through in-person sessions is needed. “Most of their parents don’t know how to write,” said a teacher. In fact, in some of the worksheets that were being sent back, the teachers realised that the children were asking someone in the neighbourhood to write it for them. Some have older cousins in the locality who could be doing the assignments for them. “We could understand it was not done by them. So, we started going to their neighbourhoods in December and teaching them in their locality after taking their parents' consent,” said Chatterjee. For some of these children there are elder siblings at home who help them but that is not a regular affair and these pre-primary children are missing out . The next step for these children is to go to a formal school, which is usually a government school and Calcutta Rescue has realised that for them to be in such a school they have to know and evaluate their level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Four held in Delhi for Rs 82-lakh fraud at directorate general of foreign trade||Four men have been arrested from Delhi for their alleged involvement in cheating and online forgery of digital signature of a senior official of the directorate general of foreign trade, resulting in unauthorised transfer of Rs 82 lakh to various accounts. Based on a complaint lodged by officials of the Calcutta wing of the directorate — an office attached to the Union ministry of commerce and industry — Calcutta police had started investigating the fraud on December 11. According to the complaint, the fraudsters had forged the digital signature of the authorised person and accessed the website of the directorate and enabled an unauthorised transaction of Rs 82 lakh. Officers of the cyber cell of the Calcutta police, who investigated the case, located the accounts where the money was transferred. While tracking the account details, the police zeroed in on the gang that was operating from Delhi. The accused — Chandan Bhatia, 43, Subham, 24, Suraj Sharma, 28, and Amarjeet Singh, 28, all residents of Delhi — were arrested by a team of the city police and brought to Calcutta on transit remand. They were produced in a court in Calcutta on Monday and remanded in police custody till January 7. The police said the four were picked up from a flat on the 19th floor of Capital Green, DLF, a plush highrise complex in Motinagar, on Christmas evening. A large number of mobile phones, bank passbooks, digital signature certificates, unauthorised stamps of banks and several companies and Wi-Fi dongles were seized from their possession. The accused have been charged with cheating, forgery, fraud and criminal conspiracy and also under the information technology act. The police suspect the gang was part of a larger racket that is operating in various parts of the country. “It appears that there are more people in the gang who could be hiding across the country,” said an officer at Lalbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Reluctance to get tested worries Calcutta doctors ||The number of people turning up for Covid-19 tests has gone down significantly over the last few weeks leaving doctors worried about the fallout both in treating those who develop complications after self-medication and those who turn up with post-Covid symptoms without any test results. Health department officials said the number of people turning up for Covid-19 tests daily across Bengal has dropped from 47,000 a month-and-a-half back to just about 32,000 on an average across 99 laboratories. The officials are attributing the slide to a growing sense of apathy towards visiting clinics for tests. The rate of hospitalisation has dropped, too, officials at Sasthya Bhavan said. Occupancy of Covid beds fell from 38 per cent in October to 13.5 per cent on December 27. Calcutta, which recorded around 900 cases daily in the last week of October, tested 315 samples on Sunday. Doctors and other health experts said the tendency to skip tests, possibly because of the social stigma attached to positive cases, is a dangerous trend and could have several far-reaching effects. “A patient may turn up with joint pain. If he is a Covid survivor, I will know this a post-Covid reactive arthritis and it might last for three months and give him medicines accordingly,” said Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, a critical care expert at Peerless Hospital. “But if he has not undergone the test and is not even aware of the coronavirus infection and subsequent recovery, we will have to wonder about the different types of arthritis. It will baffle us and delay the treatment.” Health experts said that while fewer Covid beds are occupied in general wards, the ICUs and HDUs across hospitals are still full. This is mostly because patients have been turning up in a critical state and on being tested they are found Covid positive. “This is a warning sign,” Sarkar said. Health experts said there had been an increasing tendency among families to go for presumptive treatment for the rest of the members after someone has tested positive. This could have serious implications, said experts. “Someone in the family has mild Covid does not necessarily mean others will not develop a more severe form of the disease,” said an expert. Doctors have identified three possible fallouts of self-medication without getting tested. ⦿ The patient could develop sudden breathlessness. This could be because of “happy hypoxia”, a condition in which the patient is not even aware that his oxygen saturation level has gone down drastically because he didn’t bother to check the saturation level under the false impression of being mildly positive. ⦿ Palpitation. This could be because of inflammation of the heart muscle or myocarditis. ⦿ Sudden fall because of low blood pressure. “Many critical patients have told us that they didn't feel it necessary initially to get tested because the fever didn’t persist. Nowhere it is written that Covid fever has to persist. There can be several other complications,” said Himadri Chakrabarty, a senior physician who is leading a team of doctors across different state-run Covid hospitals in North 24-Parganas. “Patients with mild symptoms who do not undergo tests often turn out to super-spreaders of the virus. That is the biggest threat.” Several doctors said they had come across numerous instances of patients arriving at hospitals with a critical heart condition and a test revealed that many of them were Covid positive. A large number of such patients had comorbidities and some died of pulmonary fibrosis, a lung disease that occurs when lung tissues get damaged. “On Sunday we lost a senior doctor to pulmonary fibrosis. He had battled for life for 27 days. The coronavirus aggravates a problem or a disease that can have a telling effect,” said a senior health department official. The health department has asked doctors across Covid-19 hospitals attending to new patients to convey clearly to the relatives accompanying them the need to get tested for Covid-19. “If a 28-year-old turns up at a clinic with frequent palpitations, we might tend to pass it off as a case of anxiety. But if he is a Covid survivor, we will immediately ask him to get an echocardiography and an ECG done,” said the official. “That will be the level of difference in assessing patients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University to ‘accept moral responsibility’ funds||Jadavpur University has decided to “accept moral responsibility” for the loss of scholarships that students may have suffered owing to a delay in the publication of semester results and will raise funds “to compensate for the loss of such scholarships/fellowships”. The decision was taken at a meeting between the university authorities and the students’ union of the engineering and technology faculty on Saturday night, following unrest on the campus over flaws in results and delay in their publication. The resolution of the meeting says: “Jadavpur University accepts moral responsibility for the loss of scholarship/ fellowship which may have been suffered by the students as a result of delay in the publication of results. JU will seek financial support from the extended members of JU community... to compensate for the loss of such scholarships/ fellowship”. A JU official said underprivileged students were offered a number of scholarships by the state government. “To renew a scholarship a student has to upload marksheets of the two previous semesters and parents’ income certificates on a portal by the end of a year. Since the results of the odd semester exams that ended on December 22, 2019, were published this November and the grade cards were full of errors, students missed out on scholarships,” the official said. “Two results with separate scores have been issued to one student. There are instances of one student having been issued another’s result. Marks have been erroneously entered. Delayed publication of flawed results led to a situation wherein students could not upload the results to be able to renew scholarships,” said Aritra Majumder, the chairperson of the students’ union in the engineering faculty.  “JU has many students who depend on scholarships to pay tuition fees, hostel fees and exam-related charges.” Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said he appealed to the state government on Monday to keep the portals for receiving scholarship applications active beyond December 31. The government, he said, accepted his request. The revised results will be published by January 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta residents, NGOs rescue birds||Over a dozen birds, including kingfishers, black cormorants and owls, that got injured after flying into nylon nets spread over water bodies to prevent them from catching fish have been rescued by residents from the city, Howrah, and North and South 24-Parganas in December. The Wildlife Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre in Salt Lake has been receiving a steady stream of calls from all over the city to rescue the birds for a few months. Most of the birds being brought to the rescue centre in Salt Lake have sliced-off wing feathers or leg injuries. Nylon nets spread over ponds in the city and on the fringes to keep birds away are maiming and killing them, foresters, NGOs and residents who rescue them said. Metro had reported in November how a water body in North 24-Parganas had turned into a killing ground for birds. People had been setting up nets to trap fish-eating birds and then selling the bird meat. In mid-December, a medical representative who stays in Behala spotted a cormorant dangling from a net over a waterbody in Silpara. “The bird was struggling… I got some boys to help me cut the net and rescue the bird,” said Partha Sarathi Layak. He used scissors to get the bird out of the net. “The bird could not move its wing.” Layak and his daughter Tushani, a Class I student, tried to feed the bird small fish before calling the forest department who sent a team. The same week, a resident of Sarsuna, Behala, spotted a bird struggling in a net over a pond. The residents called Bonyo, an NGO that works for the welfare of birds and animals, who sent a rescue team. “We saw the Asian openbill stork trapped in the net. We got into the pond and rescued it. It had injured its wings and couldn’t fly,” said Soumyodip Mukherjee, one of the rescuers. The wildlife rescue teams of the forest department have also rescued many birds. Most birds cannot spot the nets because they are almost invisible, an official of the Salt Lake rescue centre said. So, while diving to chase their prey, they fly straight into the nets that are often made of very fine nylon string and are quite sharp. “Once a bird gets caught in these nets that are spread like a web over ponds, they struggle to fly away and get more entangled in them. Birds often die because of this,” the official said. These nets can be spotted on water bodies used for commercial pisciculture. They are common on waterbodies behind Sector V and at East Kolkata Wetlands, said Mukherjee, who has rescued many trapped birds. Those who rear fish said they didn’t have a choice. “We are forced to use such nets because we need to protect the fish and the fingerlings from birds,” said Sukhen Pal, a fisherman part of a cooperative that practises pisciculture in a water body behind Sector V. “Those who run commercial fishing projects must refrain from this practice. Birds don’t kill fishes on a mass scale. It is natural for some birds to hunt for fish and this is an inhuman practice,” said Subhankar Patra of SundayWatch, a nature lovers’ forum whose members go on bird watching trips every weekend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
29-12-2020||Calcutta||New Year's Eve soiree with a heart in Calcutta||A stage for a musical soiree will come up near New Market on New Year’s Eve. But it will be different from hordes of such stages on the last day of  the year. The stage near Hogg Market will aim to make revellers aware of the “perils” of the new citizenship regime and farm laws. The organisers are used to giving speeches to dissect the controversial laws. But on Thursday, they will use songs, poems and short plays to convey their message. The bulk of the revellers who descend on Esplanade on December 31 are young people. The organisers want to draw their attention. “Lakhs of people in Assam, who celebrated the New Year’s Eve in 2018, could not do the same in 2019. Similarly, we are celebrating New Year’s Eve now. But there is no guarantee all of us will be able to do the same next year. We want to serve a reminder that it is a tightrope walk,” said Kamal Sur, a member of the Anti-NRC People’s Movement, a joint platform of 21 organisations behind the December 31 campaign. In Assam, close to 20 lakh people were excluded from the final NRC list that came out in August 2019. The CAA rules were yet to be framed because of the pandemic and that the process would start once vaccinations for Covid-19 began, Union home minister Amit Shah said in Bengal earlier this month. Thursday’s programme will start around 6pm. The organisers want to continue till midnight. The schedule will include a series of performances, from groups and individuals. Many of the performers will be students, organisers said. “There might be short speeches but the main mode of communication would be songs, poems and plays. The area surrounding the stage will be decorated with posters. Some of our volunteers will be on ron-paa (stilts) to stand out in the crowd,” said Palash, a member of the joint platform. Protests against the National Register of Citizens, National Population Register and the Citizenship Amendment Act were at their peak last winter. Songs of amity and communal harmony were an integral part of the protests in Calcutta. This year, thousands of farmers are on a long vigil against the farm laws at the Singhu border near Delhi, weathering severe cold like thousands of Shaheen Bagh protesters did last year. The protests that started in December 2019 gained countrywide traction but were halted abruptly by the pandemic. A rally and demonstration against the citizenship troika took place in central Calcutta on December 11, breaking a long lull. It was organised by the Anti-NRC People’s Movement. Spunky posters and songs of protest were an integral part of the rally. At least two other sizable demonstrations against the NRC-NPR-CAA have already taken place in the city since December 11. “The farmers’ protest has become the focus of not only India but the whole world. But unless we are citizens, we cannot be farmers, soldiers, doctors or anything else. So, citizenship, or the threat to it, is the most critical issue,” said Sur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Plea to IIEST alumni to help students||The IIEST director has appealed to the institution’s former students for a “generous contribution” to help students who are in no position to pay tuition fees because of the Covid pandemic. Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, the director of the Shibpur institute, made the appeal on the occasion of a virtual global alumni meet on Sunday. “I have appealed to the alumni spread across the globe for a generous contribution so that we could come to the aid of the students who are struggling to pay their tuition fees because of the pandemic. I have requested them to change their usual mode of contribution, which is directed towards creating facilities or providing scholarships, considering the financial constraints many students are facing,” Chakrabarti told Metro. The annual tuition fee at the IIEST is Rs 1,25,000 and this excludes the annual hostel and mess charge of Rs 50,000. An office bearer of the students’ senate, which had written to the institute seeking a fee waiver, said the students whose parents ran small businesses were among the worst-hit. “Many salaried employees are no better because their salaries have been cut and many have been retrenched,” he said. The director decided to approach the alumni — on the occasion of the meeting of Global Alumni Association of the Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur, — after the education ministry had last month struck down Chakrabarti’s prayer for a fee waiver, said an official of the institute. The Shibpur institute was known as the Bengal Engineering and Science University before it became IIEST in 2014. “We have approached the alumni to create some kind of a benevolent fund to come to the aid of students who are in distress,” said Chakrabarti. Since the Union education ministry fixes the tuition fees of the institutes under the NIT council — the IIEST is part of the council — the institute decided to approach the ministry for a fee waiver for the needy. An official of the institute said the scale of financial constraints was such that the director was knocking on as many doors as possible to help out students. The institute follows a practice that allows full tuition fee waiver if a student’s annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh. If the income ranges between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, he/she is required to pay half the amount. “During the pandemic-induced shutdown of the economy, the institute has received waiver requests from all categories of students. Even students whose parents’ annual family income is more than Rs 5 lakh are seeking a waiver,” he said. When asked about the appeal by the IIEST director, Anjana Ganguly Roy, the president of the alumni association said: “We have to hold discussions among the association to take a decision on the appeal by the director”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
29-12-2020||Calcutta||Private hospitals unhappy with Swasthya Sathi rates||Private hospitals on Monday expressed reservations about the rates of a Bengal government insurance scheme that has recently been extended to all residents of the state. At a meeting on Monday, representatives of private hospitals told state health department officials that they wanted the government to set up a committee which would review the rates offered for treatment under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. The scheme offers coverage of Rs 5 lakh per annum per family. The state government pays the premium. The hospitals also want the government to send only those patients who need superspeciality care, which would keep the number of people claiming benefits under the scheme under check. Government representatives told the hospitals that it would take some time to decide on the formation of a committee. In the meantime, the government said, the healthcare facilities should not refuse patients under the scheme because of low yield. “We shared some of our concerns with the government, the first of which is that the rates under Swasthya Saathi are somewhat unrealistic vis-a-vis private healthcare providers and even smaller nursing homes will not be able to sustain by providing services at those rates. We have to constantly upgrade our infrastructure and we have high overhead expenses in terms of equipment and manpower,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “We also suggested that a committee be set up to review the rates. The committee does not necessarily have to be formed with our members. The (state) government can even get it done by a credible third party that has expertise in such analysis. It needs to be done in a scientific manner,” he said. Officials of other private hospitals, however, said they wanted their representatives in the committee. Also, when the rates for a particular type of treatment is being fixed, a specialist in the field from the private sector must attend the proceedings. “While fixing the rate for coronary bypass surgery, a cardiac surgeon attached to a private hospital must be present and the committee must take his or her opinion,” said an official of a private hospital who attended Monday’s meeting. “Since all private healthcare service providers are superspeciality facilities, with high-end equipment, these facilities should be used for advanced, tertiary care treatments, not just for primary and secondary care treatments. Only patients needing high-end therapies and procedures should be referred to private hospitals. Otherwise there will be unnecessary occupancy of beds,” Barua said. State health department officials said it would take time to set up such a committee and revise the rates. They asked the hospitals not to refuse people turning up for treatment under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. “Lot of discussions and approvals are needed before such a committee can be set up. For now we have told the hospitals not to refuse patients under the scheme,” said a senior official in the health department. “We are planning to cover 9 crore people under the Swasthya Sathi scheme by January.” The scheme’s beneficiary count now stands at 2 crore. Sources aware of the deliberations at the meeting said the private hospitals requested the health department that they be allowed to only admit patients for planned surgeries under the scheme. “Sound decisions can only be made based on data. Until that data is available, we have requested the authorities to refer patients needing elective surgeries or procedures. We have asked the authorities to allow us to refer the observation cases to government hospitals,” said the CEO of a private hospital. “The Swasthya Sathi rates for treating patients in the general ward or the critical care unit are far lower than what the hospitals need to charge to stay viable,” the CEO said. “In cases where referrals are not possible, the medical management cost should be charged on actuals, based on the cost of drugs, consumables and utilisation of services.” Some hospitals, however, said it would be difficult to refer such patients to government facilities. “Rather, we would want the government to allow us to allocate a percentage of beds for treating patients under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. This will help avoid complications and misunderstandings,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital. At the meeting, the hospitals also requested the government to release dues under the scheme within 15 days of the discharge of a patient. Now, they said, it takes about one-and-a-half months to get the money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-192
