30-12-2020||Calcutta||TMC leader shot dead near Indian Botanic Garden gate||A 40-year-old real estate businessman and local Trinamul Congress leader was shot dead near gate number 3 of the Indian Botanic Garden on Tuesday, triggering violence. Police deployed Rapid Action Force personnel to bring the situation under control. At least four private buses and two motorcycles were damaged and around 10 shops were destroyed in the violence that left the area in Howrah’s Shibpur on the edge till late in the evening. Dharmendra Singh, who was the president of the Trinamul Youth Congress of Howrah’s 39 Ward, was returning home on a two-wheeler with a youth riding pillion when three men opened fire near gate number 3 of the botanical garden around 4pm, eyewitnesses have told cops. “We have learnt that six rounds were fired. One of the bullets pierced the victim’s head. The pillion rider, too, suffered a bullet injury,” said a senior police officer of the Howrah police commissionerate. “The victim was rushed to a private hospital on Andul Road, where he died.” The police have registered a murder case with the Botanic Garden police station and started a probe. Cops are scanning CCTV footage. As news of Singh’s death spread, several youths gathered outside the hospital armed with bamboo sticks and demanded immediate arrest of the murderers. Some in the crowd damaged parked buses and motorcycles and several shops in the area. Later, two motorcycles were set on fire, eyewitnesses said. A contingent of RAF was sent from the Howrah police headquarters. “Primarily, it appears that the assassins knew when Singh would head home and had planned the murder accordingly. We will scan his mobile phones for more details and check his call records,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Three held for  Rs 8-lakh Internet bank fraud||Three men were arrested on Monday night for allegedly siphoning off Rs 8 lakh from the bank account of a Salt Lake resident, police said. The men accessed the bank account details of Sandeep Goyal, an HA Block resident, and transferred the money to an account from which they were making regular withdrawals, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. All the men used to work for Goyal. “The men got hold of Goyal’s Internet banking details and one of his identity cards. They used an authorisation letter to get a duplicate SIM card from a mobile phone store,” the officer said. They allegedly downloaded the bank’s app on their cell phone and used Internet banking to transfer the amount. “They did the transfers minutes after getting the new SIM card,” the officer said. The three have been charged under sections of the IPC, including 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust). They were produced in a Salt Lake court, which sent them to six days’ police remand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro e-pass window to be curtailed further||The e-pass window for Metro passengers is likely to be further narrowed from next week, officials in the carrier said. Under the current system, an e-pass is mandatory for male passengers between 16 and 59 years to enter the station during the morning and evening rush — 8.30am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm. “The plan is to further shorten the window from 9am to 11am and 5pm to 7pm,” a Metro official said. A fleet of 216 trains run from Monday to Saturday. The first and last trains now leave the terminal stations at 7am and 9.30pm, respectively. The e-pass system was introduced along with the resumption of Metro services on September 14 for crowd control. Downloading an e-pass was mandatory for all to enter a Metro station. A smart card is a must to board a train. In a phased manner, the carrier has relaxed the e-pass norms. As of now, women, children (15 years and below) and senior citizens (60 years and above) do not need an e-pass throughout the day. Till December 14, men between 16 and 59 years needed e-pass throughout the day, except between 7am and 8.30am and post 8pm. From December 14, the window was shortened to 8.30am-11am and 5pm-8pm. “But even after that we have been noticing a lot of vacant slots between 8am and 9am and from 7pm to 8pm. So, we decided to narrow the window further,” said the Metro official. The carrier wants to do away with the system of e-passes in phases. Officials said they did not see the number of passengers going up alarmingly in the coming days even without the e-pass system. “The token system will remain suspended for now. But we want to do away with the e-pass system in phases and make Metro services accessible for all throughout the day,” said Manoj Joshi, the Metro general manager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||600 softshell turtles rescued in Naihati||More than 600 Indian softshell turtles, some of them dead, were seized from the courtyard of a fish trader’s house in Naihati, North 24-Parganas, on Tuesday morning. The trader’s son has been arrested. The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and the forest department are trying to track down the other members of the racket. A team of officials of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and the North 24-Parganas forest division raided the house after they received a tip off. On searching the house, the team found the turtles crammed inside plastic crates that were stacked up and covered in plastic sheets, a forest department official said. “The rescued turtles were Indian softshell turtles that are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act,” Agni Mitra, deputy regional director of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, an agency under the ministry of environment and forests, said. “The killing, hunting or selling turtles is illegal.” Mitra was monitoring the raid. The turtles are of various sizes. Several had died because of improper transportation, a forest department official said. The arrested man has told forest officials that the turtles were headed to markets in Barasat and Bongaon, the official claimed. “The Indian softshell turtle is in high demand for its meat,” another official said. Mitra said the turtles had been smuggled in from Uttar Pradesh. “The turtles were put on a mini-van which drove to Naihati.” The turtles that have survived have been kept in the forest department’s Barasat office. “We will monitor their health for a few days before releasing them,” the forest official said. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists Indian softshell turtle as “vulnerable” in its Red List of threatened species.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Training and list compilation start ahead of vaccine rollout||Nearly 20,000 vaccinators under the state health department are being trained in imparting Covid-19 vaccines and a software is being developed where details of nearly six lakh health workers are being uploaded as part of the preparation for vaccination programme. Vaccinators, who have so long been administering traditional vaccines including polio and BCG, are being told how to handle Covid-19 vaccine from the cold chain, what volume of the dose would have to be preserved for future checks and details of infection control practices at vaccination sites, health department officials said. A trained vaccinator will be solely responsible for injecting a shot into a person. There will be four others in the team. One of them will receive the candidate at the specified vaccination centre and check the person’s identity before ushering him or her into a waiting room. The third will escort the candidate from the waiting room to the vaccination room after ensuring he or she has taken all precautions. Two others will be with the candidate in the waiting room after the shot is given. “At every vaccination site the vaccinator will be the key person and sole representative of the health department, among a group of five staff, who will be administering the jab,” a senior official of the health department said. “The training is aimed at enabling end-to-end mobilisation and testing of the Covid-19 vaccination process.” There will be around 6,000 vaccination sites across the state. Similar training programmes have also begun for cold-chain handlers, who will be responsible for Covid-19 vaccines from storage and preservation to the final delivery at the vaccination centre. The vaccines will have to be stored at a specified temperature and then transported to the nearest centre with all precautions in place. A session on training the trainers for the ground-level cold-chain handlers was completed in Siliguri last week. Apart from training the vaccinators, separate sessions are being held for the volunteers who will be present in the waiting room at each vaccination site. Every vaccine recipient will have to wait for at least 30 minutes after being given the jab. The volunteers will be trained in handling Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI). There will be separate AEFI kits both in the waiting rooms of the vaccination sites and also at the nearest hospitals where recipients may have to be admitted in case they develop complications. As part of backend preparations, the health department has engaged software professionals to draw up a detailed list of six lakh frontline health workers who will get the first shots after the Covid vaccination starts. These professionals will monitor the vaccination process for each of the candidates, who will have to register with the Co-Win app that is being developed by the Union health ministry. The compilation of the data on health workers is almost nearing completion and the state health department has started sending out congratulatory messages to some of them for being in the frontline in the battle against the pandemic. The congratulatory message says: “The government of West Bengal will send you Covid-19 vaccine in due time in recognition of your efforts in standing by the side of the Covid patients as a true Covid warrior. We with your family stay healthy and sound all the time.” “I received the message on Tuesday and was pleasantly surprised. The government always looks after its own doctors. Including private sector doctors like us is a welcome move,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay. “Each vaccination centre will have a detailed list of those who are scheduled to turn up at a particular date and at a specified time. From the time a candidate turns up and till he leaves, everything will have to be recorded on a software and the data will later be uploaded and shared with Co-Win,” said an official at Swasthya Bhavan, who is overseeing the preparedness of the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out. “A whole team is working on this process.” At all medical colleges and hospitals in Calcutta and North and South 24-Parganas, the health department has decided that deputy superintendents of the hospitals (non-medical) will act as “nodal officers” for the vaccination of healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University dean of engineering quits over pressure||A Jadavpur University teacher has resigned as dean of engineering, the post that he took over on December 7, following what sources close to him said was pressure from students and at least four instances of being gheraoed. Amitava Datta, the third teacher to quit as a JU dean in as many months, sent his resignation to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das on Tuesday morning. “I have requested the dean to reconsider the resignation,” Das told Metro. Contacted, Datta declined comment. Late on Monday, students’ union representatives had repeatedly called him demanding a copy of the resolution the executive council adopted on Sunday. “Due to some personal reasons and health issues, it is becoming difficult for me to continue working in this position effectively. I am therefore tendering my resignation…” Datta wrote to the VC. According to the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association, Datta and the two pro-vice-chancellors had been confined for several hours on December 9, the day the students’ union in the engineering faculty launched an agitation to protest alleged errors in results and delay in their publication. On December 11, during a meeting of the Jadavpur University Management System (JUMS) Restructuring Committee, some students prevented other members from leaving the venue even after the discussions had ended. Datta and others were detained till 1.30am. Last week, Datta and other officials were detained till midnight by students over errors in results. VC Das had told teachers on Wednesday night after a round of confinement of teachers by students: “In such circumstances, myself and my two pro-VCs feel that we should not continue to remain in the office.” The issue regarding results was resolved on Saturday with the university accepting moral responsibility for the delayed publication. The executive council on Sunday adopted a resolution related to restructuring the management system. Students called Datta repeatedly on Monday night demanding a copy of the resolution. “He tried to explain to them that a copy of the resolution had to be collected from the registrar’s office. But they insisted he hand it over to them and used derogatory words. This was the final trigger for the resignation,’’ an official said. Aritra Majumder, the chairperson of the student’s union of the engineering faculty, said: “The problem regarding our results existed even before the dean joined.... The scale of mess is so huge that even if he tried to solve it positively, the task was not that easy. May be Dean came under pressure, leading to his decision to resign. We don’t think he could accuse us...’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Head of Chowringhee High School passes away||A school head who inspired hundreds of students over the years to work for the community around the campus and beyond died on Tuesday morning. Perminder Dasani, the administrator of Chowringhee High School, was 54. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. Dasani, who had tested positive for Covid, was admitted to hospital on December 27. His hard work and stellar role played by his students led to Chowringhee High School being often described as “a small school with a big heart”. Dasani took charge of the school in Chowringhee Lane, off Sudder Street, in 1990. He encouraged his students to step outside their comfort zones and establish a connect with society. Inspired by him, students of Chowringhee High School have been feeding the poor  in the neighbourhood every Saturday for the past 20 years. Former students of the school raised more than Rs 5 lakh to provide ration to 1,200 families during the lockdown, in the neighbourhood and beyond. Current students of the school helped Dasani pack the dry ration and accompanied him to various neighbourhoods in and around the city. Dasani’s social work did not start with the pandemic. He had arranged for cervical cancer vaccination for girls, most of whom live in the New Market slum. In August last year, he had started self-defence classes for girls in the locality. In September, amid a blood crisis in the city, Dasani organised a blood donation camp at the school. A part of the blood that was donated was for children with thalassaemia. The other projects which he started and involved students include building a public toilet on Sudder Street and adopting a village in South 24-Parganas. Under his leadership, Chowringhee High School has won the award for social service at The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence six times. This year the school was the joint winner in the same category. “Perminder Dasani’s death is a huge loss for the city with a heart. Calcutta is a city with a soul; it is because of people like him that the city has acquired this reputation. He did his social work in a quiet and meaningful way, touching the lives of the marginalised, irrespective of caste, creed or religion,” said Barry O’Brien, educationist and Dasani’s friend. “He was truly secular and whether it was Durga Puja, Id, Diwali or Christmas, he would celebrate every festival by reaching out in a special way to various sections of society.” Even a few days before his death, Dasani had initiated blanket distribution for street dwellers on Christmas Eve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court issues order for year-end celebrations||Police have concluded that Park Street saw an unexpected surge in crowd on Christmas evening because people who had been to the Victoria Memorial and Alipore zoo earlier in the day came over to see the festive lights once those venues closed. The police brass are worried that there could be a repeat of the Christmas chaos and Covid dare on the night of December 31 and January 1. A Calcutta High Court division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee on Tuesday passed an order instructing the state chief secretary and the home secretary to prevent crowding during the year-end celebrations. Like during Durga Puja and other festivals, when a similar order of the high court was in force to prevent a spike in the number of Covid cases, the onus of implementing the order would be on the police. Cops who were posted on Park Street on Christmas said the people who visited the road were not the usual Christmas crowd. “They were not there to celebrate the festival. They were general revellers who wanted to spend more time outdoors,” said an officer. That was the reason, the police on the ground reported, the crowd thinned in about two hours, because their destinations were not the pubs and eateries in the party zone. New Year’s Eve poses a greater challenge to the police as officers apprehend that even before this crowd thins, there would be another surge of people who would be keen to join the traditional year-end festivities that continue past midnight. Police officers have calculated that the sudden surge of visitors on Park Street started on Christmas evening within half an hour the Alipore zoo and the Victoria Memorial closed for the day. Both close at 5pm. Park Street had started crowding from 5.30pm. “So many people walked to Park Street all of a sudden that we had no option but to close the road to vehicles. Else there would have been accidents,” said an officer who was on duty on Park Street on Christmas evening. This time, apprehending an even larger turnout, there is instruction from Lalbazar not to close Park Street to vehicles during the year-end festivities, unless there is an emergency, police sources said. There will be walking channels on either side of the road to ensure pedestrians do not spill on the thoroughfare. The biggest challenge will be to manage pedestrians and vehicles simultaneously. On Christmas evening, the closure of Park Street to vehicles caused huge snarls on AJC Bose Road, Red Road, Chowringhee Road, Central Avenue, Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road, Park Circus seven-point crossing and APC Road. “We will have a larger deployment on Park Street on New Year Eve to ensure that people keep moving. We have no plans to close Park Street to vehicles unless there is an emergency,” said an officer of the traffic department. “On New Year Eve, usually there is a continuous stream of different types of visitors to Park Street. There are people who reach early in the evening and leave early. Another section that comes to dine usually leaves before Park Street starts crowding with late-night revellers. The third kind are those who enjoy their evenings at private parties elsewhere and head to Park Street only after 11pm,” said an officer in the south division. Park Street, between Chowringhee Road crossing and the Wood Street intersection, will be divided into multiple zones and each will be under the supervision of an officer of the rank of deputy commissioner on the 31st night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Bengal panel to look into Swasthya Sathi rates||The state government on Tuesday formed a committee to look into, among other things, whether the rates under the Swasthya Sathi insurance scheme could be increased as demanded by private hospitals. The hospitals had at a meeting on Monday told the health department that the rates for treatment offered under Swasthya Sathi, a state government insurance scheme, were very low and would make them unviable. The scheme, for which the state government pays the premium, offers health coverage of Rs 5 lakh per annum per family. The committee is led by the state’s director of medical education, Debasish Bhattacharya, and has government officials and doctors from government hospitals as other members. It does not have any representative from the private healthcare sector. At Monday’s meeting, the private hospitals had requested the government that their representatives be included in the committee. Officials said they would start working immediately and hold talks with private hospitals on the necessary changes to the scheme, under which the state government plans to bring nine crore people by January. “The committee has officials from the finance and other government departments. It will look into many issues raised by the private hospitals regarding the Swasthya Sathi scheme. Among those are the treatment rates,” a senior state government official said after a meeting chaired by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. The official said there was no plan to hire an agency to revise the rates, as suggested by private hospitals. Asked why representatives of private hospitals were not included in the committee, the official said the panel would talk to the private healthcare sector. “At every level, the committee will hold discussions with private hospitals. There is no need at this point to hire a private agency to fix the rates,” said the official. The committee, he said, will also decide which patient to be sent to which hospital for treatment under the scheme. “Till the time these issues are addressed, the private hospitals have been asked not to refuse patients under Swasthya Sathi,” he said. The private hospitals had suggested that only patients in need of high-end treatment be sent to superspeciality units under the scheme and those needing less complicated surgeries or procedures be sent to smaller hospitals or nursing homes. Health department sources said they were planning to have a system that would categorise hospitals, based on which it would be decided which patient would be sent where. “If a patient needs surgery for removal of gallbladder stones, then he or she would be sent to a secondary-level hospital or nursing home under Swasthya Sathi,” an official said. “For a more complicated procedure, like joint replacement or cardiac bypass surgery, a superspeciality hospital will be recommended. The list will be prepared soon,” the health department official said. Private hospitals offering superspeciality services had expressed the fear that they would not be able to cope with the rush if they were to treat patients in need of less complicated procedures. “We welcome the state government’s quick response to our request to set up a committee. We expect that the committee will take our opinions while fixing rates and addressing other issues,” said Rupak Barua, president, Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “This way, the Swasthya Sathi scheme could become a success. Once there is clarity, there will be fewer allegations of hospitals refusing patients under the scheme.” Representatives of several private hospitals had told the health department at Monday’s meeting that they would have to shut down their units if the government forced them to take patients under a scheme that offered very low rates. A state government official said the suggestion from private hospitals to fix the number of beds to be allocated for patients under Swasthya Sathi was unacceptable. “Then the purpose of the scheme, to provide quality healthcare to everyone, will be defeated,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Uncertainty hits nursery admissions in Calcutta||Several schools have recorded low admission in nursery or kindergarten this year. By this time of the year, the berths are either full or schools usually meet their “target number”. At St Augustine’s Day School Calcutta, only 165 seats have been taken as against 300 in nursery and lower kindergarten. At Julien Day School Ganganagar, it is 25 per cent less than previous years, while at another CBSE school, it is about 30 per cent less than other years. Several heads have felt that since there is no guarantee when schools for the pre-primary children will reopen, parents are willing to keep them at home instead of admitting them to school at the age of three or four years. But with low intake, at least two heads said, it would impact the revenue of the school, especially in a year when their fee collection had already suffered. “By now we fill up more than 200 seats in the pre-primary. This year, parents have taken the final admission form but many of them have not come back,” said Richard Gasper, the principal of St Augustine’s Day School. Many schools charge in the range of Rs 40,000 to Rs 1 lakh at the time of admission, which also includes the fees for the first quarter. There are parents who would rather use the money in their businesses that was impacted because of the Covid pandemic instead of giving it as admission fee, said a head. “There are parents whose businesses have suffered the entire year and only now they are picking up,” said a principal. Some of the parents have also asked the school for instalments and the schools are agreeing to it. “By December we are through, but this year we will have to extend it to January or February. Since the situation is different we are also allowing instalments this year,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar. Schools are also apprehensive that the low intake will impact the school’s earnings. “The pre-primary admission is a source of income for the school. We also plan the school’s development on the basis of that. This year, we are having to waive off fees but there are overhead costs and also salaries of employees that the school has to arrange for,” said Gasper. “Pre-primary admission is important for every school, and if seats lie vacant, schools’ revenue will take a hit. The students of Class XII will move out and the flow of funds has to be there to make up for the deficit,” said Baxter. An official of the CBSE school said usually the mailbox was full at this time even though the seats are filled. “Also, there are hard copies of applications which we would be able to respond to only if seats get vacant. But this year, there are hardly any mails for applications.” Loreto Convent Entally is yet to start the admission process but the number of applications have gone down. “The applications for nursery (four plus) has gone down by 10 to 15 per cent this year,” said principal Jessica Gomes Surana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
30-12-2020||Calcutta||Bidhannagar fair cancelled because of Covid||The Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav) will not be held this winter, an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. The fair is organised every winter by the civic body at Central Park in Salt Lake. The organisers have decided to cancel it because of the Covid situation, the official said. Vendors from countries such as Turkey, Bangladesh, Nigeria and Pakistan are among the fair regulars. The decision to postpone the fair was taken during a meeting of the organising committee members, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-191
