31-12-2020||Calcutta||Sunderbans researcher passes away||Amalash Choudhury, retired professor of zoology and marine sciences from Calcutta University and a pioneering personality in Sunderbans research, succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday in a hospital at North 24-Parganas. Choudhury was the founder of the marine science department in Calcutta University. A nonagenarian, he had initiated ecological research on the Sunderbans in the sixties. He set up two laboratories with his own resources — Sushma Debi Marine Biology Research Centre  was set up on Sagar Island in the sixties and another the nineties at his residence in Sodepur. “Professor Choudhury was the founder of marine science related academic discourse and research in eastern India. His work in Gangetic delta and Sunderbans ecology stood out for its uniqueness,” said Sandip Mukherjee, a scientist in the Union ministry of earth sciences in Delhi and his former student. Pulak Lahiry, a retired Calcutta University professor in zoology department and one of Choudhury’s earlier students, pointed out his great dedication in research throughout his life. “During 60s, when he built the laboratory in Sagar; nobody was used to talking about Sunderbans....” “He believed that just publishing scientific papers is useless unless those come to the help of people on the ground. Even in his 90s, he insisted on going to the field,” said one of his former students and at present in an important position in the state government. “Professor Choudhury was one of the finest teachers. Brilliant in his lectures, always unruffled, measured voice and unbridled affection for his students; he was a standout and stalwart figure” said Sujata Basu, a student towards the end of his teaching career. Lamenting his demise, Sunderbans affairs minister Manturam Pakhira, said as a  Sunderban Development Board member, he was always ready to contribute for the development of the climatically-fragile area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
31-12-2020||Calcutta||Tiger kills fisherman in Sunderbans||A fisherman who had set out with two others on a country boat to catch fish deep inside the Sunderbans, died after a tiger attacked him near Mechua Island on Wednesday morning. The victim has been identified as Abhay Mondal. At least 20 fishermen have died in tiger attacks this year, seven more than the number of tiger attack deaths in 2019. This is the official data, the actual number might be higher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
31-12-2020||Calcutta|| West Bengal pollution control board starts distributing free LPG-powered irons||The West Bengal pollution control board (WBPCB) has started the process of distributing 10,000 free LPG-powered iron pressers among roadside laundry stalls in Calcutta, Bidhannagar and Howrah to reduce air pollution. Earlier, a study conducted by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), sponsored by WBPCB, found that such laundry stalls contribute 0.14 per cent of PM10 pollutant and 0.29 per cent of PM2.5 pollutant to the city air’s pollution mix. The pollutants are toxic and can enter deep into the respiratory system and trigger a range of diseases. “We started the distribution in Bidhannagar today. We plan to give 10,000 pressers in a phased manner,” environment minister Soumen Mahapatra told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “We plan to finish the distributing the iron pressers this winter. The pressers will also prove to be economical for the laundry stalls,” PCB chairman Kalyan Rudra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
31-12-2020||Calcutta||Molested in car on way home from party||A 21-year-old woman has alleged that she was molested by two men while she was returning home in a car after a birthday party in Jadavpur on Tuesday night. Police have drawn up a case against the men the woman has named in her FIR. In her complaint with the Jadavpur police station the woman has claimed that around 9.30pm on Tuesday, after the party got over, she had boarded the car along with a female friend. There were two men in the car. One of them drove the car while the other sat on the rear seat. The group was headed for Maheshtala in South 24-Parganas where the woman lives. The woman has told the police that the she did not know the men well, they were more close to her female friend. Soon after leaving Jadavpur, the men went around driving through parts of Southern Avenue and Sarat Bose Road for sometime, the woman told the police. She alleged that during the rounds the men started misbehaving with her and later molested her. She tried to raise the alarm and even tried to get out of the car twice, but failed. The woman managed to get out of the car near Bhowanipore police station, the woman said. “The men fled with my friend,” she told cops. The woman then called a friend and went to Jadavpur police station and lodged an FIR, the police said. The police on Wednesday evening recovered the car that was allegedly used in the crime. No arrests were made till late on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
31-12-2020||Calcutta||Rose garden at Botanic in full bloom||A rose garden laid out at AJC Bose Indian Botanic Garden in January this year is in full bloom now. A few yards away from the Old Banyan Tree, a 26,000sq ft of land has been developed into a rosarium with 3,000 rose plants of 300 varieties or cultivators, as they are known. The 233-year-old garden that mainly engages in ex situ conservation of rare and endangered plants is now growing ornamental plants like roses, canna, bougainvillea in designated sections because these attract visitors. The garden in Howrah’s Shibpur used to have a rosarium about 100 years back, behind the herbarium. But it had been neglected and the plants had died long ago. In January, the Agri-Horticultural Society of India (AHSI) had organised an international rose convention and as part of that, it had developed the rosarium for the botanical garden to showcase how the local soil and climate were conducive to rose-growing. There are 29 beds of roses and a circular bed going around the perimeter. There are beds for Indian as well as foreign breeds of roses. There are wild roses and climbing rose plants of different cultivators. Named after EK Janaki Ammal, the first lady officer on special duty deputed by the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to reorganise the Botanical Survey of India, the rosarium also has a rose by her name. The Janaki Ammal rose plant is at the centre of the garden and is in bloom. There is also a Roxbourgh rose plant named after William Roxburgh, who was the first superintendent of the garden. Another variety called President Pranab has been sourced from a nursery in Kharagpur. “There are 16 different colours of roses, including bi-colour hybrids,” said SP Panda, a scientist who is developing the rose garden. There are fragrant roses, green roses, climbing roses, stand roses, which are ideal for areas with snowfall, and roses without thorns. “The nascent garden withstood Cyclone Amphan and also a fungal attack. We had supported the plants with props in preparation for Amphan. About 50 plants were damaged, we had replaced them. For fungal infection, we have used fungicides,” said Panda. The AHSI, which had landscaped the rosarium and provided technical knowhow, is still in consultation with the botanical garden. “We laid out the garden for them, created colour blocks and recommended the varieties to be planted,” said Anupama Mitra, deputy secretary, AHSI. No flower shows The AHSI and Indian Botanic Garden have decided to give the annual flower shows a miss this winter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
31-12-2020||Calcutta||Covid tests for 700 from 3 UK flights||The state government will conduct Covid tests of 700 passengers and crew members of three Air India flights from London that arrived in Calcutta since November 30, after the mutated strain of coronavirus that was first detected in the UK, was found in the sample of one of the passengers, who had arrived in the city on December 20. The government, as part of the preparedness, is setting up a separate facility at ID Hospital, Beleghata if more people are detected with the UK strain. The 700 include 220 passengers and 12 crew members of the December 20 flight on which the passenger, a youth, had come to the city, said state health department officials. The passenger was admitted at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital where he was kept in isolation. The youth is the son of a senior official of the hospital, said health department sources. “He has been kept under observation and his condition is stable. The patient is asymptomatic,” said an official of the health department. On Air India’s December 20 flight from Heathrow, of the 222 passengers, 25 had boarded from London without getting their Covid-19 tests done, said officials of the state government. All underwent the tests at Calcutta airport and reports of two had come positive. Their swab samples were sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for genetic analysis based on the new protocol set by the ministry of health. The samples were then sent for retesting at the National Centre For Disease Control, Delhi, where the mutated strain was detected in the samples of the youth. The government on Wednesday morning, had asked Air India to send details of all the passengers and crew members of the three flights. The airline sent the details in the afternoon. “The seat mapping which shows which passenger was seated where, has also been sent to the state government,” said an Air India official. Health department officials said they were contacting all the passengers and crew members to get their tests done. “The tests will be first conducted at the Covid-19 testing facilities in the city and if some of the samples come positive, then those would be sent for further genetic analysis at the Kalyani institute. The testing process will start from Thursday,” said a senior official of the health department. In the meantime, all 700 would be advised to stay in isolation. If someone tests positive, only then, their close contacts would be tested, said officials. “In the December 20 flight, since two of the 222 passengers have already been tested, we’ll be conducting tests for the rest of the passengers and crew members,” said an official. VUI-202012/01, the new variant of Sars-Cov-2, is said to be more contagious by experts. Although health department officials said there was no reason for panic in Bengal at this moment, preparedness has started in case more people are detected with the new strain. A separate facility for such patients is being created at ID Hospital, Beleghata. “A 50-bed unit is being set up in a separate building at ID Hospital, Beleghata for such patients. If required, more beds can be added there," said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
31-12-2020||Calcutta||Celebrate New Year’s Eve with caution||The Mamata Banerjee government on Wednesday asked people to celebrate New Year’s Eve with caution and use discretion amid concerns that unmasked gatherings could lead to a fresh spike in Covid cases. The government, however, made it clear that no extreme restrictions like night curfew would be in place in the state. “We are urging people to celebrate New Year’s Eve in a quiet, restricted and cautious manner. No one should go out without masks. The authorities have initiated several measures in places where people gather to celebrate New Year,” state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said. A Calcutta High Court division bench of Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya and Justice Kausik Chanda had on Tuesday passed an order instructing the state chief secretary and the home secretary to prevent congestion in public places, particularly in the popular spots of the city, during the year-end celebrations. Like during Durga Puja and other festivals, when a similar order of the high court was in force to prevent a spike in the number of Covid cases, the onus of implementing the order would be on the police. On Wednesday, Bandyopadhyay met several senior officers from the home department and the police to discuss ways to execute the high court directive. “There are only a few places in the state — Park Street, Eco Park and Victoria Memorial among them — where people gather to celebrate. The police would convert traffic posts in these areas into assistance booths where a limited number of masks would be kept to distribute to those who come out without masks. Police would also keep a watch on the gathering (to ensure that protocols are followed),” the chief secretary said. Senior officers in Lalbazar said around 10 police checkpoints would be set up along the entire stretch of Park Street from its junction with JL Nehru Road right upto Mullickbazar. Each of these checkpoints would have police armed with sanitisers and masks. Those found to be without masks on New Year’s Eve would immediately be directed to the nearest checkpoint and a mask would be handed over to him/her. Officers in charge of Park Street and Shakespeare Sarani police stations have been asked to draw up a roster for deployment at these checkpoints from early Thursday. “There will be a continuous campaign from loud hailers requesting visitors to maintain social distance in keeping with the high court directive. Additional forces would be deployed around Victoria Memorial, the Maidan and St Paul’s Cathedral,” said a senior police officer. On Wednesday afternoon, police officers met representatives of pubs and restaurants and instructed them to deploy additional manpower to ensure social distancing among the crowd waiting to enter and to strictly follow the timeline for closure by the excise department. The police have decided that there will be no restriction on traffic movement on Park Street but if the footfall becomes high and unmanageable then senior officers at the spot will take a decision. Park Street, between Chowringhee Road and the Wood Street intersection, will be divided into multiple zones and each will be under the supervision of an officer of the rank of deputy commissioner on 31st night. The chief secretary made it clear that the situation in the state did not warrant a night curfew. “The Centre has issued guidelines and those are for all states. Where such restrictions are required, states concerned would follow the advisories. But in Bengal, the (Covid) situation does not warrant such extreme actions. At the same time, people should not celebrate in an extreme manner,” he said. On Tuesday, the number of daily Covid positive cases in the state came down to 1,244. This number had crossed 4,000 in end October. Chill alert The new year is set to arrive with biting cold, the Met office said. Fresh northwesterly winds from the upper reaches of the country are headed to the city. “The winds will be stronger than those blowing now. The effect should be felt from Thursday evening. The minimum temperature is expected to slide significantly from Friday,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-190
