01-10-2020||Calcutta||Bleeding & unconscious inside ATM kiosk||A man was found bleeding and unconscious in an ATM kiosk on Canal South Road near Chingrighata on Wednesday afternoon. Initially cops suspected he had been assaulted but footage of CCTV cameras inside the kiosk suggested he had tried to kick open the kiosk’s glass door and smashed it. Glass shards left him with multiple wounds as he tumbled inside and fell on the floor, police said. Mohammad Zafar Ali, 34, a guard by profession and a resident of Beleghata, has been admitted to NRS hospital. “Preliminary investigations showed he was drunk and he kicked the glass door very hard and the door gave in. Glass shards were shattered all over the place… he lost balance and fell 
inside the kiosk and became unconscious,” an officer of Pragati Maidan police station said. Canal South Road is lined with residential and commercial establishments and remains busy with pedestrian and vehicular movement. People in the neighbourhood were the first to spot him bleeding and unconscious inside the kiosk and alert the police. Cops took him to hospital. On regaining consciousness, Ali has corroborated the findings of the police, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Molested on way home from tuition, brother attacked||A girl returning home from tuition was molested by several men near Sukantanagar on the outskirts of Salt Lake on Sunday, she has said in her police complaint. The men hit her brother when he protested, she has said in the complaint. People of the area, which borders the East Kolkata Wetlands, were alerted by her cries and they rescued the girl and her brother before calling the police. She was headed home with her brother when a couple of men blocked her way and started passing lewd remarks at her. “She initially tried to ignore them and walk away but they blocked her way and hit her brother when he protested,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate quoted the girl as saying in the complaint. Cops later picked up two men, Toton Sardar, 28, and Paresh Sardar, 34, from their houses in the same area. Both have been booked for assault or criminal force on a woman with the intent to outrage her modesty and sexual harassment among others. The charges carry a maximum punishment of five years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court refuses stay on Pous Mela wall||The high court on Wednesday refused to stay the construction of boundary walls around the Pous Mela grounds on the Visva-Bharati campus in Santiniketan. The state government had on Tuesday prayed for a stay on the construction, citing a possible law-and-order situation. But the division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan said on Wednesday: “Construction work will continue.” The division bench of the Chief Justice and Justice Shampa Sarkar, however, said if the government or anyone else had any objection to the construction of the wall, they would have to approach the four-member committee the high court had formed to monitor the matter. The state government is still to decide on the future course of action. Visva-Bharati authorities had to stop the construction of the wall after protesters resorted to vandalism on the fairground on August 17. The high court set up a four-member committee on September 18 to find a solution with all stakeholders. Led by Justice Sanjib Banerjee, the other committee members are Justice Arijit Banerjee, advocate-general Kishore Datta and additional solicitor general Y.J. Dastoor. The bench had appointed advocate Jaydeep Kar amicus curiae to the case. Kar will assist the bench in the matter. Work to build the contentious wall resumed on Monday following a decision at a meeting on Sunday that was attended by members of the committee and officials of the university and the district administration. While appearing for the state on Tuesday, advocate-general Datta requested the court to allow him to quit the committee. The division bench on Wednesday allowed Datta to do so but said the district magistrate of Birbhum could join the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Parakeets, hill mynas found in truck to city ||More than 100 parakeets and scores of hill mynas were seized from a mini truck near East Burdwan on Wednesday. The truck was headed for the city, a forest official said. The driver and the helper of the truck have been arrested. Trading in such birds is prohibited and both are protected under the wildlife protection act, the official said. Officers of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau had received specific information a consignment of birds was headed to the city and that they would be sold in various places, including Barasat and Galiff Street. The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau alerted the forest department offices in Durgapur and Burdwan. Teams of officers from these two areas stopped the truck on NH2 near East Burdwan. “The birds were crammed in small cages. They could barely move,” a forest department official said. “Both hill mynas and parakeets are protected under the wildlife protection act.” Most fledglings are captured from the forests of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director, wildlife crime control bureau, said. “The birds are then transported to the city using various modes of transport,” Mitra said. Animals under schedule I of the wildlife protection act enjoy the highest protection. A person convicted of trading, killing or hunting a schedule I animal faces at least seven years in jail, a forest department official said. The hill myna is protected under schedule I. The website of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) says the common hill myna “occurs in moist or semi-evergreen forests in lowlands, hills and mountains. It is known for its ability to mimic sounds, including human speech”. The population is suspected to be declining because of trade and widespread forest destruction, according to the website. A conservationist working for an NGO said birds were sold on Galiff Street every Sunday. Trading begins around 5.30am. “Despite forest department raids, birds protected under the wildlife act are still sold there,” he said. Many birds don’t survive the long journeys they are forced to undertake in crammed cages, the conservationist said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
01-10-2020||Calcutta||3-day Sealdah flyover closure||Vehicles headed for the Sealdah flyover from north will be diverted from Shyambazar, Maniktala and Rajabazar, while those moving towards the flyover from south will be re-routed from the Exide and Moulali intersections for three from the morning of October 2. The traffic diversion scheme will remain in force from 6am on October 2 to 6am on October 5 as the flyover will remain shut during the period to facilitate the construction of a tunnel for the East-West Metro project. The tunnel-boring work for the Metro corridor — which, once fully functional, will link Sector V in Salt Lake with Howrah Maidan — resumed in June after remaining suspended for over three months because of Covid-19. “Five roads will be one-way on the days the flyover will remain closed so that the traffic diversion works smoothly,” said a senior officer of Calcutta police. “Movement of trams along APC Road, Mahatma Gandhi Road, College Street and Bidhan Sarani during this period will be restricted or suspended.” According to the traffic diversion plan, Sealdah-bound vehicles from Maniktala and Shyambazar along APC Road will be diverted from the Rajabazar crossing towards Narkeldanga Main Road, Phoolbagan and Beleghata Main Road. Some Sealdah-bound vehicles will also be diverted from the Shyambazar and Maniktala crossings. Moulali-bound buses and minibuses from Lenin Sarani that travel till or beyond Maniktala will be diverted along Central Avenue, and those headed for Rajabazar down Beleghata Road will be diverted from the Phoolbagan crossing. Beleghata-bound vehicles from the NRS Medical College and Hospital-end will take the east-bound slope of the flyover and head straight. At least seven bus and minibus routes, which cover large parts of south Calcutta and have their terminuses at Rajabazar, will be curtailed or terminated near the NRS Medical College and Hospital. Similarly, several bus and minibus routes along MG Road and Beleghata Road that stretch till the Beleghata baraf kal will terminate near the Rajabazar tram depot. To ensure that the thoroughfares remain unclogged on these days, police have decided to strictly enforce “No parking” rules along seven thoroughfares — Ahmerst Street, BB Ganguly Street, College Street, Nirmal Chunder Street, SN Banerjee Road, Creek Row and MG Road. “October 2 being a Friday and a national holiday, the traffic load will be comparatively lesser. Then we have Saturday and Sunday. Taking these into consideration, we have decided to implement the diversion plan,” said the officer. “From the morning of October 5, when most of the traffic would start rolling, the restrictions will have been lifted,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Recognition relief to small pujas||In October 2000 when some residents from a locality in New Alipore decided to organise a Durga Puja, the organisers had a trying time shuttling between police stations and court. There was no official permission to organise a puja and holding one was termed “illegal”. Two decades later, when members of the New Alipore Sanskritik Parishad hold Durga Puja this October, it will be a legal one. A formal police permission this time will make the puja committee eligible for the state grant of Rs 50,000, discounts on electric bills, facilities provided by the civic body, and services of the fire and emergency services department. Not just New Alipore Sanskritik Parishad. More than 1,000 puja committees across Calcutta, who have been struggling to organise the festival on a shoestring budget without an official clearance so far, a formal permission this time will make all the difference. Last Thursday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had requested the police to grant permission to all committees who have been organising pujas for almost a decade. The city police have already started scanning applications. “We won’t have to take electricity connection from our para members any longer. A permission means we will be eligible for a CESC connection and even a 50 per cent discount,” Indrajit Dey of New Alipore Sanskritik Parishad puja committee said. “Our electric bill used to be around Rs 20,000 for the halogen lamps inside the pandal and decorations outside and the microphone that is used during anjali.” Almost all such low-budget pujas are held in lanes and organisers keep hoping that cops don’t turn up and seize all items branding them “illegal”. “In case cops arrived, we would plead with the officer in charge of Narkeldanga police station every year not to take any step and invite him to attend our puja,” Sanat Halder of Pallybasi Brinda puja committee said. Halder was among the first group of men from a locality on Canal West Road in Narkeldanga to start the Durga Puja in 2009. The puja has so far been held without permission. “We will start erecting our pandal in next few days. For the first time, it feels nice to think we will not have to run away seeing a police van approach our puja,” Halder said. In Sonagachhi, Durga Puja organised by sex workers faced several challenges. The battle for rights reached Calcutta High Court from the streets after the police denied them permission. The puja on Abinash Kabiraj Street will probably get an official nod for the first time this year, according to sex workers. “When a puja committee has the police permission, it has the entire government support to help sail through the days of festivity,” a puja organiser in Kasba said. “Those who don’t have the police clearance know how difficult it can be organising Durga Puja.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Woman dies of burns after ‘fight’||Cops reached a rented flat in Azadgarh after receiving a call on 100 to find a woman with burns all over her and her friend with burns on his hand after midnight on Tuesday, police said. She had apparently got into a fight with the friend, the police said. The call on 100 came around 12.50am. The woman was taken to NRS hospital and her friend to SSKM Hospital. She died of her injuries early this morning. “The woman was standing near the door with burns all over her… her friend was sitting nearby with burns on his hand,” an officer of Jadavpur police station said. Anita Sardar, 38, a resident of Canning in South 24-Parganas had rented a flat on the ground floor of a building in Azadgarh a few weeks ago. A friend of hers, Tarun Sardar, used to visit her frequently, the police have found during investigation. Preliminary investigation suggested she had poured kerosene on herself before setting herself on fire. Her friend got burns on his hand trying to save her, the police said. Neighbours have told cops that they heard the two arguing and fighting around 12.30am. “Around 12.50am there was a call at 100 in the Lalbazar control room. There was specific information about the fire. Jadavpur police station was immediately alerted and a team reached the flat,” an investigator said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Why police need to review time-tested Puja plan||The established traffic and crowd management blueprint that Calcutta police execute every year during Durga Puja may not work this year because of increase in the number of private vehicles and restrictions on crowd gathering. With fewer people opting for public transport fearing Coronavirus infection, more private cars are expected on roads this Puja, the police believe. Crowd management at major intersections, where pedestrian movement is controlled by ropes and barricades, may also need a fresh approach because the last thing police would want is people jostling with each other in their eagerness to cross a road. Police are busy, in the run-up to Puja, finding solutions to new problems posed by the pandemic. The Telegraph reports some of the apprehensions of the police over traffic and crowd management. The scare of infection as well as scarcity of public transport have prompted several Calcuttans to opt for private transport — be it two-wheeler or four-wheeler — during the pandemic. Several police officers said they were expecting more private vehicles to hit the roads on the festival days compared with public transport. “Many who were dependent on public transport have purchased two-wheelers now. A large number of people who were earlier travelling by Metro are now using their own vehicles for daily commute. People are scared to travel in public transport. As a result, there is a sudden surge in the number of private vehicles on the roads,” said an officer in the traffic department. The police are planning to implement stricter “no parking” rules along major thoroughfares during the Puja to ensure the carriageways are not blocked. Ensuring physical distancing among pedestrians, especially at the crossovers, would be a challenge, officers fear. Over the past few years, Calcutta police had been following a mode of crowd dispersal at major intersections, called “Formula 44”, during the Puja. According to Formula 44, pedestrians are made to wait at crossovers till one full cycle of traffic signal — covering movement of vehicles from north to south, south to north, east to west and west to east – is complete. After completion of one cycle, the traffic lights for vehicles for all directions are turned red to allow movement of pedestrians in all directions. “Formula 44 had been effective in dispersing crowds within seconds. But now, we cannot make people stand so close to each other and wait for an entire traffic cycle to complete,” said an officer. Another officer said implementing the same formula after half a cycle would reduce the time pedestrians would spend waiting at crossovers. However, that too may cause unwanted traffic snarls as fewer vehicles will get to pass if the “half a cycle” system is followed. Sources said more than half the CCTV cameras damaged by Cyclone Amphan in May are yet to be repaired. Of the 1,600-odd cameras the police had installed on the roads, only around 700 are operational, sources said. “Cameras act as our eyes and help in identifying problem areas in real time. Without cameras, our officers have to manually search and locate the particular spot where there is a congestion and assess the reason,” said an officer. Senior officers said defunct cameras were likely to be repaired before Durga Puja. In previous years the police could predict the pattern of pandal hopping by experience or timings of Metro and local trains. This year it will be different. “There is uncertainty. No one knows what would be the pattern like. Would more people come out at daytime so they could return early? We cannot predict the pattern this year,” said a traffic police officer. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has asked the police to make arrangements to allow Puja revellers at pandals from the night of Tritiya (October 19).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Metro to pay heed to request for more trains||Metro Railway is planning to extend the timings of the last trains in either direction by half an hour from Monday, following passenger feedback and increasing rush in the evening, officials said on Wednesday. “The plan is to run six additional trains (three in each direction) from Monday. The last trains will leave the terminal stations at 8pm,” said an official. Since Monday, the carrier has been running 116 trains daily, instead of 110 till the week before. The last trains leave the terminal stations at 7.30pm now. Till last week the last trains would leave at 7pm. The decision to further increase the number of trains and extend the timings is in response to the growing rush in the evening, said Metro sources. It is also based on the feedback received from passengers at several stations. They requested station staff and RPF personnel for more trains in the evening, the sources said. “Till around 7pm on Wednesday, around 44,000 e-passes had been booked on the New Garia-Noapara route. Around 17,000 of them were booked for slots between 5pm and 8pm,” said an official of the agency that has designed the e-pass system. Many Metro passengers are said to have asked for extending the services beyond 8pm, an official said. “The station staff, including RPF personnel, are facing many such requests every day,” he said. As the city is opening up, more and more people are out till night. In the run-up to the festive season, roads are no longer deserted at 9pm. “Under such a situation, 7.30pm (when the last trains leave the terminal station) is too early. We want to go as close to the earlier timings as possible. But since local trains are still suspended, many of our staff are still having problems in transportation,” the official said. 
Before the pandemic, the last trains left the terminal stations at 9.55pm. The evening trains are full on most days and passengers are having to stand in many compartments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||3 Bengal workers ‘rescued’ from Tamil Nadu factory||Three workers from South 24-Parganas were “rescued” by Tamil Nadu police from a factory compound in Tirupur district on Tuesday night following an alert from their Bengal counterparts and days after one of the workers had had his fingers “crushed” under a machine. The workers — a man, his wife and his younger brother — have alleged that they were underpaid and physically abused by two labour contractors at the factory in Kangayam town. The contractors also allegedly said they would not allow the group to return home to Bengal unless “Rs 30,000 was sent to an account”. The alert from Bengal police went after the alleged victims called up their family members back home and sought help. As a “punishment” for letting word out, the accused allegedly dragged the younger brother near a conveyor belt machine and ran the belt over his right hand on September 25. The owner of the factory, which makes coir ropes and mats from coconut husk, has denied the allegations. “It was an accident, according to eyewitness accounts. I rushed him to a hospital immediately. A plastic surgery was done. He is recovering now,” he told Metro over the phone on Wednesday. He also denied the allegations of physical abuse and underpayment. Disha Mittal, the police superintendent of Tirupur district, said: “The local police went to the factory site on Tuesday night. There was nothing to suggest that the group was wrongfully confined. A suo motu case has been registered against two accused, a labour-in-charge and the factory owner, under sections 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) under the Indian Penal Code).” A prima facie probe suggests that the “right index and middle finger were damaged by a conveyor machine,” said Mittal. When Metro called up the elder brother on Wednesday, he said: “We have been rescued from the accommodation near the factory and taken to a hotel. We have tried telling the local police everything. But there is a language barrier. We want to return home safely but my brother has suffered permanent damage to his right hand. We also want compensation.”
Mittal, the police superintendent, discounted the language barrier, saying the cops had arranged for an interlocutor. A family member of the brothers had approached Jibantala police station in South 24-Parganas with a written complaint on September 27, on the basis of the allegations of the group in Tamil Nadu. The police are said to have refused to register an FIR, citing “lack of jurisdiction”. This newspaper has a copy of the written statement the relative wanted to submit to police. The same cops swung into action and burnt the midnight oil to trace the location of the alleged victims and coordinate with their Tamil Nadu counterparts apparently after a prod from Kamanasish Sen, the police superintendent of Baruipur police district, who this newspaper contacted on Tuesday afternoon. “Please ask the complainant to get in touch with me. I will do the needful,” Sen had told Metro on Tuesday. According to the rulebook, any police station in India can draw a “zero FIR” for registering a case that has not happened in their jurisdiction. Once the jurisdiction is ascertained, the case can be forwarded to the police station concerned Asked why a “zero FIR” was not lodged, the officer-in-charge of Jibantala police station, Samaresh Ghosh, said: “The complainant had come with a photocopy of the complaint. He was been asked to come with the original written complaint.” Both contractors accused of the atrocities are from Bengal and one of them is a distant cousin of the two brothers. During the multiple calls the alleged victims made to their family members, they could not provide their specific location in Tamil Nadu. The cops in South 24-Parganas traced the location by tracking the phone numbers, the bank account and the report of a nursing home where one of the alleged victims was treated at after the “accident”. The elder brother had also shared with this newspaper what he said was the report. “Right middle finger plus index finger crush injury,” says the “final diagnosis” in the report. The alleged victims left in a bus on August 8 with scores of other workers, the statement shared with this newspaper by the family member says. The incident underscores the pitiable conditions in which many workers from Bengal are forced to work outside the state. “The pandemic has narrowed opportunities and made things worse. People are so desperate for work that they are ready to accept anything that comes their way,” said Kakali Das of Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra, a Canning-based NGO that helped the family of the workers in South 24-Parganas in seeking redress from police. “Cyclone Amphan and the lockdown have robbed us of everything. A maternal cousin offered jobs in a factory in Tamil Nadu,” another brother of the alleged victims who lives in South 24-Parganas told Metro. The officer-in-charge of Jibantala police station said the primary focus was on the “safe return of the workers”. “If they want, they can file a fresh complaint with us. We will then register a case and transfer it to the police station under whose jurisdiction the area falls,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Call for Durga Puja discipline||The Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease, has appealed to the people to avoid crowds during and before the Puja to avert a spurt in Covid-19 cases after the festivity. The network urged the Puja committees to involve as few hands in meetings and other organisational work as possible and ensure that people do not sit inside pandals and chat. Visitors as well as residents of the respective neighbourhoods must be encouraged to stay inside pandals for as short a duration as possible, members of the network said at a news conference on Wednesday. The organisers should compete about hosting the most disciplined Puja than the most decorated one, said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health specialist and the mentor of Covid Care Network. He advised people to suspend pandal-hopping for this year. Chowdhury also said the government had set some rules and people should follow them but he wanted individuals to go over and above the government’s rules and avoid crowds. “The government will not be able to aggressively enforce the guidelines that it has issued. It cannot do so to people who are out enjoying the biggest festival of the year. But we as a social organisation have to take the responsibility to tell the people to not crowd any place. Do not drop your guard but drop your habit of pandal-hopping for this year at least,” said a member of the network. “It is our self-discipline and responsible behaviour that can help prevent a rise in Covid cases after Puja,” he said. Partha Sarathi Mukherjee, a member of the network said: “Puja committees should involve only those without whom the Puja cannot be organised…. On the Puja days, people should avoid wasting time inside pandals, chatting for hours.” Such measures should be in addition to wearing masks, washing hands with soap or disinfecting them with sani-tiser and maintaining a distance of at least 6ft from one another. There is an apprehension among public health workers that the Covid-19 numbers may see a sharp jump if people forget about the pandemic and indulge in reckless celebrations. A large number of people are likely to step out during the Puja, the first such occasion where many people will be out together since the pandemic hit the state and the city in March. The words of caution come from a realisation that if people are not careful, the situation may become grim after the festival. “The joy during Durga Puja should not lead to trouble post-festival. That is why we are appealing to individuals and the community to behave responsibly,” Chowdhury said. The state government has issued several guidelines for the Puja. The organisers have been asked to erect open and spacious pandals, keep inaugurations and immersions low-key and ensure that not many people gather during rituals. The committees have also been asked not to organise cultural programmes. This Puja should be enjoyed with bare minimum people’s presence and the unrestricted crowding can wait for some other year, Chowdhury said. “We have a tendency to overshoot the barriers put before us during festivals. On behalf of Covid Care Network, we are appealing to the people to be careful. Enjoy and celebrate but wear a mask, maintain physical distance and avoid crowding,” he said. He also said the way some people had started immersing themselves in the pre-Puja celebrations,throwing caution to the winds, was worrying. “People are tired staying at home. So they have come out in hordes as things are opening slowly. But they will be making a grave mistake if they do not take the precautions. Enjoy, but do it responsibly and with caution,” he said. The network, in association with Khadims, will honour one Puja each in 10 districts of Bengal. “The Puja that is the most disciplined and takes all necessary measures advised for combatting Covid-19 will get Rs 25,000 as prize money. They will also get a trophy,” said Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||School reopening talks after Kali Puja||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the Bengal government would think about reopening schools only after Kali Puja, which falls on November 14. “We will think about (reopening) the schools only after Kali Puja. We cannot give it a thought now. The situation has not become normal yet,” Mamata said while addressing an administrative review meeting in north Bengal. Kali Puja and Diwali are on the same day this year. The chief minister made the comment about the prospect of reopening schools while announcing that the Integrated Child Development Services centres would remain closed till October 31. At Sunday’s virtual meeting that education minister Partha Chatterjee had with vice-chancellors, it was decided that undergraduate classes in Bengal’s government-run colleges and government-aided universities were unlikely to start before the first week of December. Asked about the schools then, Chatterjee had said no decision had yet been taken. An official of the education department said the government was unsure about the reopening of schools, given the rise in Covid cases. “As the festival season is approaching and assembly in public spaces is feared, no one knows whether the situation will turn for the worse. Therefore, the government is not saying anything on when the schools will reopen,” the official said. Another official said that in colleges and universities, some of the classes still can be held on digital platforms. In government schools, that would be difficult. In Bengal, the number of government-run primary schools is close to 52,000.  The number of secondary and higher secondary schools is 12,000 and 7,000, respectively. Metro had on September 18 reported that the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) clarified that the partial reopening of schools in keeping with the Unlock IV manual issued by the home ministry would have to be “in conformity’’ with the directives of the respective state governments and any reopening would be subject to their permission. The council had directed the schools not to do “anything’’ in regard to reopening which “contravenes’’ the guidelines of the state government concerned. Mamata had said towards the end of July that the state government might reopen schools and colleges on alternate days in September “if the situation improves in August’’. The plan had to be scrapped as the Covid situation continues to be grim, said an official of the education department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Hospital bill ‘without details’ deals crushing insurance blow||A Covid patient’s family had to beg and borrow to raise Rs 2.5 lakh for his treatment after the insurance company rejected their cashless claim. It has been more than two months now but the patient, a 37-year-old hawker from Posta in Burrabazar, has yet to get the reimbursement because, the family alleged, the hospital’s bill lacks transparency and there were overbillings. Vicky Sonkar, who has a stall on a footpath at Raja Katra market in Burrabazar, had tested positive for Covid-19 and got admitted to Flemming Hospital in Topsia on July 9. He had bought a health insurance policy from HDFC ERGO, a private company, earlier this year. Sonkar was discharged from the hospital on July 16. During discharge, he came to know that the request for cashless admission was rejected by the insurance company and so the family had to arrange for the money. He later submitted the bills provided by the hospital for reimbursement but they are yet to be cleared because HDFC ERGO is said to have sought clarifications on the bill, which amounted to Rs 2.49 lakh. “We had called many hospitals but they either said there was no bed or asked for exorbitant amounts of money. One private hospital said Covid treatment would cost around Rs 12 lakh and another said Rs 10 lakh,” Sonkar said on Wednesday. “I run a small stall on the footpath. How would I arrange so much money?” Sonkar, a resident of Posta in Burrabazar, said. Then someone told him about Flemming Hospital, where the charges would be less. “When my parents called up the hospital, they said the treatment could cost Rs 2.5 lakh,” said Sonkar. “I had to get admitted because at that time if someone had Covid, neighbours were getting scared and the patient was being abandoned.” He had submitted to the hospital the documents of the insurance coverage but the claim for cashless treatment was rejected, said Sonkar. “The hospital said I had to pay the money to get discharged because the insurance company had rejected the cashless request. My parents had to beg and borrow the money from relatives to get me discharged,” said Sonkar. “Till now I have not got the reimbursement. The insurance company has told me that they are investigating the bill and it would take some time.” The bill, submitted to the insurance company by Flemming Hospital, shows the bed charge for a day was Rs 17,000. It was Rs 13,000 a day for the rest of the stay at the hospital. Besides, the hospital had billed Rs 32,000 for doctors’ visits for seven days. In June, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that a hospital could not charge a Covid patient more than Rs 1,000 a day for doctors’ consultation. The bill also shows Rs 8,000 was charged for air mattress, which, doctors said, is used for patients who are immobile. Air mattresses prevent bed sores. Sonkar said he could sit and move around and he was not sure whether an air mattress was given to him by Flemmings. The bill shown to Metro does not have details of the charges under the heads of pharmacy, pathology, radiology, etc. “Insurance companies usually reject documents sent in this format,” said the CEO of a private hospital, whom this newspaper had sent the bill. “A proper bill needs to have details charged for every investigation, consumable, non-medical item etc.” A Flemming Hospital official said he would not be able to comment without seeing a copy of the bill. This newspaper sent him a copy by WhatsApp on Wednesday afternoon, but he did not get back till late in the evening. An HDFC ERGO spokesperson said the company would not be able to comment on this case. There have been a lot of complaints over bills lacking transparency against private hospitals. “Initially, there were complaints from patients about testing. Then it was about not getting beds. Now, we are getting most complaints against private hospitals about billing,” said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, the regulatory body for private hospitals. Insurance professionals said lack of transparency in billing had been a huge problem during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Many hospitals submit bills that have no details. These bills cannot be accepted. But in the end, it’s the patient who is suffering because that person is forced to pay and then get discharged,” said Dipayan Saha, a doctor who handles claims for a private insurance company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
01-10-2020||Calcutta||Justice weeps, what more do I say?||Justice Asok Kumar Ganguly, a former Supreme Court judge, responded to the Babri Masjid demolition verdict by saying that in India of the present, Rabindranath Tagore’s prophetic verse, “Bichareyr bani nirawbey nibhritey knadey (the voice of justice silenced, doomed to weep)”, still holds true. “It saddens me deeply to see the truth of that saying by Tagore even today. I feel so bad, hearing of this judgment… words fail me,” Justice Ganguly, 73, told The Telegraph. The verse was from the 1932 poem Proshno, written in protest against Mahatma Gandhi’s arrest. “Ki bolbo bolun toh? Ei niye ar ki bolbo ami? Aajkeyr dineyr ja poristhiti, etai hoytoh protyashito. Jani na (What do I say, tell me. What more do I say about this? The situation today, maybe this is what is to be expected. I don’t know),” the retired judge said. Reminding the nation that the Supreme Court had described (in 1994) the demolition of the mosque as “an act of national shame”, Justice Ganguly said it was “clear” that there was “elaborate planning” with “support from a political party”. The following are excerpts from Justice Ganguly’s comments on Wednesday: “From whatever I have heard so far, the judge (of the CBI special court in Lucknow) has said there was no pre-planning. But prior to this, there were several judgments by the Supreme Court. “For instance, in the Ismail Faruqui case, the Supreme Court clearly said that the Babri Masjid demolition was ‘an act of national shame’. That was the phrase used, remember, it was ‘an act of national shame’. “In that judgment, the Supreme Court — the then central government had issued a white paper over the demolition of Babri Masjid — had quoted from that white paper. A contradiction of that, I haven’t read anywhere since. “Reading that, it is clear that there was elaborate planning. Who did that planning I cannot say. But that there was support from a political party, it was clearly stated, and was quoted in the Supreme Court’s judgment. “The Supreme Court said that it was ‘a great pity that a constitutionally elected government could not discharge its duties in a matter of this sensitiveness and magnitude’. Commitments to the court and Constitution, pledges to Parliament and the people, were simply cast aside. Therein lay the failure, therein the betrayal.” (Ismail Faruqui’s petition had challenged the validity of the Acquisition of Certain Area at Ayodhya Act, 1993, by which the Centre acquired 67.703 acres of land in and around Babri Masjid. A five-judge bench, in a majority judgment of 1994, upheld the acquisition.) “Also, in 2017, Justice Rohinton F. Nariman’s judgment had said that this trial court where the CBI was conducting its inquiry, to expedite it… there too the Supreme Court had stated in no uncertain terms that the Babri Masjid demolition had ‘shaken the secular fabric of the Constitution’. “Then the other, eventual judgment (November 9 last year), on the basis of which the foundation stone-laying ceremony took place there (Ayodhya). Even in that judgment, the demolition of Babri Masjid was denounced categorically. “There too the Supreme Court stated that the act was against the law. It stated: ‘The destruction of the mosque and the obliteration of the Islamic structure was an egregious violation of the rule of law.’ (In its 2019 judgment, the Supreme Court unanimously awarded the disputed site in Ayodhya to Ram Lalla Virajman (infant Ram) and empowered the Centre to build a temple there but ruled that the demolition of Babri Masjid was “an egregious violation of the rule of law”. Justice Ganguly, who had delivered the 2012 verdict in the 2G spectrum allocation case that was celebrated by the BJP, then in the Opposition, had on November 9 last year said he was “very disturbed” with the Supreme Court’s Ayodhya judgment.) “So, in the light of all those Supreme Court judgments, it is amply clear that the incident was condemnable and criminal. So, since it was a criminal incident, some people must have committed the crime. It did not take place on its own. What happened, happened before the eyes of tens of thousands in daylight. It was telecast globally and published in newspapers too, the act of demolition. There was no game of hide-and-seek. “The concept of the rule of law, in the light of all this, seems but an insignificant, hollow noise now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-287
