02-10-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown diaries||Ranjana Sarkar I am spending my time cooking, drawing, singing folk songs and Rabindrasangeet, reading the travel companion Bhramansangi, playing carrom and ludo, and chatting with my friends and son. My son has gone to Japan to study. He is an animator and a good singer also. I send him mails and call him on WhatsApp. Like I mentioned, I like cooking and my signature dish is kebab. This week I made Shammi Kebab, Galouti Kebab and Chicken Chapli Kebab. I have also travelled to Japan, China, Bangladesh, Europe etc and am writing on my experiences which is supposed to be published in our office magazine. I do exercise and pranayam everyday. I work at an insurance company as a stenographer and go to office thrice a week in the lockdown period. I go to the market once or twice a week. I am watching TV programmes, especially musical ones, participating in Sananda club digital workshops, contacting friends and relatives and, above all, praying to the Almighty for a better world. Krishna Nandy I have five grandchildren but they all live in different parts of the world. They have a set of clothes here in Salt Lake but the kids always outgrow them by the time they visit a second time. Initially I would distribute the clothes but now I’ve run out of kids who would receive them. So this lockdown, I put needle to thread and got creative. I cut their trousers, stuffed them with cotton and made dolls. I made fairy tale characters like Goldilocks, Rapunzel and Cinderella as well as animals like cats and turtles. I never learnt sewing. It was a hobby that I never had time for.  But six months at home has given me ample opportunity to try my hand at it. My grandchildren are still too young to realise their clothes are being recycled but their parents are appreciating my efforts a lot. Amal Sengupta During the lockdown, there are plenty of things to do like gardening, photo framing, watching TV, listening to music, virtual tour and travel planning — all of it just by using the internet. I am fond of travelling and this is the first summer after so many years that we are home. Last summer, we visited South America. Travelling is an interesting part of our lifestyle and we are enriched with knowledge to learn more about our planet. So we try to plan our family vacations mainly to cover the natural wonders. For this year, we had booked tickets to the Scandinavian countries but of course, it did not mature. So virtual tour is the solution. This is the simulation of an existing location with the help of sequential videos and/ or still images. Other elements like music, sound effects, floor plans etc could also be used. Rupkatha Das To overcome the boredom of being home, I tried learning new skills. As of now, my greatest achievement is having learnt how to sing. At least I don’t sing like a crow now! Next, I learnt to make chocolate milkshake and I dare say I can also dance beautifully. I’ve lost a lot of weight too and I’m happy about that! I’m also busy with school assignments, surprise tests and projects but my biggest challenge was helping mom with chores. She made me wash all the dishes and I loved doing it, even though I don’t help her more often. Bhawna Shah I am using the lockdown for several creative pursuits. For instance, on Environment Day, I made a leaf dress for my daughter. I’m sharing the steps so you can try it too.  Mother Nature Eco Leaf Dress:  Materials required: 1. Leaves of different plants and of different shapes. 2. Strapless tube top 3. Shorts 4. Ribbons 5. Scissors 6. Ruler 7. Jute thread 8. Needle (8.5”-10” size) 9. Green cloth 10. Two-hole punch 11. Glue gun with glue stick  STEP 1: Measure the size of your tube top and shorts and cut the green cloth accordingly. STEP 2 : Wrap the jute thread on the stem of a leaf for easy sewing on the cloth.  STEP 3: Hand-sew the leaves of different sizes as an abstract art with the jute thread on the measured cloth according to your pattern for both the tube and shorts.  STEP 4: Sew all the leaves on the cloth and use glue gun to paste if needed.  STEP 5: STEP 6:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Khuti Puja 2020||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Best Puja writings||This has been an unprecedented year with unprecedented consequences. Which is why we had held back the results of the 14th The Telegraph Super Souvenir Awards in the hope that things would normalise and we could hold the prize distribution ceremony as always with all the winners in attendance. But that is not to be. With Durga Puja 2020 knocking on our doors, there is no point waiting further. This edition of the contest was otherwise a successful one, drawing the highest number of participation in its history. Which goes to show that more and more pujas in Salt Lake are becoming confident enough about their printed output to want to take part in the contest while pujas in New Town are becoming organised enough to bring out their souvenirs. We have decided to add a couple of more categories for this year — Best Travelogue and Best Memoir — as we wanted to accommodate more participants on the awards list. Our sincere thanks to each housing complex and block for sending in your puja souvenir. Hope you continue to do so every year. And congratulations to each and every winner. Those featuring on the winners’ list are requested to send a mail to saltlake@abpmail.com with their contact numbers or call us on Tuesday or Wednesday evening at 22600115 before 10pm. Salt Lake FE Block Residents’ Association Why: The souvenir is increasing in bulk with every year. But the ratio of reading material and advertisements has been maintained. The articles are on subjects as varied as global warming and Kashmir plebiscite, India’s education system and varieties of tea... Other than several travelogues, memoirs and poems, there is even crossword puzzle and sudoku as leisure activity. Children of the block have been given space to share their writings and sketches. Another thoughtful section is a column that is used as a filler at the conclusion of longer articles on Puja memories and reflections of former presidents of the block association, who are now senior citizens. In a nod to technology, the souvenir also has a downloadable e-version. Best Editorial Winner: Gora Roy, secretary, Salt Lake CF Block Residents’ Association Why: The theme of pollution that the block’s puja pandal had showcased was explained in a refreshing manner — through a slice-of-life fictional account. It successfully brought home the message of how many of us unwittingly contribute to pollution, without being preachy.   Special mention: Satyaban Roy, convenor, souvenir sub-committee, New Town AA1B Sarbojanin Durgotsab Committee and Ishwar Mukherjee, editor, Utsab Bichitra, Purba Samabay Abasan (Cluster XIII, Purbachal Abasan) Best Poetry Winner: Sarbani Banerjee of East Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association for Pratichi O Aro Duti Why: The poet’s voice is strong, without being strident. A voice that articulates the poet’s thoughts through well-crafted words that are devoid of fluff, yet leave behind an impact through vivid imagery. Special mention: Purba Kar of CD Block, New Town, for Chithi and Asim Das of East Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association, New Town, for Amar Kono Tara Nei. Best Travelogue Winner: Susmita Bhaduri of Sanjeeva Town The Bungalow Estate For Ektu Ushnotar Jonyo, Uttar Golardhe Why: The account has the right balance of personal information and description of places visited. While the remote destination, Iceland, is itself exciting, piquing readers’ interest by its very mention, the journey turns out to be even more entertaining as the author’s pen is generously dipped in a pot of humour. As she describes how she chased the northern lights or revelled in the idyllic settings where Shah Rukh Khan and Kajol had shot the Dilwale song Rang de tu mohe gerua, the reader senses and shares her enjoyment and awe. Special mention: Sekhar Basu of JC Block forbHollywood-er Jaadu Durgo. Best Fiction Winner: Bibha Roy Chowdhury of FE Block for Udbastu Why: The narrator’s tale of being uprooted from a life of affluence across the border gets intertwined with that of a rustic woman’s, with life throwing both together in a refugee colony. The twist in the plot is unexpected yet believable because of the sincerity that rings in each voice that the author gives life to. Special mention: Kumkum Chattopadhyay of East Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association for Rong Bahar. Early Bird Winner: Sarbojanin Durgotsav Committee, BE (West) Why: The souvenir landed on our desk the day before Mahalaya when many other blocks possibly were yet to send out a call for articles. Despite being so punctual about publication and distribution, the block has taken care to enrich the souvenir with quality articles. The printing and binding quality is also of a high standard. Best Memoir Winner: Tandra Goswami of FE Block for Amar Chhotobelar Saatkahon Why: A glimpse into an idyllic life, on which time and circumstance have drawn the curtains forever, a life of harmony and brotherhood in erstwhile East Pakistan, where a school’s Muslim teacher did not accept prasad yet sponsored sweets for Saraswati puja, where students sung Bengali songs to celebrate Pakistan’s independence day in school, where swimming and boating lessons for a child were mandatory for survival and could even be supplemented by horse riding lessons by the friendly village police inspector. And which also is a testament to how this paradise was lost to the poison of radicalism and division. Special mention: Rita Das of BE 98 (BE East) for Hostel Jiboner Tokjhal Mishti. Best Essay Winner: Saptarshi Chowdhury of CD Block, New Town, for Messbarir theke soja Baithakkhana Bazar. Why: The boarding houses of central or north Calcutta, which are now merely shadows of a bustling past, have played a key role in nurturing our artistic heritage. The author’s easy familiarity with both the locality and the literary works that were born in these quarters enrich the reading experience. The writing style is lucid and engaging. The mention of publications as sources of information lends authenticity to the account. Special mention: Sonali Roy of BE Block (BE West) for Swad O Sadhyo. Best Cover Winner: DL Block Residents’ Association Why: The cartoonish treatment of the goddesses seated on their mounts makes the cover stand out. The use of colours is apt. That the illustration is an original art work, credited to resident Indrani Bhattacharya, also is noteworthy. Special mention: Salt Lake BE (East) Puja Committee and BL Block We have selected the three best pictures among those published in the “Click Your Township” column in the months since last year’s result. The snaps are a testimony to the wealth of photographic talent in the neighbourhood. Congratulations to -||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Teachers’ Day celebrations go online||St. Francis Xavier School “Our respect for teachers has increased immensely during the last six months. In fact, they are my lockdown inspirations,” said Priyangshu Dutta, who, despite the burden of studies in his final year at school, decided to perform for them in his school’s Teachers’ Day programme. St. Francis Xavier School celebrated the event online and Priyangshu Dutta sang the song Tu na jane aas paas hai khuda from the film Anjaana Anjaani. “I used my mother’s phone to relay  the accompanying music and sang into my own phone that aired the show live on YouTube,” said the classical singer who wants to study sound engineering after school. Rishiraj Roy had half-yearly exams knocking on the door but still took a couple of hours out to compere the event. “Extra curricular activities are as important as studies and I’ve conducted events several times before in school,” he said. “I was nervous about technical glitches and the fact that parents had been invited to watch the show this year too. Instead of applause, this time I received clap emoticons as praise,” he smiled. Two videos were shared — one on Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the educator in whose honour Teachers’ Day is celebrated, and the second was a personalised one with pictures of teachers with students and voice messages by students in English, Hindi and Bengali. “We were up till midnight perfecting the presentations,” said Snigdha Bhattacharjee, who read out a speech for the show. “We miss our classrooms and technology cannot replace the warmth of a teacher,” she said. “Teaching is a profession highly respected by society and the nation and, in fact, no other profession can give us such a high level of satisfaction,” said Anil Srivastava, the officiating principal, in his address. “Today is the day I get to sit back and see what we have achieved through all of you.” The teachers received praise from Ajay Chopra, secretary and administrator of the school. “Teachers, this year you have outdone yourselves! Not only have you taught the students despite the challenges, but you have become students yourselves, learning new technology undaunted.” Quoting Haim Ginott, the Israeli educator, he said that teachers were expected to reach unattainable goals with inadequate tools. “But the miracle is that they sometimes accomplish this impossible task. You, teachers, have outdone yourselves during the lockdown and I’m proud of you. You have worked not as employees but as partners of this school,” said Chopra. The school was one of the first to start teaching online, as early as April 1, he pointed out. Bidhannagar Govt High School Two days were more than enough for students of Bidhannagar Government High School to plan a special surprise for their teachers on September 5. Seventeen students of Class XII came together to prepare a video of their cultural activities, nearly an hour long, and posted it on social media. “Since this is our final year in school, we really wanted to express our love and respect to our teachers. We thought of the idea quite suddenly and decided to surprise them on the occasion,” said a student, Bidisha Saha. The video began with Gairika Dutta singing guru vandana, followed by a speech by Annwoy Roy Choudhury. “We are excited to be performing even during the pandemic,” said Annwoy. Teachers have been our guiding force throughout our school lives and now when we are ready to walk out of here, we wanted to express our gratitude.” Soma Sikdar danced to Mamo chittey, Trisha Halder to Mon ta re (from the film Lootera) and Ahana Biswas performed guru vandana. “The lockdown is making us try new things. I have done several dance videos before but this is my first time dancing for the teachers. My sister taught me the moves and helped me record the video,” said Asmita De, as she danced to the Rabindrasangeet Amar hiyar majhe. Tanisha Saha has been studying in this school for just a year but already calls it her second home. “I came to this school last year but the teachers  made me feel like I’ve studied here for years. This may be our last celebration as school students so I am glad we made the most of it.” Anisha  Sharma and Soumili Das contributed with artwork. Anisha  made two paintings — a pencil sketch of Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and a digital painting for the teachers, while Soumili displayed her calligraphy. “I have learnt calligraphy and tried it out during the lockdown. I used a brush pen for it,” Soumili said. Santarpan Pal said the teachers were taken by surprise when they uploaded the video and sent them the link. “They had no idea we were planning this and we too were nervous as this was our first attempt of celebrating an occasion digitally,” said the boy who anchored and edited the video. Madhurima Sen, a teacher of English at the school, was delighted with the tribute. “The thought, the choice of words in the narration, the selection of Tagore songs and the overall sensibility that the programme portrayed made us hopeful about the next generation,” said Sen, adding that she had posted her coments in the WhatsApp group comprising the participating students that was created for the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Coronavirus cases creep up again||Corona cases have gone up in Salt Lake and adjoining areas, including Teghoria, Kaikhali and parts of Rajarhat, over the past couple of weeks. Fresh cases are being reported from all three sectors of Salt Lake. An FD Block resident said that at least four neighbours had tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days. Piyush Agarwal, the resident, said that all those who had tested positive were now in self-isolation in their respective houses. A resident of EE Block said that a 72-year-old neighbour had tested positive for Covid-19 after he went for a rapid antigen test (RAT). The resident had himself undergone a rapid antigen test a few days back and had tested positive. Another resident of CJ Block said that several of her neighbours were in home quarantine. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department said that the number of people in home quarantine had gone up manifold over the past few days. The number of people in Salt Lake hospitals has also increased but since a lot of people from outside also get admitted here, the official said that they could not confirm whether they were all residents of Salt Lake, Rajarhat and the immediate neighbourhood. Another official said that the Covid curve in areas under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation would flatten out once the transmission rate dropped to 1 per cent and the number of new cases would start to decline gradually once the rate fell below 1 per cent. Despite the rise in the number of cases, only Duttabad remains a containment area where the restrictions like social distancing and wearing of masks in public are hardly maintained. Till Wednesday, the total number of Covid-19 patients stood at around 7,500. Around 50 persons have died due to the disease. “We are doing everything we can to stop the spread,” said a civic official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid-19 strikes SOS Children’s Village||Eighteen residents of SOS Children’s Village in BK Block and their youth hostel in Baguiati had tested positive for Covid-19 and have recently recovered. SOS Children’s Village is an international organisation for orphaned and neglected children. The West Bengal branch of the group, based in Salt Lake, has 15 houses comprising of seven to 10 children, ranging in age from infancy to mid-20s. Looking after them are employees who take up the roles of “mother”s. The head of each house is a “mother” who has an “aunt” to assist her. “It all began when an ‘aunt’ fell ill and tested positive in last week of August,” said Sonali Das, secretary of the centre. “We were worried but received a lot so support from mayor Krishna Chakraborty and the health department.” The corporation sent teams to conduct Covid tests of all residents of the village as well as their youth hostel in Baguiati. Boys above the age of 12 years are sent to this facility while adolescent girls continue staying in BK Block. The test results found two boys, four girls, two youths of the Baguiati hostel, two ‘aunts’ and seven members of the staff at BK Block infected. “The matter was intimated to the child welfare committee and the district social welfare officer, North 24- Parganas immediately. The corporation sanitised the village on September 5 and 10 and internally we continued sanitisation on a daily basis,” said Das. Except for the first “aunt”, all were asymptomatic. Nonetheless they were isolated in separate houses. As per the advice of their paediatrician, their temperature, pulse and oxygen saturation were monitored throughout. They were given vitamins and nutritious diet like khichudi of Gobindobhog rice, chicken soup, custard, corn flakes and energy drinks, according to officials. The patients were served in disposable plates and cups by two nurses in personal protective equipment. After 17 days of isolation, health workers repeated the tests, and on finding them negative issued them fitness certificates, after which the children returned to their family homes in the village. “No more cases were found thereafter. While we can never be sure how the first ‘aunt’ contracted Covid, it is true that some aunts and mothers have been visiting markets,” said Das. “Now that everyone has recovered some ‘mothers’ are looking forward to Puja shopping. But I am dead against this. It is with stringent protocol that we have brought the Covid situation under control. Going to a crowded market like Hatibagan will put everyone’s health at risk again,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Amphan, lockdown ruin butterfly release target||There were plans to release 10,000 butterflies into the eco-system in 2020 but the target will be missed because of the combined jolt of the lockdown and cyclone Amphan. The authorities shared how the butterfly dome at Eco Park was damaged during Cyclone Amphan. The dome is a special structure that blocks 35 per cent of the sun’s rays, a condition required for multiplication of the species. Its net had been brought from Hyderabad but was blown away by the cyclone. As many as 400 butterflies that were breeding within the dome also flew away or perhaps even perished. “Also because of the lockdown, we could hardly work in the laboratory,” said Arjan Basu Roy of Nature Mates, a wildlife conservation and research agency that looks after the butterfly park. About 9,000 butterflies had been released in 2019, he said. The dome has now been restored and breeding has started with renewed vigour. The Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), which runs Eco Park, has commissioned a book on the butterflies of the park. The announcement was made at a programme to mark Big Butterfly Month at the venue on September 20, where it was revealed that 103 species of butterfly could be spotted there. September is observed all over India as Big Butterfly Month and the event was organised by Nature Mates, in collaboration with Hidco. Nature Mates has been maintaining the butterfly garden at Eco Park and on the day gifted visitors seeds and potted plants that would facilitate butterfly breeding. This in turn would aid large-scale conservation of the environment. “After honey bees, butterflies are the most effective pollinators in the eco-system. Butterflies are also eaten by spiders and lizards, hence butterfly conservation helps rear other insects while simultaneously also conserving the plants on which they breed. We have a couple of Tiger Butterflies and our slogan is that if you save the smaller tigers in the eco-system, the bigger tigers in the forest will also be saved,” said Sarika Baidya, PhD scholar at Nature Mates. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen was chief guest at the event, which was also attended by an Indian Forest Service (IFS) official Sumita Ghatak, along with several Hidco engineers and the entire team of Nature Mates. “New Town is known as a Smart City but we also believe in nature conservation. There are places like Pnyacha More and Rongeen Gondaar More which have not been renamed to suit the urban lingo. It retains the local flavour of the region,” said Sen. “We want to usher in development but not at the cost of nature. We believe in inclusive survival strategies which have led to projects like hibiscus garden, rose gardens and bee-keeping at Eco Park. In a recent survey conducted by the state biodiversity board, it was found that there are hundreds of species of earthworms that are typical of this region alone,” Sen said. The first butterfly garden by Nature Mates was in Banabitan, Central Park, in Salt Lake. Others were added in Rajabhaatkhawa in Buxa Tiger Reserve and Ramshai in Gorumara National Park. There is also a thriving butterfly garden at Senchal Wildlife Sanctuary in Darjeeling. The forest department has been actively working on butterfly conservation since 2010 along with Hidco which has helped set up the butterfly garden in Eco Park. The domain enclosure at the park sometimes records footfall of 25,000-30,000 a year which also goes on to show how popular the butterfly garden is. The West Bengal State University has also introduced a chapter on butterfly life cycle which brings students to Eco Park and work on projects. This also promotes conservation and spreading awareness. “The Big Butterfly Month (promoting butterflies that are larger in size) is also observed in countries outside India. It is a drive to spread awareness about breeding butterflies and making people aware how a small step today can make a big difference tomorrow. We actively maintain butterfly count in both Calcutta and north Bengal. At a primary level, we found 330 different species of butterflies out of which several were never seen before in a limited area of 80 square feet where they were bred. As per our records, of the total number of species of butterflies found in India, 50 per cent are in West Bengal,” said Ghatak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Push to get free Covid tests done for puja workers in New Town ||The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation has advised Durga puja organising committees in New Town to get their puja-related personnel tested for Covid-19 before allowing them to join work. “Please get your pandal construction workers, dhakis and priests tested so that they don’t end up infecting others,” said a Hidco representative, attending a pre-puja meeting. “The test is being done free of cost at the Utility Building, opposite Route 260 bus stand, from 10am to 1.30pm daily except Sunday,” he informed. The message was delivered to organisers at a meeting at Rabindra Tirtha organised by the New Town police station for pujas in areas under the three police stations in New Town on September 24. It was one of the meetings that community puja organisers in Salt Lake and New Town were called to on the day in the respective townships. They watched the chief minister’s address to puja organisers across the state being telecast live on the big screen from Netaji Indoor Stadium and were then given localised briefings by police and other officials. “For this meeting, representatives of the 117 officially permitted pujas under our three police stations had been called,” a police officer said at the New Town event. The 180-seater Rabindra Tirtha was packed to capacity. The suggestion for Covid-19 tests was welcomed by the audience but also raised questions. “Our priest comes on Sashthi morning. So does our dhaki. What if either of them tests positive? Where will we get a substitute at the eleventh hour?” Sharmistha Bhattacharya of Aponjon housing estate in Dhalipara, Rajarhat, asked on the microphone. It was suggested that both priest and drummer be called a day in advance this year. Many organisers requested the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company official present on stage to bring down the minimum load capacity for individual pujas. “Our budget will be one-third this year. Please reduce your minimum security deposit. Otherwise, a lumpsum amount stays stuck with you,” urged a representative of Rupashree housing complex. “You apply. We will consider your request if the load is less,” the official said. A representative from Moonbeam Housing Complex wondered if permission needed to be taken for using lights from the complex’s own electric meter. “Our lighting will be minimal this year,” he argued. “You need to take a separate connection. It will not do to pull the connection from the housing mains,” the power utility engineer said. Another electricity-related query came about refunds. “We are supposed to get a refund on last year’s payment,” said a representative of Sankalpa 4, wondering how the refund could be claimed. “You need to apply at our office located next to Axis Mall,” said the official. Inspector in charge of New Town police station Atanu Ghosal pointed out that a thana-level meeting would be held closer to the Pujas where specific problems would be sorted out. At a similar event at Dishari Bhavan in Salt Lake, Somdeb Bandyopadhyay, inspector in charge, Bidhannagar north police station, addressed organisers of pujas in his jurisdiction. “Last year, a puja committee had erected an advertisement gate on the lane from the First Avenue to their pandal. This is illegal and dangerous and we had to go pull it down in the middle of celebrations. Such incidents leave a bad taste in the mouth and even we don’t want to ruin the festive mood. So please keep these norms in mind and do not install gates,” he said. The police enquired if 2020 happened to be a jubilee year for any puja in the sector and indeed, Shyama Das of Vidyasagar Niketan said it would be their 50th. “We must be the oldest puja of Salt Lake and we had plans to commemorate the milestone but with the pandemic going strong, we have to play it down. We shall follow all guidelines set by the government and not try to attract too much footfall.” Bandyopadhyay enquired about the crowd-puller that AE Part 1 has emerged as in recent years. The organisers assured him that despite opting for a theme this year, their scale would be low. “Just ensure your exit gate is double the width of the entry gate,” said Bandyopadhyay. His instruction to Labony Estate was to open — not all but — only two gates to visitors. “Every block must keep making announcements about wearing masks. Your electric wiring system must be fool proof too. Any short cuts will lead to accidents,” said Bandyopadhyay. Much time went in repeating the names of blocks as those like EC and AC sounded similar from behind masks. Deputy commissioner K.U. Ganpat addressed the residents too. “Every year, meetings are held at the thana level but confusion arises when committees get contradictory or unverified information from other sources too. Moreover, this year fake news had spread on social media about the Pujas being cancelled altogether. But once the chief minister announces the regulations once and for all today, there will be clarity,” he said. At both meetings, the audience broke into applause when the chief minister announced an assistance of Rs 50,000 to all pujas. “We expect no sponsorship or souvenir ads this year so this amount will help us immensely,” said Aloke Datta of Shyamali Abasan. “We’re really feeling like the chief minister is by our side in these times of trouble.” Bandyopadhyay said that another pre-puja meeting would be held in presence of fire brigade and power utility officials. To this Arunabha Hazra of CD Block wondered if it would be wiser to hold it over Zoom. “Unfortunately, puja organsiers from the added areas are not familiar with the app so we shall have to hold it in person,” the officer explained. He reminded everyone about a WhatsApp group police had started with puja organisers last year. “It would be revived this season. Do inform us about any changes in committees,” he said, “and also in case you are shifting the venue of your puja from the park to the community hall or changing your immersion ghat.” saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Red tape holds up Salt Lake property transfer||Lease-holders of Salt Lake trying to transfer houses to buyers claim they are facing unusual delay in getting approval from the state urban development department authorities. Pankaj Rudra (name changed) submitted papers to sub-lease the second and third floors of his Sector II house in mid-2018. “Thereafter the authorities came and checked the house, the buyer and I got called for an interview in November 2019 but we are still waiting for the go-ahead from the department,” he says. Plots in Salt Lake are not freehold. They were given out on 999 years’ lease decades ago and there was no provision for sub-leasing them out to third parties. But illegal transfers were an open secret and the government realised it was losing money. So in 2012, the rules were amended allowing a lessee to transfer his rights against a fee of Rs 5 lakh per cottah to be paid to the government. “My three-storeyed house is built on more than 4 cottahs of land but since my children are settled abroad my wife and I have shifted to the ground floor and we want to sub-lease the upper floors out,” said Rudra. “But we are waiting for more than two years for government sanction. This is ridiculous! If the legal process takes this much time people will again resort to illegal means to sell their houses.” Similar is the case with the lease-holder of a Sector III, who had filed his papers in June last year. “My interview happened in December and I was told that I would get the approval in a month. But there has been no response from them. They don’t even pay heed to phone calls so I would go over to their Nagarayan Bhavan office every two weeks to enquire. And once the pandemic struck it was a perfect excuse for them to delay the work even longer,” said Sumit Sen (name changed), who lives in New Town and wants to sub-lease his Salt Lake flat. “I even wrote to the state grievance cell but again got no response.” For Rudra, this is the second blow in a row. “I had got a good buyer a few years ago but then demonetisation happened and he ran out of cash to pay me. The deal fell through but the person who wants the sub-lease now has even paid me an advance. How long will he have to wait?” he says. “What with the pandemic raging, the government is in dire need of funds. Here we are ready to pay but they are dilly-dallying!” Tamal Aditya, a broker working in Salt Lake for the past 20 years, says the paperwork for transfer of plots  typically takes four to five months. “But if a top official gets transferred, work could get stalled for a good six months. Like every other sector, 2020 is terrible for the real estate. Prices have fallen so potential sellers are lying low. Potential buyers don’t have cash in hand either,” he says. “In such a scenario, if the formalities were carried out in time at least the pending transactions could be completed.” Senior officials of the urban development department said there had been a delay due to the lockdown but that they were clearing the pending files as fast as they could. “Only last week we cleared four or five cases. Instead of using hard copies of documents, we have started scanning them now but it is taking time as land transfer files are voluminous,” an official said. They have even started video conferencing instead of asking candidates to physically come over for the interviews “But before the interviews, different bodies like the police and corporation need to make independent visits to the houses to verify the claims made in the documents. This can take time,” said another official. “Sometimes the documents submitted are insufficient too. Plus we are short-staffed now as not everyone can come to office without trains running. They are doing the best they can from home.” The officials assured lease-holders that their papers would be processed soon. “They need not worry,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Dupe cuffs on two in New Town||Two men were arrested in New Town on Thursday for allegedly duping people by selling a “magic” colour that they told customers could turn a piece of paper into a Rs 2,000 note. The duo had also allegedly given people photocopies of US dollars in the guise of exchanging foreign currency, police said. The accused have been booked for cheating, fraud and criminal conspiracy. Photocopies of US dollars were found on the two, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Repairs on six Calcutta bridges after Durga Puja ||Five bridges on Calcutta’s northern outskirts and the Belgachhia bridge near RG Kar hospital will be repaired after Durga Puja. The PWD maintains all the bridges. A recent health check on the bridges showed some haven’t had any serious repairs in almost a decade. Apart from the Belgachhia bridge, the others are the rail overbridges at Belghoria, Sodepur and Madhyamgram and the bridges at Birati and Barasat. The expansion joints and bearings of these structures have not been replaced, leaving the bridge spans hard and immobile, with little or no scope for oscillation, the health checks have shown. The state government had engaged consulting agency Rites to study the health of some of the bridges and flyovers maintained by the PWD. The decision to carry out repairs follows specific recommendations by Rites, a PWD official said. “At Belgachhia, the joints between two spans, known as articulation joints, will be repaired and cleaned so that the decks can start regaining their oscillation,” the PWD official said. “Similarly, at Belghoria and Sodepur we will check the bearings that hold the structures.” The Belgachhia bridge has emerged as a key link for heavy vehicles headed for Shyambazar from further north. The PWD has removed 300mm of the concrete top that used to hold the tram tracks to reduce the load on the structure. Since the bridge will have to bear heavy vehicular load for at least the next two years till the new Tallah bridge is built, the repair of the joints is vital, a PWD engineer said. The bridges at Belghoria, Sodepur, Birati and Madhyamgram are key links in connecting Jessore Road in the east and BT Road in the west. “There are a few cracks in some of these bridges… they need micro-concreting and repairs to enhance the longevity of the structures. We will have to remove some encroachments around these bridges before starting the repairs,” a PWD official said. Officers of the Barrackpore commissionerate said the police would hold meetings with PWD officials as the repairs would entail traffic blocks and diversions. “We would like the repairs to be carried out in phases. Barasat draws a huge crowd during Kali Puja. So even that would have to be taken into consideration,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-285
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Inside furniture: stolen Rs 7 crore from NRI ||Two men were arrested in the city earlier this week in connection with illegal money transfers from an NRI’s bank account to several bank accounts in Calcutta, police said. Around Rs 7 crore, believed to be the money from the transfers, was found stashed inside furniture in a Behala home, the police said. Cops in London had investigated the NRI’s complaint and found the money had been transferred into a private bank account in Calcutta and thereafter to at least 35 accounts —nationalised as well as private — across the city. The private bank lodged a complaint with Shakespeare Sarani police station on August 11 on being alerted about the fraud by the London cops, the police said. Based on the complaint, officers of the anti-bank fraud section in Lalbazar started investigating the matter and found at least four men often called NRIs to tell them that their debit cards would be blocked for want of KYC documents. “They used to send the NRIs a link and ask them to key in their details through the link. Since it was a phishing link, the banking details of the cards used to get compromised,” an officer said. The NRI who had reported the matter apparently lost Rs 85 lakh this way. During investigation it became apparent the gang had cheated several people and the money could run into crores. Cops have arrested Gourab Sathwani and Arun Shaw in this connection. At least two others involved in the racket are at large, the police said. Their modus operandi has an uncanny similarity with the Jamtara gang who target people across the country on the phone, posing as bank officials. “Just like the Jamtara gang who transfer money through multiple e-wallets and accounts before withdrawing it from an ATM, this gang, too, followed a similar process. One of them was identified in the CCTV footage of an ATM kiosk where money used to be withdrawn regularly,” an officer said. The two have been booked for cheating, fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy. Based on their statement, cops on Wednesday searched a flat in Behala and seized Rs 6.95 crore hidden inside cupboards, mattresses and chair cushions. Both have been sent to police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Phoolbagan Metro station starts Monday||The Phoolbagan station of the upcoming East-West Metro corridor is likely to be opened for commercial runs from Monday, Metro officials said on Thursday. “The nod from the rail safety commissioner had come in June. But there were a few specifications that had to be fulfilled. The station is ready now and should be inaugurated on Sunday and become operational from Monday,” an official said. Commercial services started between the Salt Lake Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium stations, the only operational stretch of the East-West Metro corridor, on September 14. The passenger count on the East-West route has been dismal, though, hovering close to 100, a little more than the number of daily trains (74). On Wednesday, the East-West passenger count was 125. Metro officials hoped the number would go up once Phoolbagan station started operations. “A large number of commuters headed to Sealdah and further west will benefit when the route extends till Phoolbagan,” a Metro official said. Once fully operational, the East-West Metro will connect Salt Lake and Howrah. East-West Metro now runs between Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium stations, a distance of 5.5km with six overhead stations on the stretch. Phoolbagan, the first underground station on the route, is around 1.7km from Salt Lake Stadium. The Phoolbagan station has been built 18m under the ground. At 140m long and 12m wide, the platform is around 30m shorter than the existing ones on the North-South route to match the length of the six-coach rakes. But it has been built to handle 300,000 passengers every day. Howrah station’s capacity will be higher at 450,000 and Sealdah station’s the highest at 500,000. On the existing Noapara-New Garia Metro route, Esplanade station handled 53,000 passengers every day before the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta University students cross rivers to bridge divide||Many students who lack Internet connectivity at home have rented rooms or temporarily shifted to relatives’ houses to write the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams of Calcutta University, which began on Thursday. The reason why the students had to shift out of their homes is the UGC’s order that the answer scripts will have to be uploaded within half an hour of the completion of the day’s exam. The temporary accommodations are close to the examinees’ respective colleges and they can submit the scripts to the institutions minutes after the end of the test. Since tests cannot be held in colleges amid the Covid pandemic, the university decided that the colleges would upload the questions on their websites. In places like Sagar and Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas, many students had to cross several rivers to bridge the digital divide, a yawning gap staring at the face of educational institutions during the pandemic like never before. Students of Sundarban Mahavidyalaya (Kakdwip) and Sagar Mahavidyalaya —over 105km away from College Street, the headquarters of CU — crossed the Kalnagini, Muri Ganga and Baratala rivers to write the paper. They plan to do so on every exam day. “After writing the two-hour test, they handed us the scripts and took a ride back home on mechanised boats,” said Prabir Kumar Dash, the teacher-in-charge of Sundarban Mahavidyalaya. Many of the examinees are writing the papers at relatives’ houses, while others have rented rooms, individually or in groups. The rent for one such room is Rs 400 for the duration of the exams, which will continue till October 8. “Many of their parents earn close to Rs 3,000 a month. A part of it is now going into paying the rent,” said a college teacher. Why could they not write the test and upload scanned copies of the answer scripts from home? “Many of the students are children of fishermen or peasants. They cannot afford a smartphone. Their financial condition has worsened after Amphan. Besides, the storm has severely disrupted telephone networks in these areas,” teacher-in-charge Dash said. Some of the students, who submitted the scripts offline at Sundarban Mahavidyalaya, had to visit the college to take print-outs of question papers before the start of exam. At Sagar Mahavidyalaya, which is on Sagar Island, more than 100 of the 336 students went to the college to submit answer scripts. Teacher-in-charge Prabir Kumar Khatua said they had made separate counters for receiving the scripts offline. “These students cannot afford smartphones. The connectivity in these areas is not robust. So they thought it would be safer to rent a room or take shelter at relative’s houses closer to the college in order to be able to submit the scripts,” said Khatua. CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said the exams were smooth. The tale of two colleges highlights how bad the situation would be for students once regular classes start on digital platforms. The first-year classes could begin in December on online mode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Protest against Hathras horror, Babri acquittal||The horror of the Hathras gang rape and the events that followed would seem exaggerated in films but were part of the reality in India, a teacher said at a protest meeting in Calcutta on Thursday. “First the horror of the assault, then cops burning her body in the dead of the night without her parents. Had this been a film, we would have called it exaggeration. But this has become the reality,” said Subhanil Chowdhury, who teaches economics at the Institute of Development Studies. The meeting, attended by “democratic-minded citizens”, demanded justice for the Hathras victim and slammed the “unjust acquittal of the conspirators” of Babri Masjid demolition. The protesters met near the Park Street Metro station under the Park Street flyover and walked till the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road. On the eve of the 151st birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation, the marchers called for unity among citizens to fight the “politics of hate and violence”. “It is important to realise why we are on the road. Babri Masjid was demolished in 1992…. Around 3,000 Indians were killed in riots in the run-up to and after the demolition. Today, those behind the atrocities… have been acquitted. If people responsible for the death of 3,000 Indians go scot-free, then we — you and I — can get killed anytime,” said Faridul Islam of the No-NRC movement. Members of a string of organisations that were at the forefront of the rallies against the troika of Citizenship Amendment Act, National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens in the city before the pandemic attended the meeting on Thursday. The participants shouted their lungs out. Slogans of “hum ek hain” rang the air as the protesters marched along JL Nehru Road and Mayo Road. One of the posters depicted a severed tongue. The Hathras victim had her tongue severed, allegedly by her tormentors. “Whose tongue is it? Cannot say? Could it be yours?” asked the poster. Kasturi Basu, a documentary filmmaker and activist, spoke of the “state of Indian judiciary”. “A special CBI court was about to deliver its judgement in a 28-year-old, extremely important case. Our judicial system has become such that before the judgement, people presumed that all the accused would be acquitted. Why? Because in an earlier verdict, the Supreme Court gave permission to build a Ram Mandir from the rubble of a mosque that was demolished by a criminal conspiracy, by an assembly of thousands.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Comorbidity survey ends, more planned in Calcutta||The first comorbidity survey among Calcuttans came to an end on Wednesday with over 7.69 lakh households out of the targeted 10 lakh covered. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said such surveys would be conducted in regular intervals to keep the data updated. The data from the first survey, which was launched to further fine-tune the state government’s Covid response, is likely to be digitised before Durga Puja. “We have ended the survey for now. The work to digitise the data is underway and we are targeting to complete the digitisation before Puja,” Hakim told Metro. “We will keep updating the data with repeat surveys in regular intervals.” About 98,000 household data have already been uploaded, said a CMC official. This is the first time data on Calcuttans with comorbidities — medical conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, cancer and COPD — will be available with the CMC and the state health department. “The finding will serve as a critical input in the framing of health policies,” a doctor said. “The survey will also help the authorities tailor individual responses…. Covid patients with comorbidities have a higher chance of turning critical compared with those who do not have any comorbidity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
02-10-2020||Calcutta||Back-and-forth on Covid test rate cap||A health department order capping the rates of the Covid-19 test by the RT-PCR method at Rs 1,201 was circulated among private hospitals and laboratories on Thursday afternoon. In the evening, another order was issued stating that the earlier order had been “kept in abeyance till further order”. Officials said the government was reviewing the existing cap on the test rates — Rs 2,250 — and would bring it down. Sources said the day’s first order was greeted with protests from private healthcare units. Also, senior government officials felt that the rate was unrealistic and many private laboratories could either stop the test or reduce the number of samples tested. “...after careful consideration of different aspects, the undersigned is directed to fix the rate of RT-PCR COVID-19 testing for the private laboratories, as under,” stated the first order and mentioned the rate as Rs 1,201. The order was dated September 28. “Due to unavoidable circumstances, the order (mentioning the memo number and date) has been kept in abeyance until further order,” said the second order. “The earlier order was internal and was not meant to be circulated. It was a mistake,” said a senior health department official. Later, health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said the government would bring down the cap. “We are reviewing the rates of RT-PCR testing for Covid-19 for private laboratories to bring them down further. It will be decided soon,” Nigam said. According to sources, the government was looking at rates between Rs 1,400 and Rs 1,600. In the last week of June, the government had capped the rate for the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at Rs 2,250 for private laboratories and hospitals. Before that there were reports that some of the private units were charging Rs 4,000 or even more for the test. Health department sources said the state government was planning to bring down the test rates further because of a drop in the price of testing reagents. Also, some of the states have capped the rates at Rs 1,600. “The recent rates quoted in the tenders by the companies that make the RT-PCR test- ing kits have  been much less compared to what they used to be earlier. So, we feel that the private laboratories, too, should bring down the rates,” said a health department official. An official of a private laboratory that conducts Covid tests in Calcutta agreed that the rates of testing kits had come down in the past few months. “The cost of extraction kit has come down from Rs 350 to Rs 200. The testing kit price has come down to Rs 350 from Rs 700,” he said. “You also need to consider the cost of personnel, PPE and other gear and infrastructure. The samples have to be stored at -70 degrees centigrade, for which power consumption is huge.” Some private hospitals said Rs 1,201 was not viable and that they would stop conducting the Covid test if they were forced to accept the rate. “The government buys reagents in huge volumes and so can negotiate a cheaper rate. But private hospitals buy them on a much smaller scale and so the prices are higher. Also, we had to spend a huge amount on setting up the infrastructure,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “We want to help common people but the rate has to be viable. The fact that many of the healthcare units are collecting samples from home also needs to be considered,” he said. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said the government should consult a professional agency before bringing down the rates. Passengers on the Kolkata Heritage River Cruise of the West Bengal Transport Corporation during its first run on Thursday. A ticket for the 90-minute ride on the Hooghly at 4pm and 6pm (Monday-Friday) will cost Rs 39. On weekends and holidays, the services will be available at noon and 2 pm as well. The cruise will begin and end at the Millenium Park jetty. Passengers will be provided with drinking water and a heritage navigation brochure for free. Food can be bought on the vessel, which will have a dedicated selfie booth. “The idea is to make the heritage river cruise experience affordable and popular among the youth,” Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the WBTC managing director, said. “The tickets will be available at the jetty for now. Gradually, it will be available online.” Those on the vessel will get to see Mayer Ghat where Sri Ma Sarada, wife of Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa, used to visit daily. Ma Sarada stayed near this ghat from May 23, 1909 to July 20, 1920. They will see Nimtala ghat where Rabindranath Tagore, Acharya Prafulla Chandra Ray, and Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose among other luminaries were cremated apart from Armenian ghat that was built in 1734, the Eastern Railway Headquarters Building, the BBD Bag rail station and the Chandpal ghat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-286
