03-10-2020||Calcutta||Library to help village kids||A mobile library has been set up for first-generation learners of a village on the occasion of the bicentenary of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s birth. An NGO that works in the districts for empowerment of the underprivileged felt many students were getting detached from studies during the pandemic. This initiative launched on the birthday of Bengal’s renaissance icon who had drafted the primer Barnaparichay might help these children to at least stay in touch with books. The children of Banshkopa village in the Bishnupur block of Bankura district are mostly first-generation learners whose parents are mostly farmers. Some rear animals for a living. When out of school they have no facility or ambience of studies in their homes, those working with them have said. They will either while away their time or help their parents in the fields. “It’s a tribal village and many of the children in the 75 families have been losing out on studies during this time when schools are closed. We hope that will at least be able to remain in touch with books and not be completely detached,” Somnath Pyne, the secretary of The Force for Rural Empowerment and Economic Development, said. The NGO has been working in the village for the past four years and has provided some girls with scholarships after they cleared the Madhyamik exams. “We are now asking those students to reach out to their siblings or other children in the villages. They will be our local coordinators who would encourage the children and make these books available to them,” Pyne said. They have started with 100-odd books, mostly in Bengali, that will cater to children, aged five to 16. “Some of the girls who go to college will hold interactive sessions with them to develop an interest in them. We will soon upgrade and have more books,” Pyne said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Ananda eBooks for popular titles||Ananda Publishers on Friday announced the launch of a range of eBooks for its most popular titles through its e-commerce site www.anandapub.in and apps on the Chrome platform for the desktop and the Android platform for mobile devices. At a time the pandemic has made people wary of travelling for essentials, and the procurement of books has become difficult, Ananda Publishers, the leading Bengali language publisher, aims to take books to their readers. Readers can buy their favourite titles online and have them delivered either online as downloadable eBooks or receive physical copies at their doorstep. Subroto Mozumdar, Group CEO, Ananda Publishers, said: “The Bengali eBook market is still nascent and Ananda Publishers is the first publisher to create its own eBook reader app. Readers will now have the opportunity to buy e-books on the website and app (available as a Chrome app for desktops and mobile apps for the Android platform) and read on the go. “We believe this will add immense value to the reader experience, giving readers the choice to buy and read in a format they desire.” The iOS version of the app will be available soon, Mozumdar said. The pandemic-induced health concerns have come in the way of readers paying a visit to bookstores. The situation is such that a publishing house has decided to engage cyclists – cycle is considered as the safe mode of transport – to have books delivered at the doorstep of readers. The bookstores in malls are also not attracting the usual crowd. In such a situation, making the books available on the digital platforms to the readers is the best solution. The development of the e-commerce website is a significant step towards reaching out to as many readers as possible. Ananda Publishers, established in August 1957, is the leading publisher of Bengali literary, trade and academic works for over six decades. With many years of experience, research-oriented publishing objectives and adherence to the highest production values, Ananda Publishers enjoys the admiration of their readers. A number of illustrious authors and poets — including Sukumar Ray, Sunil Gangopadhyay, Satyajit Ray, Sirshendu Mukhopadhyay, Premendra Mitra and Buddhadeb Guha — have graced the pages of Ananda Publishers’ publications over the years. Many foreign literary masterpieces, too, have made their way into the Bengali language market through Ananda Publishers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Early detection for cancer cure||The majority of women with breast cancer can be cured if detected early, an oncologist from Mumbai said on Friday. “In the first stage of breast cancer, the cure rate is 85-90 per cent and in the third stage 65 per cent. So, the idea is to catch and detect it as early as possible,” Mandar Nadkarni, the oncologist, said. Nadkarni is consultant surgical oncology, breast & colorectal cancer surgeon, at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai. “Breast cancer doesn’t have a limited lifespan. We always tell patients to be very watchful for the first three years. If in the first three years, which is the highest risk of relapse, we don’t see the disease coming back we can safely say the patient is cured of the disease,” he said. On Friday morning, Nadkarni addressed a webinar on breast cancer awareness, organised by the Rotary Club of Calcutta Visionaries. In some cases, there can be a recurrence and the person can get it back in some other body part, which can be a threat to life at times, he said. Nadkarni spoke about the importance of self-examination. “It is highly recommended worldwide,” he said. “Self-examination increases the awareness and it means the woman will be watchful and remember to get herself checked.” It came up during discussion that many women don’t self-examine because they are scared. “It is recommended that self-examination of breasts should start at the age of 20, not because you will get cancer at that age but by the time you are 35-40 and god forbid get cancer, you are such an expert that you will catch a tumour when it is small and not allow it to grow big,” Nadkarni said. Mamta Goenka, a breast cancer rehabilitation counsellor who has survived breast cancer thrice, said self-examination had helped her. “I am here today despite having it thrice because I have had an early diagnosis and I have self-diagnosed. “Self-examination of breasts is a diagnostic tool and one should have a session with a gynaecologist or physician once… they can tell you which breast tissues are normal. If I don’t know which breast tissues are normal, it will seem all are tumours.” Tahira Kashyap Khurrana, writer and filmmaker and the chief guest at the webinar, spoke of her journey in dealing with cancer. She said she was initially scared of chemotherapy but overcame it soon. “The cancer will not come if we get a mammogram done. If something is there, it is there. It’s how we deal with it.... I was ready for whatever was coming and not beaten down by it.” During her treatment she was the “strongest” person in the family. But the family support is important, she said. “I could see it in the eyes of my partner or friends that they were not judging me. That is the biggest fear of any person who is undergoing a breast cancer, mastectomy or a reconstruction or a radiation… you go through a lot of physical changes. “When you see people in your immediate environment… their love and respect does not change, you get strength from it... they don’t need to come and tell you… you can do it... just by them being calm and not judging you gives so much strength. So, I really wish every person who goes through such a problem gets that kind of cushioning not just from the family but the society.” Vidhi Chandak, the chairperson of the cancer committee of the Rotary Club of Calcutta Visionaries and the organisation’s vice-president, said the awareness programme was started in 2015. “When I was diagnosed with breast cancer it was in the early third stage. The idea was to raise awareness and motivate people to self-examine, go for screening and not shy away from it out of fear.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
03-10-2020||Calcutta||City unites world to spread love||A graphic designer from Rio de Janeiro, an essential service worker from New York, and a music teacher from Calcutta among others have sung “We are the World” to spread the message of “love, hope and unity”. Eighty “ordinary people” who love to sing or are musically inclined from 32 countries have collaborated for the project, initiated by the music teacher at Don Bosco Park Circus to talk about some positivity when “deaths, unemployment and poverty have cast a dark shadow over the entire humanity”. The 8.10-minute music video was launched last Saturday with people from different time zones singing from the confines of their homes. The song goes: “There comes a time… when the world must come together as one/There are people dying/Oh, and it’s time to lend a hand to life/The greatest gift of all.” “The idea is to tell people that no one is suffering alone but the entire world is facing this crisis. We are in it together and we need to combat it together,” Peter Gomes, head of the music department at Don Bosco Park Circus, said. He said he chose the iconic song created by Michael Jackson and Lionel Richie in 1985. Not all who featured in the video was known to Gomes personally but he set the ball rolling on social media and  connected with friends abroad who introduced him to their friends. One criterion was all had to be singers. “It didn’t matter if it was only a few seconds that we were singing but it was singing in unison with people from so many countries,” Melanie Trindade, the head of merchandise planning section in a kids fashion brand in Warsaw, Poland, said. Trindade participated with her husband Philip Gracias and daughter Heather. “It did help to cheer ourselves up and hope it will cheer others, too,” she said. Sloan Thomas of New York sent his recording in between doing his duty as an “essential service” person as he had to provide hotspots to people working from home. “I was not at home during the lockdown because my work demanded being on the field and we were considered essential service providers because we had to support people with Internet access as they were mostly working from home,” Thomas said. “Living in a city which is one of the hardest hit, the idea of the song is to bring back the strength of people and fight it together.” Thomas works in a networking and communications company. Back in the city, for Gomes it was a mammoth task coordinating with people from different time zones from his own “studio bedroom”. “I had to stay up the whole night discussing plans with people in Europe and the US. In the morning I coordinated with people in Australia and East Asia. But it was all worth it, uniting the world together in such depressing times and what better way than music,” Gomes said. Mister Martinho from Brazil’s Rio edited and compiled the video. The music video has received 9,600 views as on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Cheating over mobile tower deal||Two directors of two companies have been arrested on cheating charges. They had apparently reneged on their promise to pay Rs 80 lakh to a Rajarhat resident for allowing them to install telecom towers on his property. Kashinath Sen, a resident of Italgacha in Rajarhat, has said about the offer from both the companies in his police complaint. He apparently agreed to the proposition and allowed them to fix the tower. When he realised the companies won’t pay him, he lodged a complaint with Bidhannagar cyber crime police station in July. Cops found prima facie evidence of cheating against the companies that have their offices in the Lake Town area. The two directors, whom the police introduced as Debabrata Ckaraborty and Samik Debnath, were picked up from their Rajarhat homes on Thursday. “We have started investigating the matter. It is still to be ascertained if they were running a racket of cheating people this way,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Women’s income hit more by Covid blow||Over 55 per cent women reported Covid-related income loss compared to 34 per cent for men, a survey conducted in nearly 40 countries has shown, said a professor of psychology at Columbia University. Kathleen M. Pike, the executive director and scientific co-director at the Global Mental Health Programme of the university, said “these issues” impacted women more than men. “This year, with Covid-19 pandemic, we have seen a particular case where disaster is differentially having an impact on women.… What we see is that women were differentially impacted in terms of job security. Over 55 per cent women reported Covid-related income loss compared to 34 per cent for men.... In part, that may be because in many parts of the world… women are much more likely to work as part of the informal sector where Covid-19 is hitting highest and are less likely to access unemployment benefits,” said Pike. She was speaking at a programme on “gender-based mental health” services, organised by Antara, a psychiatric hospital and rehabilitation centre at Baruipur. The webinar was part of the hospital’s year-long golden jubilee celebrations. Pike referred to the study by Care International, a humanitarian agency, that was released last week. The study featured first-person accounts of participants and examined the “unique challenges faced by women during Covid-19”. Pike said income loss had “significant impact not only for women but also significantly for the next generation, the women’s children”. The second blow to women during the pandemic has been lack of food, Pike said. She said food insecurity for women meant food insecurity for children the women are raising. Similarly, food insecurity for pregnant women meant food insecurity for children yet to be born. “...with Covid-19 we are seeing significant and dramatic differences in terms of mental health, where 27 per cent of women are reporting an increase in challenges associated with mental illness compared to about 10 per cent of men around the world,” she said. Though Pike referred to global data but the problem is as acute in India as elsewhere. The helpline numbers Antara had started for psychiatric and psychological counselling within three weeks of the start of the lockdown are inundated with calls from women. “There have been calls from men, women and the elderly but after speaking to our social workers and psychologists, we found out that there is a preponderance of women callers. They have spoken about economic woes because of loss of jobs and how day-to-day functioning is becoming difficult,” said John Mathew, honorary general secretary of Antara. A professor of psychiatry at CMC Vellore said women had specific roles that were not “appropriately acknowledged”. “Sometimes some roles, for example the role of a caregiver, is not something which is acknowledged. A lady looking after an older person in the family is not thoroughly acknowledged by the rest of the family members,” said Suja Kurian. Psychiatrist Goutam Saha spoke about the discrimination in the availability of treatment to men and women. “If three males have access to mental health services, only one woman has access to it. In the government’s mental health hospitals, the availability of beds to male is 73 per cent against 27 per cent for women,” said Saha, president-elect of the Indian Psychiatric Society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Poor Net triggers IIM campus return pleas||More students at IIM Calcutta want to be on the campus as poor Net connectivity at home is hampering their online classes. Twenty-one students from the first year and second year of the two-year MBA course will be brought to the IIM campus in October so that they can attend classes from the hostels. The institute has shortlisted 21 students after considering their requests in which they pointed out their Net connectivity woes. Complaints of poor Net connectivity have already prompted the institute to call students of the executive MBA course to the campus in September. An IIM-C student from a central state told The Telegraph on the phone she had heard that students from Tier-III cities face Net connectivity problems. The condition of many other students will be “much worse”, she said. “They are struggling to attend classes as the Net is poor in their area. I fail to understand what took the authorities so long… considering the issue of Net connectivity has been brought to their notice since mid-June,” she said. The matter of poor Net connectivity being faced by students was discussed at a meeting of the institute’s academic council on July 2. An institute official said the programme office was in touch with the 21 students to find out when they would reach the campus and was preparing a safety protocol for them. “The safety protocol will be the same as students of the executive MBA course followed when they reached the campus in batches,” the official said. A vice-chancellor of a state university who was present at a virtual meeting education minister Partha Chatterjee had with university heads on Sunday said the goings-on at IIM Calcutta showed what was waiting for the universities. Chatterjee had said regular online classes would start in the first week of December. Anil Bhuimali, the VC of Raiganj University, had asked at the meeting how students would attend classes as 70 per cent of them face Net connectivity problems. Another student who is in the second year of the MBA course at IIM said the authorities were forthcoming in inviting students of the one-year executive course to the campus but were “selective towards students of the two-year course”. A student spends Rs 27 lakh on the one-year MBA executive course and Rs 22 lakh for the two-year MBA course. “Our first term is nearing completion but they are calling only a handful of students. Almost all of the 56 students of the executive course have arrived. We are being discriminated against. Apart from the Net connectivity problems, we are missing out on several other on-campus features of our course,” a second-year MBA student said. Hunar Gandhi, the student council president, had on June 13 sought a fee waiver in a letter to director Anju Seth. “Would it be possible to allow some students, who may be facing connectivity issues or other constraints at home, to return to campus and utilise campus infrastructure even when classes are online? Can this process begin from now onwards as there is still a month before the classes begin? Students are apprehensive about the quality of learning through the online mode.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Call centre defrauding US nationals busted||Employees of a call centre in Maniktala allegedly duped many people in the US in the guise of software service providers, by coaxing them into installing a software that would install spyware in their computers and give away their banking details, police said. Five persons were arrested in connection with the fraud on Thursday. They are Sheikh Alauddin, 22, Sahil Alam, 21, Hemnat Kumar Prasad, 22, Sumit Pal, 25 and Ankit Jaiswal, 22. “Several US nationals have been duped by this gang, whose members claimed to their intended victims that they provided solutions to software-related problems. They used to make VoiP calls using 38 computers in their call centre,” said an officer of Maniktala police station. The police suspect the gang had duped Americans to the tune of lakhs of rupees. “We have learned the names of the owners of the call centre and initiated a case against them, too. We have launched a search for the owners,” the officer said. A case has been started under Indian Penal Code sections related to cheating, fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy, and also under the Information Technology Act. Illegal call centres have mushroomed in the city and they have been running without any registration or authorisation. Over the past few months, the police have arrested many suspects who allegedly cheated people across the globe posing as employees of Microsoft India. In almost all cases, the alleged fraudsters convince their clients to install software in their laptops and computers through which they could access the device sitting thousands of kilometres away. “Once the fraudsters have control over the devices of their clients, it is very easy to fish out banking details of the individuals and transfer money from their accounts,” the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||State slammed for old vehicles||The state government is making “no serious effort” in phasing out old polluting commercial vehicles, the National Green Tribunal said on Thursday. The bench comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda said in an order on Thursday: “The next question that we find the state lagging in is with regard to phasing out of old commercial vehicles, as evidently no serious effort is being made in this regard.” Goods vehicles were found to be responsible for the bulk of automobile pollution in Calcutta and Howrah, a study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) has revealed. The report said that goods carriers were responsible for 49 per cent of the PM10 in the ambient air generated by vehicular emission. For PM2.5, the contribution of goods vehicles was estimated at 49.5 per cent. Phasing out of commercial vehicles more than 15 years old is one of the ways to maintain a healthy air quality, said air quality management specialists. “A truck that was manufactured in 2000 under the BS-IV emission norms will emit 36 times more particulate matter than a truck manufactured under the BS-VI norms. If you can phase out commercial vehicles that are more than 15 years old, you get a lot of emission benefits,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of the Centre for Science and Environment. BS-IV and BS-VI are emission standards of a vehicle’s engine. The Centre has mandated that vehicle makers must manufacture and sell only BS-VI (BS6) vehicles from April 1, 2020. Calcutta High Court had in 2008 ordered a ban on the movement of all commercial vehicles 15 years or older in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA) to tackle pollution caused by vehicular emission. On Thursday, the tribunal also directed the transport department to ensure that a committee formed to deal with the issue submits its report “in not more than three months days from hence”. The observations were made while passing an order on a petition by environment activist Subhas Datta about air pollution in Calcutta and Howrah. Datta said that during the course of the hearing of the case, the Union ministry of road and transport told the tribunal that there were 2.19 lakh commercial vehicles in Calcutta of age 15 years or older. The tribunal also told the state “to ensure that the public transport vehicles below BS-IV are phased out rapidly to arrive at a stage when only BS-VI would ply in the two cities, to be extended gradually to the rest of the state”. The bench observed that the “…decline in quality of environment demonstrates the failure of the authorities to perform their obligation under the constitutional scheme and mandate of the environmental laws”. It threatened to apply the “principle of accountability for restoration and compensation… if the regulatory authorities either connives or acts negligently by not taking prompt action to prevent or avoid or control damage to the environment….” The bench also said it was accepting the state’s action plan on combating air pollution, which was submitted on August 17. The action plan talks about various measures such as phasing out of old vehicles, afforestation, use of clean fuel in roadside eateries, stopping open burning of waste and using water sprinklers. “The government is trying its best” claimed government lawyer Abhratosh Majumdar during the video hearing. “We have just received the order and will implement as per the direction” said a senior state pollution control board official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Sealdah diversions||The first of the three-day traffic diversion following the closure of the Sealdah flyover passed without too many glitches on Friday. The number of vehicles on some of the main roads, including APC Road and AJC Bose Road, was relatively low because of the national holiday on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti and police didn’t have to implement all the proposed diversions. The Sealdah flyover will remain shut till 6am on October 5 to facilitate the construction of a tunnel for East-West Metro. “We will see the vehicular load on Saturday and decide accordingly,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Tribunal rap for Dhapa waste clearance pace||The National Green Tribunal has termed the efforts to clear the legacy waste from the Dhapa dumping ground as “grossly inadequate” and ordered the formation of a committee that would “propose means to accelerate the pace of bio-remediation of legacy waste”. The observations were made on Thursday when the tribunal passed an order on the measures taken by the state to improve the air quality of Calcutta and Howrah. Natural burning of waste, triggered by stored methane gas, contributes to the worsening air quality, said environment activist Subhas Datta. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has taken up a project to bio-mine or bio-remediate the Dhapa landfill site. This would help mine recyclable items like plastic, paper and construction waste and send them to recycling plants. Biomining will lead to reduction of the volume of waste at Dhapa, as only the inert waste would be left at the site. Years of dumping of waste at Dhapa, without recycling the recyclable materials, has created mounds that are as high as 10-storey buildings. CMC officials said the site would not be able to take the city's waste in another few years. The tribunal has expressed dissatisfaction with the pace of the bio-mining work. “Considering the volume of legacy waste at Dhapa dumpsite, the use of only three trommels for bio-remediation would be grossly inadequate, which is likely to result in the quantum of waste to be bio-mined not being able to match the waste being dumped at the site daily. Ideally, quantum of bio-remediation should exceed the quantum of waste being dumped to ensure successful clearance of the site by bio-remediation within specified timelines,” reads the tribunal order. A trommel is the machine that segregates recyclable waste from other kinds of waste. The Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 say biomining should be done at legacy dumping sites like Dhapa. But it was only earlier this year that the CMC started the project, and that too on a small scale. Calcutta produces about 4,500 tonnes of waste every day. The CMC is using one trommel, which will reduce 300 tonnes of waste per day. Two more trommels of equal capacity will be engaged soon, officials said. But even after that, 3,600 tonnes of waste would add to the existing mound of garbage at the site. In a report to the tribunal, the state government has said that it had floated a tender for biomining the 40 lakh tonnes of waste lying at Dhapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Four held for fraud||Four men were arrested on Friday for allegedly running a fraudulent call centre in Bangur Avenue’s D Block. The arrested would dupe people by promising them high returns if they let them use their land or rooftops to erect cellphone towers of reputable cellular network providers, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The four arrested are Pintu Choudhary, 30, Mukesh Chowdhury, 26, Shibu Kisku, 26, and Sukhdev Jadav, 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Women march for justice||More than 50 women, who were part of the sit-in at Park Circus Maidan against the new citizenship matrix, took to the streets again on Friday to demand justice for the Hathras victim and protest the “unjust acquittal of conspirators” of the Babri Masjid demolition. “The fact that something as gruesome (as the Hathras barbarity) can take place even after the Nirbhaya rape, which triggered protests across the country, shows we have failed as society,” said Asmat Jamil. Standing outside Lady Brabourne College, Jamil said she felt “outraged and angered” at the horror of the Hathras gang rape and added that a sense of “insecurity had gripped women everywhere in the country”. Rashida Afreen, who is pursuing postgraduation in English from Calcutta University, said that while demanding justice for the Hathras victim, they were also raising slogans to demand the unconditional release of rights activist Umar Khalid and others who had joined the protest against the new citizenship regime. “We shudder to think about the brutality of the assault (on the Hathras victim). And the actions of the authorities in Uttar Pradesh send shivers down our spines. We must act, otherwise women will not be able to even walk around safely anymore,” said Afreen, who lives in Topsia. The women had gathered in front of Park Circus Maidan and walked till the gate of the college. Emotions ran high and the participants shouted “Hum sub ek hai. Humaari ek hi mang hai. Hume insaaf chahiye (We are one. We have one demand. We want justice)”. Jamil said they would continue to organise protest meetings and marches across the city demanding justice for the Hathras victim and rollback of the troika of the Citizenship Amendment Act, National Population Register and National Register of Citizens. “We will organise these protests with small gatherings keeping in mind the social distancing protocol. We will not rest till justice is delivered,” said Jamil. Members of a string of organisations that used to be at the forefront of protests against the new citizenship matrix as well as other bodies have called for a rally on Saturday, where people will walk with flaming torches in their hands to protest the atrocities against women and Dalits in Uttar Pradesh. The rally will start at Park Circus Maidan and terminate at the Gariahat crossing and will wind its way through Old Ballygunge Road and Gariahat Road. Protesters will start assembling at Park Circus Maidan from 6pm. The organisers said everybody was welcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
03-10-2020||Calcutta||Bangla patients back in city||Patients from Bangladesh have started trickling back to Calcutta’s hospitals after the flow had stopped for almost six months because of Covid-19. A Bangladeshi patient arrived at Peerless Hospital on Friday, the first at the private hospital from that country since March. Several other private hospitals said they are again flooded with requests for appointments from Bangladeshi nationals and a few of them have started coming to Calcutta for treatment. This should augur well for the city’s healthcare economy, in which hospitals are at the centre but hotels and retail stores are also among the beneficiaries. “A patient from Bangladesh came by road on Friday. He is the first Bangladeshi to come for treatment since March. He has come with a Covid-19 negative test report but still we got another test done. He has an appointment with a gastroenterologist,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Around 60 patients from Bangladesh used to turn up at the outpatient department of the hospital every day in the pre-Covid times. Same with other private hospitals, especially those off EM Bypass. A number of hospitals said they had been getting requests from Bangladeshi patients since August. But it was not before the middle of September that the Indian high commission in Bangladesh had started giving permission to Bangladeshis to apply for medical visas for treatment at Calcutta’s hospitals. Earlier, a patient would apply to a hospital for an appointment. Once the appointment was given, he or she would submit the document at the Indian high commission for a medical visa. “Now, we have been verbally told to send a mail to the high commission in Dhaka once a patient applies for appointment. The high commission is then giving approval, based on which the patient can apply and get a medical visa,” said Mitra of Peerless Hospital. He said that since August, nearly 100 patients had applied for appointments. The high commission has given consent for a medical visa to 22 of them. At two hospitals of the Narayana Health group, around 10 patients have come from Bangladesh in the last couple of weeks. “Now, the number of applications from Bangladesh has increased and we are getting 10 such requests every day. The patients are coming by road and some of them requested us to send ambulances at the Petrapole-Benepole border, which we did,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region, Narayana Health group. The hospital’s flagship unit, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, used to get about 100 patients from the neighbouring country at the OPD every day. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, where around 125 patients from Bangladesh used to turn up every day before the pandemic, has got a couple of them in the past few days, said hospital sources. Travel industry representatives said more patients would come once flights between Calcutta and Dhaka resumed. “Businesses at New Market, small and medium hotels and foreign exchange counters have been hit for want of Bangladeshi customers,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. Mohammad Intezar, the director of Ultimate Forex Pvt Ltd at Marquis Street, said that earlier he would have 400 to 500 customers every day to change currency notes. “Over the last six months, there was almost no customer,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-284
