04-10-2020||Calcutta||BJP is the biggest pandemic: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday identified the BJP as “the biggest pandemic” that had “finished the country”, leading a protest in the city against the Hathras horror and broadening the scope of her attack by referring to a plethora of other problems such as the migrant crisis, economic doom, “throttling of democracy” and the hounding of Dalits and minorities. During her 30-minute address to the gathering at the base of the Gandhi statue after completing a 2.5km protest march from Birla Planetarium, the Bengal chief minister spoke at length about the Hathras atrocities — the gang rape and murder of the Dalit teen, the alleged bid to protect the accused, the attempts to silence the victim’s family and the burning of her body without her family’s consent. “The BJP is the biggest pandemic; they have finished the country,” Mamata said, also referring to the farm laws that the Centre had steamrolled through despite protests by farmers and the Opposition, and the disinvestment of public sector units. This was the first time the Trinamul Congress chief had hit the streets after the Covid-19 restrictions came into force on March 25. Through her political career, Mamata has successfully laced long walks with her politics of protest, with most of these marches having either started or ended at the Gandhi statue on the Maidan or at the Gandhi Bhavan in Beleghata. Speaking from a small dais erected next to the statue on Saturday, the chief minister said: “I felt like running to UP. My heart today is in Hathras. I had sent my representatives to Hathras yesterday (Friday), but they were stopped 1km from the village. No courtesy was extended to them, and women members of the delegation were assaulted.” She added: “They used the police to prevent us from meeting the victim’s family.… They may be successful tomorrow or the day after, but we will surely get the chance one day. And don’t forget, the Dailt girl is our daughter.” Mamata said she could not speak to the victim’s family as their phones had been taken away by the Uttar Pradesh administration. “That’s why I have come here…. We come to this place for celebrations or for protests,” she said, explaining her choice of venue a day after the 151st birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation. Mamata repeatedly stressed that she had been forced to organise the protest despite the pandemic because of the Hathras tragedy, which she said had exposed the atrocities the BJP had been inflicting on people, especially Dalits and minorities. “Has anyone got justice?” Mamata asked, referring to the Delhi riots, the encounter killings in Uttar Pradesh and the attacks on minorities in various BJP-ruled states. “This is a phase of darkness in the country, but we will come out of it and that’s why we all have torches in our hands,” she added as all the participants flashed lights. “When elections come, Pakistan comes, Pulwama happens or war-mongering starts. After election, they start selling — rail, coal, BSNL or whatever they can,” Mamata said. Although the central theme of the protest was the Hathras monstrosity, Mamata broadened the programme’s ambit to address concerns over the Centre’s policies that were “spelling doom” for the poor and the deprived sections. The pandemic-induced lockdown, its impact on migrant labourers and the economy at large and the BJP-led government’s failure to resuscitate the economy also featured in her speech. “We were lectured about what to do over Covid…. But what are they doing? So many people lost their jobs; migrant workers, small-scale industries are crying. They did nothing,” Mamata said. She flagged the “throttling of democracy” under BJP rule and accused the Centre of trying to terrorise media organisations. “This is not the government of the people, for the people, by the people…. This is a government of dictatorship,” Mamata said. The Trinamul chief willy-nilly admitted that the Opposition parties remained fragmented and that the saffron camp was very much in control across the country, but ended her address on an optimistic note. “It is becoming like one nation, one political party. We are moving towards a presidential form of governance…. Opposition parties are not allowed to speak,” she said. “We will keep fighting and we will win. We will show that the BJP is not the future of this country, it’s temporary,” Mamata added. As Bengal gears up for elections in seven months, Trinamul sources said Mamata would try to energise her campaign by taking advantage of the “anti-BJP mood” in the aftermath of what had happened in Hathras. “The incident has triggered an anti-BJP mood, which Didi is using to launch a multi-pronged attack on the BJP…. This will help us build campaign momentum for the Bengal polls,” said a source close to Mamata. The chief minister has instructed Trinamul workers to hold protests by involving Dalits, minorities, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in all 341 blocks of Bengal till October 17. That Mamata had set her sights on the poll narrative became clear when she chose to respond to the BJP’s allegation that she practised the “politics of minority appeasement”. “If I try to say something, they say I pander to the Muslims…. No, I am with Muslims if they are ostracised. I am with Dalits if they are ostracised. I have only one identity and that’s humanity,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
04-10-2020||Calcutta||City decries assault on daughter||Thousands of Calcuttans hit the streets on Saturday to protest what they termed “an assault on our daughter”. A 19-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras was brutalised. That and the way police there handled the matter triggered public rage and forced people to step out of their homes and protest, keeping the fear of the pandemic out of their way. Three public rallies were organised across the city to protest the rape. Hundreds of kilometres away in Uttar Pradesh, cops tried to stop the media and politicians from entering the village where the girl had been brutalised and killed and later cremated by the police in the absence of family members. Although two of the three public rallies in Calcutta were organised by political parties — the Trinamul Congress and the Congress, along with Left Front allies — not all who participated were into party politics. Many at the rallies had stepped out of home for the first time in months during the pandemic. Some were rally first-timers. The rally led by chief minister Mamata Banerjee started from Birla Planetarium at 4pm and ended at the Gandhi statue. It saw the maximum turnout. The joint rally by the Congress and the Left Front allies started from Moulali to Esplanade in the afternoon. The third was a citizens’ rally at Park Circus. It saw a considerable turnout despite the rain and the pandemic. “People joined spontaneously. It was practically not possible to maintain distancing rules when so many people were on the road and marching. The matter is beyond any political agenda. Most of the participants were women,” an officer who was on duty at the chief minister’s rally said. The picture was nothing like what Calcutta has seen in the past couple of months when most people stayed indoors for fear of contracting the coronavirus. Sarathi Roy, a software engineer who has been working from home the past few months, was one of the participants who never walked in a public rally in the past. “If we do not raise our voice now, when will we?” Roy, who lives near Elgin Road, asked. Around 4.15pm when the head of the rally approached Park Street, the tail was still near Rabindra Sadan. The gathering later in the evening at Park Circus had people from various walks of life coming from far-off places in the city. Pragya Roy Chowdhury, a third-year student of Sanskrit College and University, was with 14 of her friends. They took public transport to reach the venue. “Even we are scared of the virus. But the oppression by the state that unfolded in Hathras did not let us stay at home. We cannot stay at home any more. We had to come,” Roy Chowdhury, a resident of Dum Dum Park, said. One of her friends drew a parallel with the condition of the migrant labourers who were aware of the consequences of stepping out during the pandemic but had to travel kilometres for survival. “It has become a battle of survival… we all have to raise our voices together,” one of her friends said. A primary schoolteacher from Rashbehari was in the gathering despite the rain in the evening. The fear of travelling in public transport did not deter her from joining. “I took a bus to reach the venue… I will again use public transport to return home,” the teacher who identified herself by her first name, Swapna, said. “The fear of Covid is in its place and that’s why I am wearing a mask. But this needs protest; so, I came.” Senior officers in Lalbazar said the turnout on the roads was “more than expected”. “So many people were on the roads irrespective of age and gender. Some were panting while walking… but they did not give up,” a traffic police officer said. Sarthak Roy Choudhury, a teacher of Gokhale Memorial Girls College, said the horror of the Hathras incident has left him sickened to the core. The nation should be in mourning as the social fabric has been torn to bits, he said. “The way the woman was brutalised makes me ashamed to be a part of the male gender.” Choudhury chose to come to a gathering despite the pandemic because protesting is the only way out. “We can’t let our country become famous for its rape culture.... The situation of hate and division on the basis of caste must stop,” he said. Poushali Basak, a research scholar at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Mumbai, said she did not mind travelling in a crowded bus to reach Park Circus despite the pandemic. “Women’s safety is an issue that has been widely advocated by our government but when it comes to ground reality we have the horror of the Hathras incident,” said Basak, who was at the protest with a friend. The widespread civil rights violations in Uttar Pradesh and the brutality of the rape cannot let anyone sit at home and contemplate. “We need to be out here on the streets and cry ourselves hoarse,” she said. Anam Zafar, a third year student at Hazra Law College, fought with her parents, who were against her going to a protest amid the pandemic, to attend Saturday’s rally. Zafar said that she firmly told her parents she needed to be out on the streets to join the protest, after which they relented. “They were worried about me contracting the coronavirus. I told them that the situation in our country is far more scary than testing positive for Covid-19 and we must do something about it,” said Zafar who stays in Park Circus. Rangoli Chatterjee, who works for a multinational company in Salt Lake Sector V, took a few hours leave to be at the protest march. The way the authorities in Uttar Pradesh were trying to intimidate the woman’s family was both very disturbing and pointed to the fact that they wanted to keep things under wraps, she said. “The woman is a Dalit — a class that has been downtrodden for a long time. However, the police and the authorities in Uttar Pradesh instead of helping them are trying to gag them. This cannot go on,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
04-10-2020||Calcutta||Puja budget tweak over hand sanitisers ||Puja organisers are replanning their budgets as they will need about 500 litres of hand sanitisers for the four main days of Durga Puja. It means an additional expenditure of Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 depending on the quality. Several medium budget puja organisers remained busy between Friday and Saturday calculating the amount of hand sanitiser they would need for visitors turning up at their pandals. “The basic quality will cost around Rs 850 for a five-litre jar. The better ones will come at Rs 1,900-2,200 for the same volume,” Soumita Adak, the marketing head of Info Silicate Systems Private Limited, said. Adak as visited several puja committees in south Calcutta and at least seven puja organisers have more or less finalised their orders for bulk supply of hand sanitisers. “Most are going for the basic quality.” Most organisers have had to slash their budgets between 40 and 50 per cent and settle for low-key pujas this year because the pandemic has robbed them of their share of sponsors and advertisers. Idols have been made shorter to save on money, lights and decorations reduced to the minimum, and pandals have been cut to size, almost literally. “The expenditure on account of hand sanitiser has left us stumped,” Sandipan Banerjee of Behala Notun Dal said. “We have worked out that at least 500 litres of hand sanitisers would be needed for the four days… where do we get the money for this?” Many organisers from north to south and on the city’s eastern outskirts have been talking to suppliers for sensor-based dispensers or paddle-push dispensers. “Each of these paddle-push dispensers costs around Rs 1,800. They are made of steel and are not given out on rent,” Samir Ghosh, a dispenser distributor, said. “Several puja organisers have approached me and I have told them that you need to buy them.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said that organisers would have to arrange masks and hand sanitisers for visitors apart from ensuring free air movement in pandals. In the past few days, police have told organisers to follow these steps. “This is our golden jubilee year; we will go for the top-quality hand sanitiser,” Sanjoy Majumder of State Bank Park Puja in Thakupukur said. “You can calculate the cost... we will have to bear it.” A few others have been toying with alternatives to hand sanitisers. “There is a concept of using ultraviolet rays as an alternative to hand sanitisers. We have spoken to some companies,” Kajal Sarkar of Bosepukur Sitala Mandir in Kasba said. “The health department has no directive on the use of such alternatives. So, we will go for hand sanitisers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
04-10-2020||Calcutta||CMC tax relief explained||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has rolled out a penalty and interest waiver scheme for property tax defaulters on October 1. The benefits will vary depending on how fast one clears the dues. The Telegraph gives the low-down. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation Incentive (waiver of interest and penalty to property tax payers) Scheme 2020. Till May 31, 2021. Anyone who has not paid property tax against bills presented till March 31, 2020. The scheme is not applicable to them. They can apply to the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators asking for a penalty and interest waiver. The chairperson has the discretion to waive up to 50 per cent interest and up to 99 per cent penalty. If a defaulter clears dues in the first five months or by February 28, 2021, no penalty or interest will be charged. If dues are cleared after five months, 60 per cent interest and 99 per cent penalty will be waived. The penalty is calculated based on the amount of pending tax and it does not increase with time. The interest, on the other hand, keeps accumulating with time, a civic official said. An application form with the assessee and premise numbers have to be submitted. Once the form is submitted, a fresh bill with the amount to be paid, after deducting the penalty and interest, will be given to the defaulter. Forms are available both online and offline and can be submitted online or at any of the CMC’s common collection centres or any of its e-Calcutta citizen service centres. Bills can be collected online or at these centres. There are 20 such centres across the city. The list is available on the “e-Kolkata Citizen Service Centre” menu of the CMC’s website, https://www.kmcgov.in/KMCPortal/jsp/KMCPortalHome1.jsp. The CMC site will soon have a separate menu called waiver scheme. The process will be streamlined in a few days, a civic official said. Same as getting the form and the bill. Payment can be made at the centres or through the CMC site. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, had told Metro on the day of the scheme’s launch that the payment option would be available on the the civic body’s mobile app, KMC APP. Close to Rs 2,500 crore, an official said. It is allowed but full payment must be made within the scheme’s tenure. A gazette notification on the scheme says: “A taxpayer can make part payment during the validity period of the waiver but the entire property tax demand after waiver, as per Waiver LOI needs to be deposited during the waiver period.” A 100 per cent waiver will be given only if the dues are cleared, even in installments, in the first five months, the official said. If any installment is paid after five months, only 60 per cent interest and 99 per cent penalty will be waived on the entire amount. Only if there is no “restraining order” from court, defaulters can make use of the scheme. If the matter is sub judice and there is no restraining order, anyone making payment under the scheme will be treated as one-time settlement of property tax, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
04-10-2020||Calcutta||Net woes force two to travel miles for exam||Razequl Hasan and Abdus Sami, undergraduate students of Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose College in Calcutta, have dropped the plan of uploading their final-year answer scripts from their homes because of Net connectivity problems. The two third-year students of mathematics honours reached the campus, off Rabindra Sadan, to take the test and submit the scripts in person within half an hour of the tests in accordance with the UGC directive. Since tests are not supposed to be held in colleges during the pandemic, Calcutta University decided that colleges would upload questions on their websites and students have to send back scanned answer scripts to colleges within half an hour of the exam. Purna Chandra Maity, the principal of the college, said he could understand what the students were going through as his ancestral home is in a remote village in East Midnapore district. “Besides, CU had left it to colleges to work out a way in order to meet the UGC guidelines. So, we allowed students to take the exams on the campus.” Abdus Sami, the son of a scrap dealer, lives in Praduman Chapra village in Bihar’s East Champaran district. He doesn’t have a smartphone. Nor could he ask his father or brother who works in a private farm to buy him one as the family is going through tough times during the pandemic. “The Net connectivity was already weak… it has worsened. I had to request the college to help me out.” He was among the 21 students who took the test that started at noon in a classroom in the college in Calcutta. Saturday was the Day 2 of the exams that started on October 1. The exams will end on October 8. He is staying at a friend’s place in Birati. Razequl Hasan lives in Naikanda village in Chanchal. Electricity and Net connectivity are erratic in the area. Hasan, the son of a peasant, has a smartphone; but he could not risk banking on it to send scanned answer scripts back to the college. “It is raining incessantly in our place… when it rains, the Net connectivity crashes. I requested principal Maity to let me take the exam from the college and submit the scripts on time.” He, too, is staying at a friend’s place in Belghoria. The two are among the 100-odd students who had requested the college authorities to allow them to take the exams on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
04-10-2020||Calcutta||Infertility is not a disease: Doctor||Infertility is a condition and not a disease, an infertility specialist and gynaecologist said in the city on Saturday. “It is a relative condition and not an absolute one, which means a woman might not conceive at one point but with medical help the chances of conceiving improves. Therefore, we now use the term subfertile and not infertile,” Gautam Khastgir said. In Indian society, whenever a woman faces issues with conception she has to deal with questions at a social gathering, in the family or there are people who show unnecessary sympathy and it increases her anxiety, Khastgir said. “Less anxiety increases the chances of conception,” he said. He was speaking at a webinar organised by Bengal Infertility and Reproductive Therapy Hospital (Birth), a fertility centre, and Zydus Healthcare to spread awareness about fertility and to launch Khastgir’s book “100 Prosno-uttore Pregnant” in Bengali. Khastgir said the book would answer questions about reproduction. “There are so many questions that couples have about reproduction but people are shy to talk about it. Whether in school or college, reproduction is not discussed as a subject.” Saturday was the 42nd birthday of India’s first test tube baby Kanupriya Agarwal, an MBA, who joined the webinar from Mumbai. “She is India’s first test tube baby and it was conducted by Subhash Mukherjee. Two other people in the team were Sunit Mukherjee and Saroj Bhattacharya,” Khastgir said. Agarwal, the mother of a seven-year-old daughter, joined the webinar, along with her parents Bela and Prabhat Agarwal. “I was fortunate and didn’t have to go through any anxiety but my mother went through it for 20 years before my parents took this step. I believe when technology is available we should grab it with both hands,” she said. “If someone has a toothache they will seek help rather than leave it... so, if one is not able to conceive, one can seek help and not look at it any differently whether it’s reproductive or dental system. People should look at it calmly and seek the required help, psychological or physical,” she said. “In 1995, the ICMR recognised that the first test tube baby in India was done by Subhash Mukherjee. The medical community is still hoping for some recognition in the form of an award from both the state and central government,” Khastgir said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-283
