05-10-2020||Calcutta||Date for little ones, with grandparents in Calcutta||Students in the pre-primary and primary sections of a city school set the table for a dinner date with their grandparents, took out pictures from family albums and narrated stories, planted seedlings and baked cakes. Indus Valley World School usually invites residents of old age homes to the campus to celebrate the International Day for Older Persons on October 1, but this year because of the pandemic they assigned activities to the children that would help them “bond with the elderly in their homes”. The school sent a list of activities to the parents of children from Lower Infant to Class V, asking the grandparents and the grandchildren to choose from it and send a photograph or a small video of the chosen activity by the weekend. “The first day of October is dedicated to the elderly the world over. Let us take this opportunity to give our little ones a chance to appreciate the importance of grandparents in their lives,” the school said in the email. “We thought it is not only the elderly outside who need the care and attention but also the aged grandparents in the homes who want it. Children should use the time they are getting now to bond with them,” said Amita Prasad, the director of the school. She said grandparents are hands-on in many homes and if the children do something with them, it would make the elderly feel special. “An assignment by the school is usually taken more seriously. We hope it will be a trigger for the children to be engaged with their grandparents in a more sustained manner,” said Prasad. Nine-year-old Prisha Moitra planted a marigold seedling with her grandmother Aditi while the two of them sang Tagore’s “prano bhoriye trisha horiye, more aro aro aro dao pran”. They have a garden where they grow not just flowers but also seasonal vegetables. Grandmother Aditi has been tending to the garden for many years. “My grandmother gave me instructions like how to dig the soil, when to give fertilisers and how to tend to the plant,” said Class IV student Prisha. Those who do not have a grandparent could take an object that they associate with the grandparent and talk about it. A Class IV student wrote a letter to his “grandfathers in heaven” and remembered the vacations he would wait for to “play and fight” with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Phoolbagan Metro station unveiled||East-West Metro got its first underground station on Sunday with the inauguration of Phoolbagan station. The station will be open for passengers from Monday. East-West services have remained suspended on Sundays since the resumption of commercial run, following the Covid-induced suspension, on September 14. Till Saturday, trains ran between Salt Lake Sector V and Stadium stations on the East-West route, a distance of 5.5km. There are six elevated stations on the route. From Monday, trains will run between Phoolbagan and Sector V. Phoolbagan is around 1.7km from Stadium. Once fully operational, the East-West corridor will connect Howrah and Salt Lake, a distance of 16.5km, and a part of it will run under the Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Shopper uptick before Durga Puja raises hopes||Shoppers were out in droves on Sunday with a little more than a fortnight left for Durga Puja. From a sari store in Gariahat to a department store in South City Mall, most sellers were happy. A steady rise in the number of people with time was a note of hope for them, though the count was way less than what was observed in the run up to the Puja last year. Most people said it was the first time they had stepped out for shopping since the Covid pandemic reached Calcutta in March. They were happy to see many others out, too. Ratan Kumar Saha, the owner of Traders Assembly in Gariahat, said if the business was 10-15 per cent of previous years’ between June and August, it was about 20 per cent of last year’s around this time. Saha feels the business would rise further over the next two weekends. “I feel it can go up to 25 per cent of previous years’ in the next 20 days. Under the current circumstances, I will be content with this. What we sell are luxury items, not a daily necessity,” said Saha. Dip Biwas, an official of South City Mall, gave a similar picture. The official said a month back about 25,000 people used to visit the mall on Sundays. But this Sunday, the number rose to over 40,000. “We expect more people to come on the next two Sundays,” he said. An official of Shoppers Stop at South City Mall said they had witnessed about nearly 50 per cent jump in sales compared with last month. The change was visible. When Metro visited South City Mall late Sunday afternoon, there was a steady stream of visitors walking past the metal detector gates. The ground floor — which has been decorated with lights and imitations of a yellow taxi, a hand-pulled rickshaw, a working table and a container of a phuckawallah - had people standing in front of the models for pictures. Most visitors were wearing masks but were taking them off while being clicked. The crowd thinned as one moved to upper floors, suggesting many were out only to soak in the pre-Puja mood. Ayan Bhattacharya and wife Piyali had come from Ganguly Bagan. This was the first time they were out shopping since March. “I have been going to the office since September. So I needed some new clothes. We are using this visit to buy stuff both for work and Puja,” said Ayan. At Acropolis Mall, too, Sunday witnessed a bigger turnout than all holidays since March.  An official of the mall said about 10,000 people visited the shopping hub on Sunday, a 30 per cent increase compared with the footfall a month ago. “Our mall will remain open up to 11pm till October 30. The sales at the food court and apparel stores were impressive today,” said the official. South City Mall, Biswas said, would remain open up to 10 pm till October 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta airport parking culture survives Covid||The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way passengers travel on flights but an old problem at the Calcutta airport — kerbside parking of VIP cars in front of the terminal — continues like before. On Sunday, Metro saw many VIP cars parked in front of the terminal for more than an hour. During the period, two parking attendants were seen slapping a fine on a private vehicle for standing in front of the terminal for 12 minutes, two minutes more than the stipulated 10 minutes. An airport official said cars were allowed a “dwell time” of three minutes, which refers to how long a vehicle can remain in front of the terminal building without paying any fine, and a “running time” of seven minutes, which denotes the time taken to travel to and from the terminal. The official, however, said only the total time a car spent on the airport premises was taken into account as there was no mechanism to ascertain the “dwell time” and the “running time” of a vehicle separately. Vehicles are allowed to stay on the airport premises for 10 minutes. If any car stays for a longer period, marshals deployed by a private agency that runs the airport’s parking lot are to collect a fine of Rs 400 from the driver. Metro on Sunday spotted a number of vehicles — some fitted with beacons and others had boards fixed on their windshields announcing that they belonged to the government — parked in front of the terminal for around 40 minutes or more. For as long as Metro was at the airport, there were no marshals to collect the fine and no cops to shoo away the VIP vehicles parked for long durations. A number of such vehicles stayed put in front of the terminal for around more than one-and-a-half hours. However, Patuli resident Tanmoy Bose, 52, who had gone to the airport to drop off his son was asked to cough up a fine of Rs 400 as his car had exceeded the time limit. A couple of parking attendants in front of the terminal building’s departure level fined him. Bose alleged the attendants had not issued him any warning. He said he had parked his Hyundai Creta in front of the terminal after he spotted several cars parked along the kerbside. “They (the attendants) just appeared out of thin air and issued the fine. I said there are other cars parked and they should fine them, too, but they simply walked away,” Bose said. This newspaper heard one of the attendants tell Bose: “We cannot issue fines to them.” When domestic flights resumed towards the end of May, around 10,000 passengers were using the airport daily. The number has now grown to over 20,000. The number of cars handled by the agency at the airport has also increased from 700 a day to more than a thousand. “It still is about half of what we used to have before the pandemic,” said an official of the agency. In August last year, a parking marshal had been arrested after he clamped a VIP vehicle that had allegedly violated the parking rule and shoved the driver. Babulal Yadav, the general manager of the agency that manages the parking lot, was arrested, too. Yadav said he had asked his men to steer clear of VIP and government vehicles after his arrest. Dhritiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner, traffic, Bidhannagar commissionerate, said it was the parking agency’s duty to collect fines from vehicles parked in front of the terminal building. “Our job is to keep the road in front of the terminal free and clear for traffic. As and when there is congestion, our men go and ask the cars to move away,” said Sarkar. A traffic policeman posted in front of the terminal said the drivers of most government and VIP cars drive in at least an hour before the person they have come to pick up. The drivers then lock their vehicles and roam about. “We cannot fine vehicles of senior officers,” said the policeman. On Sunday, this newspaper spotted a Mahindra Scorpio, with a beacon on its roof, parked in front of gate number 3A at the departure level for at least an hour. The driver was not inside. A car bearing an Airports Authority of India sticker on its windshield remained parked in front of the terminal building’s departure level for as long as this newspaper was there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Director Raj Chakraborty complains of fraud on children||Filmmaker Raj Chakraborty has lodged a police complaint alleging that two men and a woman had tried to extort money from guardians of a few children posing as employees of his production house. The three allegedly promised the guardians that they would get the children roles in Chakraborty’s films. The complaint lodged with Kasba police station says the suspects had demanded between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh from the guardians after promising roles for the children. “Before making the payment, one of the guardians became suspicious and dialled the phone number of an entertainment channel Raj Chakraborty’s production house is attached to. From there, the guardian learned that she was about to be cheated,” said an officer of the police station. The alleged fraudsters had created a Facebook page and invited child artistes to auditions. The police learned during the investigation that the page was run by three persons. “Once Chakraborty came to know about the matter, he contacted the police alleging that an attempt was being made to cheat people using his company’s name and to malign his production house, Raj Chakraborty Entertainment Pvt Ltd,” an officer said. The complaint named the three accused. Chakraborty’s production house has its office at Chamber Mall on Rajdanga Main Road. Based on his complaint, a case has been started against the three suspects. “We are verifying the allegations made by the production house. If they are prima facie true, the suspects will be arrested,” the officer said. Sources said investigators were talking to the guardians whom the trio were allegedly trying to cheat. The police are also trying to find out whether anyone had been cheated by them. “This was a common method employed by fraudsters to cheat aspiring artistes and extort money from them,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake resident found dead||A 47-year-old man who used to stay alone in Salt Lake's BJ block was found dead on Sunday, police said. A resident of BJ block said Joydip Banerjee, who died, used to work for a company in Sector V. The caretaker of Banerjee’s house had knocked on the door repeatedly but he did not open, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. According to the officer, the caretaker thought Banerjee was sleeping and went to the nearby block market to buy groceries and vegetables. "He returned after some time and again knocked on the door multiple times. As Banerjee did not open the door, the caretaker alerted neighbours. The neighbours, too, knocked several times before contacting the police,” the officer said. A team from Bidhannagar East police station went to the house and broke open the main door. The team went inside and found Banerjee hanging in one of the rooms. They brought him down and took him to the sub-divisional hospital in Salt Lake, where he was declared dead. Several residents of BJ block who entered the house with the police said a suicide note was recovered. The police, however, did not comment on the issue. "We have sent the body for post-mortem,” said a senior officer of the commissionerate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Howrah realtor called to meeting, shot||A 37-year-old realtor was shot dead near Belilious Park in Howrah’s Tikiapara on Saturday night, police said. Amit Haith had turned up riding pillion on his business partner's two-wheeler in response to a call from an unknown person, who had possibly promised him some payment in cash on Saturday night. Police said the bullet, fired from a close range, pierced through Amit's forehead and he slumped to the ground bleeding. CCTV footage shows the assassins fleeing the spot on a two-wheeler. Officers from Bantra police station detained six persons till Sunday for questioning in connection with the murder. “We have started scanning the call records of the victim. Business rivalry seems to be the motive. But we are not rushing to any conclusion yet and are investigating the case from all angles," said an officer of the police station. “There are a few unanswered questions. Hopefully we will crack the case soon.” In a reconstruction of the events that led to the murder, the police suspect Amit was shot around 8.30pm on Saturday. The man who allegedly called Amit was unknown to him, the police said. “Amit decided to meet him because of an offer the man had apparently made -- in all possibility a hefty sum in cash that was long due,” an officer said. The caller kept directing Amit over the phone while he was approaching Belilious Park on Saturday night. After the two met, an assailant came from behind and shot twice aiming at Amit’s forehead. The police are trying to find out whether those involved with Amit in his real estate business and his former associates were behind the murder. Recently, a couple of Amit's employees wanted to become his business partners, the police said. The sleuths are also investigating the role of a man who was once Amit’s business partner but later became his rival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Dum Dum Park club gifts Durga puja to Amphan-hit village||This year Dum Dum Tarun Dal, a popular puja in Dum Dum Park, will organise not one but three pujas. Two of them will be in a far-away village in Hinganlganj. The club had gone to Chhoto Sahebkhali in North 24-Parganas in end-May to distribute relief materials in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. “It takes a five-hour drive and a boat ride to reach there.  We had found 210 of the 325 huts in the village inundated. So when Durga Puja came closer, we went back to check on their plans,” said Biswajit Prasad, the club’s general secretary. The answer was disheartening. “The villagers said when they had little to eat they could hardly afford to raise funds for a puja.” The majority of the villagers were into pisciculture and, with salt water flooding the bheris, their income had been drastically hit. Many tailors had lost their jobs in the city and went back home. “Their situation made us determined to do something for them. When we brainstormed, it struck us that we would not be able to hold the community lunch for our neighbours anyway this year because to the pandemic, so the fund required for that would be saved,” said Prasad. The last edition of the puja was a Rs 70-lakh affair. This time the budget was reduced to half. “From that, we set aside Rs 15 lakh for the village,” he said.  The club members went back to the village to take an estimate of their overheads. “Their idol costs Rs 19,000, their pandal Rs 25,000 while the bill for lights comes to Rs 20,000. But we wanted to do more than help just the puja organisers. We wanted the villagers to smile as well during the festival,” Prasad said. So it was decided that other than the two pujas in the village, the city club would sponsor a pulao lunch there on Navami, just as they used to do in their own neighbourhood in other years, and a set of new clothes for every villager. “It is a Covid-free zone now,” said Prasad. “Our members went back twice more to do a door-to-door survey on the number of men, women and children and their respective ages,” said Prasad. The saris have been bought. “Today I deposited an advance for 373 panjabi kurtas,” Prasad smiled. Children are getting baba suits and frocks. At the club’s own backyard, the theme this year would be  Ma-er ghor (Mother’s house). Theme maker Debatosh Kar will be decorating the pandal with cane artefacts. Inside, Durga will be seated on two horse-like lions while the demon king would rise as a human figure with the head of a buffalo. “We showed them a picture of our idol under construction. They did not like it at all. They said they preferred the work of their local idol-maker to our Rs 3-lakh creation!” laughed Prasad. So the orders for the two pujas have been placed with the village idol-maker who was too happy to get work. “Even the lunch will be cooked locally. We will just carry the rations from Calcutta. This way, we are contributing to their economy as well,” said Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Roman Catholic churches to allow up to  50 people ||The Roman Catholic churches under the archdiocese of Calcutta will allow a maximum of 10 to 50 people for services, prayer and Holy Mass depending on the size of each church from Monday, says a circular issued by the archbishop of Calcutta. So far, a maximum of 10 people were allowed irrespective of the size of a church. The circular, issued to all 65 churches under the archdiocese, says that because of the “prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation, the annual Corpus Christi (Eucharistic) procession both at the Archdiocesan level and parish level, stands cancelled this year”. “Instead, a three day Eucharistic Adoration will be organized in all the Parishes in the Archdiocese of Calcutta on November 19, 20 and 21, 2020, strictly observing all the guidelines.” It says: “For Church Services/Prayer/Holy Mass: A maximum of 10 to 50 persons (maximum) depending on the size of the church to be adhered to strictly at any given time.” “The number of people allowed in every church will depend on the availability of space. It could be a maximum of 10 or even 20 people also in a smaller church, because we want to be careful,” archbishop Thomas D’Souza told Metro. "The precondition is that all safety protocols have to be maintained,” he added. “As Covid-19 cases are on the rise, all our priests, consecrated persons and lay faithful are requested to strictly follow the guidelines already issued by the central and state governments,” the circular says. The circular says that the “Sacraments of Baptism and Marriage will be celebrated with a maximum of 20 persons present.” It also says: “Those persons who are 65 years and above, or children below 10 years of age, or those suffering from chronic diabetes, high blood pressure or heart ailment etc are advised not to go to church.” It mentions that the body temperature of every person will be checked at the entrance. “There are relaxations but the situation is grim and we need to take all precautions.  We had an online meeting with all parish priests last week where the importance of masks and safety protocols was reiterated,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar-general of the archdiocese of Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Webinars focus on dementia, caregivers and awareness||The ignorance about dementia stems from the fact that society has lowered its expectation from the elderly, said a psychiatrist at a webinar held to raise awareness on dementia. Though respected, the aged are treated as redundant who no longer need to use their brains, said Jai Ranjan Ram, psychiatrist and joint director of Mental Health Foundation. He was speaking at a webinar organised recently by the Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India (ARDSI), Calcutta, and Mental Health Foundation, Calcutta, to spread awareness about dementia. “I feel in Indian society the whole concept of old age is you have completed your life's job and you are redundant and therefore you no longer need to work or use your brain…. This in some way has increased our ignorance about dementia because it has decreased our expectation from elderly people,” Ram said. “So if they (the elderly) forget, are cranky, we associate it with old age and take it in our stride…. I think it is an epidemic challenge which we are very very ill equipped to face.” Ram, who also spoke as a carer as he has seen his mother live with dementia, and neurologist Amitabha Ghosh, the president of ARDSI, Calcutta, were in conversation with Nilanjana Maulik, the secretary general of ARDSI, Calcutta The Calcutta chapter of ARDSI has been extending care and support to people living with dementia and their families since 1999. Awareness is important because, as Ghosh said, there is no treatment that will cure dementia but it can be controlled well. “When dementia is diagnosed by the doctor, there is a slow downhill progression of the illness. So now globally, researchers are trying to understand how we can catch something very very early… so if we catch early, maybe we will have better mechanism in place… to slow down the progression of the disease to make sure the person who could be completely forgetful and incapacitated in five years, maybe we can extend that to 10-12 or 15 years…." Ghosh said the recognition of the fact that one is forgetting would make one plan their life or finances better. “In this Covid age, a lot of old people not knowing what is going to happen tomorrow are preparing their finances, just in case they have Covid and have to go to hospital…. In dementia, while the mind is working well and one is forgetting a little bit, that is the time when one can strategise the finances or whatever one likes...” said Ghosh. Maulik, also national coordinator of training at ARDSI, said that contrary to what many may think, people living with dementia can remember a lot more than what others think they do. Ram also said he would blame physicians for the poor awareness of dementia. "The onus of increasing awareness, decreasing stigma has to rest with professionals largely, who are incredibly supported by organisations...”,  he said. Care Continuum, which provides the elderly and the infirm with medical support and other services, organised a webinar recently on dementia caregivers, which was targeted at families who live with those with dementia. “We want to reach out to the families of caregivers who do not get any advice relevant to their daily life in living with those with dementia,” said Rana Mukherjee,  managing director of Care Continuum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
05-10-2020||Calcutta||Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology to refund exam fee||The state’s technology university will make "half/full’’ refund of the examination fee to “deserving’’ students in the intermediate semesters, following a demand for a waiver on the ground that they are facing financial constraints because of the Covid pandemic, said an official. Partha Pratim Lahiri, the registrar of the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT), issued a notice on Friday that said: "Based on the requests received and as has been recommended by the competent authority, I am to notify that the university has decided to refund the half/full amount of the ongoing interim semester examination fees to the deserving students based on the applications….” Subhasis Dutta, the university’s controller of examinations, said: “All will have to pay the fees and then they will get a refund based on the recommendation through a due process.” All private engineering and management colleges in Bengal are affiliated to the university. The students who are in the second, fourth and sixth semesters, whose exams are on, had demanded a waiver of the exam fee (Rs 1,200 in each semester) citing financial hardships they had been facing amid the pandemic. The state has around 200 private engineering and management colleges and close to a lakh students are in the intermediate semesters at those institutes. An official of the university said many students had told colleges that earning members in their families had their salaries slashed during the lockdown. Some have said their family members have lost jobs. The Telegraph had on August 20 reported that an estimated 1.89 crore salaried people lost their jobs between April and July in the country. July had registered massive job losses after a partial recovery in June. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy has estimated that close to 1.77 crore salaried people lost their jobs in April. The notice says that the application for waiver has to be made in the prescribed format and submitted along with copies of documents such as registration certificate, admit card of the intermediate semester, current income certificate of the parents/family (obtained from local government officials) and the first page of the passbook (for account details to reimburse the fee). Filled-in application forms, primarily scrutinised and endorsed by the respective colleges, should reach the university by November 10, said another official. The students will be assessed based on internal assessment and assignment. Of the four internal assessments, two were pen-and-paper tests held before the pandemic. The remaining two were held online. Assessment through assignments will be held this month and it will be online. Controller of examinations Dutta said the students would have to pay the fees for now because the university had a mechanism that entailed that if a student did not pay the examination fee, the admit card would not be generated. “A high-power committee will review the application for the waiver. Based on the report, deserving candidates will be given half/full refund of the examination fee,” registrar Lahiri said. In July, the university had made half/full refund of the examination fee to deserving graduating students, following a demand for a rollback on the ground that the exams had been cancelled because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-282
