06-10-2020||Calcutta||Paytm block alert prompts app download; Rs 12 lakh lost||A Dum Dum Park resident on Sunday received a text message with a number, asking him to call the Paytm customer care as his account would be blocked. He got worried, called the number, followed the instructions of the person on the other end and downloaded an app on his phone and lost more than Rs 12 lakh within 30 minutes. “I was barely awake in the afternoon when I received the text message…. I got a little scared and immediately called the number mentioned in the message,” the man, an official of a central government agency, said. “The person on the phone asked me to download an app. The moment I had downloaded the app, he asked me to make a transaction of just Rs10 through Net banking. I had no clue that he would start accessing my account, once I had logged in.” In his complaint with Lake Town police station, the man has said he hadn’t received any one-time password to validate the transaction from his bank account that is linked to his Paytm account. After some time when he checked his bank statement, he found Rs12,12,082 had been debited from the account in four transactions, he has said. “I was crestfallen when I found that after I had made a transaction of Rs10, more than Rs12 lakh had been debited from my account. I have reported the matter to Lake Town police station,” he said. Preliminary investigation has suggested the person on the phone had linked another e-wallet account with the complainant’s Paytm account and transferred the sum to multiple e-wallets and web portals. The modus operandi was a little different from the regular frauds where callers pose as bank officials and ask people to share OTPs generated on their phones to transfer money from their accounts, an officer of Lake Town police station said. “In this case, instead of depending on OTPs, the accused linked his bank account with that of the man’s Paytm account to gain access to the man’s bank account. Once the two accounts are linked as a payment partner, there is no need to validate any transaction with an OTP,” the officer said. On Monday evening, the man said he was still to get any redressal. Hundreds of bank frauds — the majority of which are made through fake calls — are reported across the city every month. The number of such complaints has gone up during the pandemic when several people are at home and doing various online transactions such as paying bills or buying products, according to police records. Many who had never tried online payments have been forced to go online, at times falling prey to online frauds or phishing mails.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||Choking on whistle and peanut, two kids face hospital refusals||Two children, a five-year-old who had swallowed a whistle and a one-year-old who had peanut pieces stuck in his trachea, were allegedly denied treatment by several government hospitals before being referred to SSKM Hospital. Both children were gasping when they arrived at SSKM’s ENT department more than a day after the objects got stuck in their bodies, doctors said. They underwent emergency procedures and are now stable. The series of refusals highlights once again the attitude of a section of doctors outside Calcutta, often accused of avoiding critical cases, and also the lack of infrastructure in the government health-care system. Anjan Hembram, 5, who had swallowed a whistle which got stuck in his larynx on Saturday night, had to travel 175km from Bankura to Calcutta to get the object removed. All through the journey the child was having a severe breathing problem, said father Shanti Lal Hembram, a marginal farmer. The resident of Manora village in Bankura had to spend Rs 7,000 to bring his son to SSKM in an ambulance. Anjan was first taken to a government healthcare facility in Bankura’s Khatra but doctors said they could not do anything. “We then took him to Bankura Medical College and Hospital, but there, too, doctors pleaded helplessness. They referred my son to SSKM,” said Shanti Lal. “The X-ray revealed the whistle was stuck in the larynx and the boy was gasping when he came to us. We had to perform bronchoscopy to remove the whistle,” said Ankit Choudhary, ENT surgeon at SSKM, who along with colleague Anindita Sengupta, performed the procedure on Sunday night. In the other case, one-year-old Aditya Mondal from Baduria in North 24-Parganas had swallowed a peanut on Saturday evening and it got stuck in his trachea. He was first taken to Basirhat District Hospital, where doctors admitted him. “But on Sunday they said nothing could be done and referred him to RG Kar hospital,” said the boy's father Paritosh Mondal, a government employee. He hired an ambulance and paid Rs 3,000 for the 60km journey to the city hospital. AT RG Kar, doctors said they could not treat the boy and referred him to NRS hospital. “We went to NRS around 3.30am on Monday. We were sent to the ENT department and from there to the pulmonology department. Doctors said the boy needed to undergo bronchoscopy urgently but there was no doctor to perform it at that time,” said Paritosh. Aditya was then referred to SSKM. “Several pieces of the peanut were stuck in the trachea and it took more than two hours to extract them,” said ENT surgeon Choudhary, who performed the procedure on Monday morning. An official at NRS said their ENT department was facing a staff crunch. “There are two professors and an assistant professor. Three doctors were recently transferred and replacements have not come,” the official said. An official at RG Kar said: “I have to find out why the procedure was not done. We have the equipment and manpower.” A health department official said equipment to perform critical procedures, including bronchoscopes, have been provided to all government medical colleges in the state. “We are ready to train doctors from other hospitals but they have to approach us,” said Arunabha Sengupta, a professor of ENT at SSKM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||Tiger drags fisherman into Jhila forest||A fisherman died on Friday when a tiger attacked him as he was pulling the nets fixed on the banks of a creek in the Jhila forest area. Dinabandhu Jodder, 55, was attacked in the same forest in Gosaba, South 24-Parganas, where three men had been killed in tiger attacks in September, a forest official said. At least 17 men, including Jodder, have been killed in tiger attacks so far from April, another forest official said. Jodder was part of a three-member fishing team that had set out from the Satjhelia village, the official said. He and the others had moored their boat to the bank and were pulling the nets during low tide. The tiger struck as dusk fell, the official said. The animal dragged away Jodder before the other two could react. “He was dragged deep into the forest. His body is still to be recovered,” the official said. Thousands of people from the Sunderbans lost their jobs during the pandemic and returned to their villages from various cities to earn a living by farming or fishing. But farms and ponds were flooded with saline water when Cyclone Amphan had struck in May, forcing them to depend on the forest for their earnings. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said forest officials had been engaging with villagers and asking them not to get off boats as “it is extremely risky”. At least 3,000 boats in the Sunderbans have the licence to catch fish in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve and the buffer areas apart from the South 24-Parganas range, Yadav said. The forest department will review the licences so that boats found violating fishing rules and venturing into prohibited areas will have the licences cancelled. “We have held meetings with all fishing associations and even village panchayats asking villagers not to get off boats. We have intensified patrolling in the areas,” Yadav said. Another forest department official said that despite the warnings the  lure of crabs is a strong pull as earnings are higher than fishing, another forest official said. Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, said humans were easier to attack. “More so when someone gets off the boat…. We have asked village heads to ensure this is stopped.” A tiger was spotted on Monday evening seated on a brick pathway in Baikanthapur village in the Kultali Block in Baruipur, South 24-Parganas. Cops from Maipith coastal police station and forest officials have reached the area to ensure nobody gets close to the tiger, a forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||Why not JEE in Bengali, if in Gujarati, asks Mamata||If the Joint Entrance Examination can be held in Gujarati, why not in Bengali, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she had asked the Centre. She was addressing students at an online programme organised by the state government to felicitate Madhyamik and Higher Secondary examinees. “This year, too, you had to appear for the JEE in English and Hindi. But we have written to the Centre if the exam can be held in Gujarati, why not in Bengali? It should be allowed in regional languages.” The language barrier leaves village students at a disadvantage. “There are many good students in villages who know both English and Bengali… if they can write the JEE in Bengali they can express themselves better,” she said. In 2020, the questions were in English, Hindi and Gujarati, according to the JEE (Main) information bulletin on the site4 of the National Testing Agency, which conducts the exam. The NTA has said the JEE (Main) advisory committee has decided to drop question papers in Gujarati from January 2021. The question papers will be available only in Hindi and English, The Telegraph had reported. The NTA started holding the exam in 2019, taking over from the CBSE. The CBSE had in 2014 added Urdu, Marathi and Gujarati apart from English and Hindi to the medium of exams. In 2016, it dropped Urdu and Marathi. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had raised the issue last year asking the Centre in a tweet why Gujarati was allowed for JEE (Main) and not other regional languages. The number of students in Bengal who took the JEE (Main) this year during the pandemic saw a significant drop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||National Green Tribunal sets clean-up plan for Adi Ganga||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has to prepare an action plan to deal with waste accumulation around the Metro piers and under the elevated stations on the Adi Ganga in a month, the National Green Tribunal has said. The plan has to be executed in another month, the tribunal has said. The tribunal issued the order on September 21 and it was uploaded on its website on Monday. The tribunal has asked the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to clear encroachments along the Adi Ganga and to ensure those evicted are rehabilitated in six months. Three sewage treatment plants that are in various stages of construction should be completed “expeditiously and as far as it may be practicable within December 31, 2020”. The bench of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda has asked various state government departments as well as the Metro railway authorities to undertake “concerted efforts… to ensure restoration and rejuvenation of the Adi Ganga”. Subhas Datta, the amicus curiae in the case, said the deadline to comply with the orders would be from the date when the order was signed, September 21. The order said Datta could approach the tribunal if the orders were not complied with. The tribunal also laid responsibility for keeping clean the stretches under the Metro stations on Metro Rail. “Appropriate measures shall be prescribed for ensuring that solid waste does not flow underneath the elevated railway stations for which the Metro Railway stations shall be made responsible to ensure regular clearance and desiltation of the stretch within the area covered by the stations,” the tribunal has said. The Metro railway “cannot abdicate such responsibility by throwing it on the Calcutta Municipal Corporation”. A Metro official said the authorities would go through the order and respond. The final date to submit bids for the sewage treatment plants is October 30, a CMC official said. “It was supposed to be completed earlier, but there were too many questions from prospective bidders; a reason why the process got delayed. It is difficult to complete the STPs by the end of the year.” In 1998, the state government had acknowledged in a report to Calcutta High Court that in the 15.5km stretch of the Adi Ganga, from Hastings (the confluence with the Hooghly) to Garia, there were 7,851 illegal structures with close to 40,000 residents, 90 temples, 69 godowns (goods storage depots), and 12 cattle sheds among others. On April 24, 1998, the high court had ordered the removal of all encroachments within a month. Most are still in place, the government has said recently. “Such large-scale continuous encroachment could be possible because of political patronage,” Datta said. A lawyer for the CMC said on Monday that the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority had already earmarked a place to rehabilitate 500-odd encroachers. The technical plan for preparation of the plants will be finalised soon according to the specification of the World Bank, which is funding Adi Ganga’s rejuvenation under the National Mission for Clean Ganga. “Though the bench has mainly passed the order for the stretch falling within the Calcutta municipal area, it has directed the state to demarcate and clean the waterway for the entire stretch,” Datta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||Hathras protest pockets sprout in Calcutta||Some of Calcutta’s busiest intersections became protest squares on Monday, with hundreds of marchers led by women demanding justice for the Hathras teenager who died after being allegedly gang-raped and brutally assaulted. The slogans and posters brought back memories of the numerous protests against the new citizenship thrust that rocked Calcutta before Covid-19 struck. One rally started from the Moulali intersection and ended before the Calcutta Municipal Corporation headquarters on SN Banerjee Road. Another started from Ripon Street and wound its way to the statue of Mother Teresa on Park Street. Participants in a third rally marched from Rajabazar till Rani Rashmoni Avenue. A fourth was held on College Street. A common anguish at all rallies: rapes are not new in India but the state machinery “shielding” alleged rapists is unforeseen. “It is not that rapes did not take place when non-BJP parties were in power. But under this regime, there is a bid to shield rape accused. From Kathua to Unnao to Hathras, there is a similar pattern,” said Mitali Biswas of All India Progressive Women’s Association, who was part of the march from Moulali. She spoke of Sonia and Rahul Gandhi visiting the family of the Delhi gangrape victim in 2013. “The Delhi gang rape was equally horrific. But it (the visit) was a moment of compassion and grace. In Hathras, the people in power are busy tormenting the victim’s family,” Biswas said. Several officials had publicly played down the possibility of the girl having been raped. The family has accused the administration of confining them and trying to throttle their voice. “The impunity with which a section of the establishment is shielding the accused is hard to believe,” said Soma Marik, a teacher and member of Ten to Ten Thousand, a forum against sexual violence. “This brazenness is new in India. Earlier, a rape was condemned by one and all. Now, there are people trying to play a caste card even in a rape case,” said Namita Haldar, from Raidighi in South 24-Parganas. “The girl killed in Hathras was just a few years older than my daughter. I want my daughter to know the reality of the country she is growing up in. She should also know that there are people who are willing to fight oppressors,” said Salma Khatoon, who walked from Ripon Street. A poster showing a severed tongue read: “Jibh kete phelte paaro, boba korte parbe na (you can sever our tongue, but you cannot gag us)”. The Hathras teenager had her tongue severed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
06-10-2020||Calcutta||Bengal panel cracks bill whip on three hospitals||The state’s private healthcare regulatory commission on Monday asked two  hospitals not to charge a part of the amount it had billed two patients and asked another hospital to return Rs 50,000 to a patient. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission asked Ruby General Hospital not to encash a cheque for Rs 1 lakh a patient's family had given them, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria was asked not to encash cheques for Rs 1.08 lakh it had received from a patient's family. Woodlands Hospital was asked to refund Rs 50,000 to a patient. Swapan Sur, 60, was admitted to Ruby hospital on August 26 and discharged on September 4. He passed away the next day. The hospital had billed the patient Rs 8.87 lakh. The family said they had paid the full amount, while the hospital said they offered a discount and the family had to pay Rs 8.53 lakh. “We have asked the hospital to produce the receipt. If we find the family paid Rs 8.87 lakh, the hospital must return the excess amount,” Banerjee said. “While examining the bill, we found that the hospital charged exorbitant amounts under some heads. For example, Rs 2 lakh was billed as laboratory charges. We compared the rates with that of some other hospitals and laboratories and found Ruby’s charges very high…. We have asked the hospital not to encash a cheque for Rs 1 lakh (received from Sur’s family),” Banerjee said. An official of the hospital said after the order: “The patient’s family had no complaint of medical negligence…. Regarding the commission’s order, we will take necessary action once we receive a copy of it.” The commission asked AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria not to encash two cheques amounting to Rs 1.08 lakh that the family of 67-year-old Papia Basu had given it. “The woman’s family said she was in the hospital for 105 days. She had tested positive for Covid-19, then tested negative and again tested positive. During the hearing the family said the hospital had a moral responsibility for the woman testing positive for Covid for a second time while still being in hospital. But that did not reflect in the bill,” Banerjee said. Basu is still undergoing treatment at another hospital. Banerjee said AMRI officials said during Monday’s hearing that they had offered a discount on the bill. “The woman’s treatment was billed Rs 31 lakh. An insurance company paid Rs 25 lakh. Of the remaining Rs 6 lakh, the hospital had offered a discount of Rs 4 lakh,” said Banerjee. “Without going into the question of moral responsibility, we asked the hospital to not encash two cheques amounting to Rs 1.08 lakh.” An AMRI official later said: “As told by the commission, we will not encash the cheques.” As for the case against Woodlands, Subrata Basu Mullick, 69, was admitted to the hospital on May 11 with urinary tract infection. He later tested positive for Covid and was asked to shift to another hospital. “The patient was billed Rs 92,000 for his 28-hour stay at the hospital. The patient had complaints against the bill. He was billed Rs 36,000 for investigations and Rs 15,000 for medicines,” said Banerjee. “During today’s hearing, the hospital’s representative offered to return Rs 50,000 to the complainant. The complainant agreed to the offer and we asked the hospital to return the money,” said Banerjee. “Although we follow a policy of offering discounts only to the economically weaker section, we offered Mr Basu Mullick, who comes from an economically upper class, a discount of Rs 11,000 against the bill of Rs 93,000 (12 per cent of the total bill) based on his request. However, the honourable commission insisted today to offer Rs 50,000 as a discount. The amount is unreasonable, still we proceeded to honour the order without prejudice,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
