07-10-2020||Calcutta||We can’t afford to remain spectators: Students on Hathras horror||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Extortion bid posing as minister’s relative||A man whose surname is “Biswas” tried to extort a woman on the phone by promising her a government job and introducing himself as minister Aroop Biswas’s relative sometime last week. Akash Biswas got caught when the woman became suspicious and reported the matter to police on Monday afternoon. He was arrested in he night based on a complaint minister Biswas lodged with Regent Park police station. He has been booked for attempting to cheat and extort, and for defaming the minister, the police said. The woman, Mitali Bhattacharya, alerted Regent Park police station. She accused the man of demanding Rs 10,000 for a government job with the assurance that the minister would look into it. “Akash Biswas had claimed to be a relative of the minister. The woman got suspicious and decided to alert the police station. We got in touch with the minister and told him about the man who was trying to extort people by using his name,” an officer of Regent Park police station. “The minister immediately filed a complaint based on which we arrested the man.” Cops tracked the phone number the man had used to call the woman and zeroed in on him, the police said. Preliminary investigations revealed the woman might not be the only person whom the man had introduced himself as the relative of Aroop Biswas, the minister in charge of PWD and youth services and sports department, and his brother Swaroop Biswas. “He is unemployed. Earlier, too, he had claimed to be a relative of the minister. We are trying to ascertain if he had taken money and cheated anyone else in the past,” the officer said. Cops have seized the mobile phone that had been used to call the woman. Earlier this week, filmmaker Raj Chakraborty had alleged that at least three people had been trying to cheat guardians of children by claiming to be employees of his production house and offering children jobs as child artists. He has lodged a case of attempted cheating, fraud and defamation against the three with Kasba police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Amphan dues: West Midnapore receives Rs 24 crore ||The state government had transferred Rs 24.74 crore to West Midnapore authorities to clear pending compensation of those hit by Cyclone Amphan a day before chief minister Mamata Banerjee held an administrative meeting in Kharagpur town on Tuesday. The move came more than four months after the cyclone had struck on May 20. In between there have been agitations by the CPM and the BJP amidst allegations of dole-related fraud at the panchayat level. The doles ranged between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,500 for farmers whose land and crop had been destroyed in the cyclone. At the meeting on Tuesday, she said: “All the farmers who are eligible will be paid immediately. The SP (West Midnapore) has compiled a list…. I will tell the DM to ensure no one is harassed.” Mamata was referring to lists sent by district police stations to Nabanna in July and August, detailing individual dole complaints by farmers. The move comes in the midst of Trinamul-led statewide protests against the BJP government’s new farm legislations. “Besides being involved in dole corruption, Trinamul workers deliberately did not pay BJP workers. They politicised the calamity. We protested and so they have responded,” BJP district secretary Arup Das said. District agriculture officials denied politics behind the delay in paying more than 100,000 farmers, suggesting banking problems were involved. “We have allotted funds for those who have been left out and most have been remitted… the rest will be done in a couple of days. There are banking issues for a few; so, it might be a little delayed,” district assistant director of agriculture (planned protection) Debkanta Kanda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Mamata's directive on viral load||The administration should closely monitor Covid patients’ Ct (cycle threshold) value, considered a key indicator of the viral load in an infected person, to keep potential super-spreaders in check, Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday. Ct is a number indicating the presence of a gene in a swab sample. The lower the Ct value for a specific gene, the higher the presence of that gene in the sample. In Covid-19, a high Ct value is considered to indicate a lower viral load. Bengal on Tuesday reported 3,370 new Covid-19 patients — the highest intra-day spike — 63 deaths and 3,036 recoveries. The chief minister stressed the need to keep tight vigil on Covid-19 patients with Ct value of less than 20. Mamata was speaking to officials at an administrative review meeting for West Midnapore in Kharagpur when she asked district magistrate Rashmi Kamal — a physician — and the chief medical officer of health if they had been monitoring those with low Ct values. “Track the Ct values; the lesser the Ct value, the more dangerous that infected person is, by way of his/her ability to spread the disease. Ct value is being given as part of the results now,” the chief minister said after realising the administration hadn’t been doing it. Mamata, also the health minister, instructed chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to make a note of it for conveying to all concerned. Although there is no conclusive evidence to correlate Ct value with the contagiousness of the novel coronavirus, it is being considered an important indicator of viral load and most Bengal laboratories approved for Covid-19 tests have been reporting it in their results for more than two months now. “Categorise them into A, B and C groups for tight vigil,” Mamata said while asking former chief secretary Rajiva Sinha to explain what it meant. Sinha, currently the chairman of the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, said every Covid positive result from laboratories now came with the Ct value mentioned. “If the Ct value is higher than 20, that person is likely to be less of a spreader of the infection. If the value is less than 20… the lower it is, the riskier it is. That indicates higher viral load and the ability to spread the disease more and infect more people,” Sinha said. “The chief minister has been saying this repeatedly to us and the health department has been issuing instructions… monitoring those with Ct values less than 20 is important,” he said. It must be done daily, the chief minister added. The districts administration must locate those with Ct value of less than 20 on its daily list of new cases. “These people will not only spread the disease more but also be more ill than other infected people. This is over and above the monitoring of co-morbidities…. This must be kept in view and monitored closely; a lot of problems will then be solved.” “If such people do not wear masks, do not adhere to Covid-19 protocols, they can infect 20-22 others. Even in home isolation, such persons have to be kept under cautious watch,” she said. “Such simple concepts: Ct value, co-morbidities… if we are aware of these and ensure incisive intervention, this pandemic can be better managed.” Sinha stressed the need for close monitoring of all active cases daily. “Only the active cases (per district) is not very tough to keep track. Especially the sixth and 10th days… you know are potentially very risky days. For those days, categorise them as red and track them so that there is timely hospitalisation for those in need.” With the 3,370 new cases, the state’s total case count went past 277,000, of which close to 244,000 are recoveries, besides 5,318 deaths. The recovery rate continued to rise and reached 87.98, still ahead of the national rate of 84.68 per cent. Of the 63 deaths, 16 died in the city and 15 in North 24-Parganas. As of Tuesday, the state government reported 4,515 or 84.9 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 1.91; still behind the national rate of 1.54 per cent. The state logged 42,382 tests on Tuesday, which took the total past 348,000 at 38,672 tests for every million people. The positive confirmation rate remained at 7.96 per cent. The state reported 38 per cent occupancy of the 12,715 Covid beds in 92 hospitals and more than 299,000 telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Improvement tests start for ICSE, ISC in Calcutta||The ICSE and ISC improvement and compartmental exams for 2020 started on Tuesday. But principals of several schools said hardly any student had appeared for the improvement exams in Calcutta. The improvement exams for both ICSE and ISC are to be held in subjects where exams could not be held in the initial days of the pandemic. “For subjects that have been held, the ICSE council is not holding any improvement exams,” the principal of a city school said. On Tuesday, 60 students appeared for the compartmental exams in ICSE across 12 centres in the city. For ISC, the number was 200 across nine centres. A convener has been assigned for each of the centres. Students can appear for compartmental exams if they have failed to secure pass marks in any of the three subjects in ISC and any of the four subjects in ICSE, apart from English. Securing pass marks in English is compulsory to appear for compartmental exams. The council had on September 23 announced the dates for the compartmental and improvement exams. The improvement exams for ICSE are scheduled for October 6 to 9 and for ISC, October 6 and 7. The compartmental exams for ICSE are scheduled for October 6 and 7 and for ISC, October 6. Candidates have to maintain distancing rules, the council had said. “Since the number of students who took the compartmental exams on Tuesday was low, it was easy to maintain distancing rules,” the principal of a city school, which is a centre, said. The council had decided to change its earlier decision of holding the exams in November to October because of the way the all-India entrance tests such as NEET had been held. Also, students should not face any problem during undergraduate admissions, the council had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Centre rules out Bangladesh raw jute||The Centre has rejected Bengal jute mills’ demand to use imported raw jute from Bangladesh in the manufacture of bags that are used to package foodgrains. In a letter to the Indian Jute Mills Association — a body of jute mill owners — Moloy Chandan Chakraborty, the jute commissioner, ruled out the industry’s demand to import raw jute from the neighbouring country. The Telegraph had on August 27 reported that the association had written to Ravi Capoor, the textile ministry secretary, and Chakraborty, seeking the Centre’s permission to import raw jute from Bangladesh because of a dip in jute production in Bengal in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. “There is enough raw jute available for the coming months and there is no urgency for immediate import,” Chakraborty wrote in his reply. In the letter, Chakraborty said the availability of raw jute — particularly for the production of jute bags — had been estimated at 584,000 bales for the current year. This estimate has been done after considering a dip in production. The estimated demand is close to 480,000 bales, which is “lower by a margin of almost 100,000 bales from the estimated availability”, he said. A bale is roughly equivalent to 180kg. The stand taken by the Centre is likely to benefit jute farmers in Bengal, an industry insider said. “Importing cheap raw jute from Bangladesh could have driven down the price of raw jute here… farmers would have been affected.” The jute packaging material act mandates the use of home-grown raw jute for the production of jute bags, which would be bought by government agencies to pack foodgrains such as rice, wheat and sugar. The availability of raw jute in the country maybe enough for now, but there is a possibility of shortfall in future, an official of the jute mills association said. At a videoconference of the expert committee on jute, held on September 25, the representative from the Bengal government’s agriculture department said a fresh assessment of the production of raw jute was being done after taking into account the damages caused by the cyclone. The pre-cyclone estimate shared by the department was 770,000 bales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Medical college asks for more doctors||The Calcutta Medical College and Hospital is “facing an acute shortage of doctors” as many of them have tested positive for Covid-19, the principal has written to the health department, seeking posting of doctors from elsewhere. The hospital — a Covid treatment centre that has resumed treating non-Covid patients, too — has 700 beds. An official at the hospital said the government wanted to add 100 more beds and if additional doctors were not sent, it would be difficult to augment the capacity immediately. Manju Banerjee, the principal of the medical college, wrote in the letter sent to the director of health services on Tuesday: “Presently, 26 (twenty-six) post graduate trainees including 12 (twelve) faculty members have been tested (+ve) from Covid-19 and were either quarantined or undergoing treatment. As such, the Medical College, Kolkata is facing an acute shortage of doctors in Covid-19 pandemic outbreak with further enhancement of 100 (hundred) beds.” A senior official of the hospital said 38 doctors, 26 postgraduate trainees and 12 teachers, were down with Covid. When contacted by Metro on Tuesday evening, Banerjee said they were not facing any difficulty now but the letter had been sent apprehending problems if more people got infected. “Till now we are managing... but if 10 more doctors test positive, we will be in a difficult situation,” she said. A doctor at the hospital said that he had seen several of his colleagues testing positive for Covid-19 and staying isolated before resuming duty. “We have accepted that each of us will get infected. That is how further infection among doctors in the hospital will stop,” said the doctor. Doctors in other hospitals said that over 30 doctors testing positive for Covid-19 at a single hospital around the same time must ring alarm bells. “It could be that some doctors are not taking adequate precautions in the hospital or outside. It could also be that the quality of personal protective equipment (PPEs) is questionable,” said a doctor of another teaching hospital. If a doctor in a Covid ward at Calcutta Medical College tests positive for the disease, his or her colleagues in the ward are not going into quarantine. “In the Covid ward, everyone wears PPE…. There is no point in going to quarantine,” an official said. But if a doctor from a non-Covid ward tests positive, his or her close contacts are going into quarantine. “They are getting tested four or five days after the last contact with the infected person and resuming duty if the result is negative,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Non-Covid tag draws patients to SSKM||SSKM Hospital now is more crowded than other healthcare facilities in Calcutta, not just because it is Bengal’s apex referral hospital but also because it is one of the few non-Covid hospitals in the city and hence, perceived to be safe. Doctors at SSKM said many of the patients queueing up at the outpatient department of the superspeciality hospital would have gone to private hospitals and clinics had there been no Covid pandemic. SSKM officials said around 7,000 patients were turning up at the OPD on an average daily, compared with the 10,000-odd before the pandemic. The count is much less at other government hospitals. “This despite the fact that the bulk of the patients who used to come from the districts are unable to come because of transportation issues. We had studied that more than 20 per cent of the patients at the OPD would come from Malda and Murshidabad. Patients would also come from other distr- icts and even neighbouring states,” said Raghunath Misra, the medical superintendent of SSKM. He said the hospital earlier had nearly 3,000 beds, including the ones in the neuroscience unit. Now, the bed count has been reduced to 2,000 to follow the distancing protocol aimed at minimising chances of coronavirus infection. More than 90 per cent of the beds are occupied, he said. In the initial weeks of the Covid-19 outbreak in Calcutta, people were averse to going to hospital unless they had symptoms of the coronavirus disease. Many doctors, too, had stopped seeing patients for fear of infection. Doctors and patients both have since started returning to hospitals but the fear of getting infected by Covid is still keeping many away. Sheetal Chowdhury, a school teacher from Behala, was among thousands of people who had queued up at SSKM’s OPD on Tuesday morning. “SSKM is very far from my home and I have never come here to consult a doctor. But someone told me that SSKM is a non-Covid hospital and it’s safer to go there,” said Chowdhury, who had queued up to consult a doctor for an ENT problem. Metro met many other patients at the OPD who prefer to visit private hospitals or clinics in normal circumstances. They said a perception that chances of coronavirus infection would be negligible at SSKM because Covid patients are not treated there was among the reasons that prompted them to visit the referral hospital. The state government has decided not to keep patients who have tested positive for Covid at SSKM Hospital. “SSKM is the apex government hospital in Bengal. It has several superspeciality departments such as neurosurgery, cardiology and nephrology, which are not available under one roof at other government hospitals. So, to ensure that treatment of critical patients is not affected, it was decided that Covid patients would not be treated at SSKM,” a health department official said. The NRS Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, Sagar Dutta Medical College and Hospital and MR Bangur Superspeciality Hospital are among some of the big government hospitals that are treating Covid patients. The RG Kar Medical College and Hospital has a 150-bed ward for patients suffering from severe acute respiratory infection or SARI, which is a symptom of Covid-19. At SSKM, officials said, 20 per cent of the beds in every ward form an isolation unit where newly admitted patients are kept till their Covid test report comes. “A separate team of doctors, nurses and pathology staff enters those isolation units. If a patient tests positive for Covid, we are shifting him or her to a Covid hospital. If the report is negative, the patient is shifted to the normal ward,” said Misra. To keep chances of infection low, SSKM’s fever clinic has been set up at Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital, which is its satellite unit. “We are getting patients who are telling us that they usually go to private hospitals and clinics. Many of them are forced to come here because their incomes have reduced. Others think SSKM is safer than other hospitals,” said Ankit Choudhary, an ENT surgeon at SSKM. Some doctors said patients were also telling them that they were not getting appointments at private clinics. Many clinics and private hospitals have imposed curbs on the number of patients doctors can see in a day. “There is a false sense of safety among some people. We have to remember that Covid could stay for long and treatment of both Covid and non-Covid patients would have to be done simultaneously, maintaining precautions,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert and a professor at SSKM. At the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, an official said they were getting around 5,000 patients at the OPD every day, a little less than the usual count. “People know there is no Covid ward,” said an official. But the hospital has a 150-bed SARI ward. At Peerless Hospital, a private unit, officials said they were getting calls from patients reluctant to visit the OPD and were requesting for video consultations with doctors. “Initially, we were having a low count of non-Covid patients  But since we shifted our fever clinic outside the building, the number has increased,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Coronavirus focus in New Town contest||Housing complexes and cooperative housing societies in New Town will be ranked on the basis of steps they have taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and dengue outbreak, and to reduce pollution and plant trees. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority, which is organising the contest, has asked residential complexes and cooperative housing societies in all three action areas of the township to submit their entries, along with a presentation, by January 21. The entries have to be mailed to newtownranking@gmail.com. “The contest will spur residents to keep the township clean and free of pollution,” an NKDA official said. NKDA has finalised at least nine parameters based on which the participating housing complexes, cooperative societies and residential blocks will be graded. Among the parameters are steps to contain the spread of Covid-19, dengue awareness and prevention programme, cleanliness, plantation initiatives and segregation of waste at source. “Cleanliness, reduction of plastic usage and segregation of waste at source carry the highest weightage,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. “The contest will allow us to rank each gated community as well as residential blocks. This is being done to acknowledge and encourage the work undertaken by residents of New Town.” Every residential block in the township will be graded, too, based on the grades of all housing complexes and cooperative housing societies in it. The participants will be graded by NKDA officials, who will visit cooperative housing societies and housing complexes. In addition to this, a set of “third-party reviewers” will visit the areas and speak to residents at random. “This has been done to ensure that the claims made in the presentation are physically verified and checked,” Sen added. In order to notify the residents of the contest, the NKDA will send out circulars to all blocks as well as gated communities. Reshmi Chakraborty, who stays in AL block of New Town, said residents of their block were trying to make a thorough presentation of what they do the entire year. “This is a great way to showcase what we have been doing for the welfare of residents throughout the year,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Children pushed from school to work||Many school-going children from underprivileged families who ideally would have been in school have not just dropped out but have taken up odd jobs during the Covid pandemic, said those working with such children. Many of the parents have no work and those who have are getting much less in payment than what they got before the pandemic, said the founder of an NGO that works with the children of such families. The children are being pushed to work and earn whatever little they can, said a member of another NGO. The NGOs have got reports that some of the children have started working in plastic factories and roadside shops, or have been engaged in loading and unloading of goods. “A section of students is increasingly getting detached from studies and taking up jobs in plastic factories in the area or whatever they can manage,” said Mamoon Akhtar, the founder of Samaritan Help Mission, which works among 6,500 children in Howrah. “The parents have no money. Those who have got back work as labourers or in factories are getting half of what they would earn before. The children are helping out or are wandering in the slums,” Akhtar said. Some NGO workers feel dropping out of the school happened naturally in the absence of mobile phones or inability to recharge their phone balance. Since in-person classes cannot be held amid the pandemic, schools are conducting online classes or classes on digital platforms. The families of many children have not been able to pay school fees. Supporting the family financially is now the top priority among the members, said a teacher. “Children are taking up whatever work is coming their way. Many are working in roadside shops, which are now gradually opening up,” said Arjun Dutta, the president of the NGO Calcutta Social Project, which works in south Calcutta. “Children’s education is a silent disaster during the pandemic, especially Class VI and VII upwards. Dropping out is common and earning is sporadic,” said Dutta. Getting work is not easy either. A teacher attached to an NGO has seen a child begging at a major intersection in the city. The parents first denied but later confessed that they had been pushed by circumstances, an NGO member said. “Some parents are also pushing the children into begging because they have nothing to eat. The propensity to drop out has gone up during this crisis because many of the families do not have work as smaller units have closed down,” said Vinita Saraf, the founder and trustee of Ek Tara, which mostly works with families in Tiljala and Topsia. Members of Ek Tara have also been counselling families to not let children drop out but it is not easy to keep track during a pandemic. “We are sending volunteers to the homes of the children we work with but it is hard to keep track and we are losing out a few children,” said Saraf. Lack of jobs has also forced some families to migrate back to the villages, she said. The situation on the outskirts of the city is equally bad and some of the older children from those areas are migrating to big cities in search of work. “Currently, the registration for Class XI is on and I noticed that about 10 per cent of the students have not turned up. I came to know that they have gone to other cities like Mumbai and Pune in search of work,” said Chandan Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas. He said some had taken up fishing in rivers but they at least turned up for registration for Class XI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcuttans steer clear of familiar hotspots||The city is opening up in the run-up to the festive season. Restaurants and malls are back to being busy. But for some places synonymous with the city, things are a far cry from the past. Metro finds out: On September 25, the parking area outside Prinsep Ghat had several two and four-wheelers. Scores of people strolled on the walkway. There was a semblance of maintaining distancing rules in the seating pattern on benches and the concreted tree bases. But the food stalls selling pav bhaji, bhelpuri and phuchka were relatively empty. A series of empty boats were anchored near the ghat. The boatmen were huddled on benches and stairs leading to the river, some smoking bidis. “There is hardly any customer,” Bakar Sheikh, a boatman, said. An hour’s ride costs Rs 500 and a 30-minute one Rs 300. The fare is usually split between the owner, the boatman and his helper. September is generally a good time for boatmen. The weather is not harsh and customers drop by in the afternoons as well. There are close to 25 boats near Prinsep Ghat and each get around five rides every day in the run-up to Durga Puja. But not this time. “On many days, there is not even one ride for a boat,” another boatman said. The lockdown had forced Sheikh to row downstream and reach home to Falta in South 24-Parganas in mid-April. He worked in a farm and did “odd jobs” before returning to the city in September. The food stalls outside Vardaan Market were busy but lacked the usual weekend din. There were a couple of customers at Victoria Vada. The stall had turned heads in November 2013 when visiting British Prime Minister David Cameron dropped in. The owner’s son, Anurag Chauhan, rued the “days gone by”. “Selling fewer than 120 plates on a Saturday or Sunday was unusual before the lockdown. Now, 60 plates every Saturday or Sunday are more than acceptable.” From 10kg of pulses on a weekend, he now uses less than 4kg to prepare the vada mix. “Even then, some part of the stuff remains unused,” Chauhan said. Since April, May and June saw almost zero business, he is relieved to be able to “earn something”. Around 4km away, at Vivekananda Park, Jitendra Pandit, counted among the best phuchkawalas in town, had a similar story to tell. His stall reopened on August 15. But business is a fraction of what it used to be. “My daily sales have been less than Rs 800 on average,” Pandit said. Till last winter, his sales figures crossed Rs 3,000 on “good days”. Pandit prides himself on his craft. It “hurts” him to see his signature dahi phuchkas remaining unsold. But like Chauhan, he is content to be able to do business. Between April and August 15 he had to stay indoors. The most eye-catching thing outside the northern gate of Victoria Memorial, currently shut, was the long row of horse-drawn carriages. On September 25, Metro found none, barring a few horses grazing on the Maidan. Many of the carriages were found lying under the Kidderpore bridge and children trying to get on to them. Javed, a coachman, sat on the ground close to the dumped carriages. He said he had been without income for months before he could secure a job at a Kidderpore eatery. “To see your children hungry is the worst feeling ever,” Javed, 38, said. An advertising professional said people were sceptical about places that did not “flaunt investment in sanitisation”. “People will go to a mall… a thermal gun and huge banners of Covid protocol hanging from the ceiling will greet them. But they are not sure of the local phuchkawala.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-280
07-10-2020||Calcutta||Tiger strays into Sunderbans village||A tiger that had strayed into a village in the Sunderbans on Monday evening killed livestock and squatted on a brick road for hours before retreating into the forest. The intrusion of tigers has come down substantially after nylon nets were installed on the edges of the forests. The latest intrusion drew a crowd of a “few thousands” and police and foresters had a tough time restraining the assembly. By Monday night, several pictures that showed the tiger at a stone’s throw from an extended hand with a mobile phone started doing the rounds on social media. The tiger came from the Ajmalmari forest and crossed a tributary of the Matla before entering Baikanthapur 6 village, under Maipith Coastal police station, a forest department official said. The village is around 30km from Kultali town and 75km from the heart of Calcutta. The forests of the Indian Sunderbans have a nylon net fencing spanning over 200km. “The tiger must have sneaked out through a hole in the net. People venturing into the forest often cut the nets,” said a forest official. It seems the big cat’s first stop was a cowshed where it is said to have killed a cow and a goat. “Members of the family which owns the cowshed came out alerted by the noise and raised the alarm once they spotted the big cat,” said Ajay Das, president of the Joint Forest Management Committee of Baikanthapur 6. The tiger was first spotted around 6.45pm. A team from Maipith Coastal police station, led by officer-in-charge Farooq Rahman, reached the spot within 20 minutes. “Many people had come from adjacent villages to see the tiger. People were constantly trying to take pictures, with the tiger less than 200 metres away,” said Rahman. The police barricaded the area and used hailers to restrain the crowd. Villagers said a team of foresters arrived at the spot after an hour. The team fenced the village area with nylon nets and used crackers and flashlights to drive the tiger away. Eventually, the tiger went back into the thin forest. “We patrolled the entire area throughout the night. In the morning, we used drones to scan the area and the river once more to be sure that the tiger had crossed the river back into the Ajmalmari forest,” said Milan Mandal, the divisional forest officer of South 24-Parganas. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said patrol boats filmed the tiger in the river, headed towards the forest. “It was an old tiger. Our team responded promptly and reached the spot. They had tranquilliser guns and trap cages. The entire area has been fenced off and vigil has been beefed up,” said Yadav. Constant vigil is needed because the tiger might turn up in the village again, said a forest official. “It had killed cattle but could not eat them. Tigers have a tendency to come back for the kill,” he said. Wounded and aged and ailing tigers are known to target easier prey like cattle and humans. Pugmarks can be studied to identify a tiger but heavy rain in the area has washed most pugmarks away, said a local forest official. “A female or pregnant tiger chased away by a male tiger can also stray into a human settlement,” said Joydip Kundu of the Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), an NGO that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict in the Sunderbans. At least 17 men have been killed in tiger attacks in the Sunderbans so far from April, according to official figures. But all of them had ventured into the forest, said officials. “The tiger intrusion is the first in at least two years. There was one in 2018 in Jharkhali. But even then, there was no human casualty. Nor did we have to tranquillise the tiger,” said a forest official at the headquarters. Before nylon nets were in place, around 10 tiger intrusions were reported every year. Many more used to go unreported. Since 2012, when the net project was complete, the intrusions have come down to around one or two every year, said forest officials. A tiger was captured in a trap cage in the patch of forest on the edge of Baikanthapur 6 on Tuesday evening. The trap had been laid because the tiger spotted earlier was expected to come back for the kill, said a forest official. “The captured tiger seems to be the same cat that had strayed into the village. It will be taken to the tiger rescue centre in Jharkhali. A team of vets will examine it on Wednesday,” said Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-281
