08-10-2020||Calcutta||Clashes erupt between police and BJP workers in Bengal||Clashes broke out between the Bengal Police and BJP workers as the saffron party activists tried to break through barricades during their march towards state secretariat Nabanna on Thursday, police said. Thousands of BJP workers from Calcutta and Howrah began marching towards Nabanna to protest the "worsening" law and order in the state. Police personnel resorted to lathi-charge and used tear gas and water cannons on the BJP workers at Santragachi in Howrah district, causing injuries to BJP state vice- president Raju Banerjee and MP Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato. The law enforcers also resorted to baton-charge in Hastings area in Calcutta. Four major rallies, two each from Calcutta and Howrah, will move towards Nabanna in Shibpur in Howrah district, BJP sources said. The ruling Trinamool Congress government in the state on Wednesday denied permission to the programme citing the Pandemic Act and stating that democratic rallies within "permissible parameters" of only 100 participants will be allowed. The state government has also announced that Nabanna will be closed for two days from October 8 for "sanitisation".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Packed audience for future Nobel laureate||Roger Penrose, who has won this year’s Nobel Prize in physics, had almost a cult following even 14 years back when he had come to Calcutta and delivered a lecture at the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science. November 7, 2006. The auditorium was packed and hundreds were still waiting to get in when Penrose got on stage to talk about his research on Big Bang, black hole and the origin of the universe, the research that won him the Nobel along with two other scientists. All doors to the auditorium had to be closed half an hour before the lecture was to begin. This reporter had to slip through a back gate. “He has always been hugely popular for his work on black holes, but perhaps more so for his excellent oratory that could explain the hardest theory in such a simplistic manner. And that day was no exception,” Sujata Sen, the then director of British Council, said on Wednesday. British Council had co-organised the event to mark the birth anniversary of another Nobel laureate physicist, C.V. Raman. Sen had failed to find a seat in the auditorium and listened to the 90-minute lecture - Beyond the Big Bang - standing at a door. “There existed another universe before the Big Bang. Our universe emerged from it,” Penrose had said in the lecture, while shifting effortlessly from one overhead projector to another, and from Einstein’s Theory of Relativity to the Weyl curve hypothesis. He was not carrying any laptop, nor was the lecture illustrated by any powerpoint presentation. There were only overhead projectors and transparent handwritten sheets, which had by then almost become extinct props among scientists. “I think learning one technology is good enough in one life,” Penrose had said after the talk. A host of city-based physicists had attended the lecture. “It was an amazing experience listening to Penrose. His work on black holes is well known. He has also been working in the sectors of time and mind, to which I am particularly interested,” Dipak Ghosh, an emeritus professor at Jadavpur University, said on Wednesday. Another physicist Partha Ghosh, who like Penrose is trying to popularise physics among the young, had said after the talk that he was pleased to notice “the immense interest among the people, especially the younger generation, in basic science and the universe”. Sen said on Wednesday: “Roger Penrose is a very humble and approachable human being, unlike many scientists of his stature, as many of us found out during a boat trip on the Ganges. He enjoyed the river and the city beside the banks.” Penrose visited Calcutta a number of times. He would have come again in June had there been no Covid pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Amphan-hit Calcutta racecourse trees back on their feet||Five trees outside the boundary of racecourse opposite the police training school that had tilted when Cyclone Amphan had struck in May were restored recently and made to stand straight again. Despite the restoration happening more than four months later, the trees did not die. This was possible because the roots were still tied to the soil and could draw nutrition from it, according to naturalists. The restored trees include Kadam, Krishnachura and Aswathya, naturalist Arjan Basu Roy said. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation completed the restoration about 10 days ago. “We completed the restoration work after getting the Eastern Command’s approval. I do not remember exactly when we approached the army for permission to restore the trees,” a CMC official said. The army’s permission was needed as it is the custodian of the Maidan and the trees were outside the boundary of the racecourse, the CMC official said. “As the roots of the trees had not been severed from the soil, the trees had a supply of nutrition from the soil, which is why they survived even in the tilted position,” a naturalist said. The branches and leaves had been chopped off before the trees were put back in erect position. Basu Roy, who had inspected the tilted trees, said he found that the perimeter of the girth of a tilted Aswathya tree was 12m. The tree could be a century-old, he said. Basu Roy was not involved in the restoration work. Author Amit Chaudhuri who had knocked on several doors to restore the trees said he was happy that the tree had been restored. Many of the trees Calcutta lost during Amphan were ancient ones, he said. “These were trees that our parents’ generation or people older than our parents have seen. Losing something that old and beautiful is not worth it. This is the same reason I fight for saving old and beautiful houses of Calcutta. “After seeing the trees outside the racecourse I felt putting them back to their original position would not be a tough thing. I thank the CMC and the army for doing this.” The Kadam and Krishnachura trees will be close to 30 years old, Basu Roy said. There is no count on the number of trees Calcutta lost to Amphan that had struck the city on May 20. Many had fallen but the roots had not lost touch with the soil. Many such trees had to be chopped off because they had either blocked the road or had tilted towards the road and keeping them in that position posed a threat to people. “The trees near the racecourse were not tilted towards the road; so, there was no urgency to chop them off. Only about 30 per cent of trees that had tilted during the cyclone but had not lost connection with soil could be restored,” Basu Roy said. The CMC should regularly water the roots and tree trunks to ensure they don’t become dry, he said. Also, insects are known to infect trees around this time of the year. “Since these trees would be weak, they should be treated immediately if they get infected with insects.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Vow to spread Hathras protest||Campuses must play a key role in spreading the protests against the alleged gang rape and murder of a Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, said college and university students who organised a torch rally on Wednesday evening to denounce the barbarity. Hundreds of students descended on the streets and marched from the Jadavpur University campus till Golpark. Many of the marchers were holding a flaming torch and carrying posters that read: “Only two months ago the Modi government had performed Bhoomi Pujan at Ram Mandir. Two months later Sita was murdered and set ablaze. Welcome to Ram Rajya”. “This sheer treachery forms the bedrock of Ram Rajya where women are dis-respected blatantly. The Hathras incident reflects this treachery,” said Abhratanu Chowdhury, a BTech student at Jadavpur University and one of the protesters. “Sita is extremely unsafe in this Ram Rajya. They are now blaming the woman’s character to shield the culprits. But the BJP will not utter a word advising men to mend themselves.” Wednesday’s march was the third protest rally led by students in as many days, triggered by the Hathras horror. Campuses are closed but still students assembled in hundreds as they did not want the spirit of protest to extinguish. “The ruling dispensation will do everything to suppress the protest. But we cannot let the voice of dissent die down. As students it is our duty to sensitise and awaken the common man. Campuses must play a lead role in spreading the protest,” said Prerana Bhowmick, an MSc student at JU. She walked with a poster that had the words “Women will destroy Hindu Rashtra” written on it. Across the road from the university’s gate number 2, from where Wednesday’s protest march started, a JU teacher had been assaulted by some men and women when she protested alleged hate speeches against the institute at a BJP rally in support of the amended citizenship act on December 30. A case was started under IPC sections related to outrage of modesty following a complaint by the assistant professor. Mekhla Bhowmick, a student at Calcutta University who came from Salt Lake to join the protest march, said outraging the modesty of a woman had become a routine affair in Uttar Pradesh and incidents like the one that happened in Hathras must be protested so long as they happened. “The intersection of caste and gender violence, which we see in UP, is something we condemn. We know, as students, that it has a long history. But this is something we have to fight as long as it is there. The torch that we are holding aloft expresses the smouldering rage that we carry among ourselves,” said Mekhla, who is doing her MPhil in economics. “Whether classes are being held or not, we will take to the streets. Campuses will rise in rage and spread the protest to the farthest corner”. Duhita Biswas, a student at IGNOU who was walking next to Mekhla, said she did not know “what else is required to happen to a woman for the students and the entire society to come out in protest”. “How long can this go on? One after another rape is happening. I cannot keep myself quarantined at home. I had to hit the protest path,” said Duhita.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Mentor role for Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira||The Centre has written to Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, that it should consider mentoring “other educational institutions in the neighbourhood in improving their academic excellence”, given its stellar performance in the national level over the past few years. The letter to the autonomous college has been signed by Sanjay Dhotre, the Union minister of state for electronics and information technology, communications and human resource development. Dhotre has congratulated Vidyamandira for its ranks in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) and said: “Therefore, I believe, apart from setting the highest standard in academic excellence, it is also important to expand the role outside the academic sphere. This may include mentoring of other educational institutions in the neighbourhood, in improving their academic excellence. “You may also think of sharing your expertise with other government/ non-government institutions to help them deliver their service in a more effective manner….” Swami Ekachittananda, the officiating principal of the college, said the June 11 letter reached the institute on October 6. “It’s an important responsibility that we have been advised to discharge. We will meet to decide how we can mentor other institutions. We believe this advice has come as a recognition of our consistent performance in the NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework) ranking over the past three years,” the monk told Metro. “As an institution, Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira believes in the principle of helping others in attaining success and excellence”. Dhotre’s letter is addressed to Swami Shastrajnananda, who was principal of Vidyamandira in June. Swami Shastrajnananda has since joined Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, as principal. Vidyamandira ranked ninth, 11th and seventh in the NIRF rankings in 2018, 2019 and 2020 respectively. Senior monks and teachers of the college said they would have to speak to the state education department to identify the institutions that might require their mentoring. The social outreach committee of the teachers’ council at the 79-year-old institution now undertakes a planned programme to provide academic support to needy students of schools in the neighbourhood. Teams comprising teachers and monks visit a number of schools and address students and liaise with teachers and the administration. The college also offers free tuitions in the evening, where teachers and former students involved in academics take classes. “The ministry wants us to expand the role. So we need to speak to the state education department to deliberate on how we can reach out to more number of institutions as a mentor,” a teacher at Vidyamandira said. An official of the education department said Calcutta University had in April last year paired 39 of its affiliated colleges preparing for the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) rating with colleges that have already secured at least B+ grade with the idea of mentoring them. The accredited colleges have been asked to help the ones preparing for the accreditation to draw up a strategy for betterment, identify strengths and weaknesses and take steps to overcome drawbacks. “Similarly, Vidyamandira can advise colleges on how to improve performance in the NIRF rankings that could help attract bright students and more funds from the UGC,” the official said. Vidyamandira was started as an Intermediate Arts College in 1941 in keeping with Swami Vivekananda’s idea of comprehensive education and was upgraded to a degree college in 1960. It was granted autonomy in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools bank on loan, fixed-deposit break||Several city schools are resorting to new ways to tackle the financial crisis because of fewer people paying fees. A school in central Calcutta had to take a loan to pay teachers and members of the non-teaching staff their salaries. Another school has created a platform with online content that students of other schools can use and help generate revenue for the school. A Christian missionary school in south Calcutta had to break a fixed deposit to pay members of its staff salaries. Many schools are faced with a financial crisis as most parents haven’t paid fees in the past six months. Some have paid for a few months. “In the initial months we used some of the reserve and after that the school had to take a loan to pay teachers and others salaries,” Perminder Dasani, the administrator of Chowringhee High School, said. “There are administrative expenses as well and till July we had sustained with the school reserve.” So far, only 15-20 per cent of parents have paid, which is slightly better than the 5 per cent in the initial months, Dasani said. La Maternelle High School started a digital platform, Gyaankosh, to provide online content in the form of small videos in mathematics, science and English for students of classes I-X. “In the initial days, we saw how students of our school were struggling with online education because they did not have high-speed Net connectivity or dedicated smartphones. Teachers prepared and sent them videos,” Vandana Paul, the principal of La Maternelle, said. “We have now come up with this idea, which will help us reach out to children with limited access to smartphones or the Net. Organisations or NGOs can avail themselves of the online content at an affordable rate. The children who can manage to get smartphones at some point of the day when their parents are at home can access these videos. It will help the school tide over this financial crisis.” Only 22 per cent of the parents have paid so far, the head of the south Calcutta school that had to break the fixed deposit said. “The tuition fee is fixed depending on the salary of the staff. So, the entire salary liability is dependent on the tuition fee, which is very poor now. So, breaking the fixed deposit was the only option.” In many small schools, parents are not from the high income group. But they want to send their children to private English-medium schools. Some are hawkers or app cab drivers who want their kids to learn and speak English in the hope of a better future. Their earnings have taken a hit during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||CMC parks to reopen for Durga Puja from October 15||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will throw open all parks from October 15 for the benefit of several puja committees during the pandemic. “More than 250 pujas are held in various parks across the city. We will open the parks from October 15; the exact timings and other details will be prepared after we get the government advisory,” Debasish Kumar, the member of the CMC’s board of administrators in charge of parks and gardens, said. Many puja committees that organise Durga Puja in parks have been requesting the CMC for the past few days to reopen its parks. “How can we hold the puja unless the CMC decides on reopening the parks,” Joydeep Saha of Belgachhia Sadharan Durgostav said. , It organises Durga Puja on circus maidan in Tala Park, one of the many parks in north Calcutta maintained by the CMC. “Several stall owners have been approaching us. The police have already ruled out joy rides. We have applied for permission not knowing whether parks will reopen,” Saha said. Some of Calcutta’s biggest pujas are held in parks — Bagbazar Sarbojanin, Maddox Square, Deshapriya Park, Mohammad Ali Park, Kumartuli Park, Santosh Mitra Square and Jodhpur Park. After a puja organiser applies for police permission, a team visits the park to go through the arrangements as part of physical verification. The CMC maintains 756 parks across Calcutta, an official said. A few like the Rabindra Sarobar at Golpark-Dhakuria and the Subhas Sarobar at Kada-para off the Bypass are maintained by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority. A majority of these parks have been closed since March when the Centre announced the lockdown. In June, the CMC opened a few parks to morning walkers with restricted timings. Many committees who organise Durga Puja in parks have been banking on collecting some revenue from stalls since corporate sponsorship and advertisements are hard to come by. In the absence of clear directives from the CMC, the committees cannot decide whether to allow stalls. “This year, committees organising Durga Puja in open areas will bank on stalls for some income. But on Tuesday, the police told us not to decide anything about setting up stalls till they give the permission,” Pabitra Basak of Kumartuli Park puja committee said. “Last year, there were close to 40 stalls apart from joyrides…. We are not sure what will happen this year.” The police have been going through applications of committees that hold Durga Puja in parks maintained by the CMC. “The chief minister has clearly said pandals should have clear circulation of air. In parks, this will be easier… than the pandal in lanes and on roads,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Free medical test for wrong report in Calcutta||The health-care regulatory commission has asked private hospitals and diagnostic laboratories to “offer free of cost repeat test at the earliest” if a doctor suspects errors in the first report. While passing an order on complaints of errors by laboratories, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission said on Wednesday that the pathologist concerned should be cautious while signing a report because a data entry operator might make a mistake while transcribing results. But “the pathologist must take responsibility for such mistakes and the laboratory would own the responsibility”, the order said. “Numerical mistakes and name mistakes would have disastrous results if such a report is accepted by the treating doctor and further treatment is proceeded on that basis. In such a situation the testing laboratory must take full responsibility for the injury that may be caused to the patient because of such a wrong report,” the order said. But it also added that “there cannot be any straightjacket formula. It has to be on a case by case basis”. “We have been receiving allegations of errors in diagnostic test results from patients. Doctors treating these patients apprehend that the results are not correct and the patients have to undergo repeat tests,” retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said on Wednesday. Later in the evening, a composite order on the complaints heard during Wednesday’s hearing was passed. The order cited two types of mistakes in reports — typographical mistake and testing mistake. “If the report is transcribed by the data entry operator, there might be a mistake. When the pathologist concerned would sign the report, he must be cautious. If there is any abnormality found in the result… the pathologist must take responsibility... and the laboratory would own the responsibility,” the order read. “We feel, whenever any laboratory is confronted with the report they should first offer a refund... and go for a free of cost repeat test….” About testing error, the order said as and when laboratories were “confronted with the report,they must offer a repeat test at the earliest that would ameliorate the grievance of the patient. Generally, the treating doctors would always compare the result with his own observation while examining the patient and in case of any doubt, they would advise for a repeat test…. We feel the laboratory, without going into any controversy, should offer free of cost repeat test at the earliest….” The order added: “Whenever there is any injury caused by such a wrong report, the laboratory must be appropriately penalised. Otherwise there can be token compensation to be awarded in favour of the patient so that in future, the laboratories would be cautious enough before issuing any test report.” The order was passed after the commission awarded a compensation of Rs 10,000 to a person who was given a wrongly transcribed report by Medica Superspecialty Hospital. “We have also asked Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre, New Town, to pay a thyroid patient the cost of a repeat test done in another laboratory,” Banerjee said. The first test was done at the Bhagirathi Neotia hospital. A doctor at the hospital advised a repeat test after suspecting an error in the report. An official of the hospital said: “It would be premature to comment till I get a copy of the order.” At Medica, a man who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19 underwent a D-dimer test, which helps determine blood clot, on September 18. “The result was 410.32, but because of a typographical error the report showed 41032. The man and his wife were Covid positive. Their 15-year-old daughter fainted after seeing the result,” said Banerjee. An official of Medica said: “We called the man the next day and offered a repeat test for free. He went to another laboratory.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||December 2021 target for East-West Metro||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the completion of the East-West Metro at an estimated cost of Rs 8,575 crore, which will boost public transport in the city and reduce commuting time. The target date for the project’s completion is December 2021, rail minister Piyush Goyal said while making the announcement. The rail ministry’s share in the cost is Rs 3,268.27 crore and the housing and urban affairs ministry’s Rs1,148.31 crore apart from a loan of Rs 4,158.40 crore from Japan International Cooperation Agency, a release issued by the Centre said. The project cost calculated 12 years ago was Rs 4,874 crore. “As promised earlier to make Phoolbagan Metro station functional by Durga Puja, we inaugurated the station on October 4,” Goyal said. The total route length of the East-West Metro corridor is 16.6km with 12 stations. The project envisages the construction of a corridor between Salt Lake Sector V and Howrah Maidan via a stretch under the Hooghly. The project will reduce commuting time and fuel consumption, reduce road infrastructure capex and ease traffic in Calcutta. Officials involved with the project in Calcutta said fund was never a problem. The project got delayed by several years because of land logjam. Also, the Bowbazar cave-in while boring a tunnel delayed it further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Sunderbans: Trapped tiger released in wild||A small trawler stood on the edge of the Thakuran river near a forest in the Sunderbans on Wednesday evening. It was low tide. As soon as the doors of a trap cage on the trawler were lifted, out jumped a tiger. The big cat landed on the soft river bank. Egged on by a few human voices, it took a few sprightly steps and vanished into the dense forest on the other side. The tiger was captured in a trap cage on the edge of Baikanthapur 6 village in the Sunderbans on Tuesday evening. Forest officials said it was the same big cat that had strayed into the village on Monday evening. The tiger had killed livestock and squatted on a brick road for hours before retreating into the forest. Forest department officials had said the tiger had entered the village, around 30km from Kultali town in South 24-Parganas, after swimming across a tributary of the river Matla. “The tiger was trapped around 8.30pm on Tuesday. It was taken to the tiger rescue centre at Jharkhali (in the Sunderbans). A team of vets and forest officials examined the tiger on Wednesday. The pugmarks matched with that of the one found in the village. There were no injuries and the tiger was found to be fit for release into the wild,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal. The tiger, a male aged around “five-six years”, was released into Chulkata forest in the South 24-Parganas division of the Sunderbans, on the banks of the Thakuran river and not far from Jharkhali. Officials examined the animal to check whether it had any external injuries that might have prompted it to enter a human habitat. “The trap was laid because big cats had a tendency to come back for their kill. The tiger killed a cow and a goat on Monday but could not eat them, apparently because thousands of people assembled to catch a glimpse of it,” an official of the forest department said. The tiger that had strayed into the village is said to have come from the Ajmalmari forest. A tributary of the Matla river separates Baikanthapur 6 from the Ajmalmari forest. The forests in the Sunderbans are fenced by nylon nets. The tiger is said to have sneaked out of a hole in the net, crossed the river and the thin forest cover before entering the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Rs 5 lakh stolen from Rajarhat ATM||A gang broke into an ATM of a public sector bank near the Narayanpur crossing in Rajarhat and made off with Rs 5 lakh early on Wednesday, police said. “The burglars first broke a camera outside the kiosk and then sprayed black paint on the CCTV camera inside. They then used a gas cutter to cut a part of the machine and access the vault where the cash is kept,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Like many ATMs in the city, this was unguarded, too. The ATM is located in a bustling neighbourhood, around 5km from City Centre 2, but the area becomes deserted by 10pm. An officer of Narayanpur police station said the men had come in a four-wheeler. No one was arrested till late on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta hospitals prepare for rush||Private hospitals are recruiting medical officers, increasing critical-care beds, renewing contracts with hotels for satellite treatment centres, and tying up with ambulances, apprehending a surge in Covid-19 cases during and after Durga Puja. These hospitals feel more critical care beds will be needed during the festive season, officials of several such hospitals said. Hospitals are installing more monitors and ventilators at their units to convert general beds into ICU and HDU facilities. AMRI Hospitals has 250 Covid beds at its three units, Salt Lake, Dhakuria and Mukundapur. Of these, 110 are critical care beds. “We plan to convert 20 general beds into ICU and HDU beds, thus increasing the total number of critical-care beds to 130. We are going to compensate for the decrease in general beds through our satellite units,” Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI, said. The hospital has tied up with two hotels and has the capacity of keeping 48 Covid patients with mild or no symptoms, he said. At the moment, barely 20 patients are there. Barua said the demand was more for critical care beds. In September, the group’s hospitals had to refuse admission to 87 critical Covid patients for want of beds, he said. “We will need more machines, trained nurses and doctors for augmenting the number of critical-care beds. We are recruiting junior doctors. At present, we need 20 more junior doctors,” Barua said. ILS Hospital Dum Dum has increased the number of critical-care beds. The hospital has 60 Covid beds, of which 27 are for critical patients. “We plan to increase it to 35… we need more equipment and we are recruiting junior doctors,” Debasish Dhar, group vice president, ILS Hospitals, said. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences plans to increase its critical-care facilities. “Since more Covid patients are willing to go for home isolation, we feel the pressure on hospitals will be from critical patients who require ICU care, which we are fully prepared for,” R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, said. The RN Tagore is its flagship hospital. “We now have growing experience in treating such patients and there has been a corresponding decrease in hospital length of stay. We feel confident we will overcome any surge in numbers,” Venkatesh said. Peerless Hospital plans to convert one more ward for treating Covid patients, expecting a rush during Durga Puja. Hospitals expect satellite units to have more occupancy during the festive season when many people will reach Calcutta from other cities. So, there can be a problem in home isolation in crowded households, officials of several hospitals said. At present, most hospitals have low occupancy at their satellite units and some have already terminated the contracts. “But we have again asked hotels to keep rooms available for any mild or asymptomatic Covid patient who might need isolation during Durga Puja,” Dhar of ILS said. The hospital is tying up with private ambulances during the festive season because Covid patients might find it difficult to reach hospital at that time, he said. These ambulances belong to private agencies but the hospital will operate them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||National Green Tribunal pulls up Bengal||The National Green Tribunal has said the state authorities are not “serious in discharging their responsibilities” to stop the pollution of Santragachhi Jheel in Howrah and granted another six months to complete all work related to the preservation of the water body. The order, in response to a petition filed by environment activist Subhas Datta, was passed on September 30 but was uploaded on the tribunal’s website on Tuesday. “It may be noted that the case had been instituted on 18.01.2006 and the proposals and steps had concretised way back in the year 2017,” pointed out the principal bench of the tribunal comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda. “We find it difficult to accept that the process would take such an inordinately long time. From this, we can only infer that the authorities had not been serious in discharging their responsibilities….” the bench observed. However, taking into consideration the affidavits filed by various departments, the bench granted the state authorities six months to complete all work related to the preservation of the sprawling water body, which draws thousands of migratory birds every winter, and asked the authorities to submit a compliance report by April 4, 2021. In June, the tribunal had directed the Bengal government, Howrah Municipal Corporation, Railway Board and Mackintosh Burn Limited to state what they had done over the past two-and-a-half-years in regard to the bench’s earlier order. In 2017, the bench had passed an order specifying the responsibilities of each agency in cleaning up Santragachhi Jheel. The bench had stated in the 2017 order that the railways would provide land to set up a sewage treatment plant and the cost of the project would be borne by the Howrah civic body and the railways. Untreated sewage now flows into the water body. The bench had ordered that the sewage, post-treatment, would have to be drained somewhere else. In the 2017 order, the bench had assigned the responsibility of constructing the treatment plant to Mackintosh Burn, a state government company. “Most of the pending issues have been sorted out, including that of the land,” government lawyer Bikas Kar Gupta told Metro. “We are yet to receive any formal letter on land and other issues,” said a representative of South Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
08-10-2020||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College webinar with Muhammad Yunus||A Nobel laureate and a veteran economist will discuss the impact of Covid-19 on livelihoods in a webinar on Thursday afternoon. “The COVID 19 Pandemic — Lives, Livelihood and Challenges” is being organised by the Post Graduate Department of Economics of St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Kolkata, in collaboration with Yunus Centre Bangladesh. Muhammad Yunus, Bangladeshi social entrepreneur who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006, will be one of the speakers at the webinar. Raghabendra Chattopadhyay, professor of economics and political history at the Indian Institute of Management Calcutta, is the other speaker. By the end of September, the global death toll from Covid-19 had breached the million mark. But even that number is no match for the number of livelihoods lost because of the pandemic. Father Dominic Savio, principal of St Xavier’s College, will deliver the keynote address. “The webinar will be attended by delegates, research scholars, faculty members, academics and industrialists from across India and Bangladesh. The thought-provoking sessions are expected to emphasise on the trade-off between lives and livelihoods during these trying times,” Father Savio said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-279
