09-10-2020||Calcutta||Pre-Puja rise in corona cases||The number of coronavirus cases has been on a steady rise in Salt Lake, Baguiati, Teghoria, Kaikhali and several parts of Rajarhat over the past couple of weeks, officials of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department said. According to an official, with the “unlock” phase kicking in and people heading out to their workplaces, and even with Puja shopping, things have gotten worse. Salt Lake and its adjoining areas were reporting a steady number of cases but in the past couple of weeks there have been more than 1,000 fresh cases reported from these neighbourhoods. On Wednesday, 728 fresh cases were reported from North 24-Parganas according to figures given by the state health department. More than 100 fresh cases have been reported from the 41 wards under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty said that many Salt Lake residents own businesses that operate out of Burrabazar, Posta and MG Road. They are contracting the virus upon visiting the places. “Many residents who own businesses there are coming down with the disease. We are doing all we can to curb the spread and are actively campaigning to maintain social distancing and hygiene protocols,” said Chakraborty. Several residents however claimed that the ground reality was different, what with shoppers crowding block markets and several shopkeepers and hawkers dealing with customers without wearing masks or ensuring the social distancing protocol. “One visit to the block market on Sunday and it seemed that the pandemic never struck,” said Kamalika Saha, a homemaker, who stays in EE Block. “At this rate, one shudders to think what lies in store after the Pujas get over.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Shops woo wary customers||There was a time when Puja shopping was an experience, not a transaction. The boundless energy with which one visited store after store for that perfect top, the excitement one had while placing a sari on one’s shoulder and glancing at the mirror, the impatience of having bought five new clothes but being forced to wait till Sashthi to wear them…. Alas! Covid-19 has snatched away a much-loved precursor to Durga puja. “I’m not getting any motivation to shop this year,” says Trina Kar Dutta of CF Block. “It seems like a waste of money. Maybe I’ll buy something for my little daughter and her cousins but I don’t feel like gifting anything to adults in the family. I mean we’re not even sure if anyone would go out during the festival.” Nishita Prasad, a resident of Shrachi Greenwood, used to frequent City Centre 2 previously but this year she’s in no mood to shop. “I don’t want to spend much. I have a job but so many of my friends have lost theirs. Almost every friend I have has lost a family member to Covid. How can I celebrate?” she asks. But it is not all gloom and doom. Many stores have taken up the challenge of luring customers back, even if it means rewriting every rule in the book. Stores come home The Lifestyle outlet of Axis Mall has been sending out “canter vans” loaded with clothes to housing complexes for shoppers to browse. “Since shoppers are not venturing out, we are taking clothes to them,” says Ricky Paul of Navkrit Brand Solutions event management group that has been supervising the project. They started with Balaka Abasan a few weeks ago and have covered Club Town, Greenwood Park, Greenfield Ambition etc. “We are conducting these exhibitions everyday and response is reasonably good on weekends.” Fabindia has been doing the same. “We’re surveying complexes with over 300 flats and if response is encouraging, we are booking their community hall for the weekend, displaying our apparel and home interior items (which by the way have overtaken apparel sales during the pandemic),” says manager of the City Centre branch, Meghna Rathi. Their online sales are doing well too. Almost every store is circulating pictures of their products over WhatsApp and some are providing home delivery too. “If a customer shows interest in some pictures, we send over videos or do video calls to show the anchal, body, pleats of the sari. Even if the customer cannot touch the sari herself, we do our best to make her get the feel,” says Vinita Khemka of Vermilion sari store that has branches in both the City Centres. Tamosha Mukherjee, who runs the family clothing stores Srimaa and Sri Ramakrishna Asish in CK Market, is offering complimentary falls and pico stitching on saris and even going blouse-hunting to different shops on the customers’ behalf. “Sixty per cent customers are now opting for this system and we are sending the clothes to their homes, along with credit card machines. Other customers are fixing appointments and coming at, maybe, 10pm and shopping till 11.30 when the market is empty.” Corona-special collection Old favourites like silk have tough competition this year. “People want thick cotton outfits as they think that’ll protect them best against coronavirus,” says Sanchita Gupta of the Sanchita’s store in F Block, City Centre. “But they are rigorously washing clothes after every use and the colours are fading fast. So chiffon is the next alternative.” Almost every store keeper said comfortable daily wear is selling more than gorgeous outfits this year. At Sanchita’s, leggings are selling more than anything else! “I think this is because the leggings are losing shape after intense washing,” she says. Paul’s Creation in BG Block, too, is taking care not to stock items with sequins and the like as they are get ruined after repeated washing. “What is selling well is a new design of kurtis with pockets on both sides,” says Chaiti Paul. “Besides the phone, women need space to keep sanitisers on themselves now.” Mask sale overtakes sari “I have no high hopes from saris this year but masks I’m selling several every day. This is the only fresh investment I’ve made after the lockdown and it’s paying off,” says Pampa Das of Pratyasha boutique, opposite AE Market. Pampa has, in fact, created some special variations of masks for the Pujas. “The Rs 270 ‘marf’ is a mask-cum-scarf or dupatta in kalamkari and ajrak material and for Rs 250 I’m selling hair net-and-mask sets,” she shows. Sanchita would initially find the idea of matching masks with clothing ridiculous but she’s finally bowed down to requests. “Someone even asked if I could paint Durga’s face on a mask! I’m sure even the idols will be wearing masks this year,” she shakes her head. Ruchira Roy Ganguli of IA Market’s Srija Boutique had always associated masks with something doctors wore. “But when things got out of hand, I had to forward YouTube links teaching mask-making to my staff as it was the only thing that would sell,” she says. “Masks are more necessary than new clothes this year and that’s where I’m putting my money.” Itu Upadhaya of Face boutique in City Centre has started gifting khadi masks to her customers who are often returning to buy more. Tale of jobless tailors This time of the year in 2019, tailors like Azad Narul were neck-deep in work stitching blouses. This year they are miserable. “We used to get orders from households across Salt Lake, Kestopur and Ultadanga but till recently no one would even let us in. We were treated like pariah dogs,” Narul says. But with the festive and wedding seasons approaching, he has regained about 40 per cent of his business. “But we are having to compromise on our rates now,” he sigh. Ruchira of Srija Boutique had two tailors — one to stitch kurtis, lehengas, salwars and the other for designer blouses. “The latter is in hiding in his village since March so I cannot even invite customers to get blouses stitched for their new saris,” says the hapless resident of Purbachal. Her other tailor is working from home and comes once a week from Howrah for delivery. Taking measurements is another challenge at a time when social distancing is advocated. “We’re asking customers to give us samples of their shirts or trousers but if they cannot, we are wearing masks and gloves to take measurements and then sanitising the measuring tape,” says Dipankar Saha of the exclusive gents’ Jiko Tailor in CA Market. “But the Pujas have proved to be a festival big enough to make customers step out of their homes. Before that, there was no business.” Pampa’s tailoring unit used to mint money before the Pujas but this year she has shut it down completely. No entry to trial rooms Almost no store is allowing shoppers to try out clothes before buying. This is having a negative impact on sales but some brands are trying to overcome it. Paul’s Creation has kept trial outfits for men and women of all sizes —and is requesting customers to try them out for an idea of what would fit them. “Even then, most customers are scared to try them out,” says Chaiti. Fabindia has started a scheme whereby customers can select clothes to be sent over to their homes for trials. “Should they like the product, the sale is happening on the spot,” says Meghna. Stock clearance “Puja collection? I’m still stuck with Poila Baisakh collection that went unsold due to the lockdown,” says Pampa. “Akshay Tritiya is a time of huge sales at my store but we couldn’t open then. I’m trying to push these now.” Itu, a government-registered katha and batik artisan, would hold exhibitions around the country through the year and is also stuck with heaps of unsold stock. “Since exhibitions are out of question now I decided to open this new shop in September to push sales,” says the lady who has decorated her City Centre F Block store with Puja theme. Then there are those like Ruchira who are unable to source indigo, ajrak, bagru cotton smoothly since the pandemic started. “Suppliers are faltering,” she says. “The mills of Bangalore are shut due to lack of demand,” says Tamosha, who is also not getting all material. “These mills are expensive to run and, at a time produce, say 30,000m of cloth. They will incur losses if they have to produce only 15,000m and are hence not running the machines at all.” Window-shopping Though customers have started visiting malls, a spokesperson from Pantaloons City Centre 2 said most of them were window shoppers. “People come, look at a few items and leave. We are allowing them to use trial rooms but they are too scared. Even if they like something, they say they have nowhere to wear them to and walk away.” Till last year, Max Fashion in City Centre 2 had to hire extra security to manage the pre-Puja crowd but this year the store wears a lonely look. “Many people have lost their jobs and can’t spend as freely as they would earlier. The difference is startling,” said a staff of the outlet. Sanchita says regular customers who would buy 10 clothes for the Pujas previously are now buying no more than four. Pampa says no one is interested in spending on themselves at such a gloomy time. “They’ve cut down on gifting relatives too. If anything, they are buying saris that domestic helps will demand and saris that they would offer during the rituals,” she says. Cheaper items in demand Not just the number of clothes, the price range of clothes has seen sharp fall too. “We have saris ranging from Rs 1,000 to 25,000 but no one is nearing the upper end now,” says Vinita of Vermilion. Itu says customers who would foot bills of Rs 20,000 before the Pujas are barely exceeding Rs 5,000 now. “Previously Puja shopping meant a Rs 4,000-5000 tussar sari for oneself and saris worth Rs 2,500 for gifting others. Now Rs 2,500 is the upper limit for oneself and the gifting budget has fallen to Rs 500 or 1,000,” she says. Sanchita, who sources much of her materials from Assam, would grant 20 per cent discount to regular customers before the Pujas but this year she is allowing it for everyone and that too till Diwali. Mixed bag Far from reaping profits, Chaiti says it is a challenge for clothing outlets to stay afloat this year. “Expenses are more than sales what with the added cost of sanitising the space after every customer’s visit,” she says. Pampa recalls how she would look forward to meeting customers, chatting and joking with them alongside making a sale. “Sharing pictures on WhatsApp and receiving payment in exchange is a mechanical process devoid of any emotion. The year 2020 is a disaster!” she says. Ruchira of Srija Boutique shares her grief. “No one comes with the intent of Puja shopping these days. They simply peep into the store on the way to buy vegetables. But to be fair, it’s only the other day that the government confirmed that the festival would be held in the first place, so maybe shoppers will come about now.” Itu says the last two weekends the parking lot at City Centre had been full and that senior citizens as well as children had now started coming. Fabindia is trying to enforce a seven-at-a-time rule inside the store. “But additional customers are barging in, throwing caution to the wind,” says Meghna. “Sales have been much better than we expected, almost 50 to 60 per cent of last year. Shopaholics under lockdown for seven months are now at large and also people who go for vacations during the Pujas are now spending that money on clothes.” Additional reporting by Showli Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Breed and eat fish at home, panchayat dept shows how||It doesn’t get any fresher than this. A new technology provides you the means to build an artificial pond in your house, garden or terrace where you could head to every morning and pick out any fish you want cooked for lunch. A demonstrative version of biofloc technology was inaugurated at Mrittika Bhavan on September 28. The building in DD Block houses the state comprehensive area development corporation (CADC), under the panchayats and rural development department and inaugurating the facility was minister Subrata Mukherjee. “This system can breed fish like Koi, Pabda, Singi, Magur and Golda Chingri that people love,” said Mukherjee. “It can come in handy at a time when prices of fish increase. While the system is fairly easy people rarely start something new by simply hearing about it. They want to see it in operation before adopting it and that’s why we have built this demo version. Anyone is free to come and learn about it from us and replicate it at home.” Unlike an open pond, the biofloc tank doesn’t need acres of land. The one at Mrittika Bhawan is a round-shaped open-top tank with an iron net body and polymer sheet wrapped around it. Its base is connected to an underground water pump that will replenish water that gets evaporated and there are slim aerator pipes sending oxygen into the water for the fish to breathe. Its capacity is 10,000l. “Biofloc is a relatively new technology developed in and for cold European countries where the rivers stay frozen for much of the year. There they use thousands of biofloc tanks to farm fish,” said Soumyajit Das, special secretary to the panchayats and rural development department and administrative secretary of the CADC. “The technology has also seen success in Bangladesh.” The water in the tank at Mrittika Bhavan is nourished with probiotics, bacteria and jaggery that will convert the droppings of the fish into their food. So one doesn’t even have to spend on food for the fish thereafter. Only the probiotic-solution needs to be added afresh every two months. Other than that it’s zero-maintenance,” he said. Those interested in replicating this system are welcome to go and learn at the centre. “Households can install a 1,000l tank at a cost of about Rs 10,000,” said Das. “The lockdown has proven how little of the city’s fish and agricultural demand is produced within it. If people can grow their own fish it would help them be self-sufficient to some extent,” Das said. The minister released fingerlings into the water and the department expects the first batch of fish to be ready for sale by Diwali. The fish will be available at Mrittika Bhavan as well in vehicles that tour the township selling fish, meat and agricultural products sourced from farms. The minister also inaugurated a kitchen garden section on the day, produce of which will be added to their cart. “Plants like spinach, broccoli, cabbage, lettuce, capsicum are being planted on ‘hanging seed beds’ which are three-tier bamboo shelves installed around the parking lot of the building. Covid testing got easier in New Town with the start of a drive-through kiosk on September 26. All one has to do is book a slot with The Apollo Clinic in DLF Galleria mall, take a car and park it in the designated area in front of the kiosk at the corner of New Town Mela Ground pavement. Personnel at the kiosk collect the nasal and throat swab through the rolled down window of the vehicle. “We discourage cash transaction unless one is absolutely incapable of online payment in advance. The report is typically mailed within 24 hours,” said a staff member at the kiosk. The facility is available daily, from 10am to 5pm, and charge for the RT-PCR test is Rs 2,250. Tests are also being done at the fair ground in kiosks run by three private clinics in three time slots — 8-10am, 11-12noon and 3-4pm. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Agomoni show goes online||Mahalaya came early this year but Palash Prangan, a township-based group, was punctual with their Agomoni programme. Though the virtual show was open  to the public in the evening, internally members had begun performing from dawn. “Our member Buddhadev Bhattacharjee began chanting slokas and Agomoni tunes from 5.30am and the rest of us too performed and shared our clips with one another throughout the day. The evening  slot was for guest artistes,” said an organiser. In the evening, Ranendranath Ghosh, a student of Dwijen Mukherjee, began with three songs from Mahisasuramardini — Ya Chandi, Jago Durga and Namah Chandi. “These are the three basic songs for the inauguration of any programme on the subject,” he said. The narration between songs was by elocutionist Mou Guha, who wove the tradition of Durga puja in Bengal with the defeat of Siraj-ud-Daulah in the battle of Battle of Plassey and with poets and musicians like Ramprasad Sen, Bharatchandra Ray and  Ramnidhi Gupta, better known as Nidhu babu. The next segment of the programme was Durga vandana, a 12- minute pre-recorded dance recital by members of DB Block-based dance school Kolkata Uchchhas. Mother-daughter duo Mehul and Moumita Chakraborty danced to Jago tumi jago, Shuvasree Roy danced to Dhak baja kasor baja and Srimoyee Kaushiki Basak Dey put up a powerful performance to Ayi giri nandini. Sonali Basak (in picture), who directed the show, danced to Durge durgati nashini, praying to the goddess to end the pandemic. Priya Srivastav, a former student of the institute, logged in from Gurgaon and performed Aaj bajey monomajhey from the film Durga Sahay. “Amid tremendous work pressure, it was blissful to get the opportunity to choreograph, dress up and dance with my group members after so long,” said Priya, an IT professional. “Since auditoriums are closed and social gatherings are prohibited, our venture is to rejuvenate people through some cultural programmes that they can watch sitting at home,” said secretary Subas Ray. There is almost no one who doesn’t suffer from some kind of acidity or gastric problem and so this awareness camp has been organised with them in mind,” said Asim Kumar Sikdar, convenor of BJ Block’s health committee at their programme on dyspepsia. Before the pandemic, BJ Block Residents Forum had held a talk on dyspepsia, in collaboration with AMRI Hospitals. Associate consultant, gastroenterology, Chayan Kumar Roy, conducted a discussion. “Symptoms of dispepsia are a vague sensation of fullness after eating very little, belching, heartburn… any problem of indigestion, hyperacidity or epigastric pain is termed as dyspepsia,” explained Roy. Those like Tapas Kumar Karmakar of BJ Block had come armed with their file of gastric problems. The doctor heard the patients out and suggested a healthy lifestyle and weight control as preventive measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Rs 10 cr granted for road repair||Urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim inaugurated the purified drinking water project at Tank 5 near Baisakhi on Saturday. He announced the sanction of Rs 10 crore for road repairs before Puja. “Sujit (Bose, the local MLA) had asked me for Rs 4 crore but on studying the plans sent by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, I realised more money would be needed. So I have sanctioned Rs 10 crore,” he said. He also urged the corporation to take the online route for application of trade licences. “It is a certificate of enlistment. So why not make it online? We have already carried out these reforms in Calcutta,” he said. In his address, what came out repeatedly was anguish at the lack of support for Trinamul Congress from Salt Lake residents in the ballot box. “Why are people not blessing us during elections? Had there been no development, I would not have said this. But so much work is being done, yet people are voting elsewhere — keu Ram-er namey, keu Bam-er namey (some in the name of Ram, some in the name of the Left),” he said. The Bidhannagar Assembly segment had given a lead to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Bigger buffet spread for less||Putting behind a brief innings as a Covid-19 safehouse, The Sonnet returned to normalcy with resumption of a buffet spread at its all-day dining restaurant Aura. And the good news is the spread is more elaborate than pre-Covid times while the price has come down. “Last year, we were charging Rs 946 per head. Now it is Rs 746. We are calling it Weekend Family Funday. The spread will be laid out for Saturday dinner and Sunday lunch. This is a confidence-building gesture on our behalf as we recognise people have taken a financial hit in this pandemic,” said Avishek Dutta, food and beverage manager. Precautions too have been taken. The 94-cover restaurant now sits 60. “The gaps between tables have been increased. The plates and cutlery on the tables too stay wrapped.” The buffet starts with a live counter. If it serves piping hot momo on one day, the next day there could be pasta or Mongolian starters or sushi. A salad counter with over half a dozen varieties will cater to the health conscious. A laksa counter allows one to add ingredients of choice to the spicy noodle soup popular in maritime southeast Asian nations. Then there are Continental, Chinese and Indian main course dishes followed by the dessert spread. In the first weekend, response was robust. “People are wanting to come out after being locked down for so long,” said executive chef Vikram Jaiswal. The chef joined the hotel in February. “We had just revamped the buffet for Valentine’s Day but soon had to close down. It is now that we are being able to serve it,” he said. Through the week, the buffet will be served at the table at the same price. But on weekends, when the Family Funday offer is not on, i,e. Saturday lunch and Sunday dinner, it will cost Rs 846 per person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||When a cotton sari matters more than the costliest silk||When Sudarshan Barui, 23, received his first salary in September, he bought four new saris. One of them was for his mother and another for his grandmother. The remaining two were for women he had never met, women who could not afford new clothes in the festive season. The Dum Dum resident has donated the two saris to a campaign called “One New Cotton Saree” that aims to provide new saris to women from the families of unorganised workers in and around Patuli before the Pujas. Many of these women are from the slums. Many of them used to be domestic workers but have lost their jobs to the pandemic. Their male family members are mostly out-of-work day labourers, rickshaw-pullers and masons, all victims of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. With economic activity gradually resuming in the city and the rest of the country, many of them are going back to work. But many are still unemployed, staring at an uncertain future. The campaign was launched early last month by Humans of Patuli, an organisation that works for communal harmony and had campaigned extensively against the new citizenship matrix. The response to its sari initiative has been more than encouraging, the organisers said. “We have already collected close to 400 saris. We have two conditions — the sari has to be new and made of cotton,” said Syed Md Sabbir, a Humans of Patuli member and coordinator of the campaign. “We wanted a single kind of fabric. Otherwise, it would have been difficult to sort and distribute the saris.” The last date for contributions is October 11, by when Sabbir expects the number to cross 500. When the pandemic broke out and the lockdown was enforced, Humans of Patuli had supported these poor families with dry groceries and medicines. In the run-up to the Pujas, its members had decided to buy new clothes for the children. While discussing the matter, some of them suggested getting new clothes for the mothers as well. “It’s the women in the family who sacrifice the most during tough times,” said Sabyasachi Mukherjee, group member and a designated volunteer for the campaign. “We decided to give new clothes to these women alongside the children. But we did not have enough money. So we decided to launch this campaign.” The campaign’s posters were first shared on social media in the second week of September, with the contact details of the four volunteers. “Working-class neighbourhoods have been the worst hit during this period because of the vulnerability posed by the lack of savings or negligible savings on one hand and the lack of employment opportunities on the other,” the poster said. “We intend to carry on with our work and ensure that our neighbours have the right to the same kind of dignity and opportunities of survival as the rest of us.” Even people from outside the city — from Bandel, Burdwan and Siliguri — have contributed. If the donor is from Calcutta, the group members themselves pick up the gift. If the donor is from the city’s fringes — such as Sodepur or Barrackpore — any friends that the members may have in that neighbourhood have been pitching in. Donors farther away are sending the saris by courier. Damayanti Lahiri, administrator of the Modern Academy of Continuing Education in Ballygunge, has collected around a dozen saris — from friends and colleagues — that have been donated to the campaign. She had come to know about the initiative from a WhatsApp forward. “If we have not understood the meaning of privilege even after watching the pictures of the migrant labourers walking across the country, we should be ashamed,” Lahiri said. To drop off a sari, calls can be made to 9051118426 (Sabbir), 9163736863 (Kasturi), 8910832639 (Sabyasachi)  and 7980949052 (Sudeshna).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||‘System update’ stalls relief||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation on October 1 rolled out a penalty and interest waiver scheme for property tax defaulters but some people have alleged a CMC office turned them away for want of an updated system. At the Calcutta Municipal Corporation office in Jadavpur’s Santoshpur, a group of people from Kasba were asked to visit later because of the pending system update. The Santoshpur office serves residents of boroughs XI and XII, which covers places like Kasba, Jadavpur, Garia, Bansdroni, Regent Park, and Patuli. The civic employees, though, did not specify when the system would be updated. Santanu Das, a government employee and a Kasba resident, has taxes of four quarters pending. Three are from 2017 and one from 2004. “There was a long queue of people. It took me over an hour to reach the counter,” Das said. “The person at the counter asked me to come back later as the system had not been updated. But he did not mention any date when I should return. If I visit the office again and I am told the same thing, what do I do? The scheme is supposed to have started from October 1.” There were others like him who had to go back, he said. “I have to now wait for some other day when I can take an off from my daily work and visit the office to clear the bills,” another Kasba resident said. A CMC official said there were network issues at the Santoshpur office and that it had been fixed. “These people may have been turned away because there was a network issue. We have fixed it and all our offices are now ready to issue fresh bills and accept payments.” Another official said the system had been updated and there was no reason why people would not get fresh bills. The scheme can be availed by anyone with pending property tax against bills presented till March 31, 2020. Only the principal amount of the pending tax has to be paid if the dues are cleared within the first five months from the scheme’s launch. If the dues are cleared in the next three months, 60 per cent interest and 99 per cent penalty will be waived. The scheme will be on offer for eight months from October 1. People were able to pay online through the CMC’s website from Thursday, an official said. “There is a dedicated menu for the waiver scheme.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Cheat cuffs on two call centre directors||Two directors of a call centre in Salt Lake were arrested on Thursday on charges of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy among others. They ran the call centre from a house in the BJ Block in Sector II. Employees used to call up people and promise them high returns for reactivating lapsed insurance policies against payment and for renting out their rooftops or plots to install mobile phone towers, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. People in towns and villages in Bengal as well as in the Northeastern states of Mizoram and Meghalaya had been targeted, the officer said. The two used to call people to enquire if they had vacant plots or rooftops that they would give on rent to install mobile phone towers of various service providers, another officer said. “They would persuade people to pay a ‘registration fee’ and a ‘no-objection fee’ in the name of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India,” the officer said. The police had specific information about the call centre in BJ Block involved in cheating people. It had been set up at least six months ago, the officer said. The house which the call centre had been using is listed as a residential property in the urban development department records, a civic official said. A search is on for others involved in the racket, an officer said. The charges against the two carry a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. Last week, the police had arrested four men in connection with a fake call centre in Bangur Avenue’s D Block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||JEE Main counselling dates||The Bengal joint entrance examination board will hold online counselling for admission to BTech courses from October 14 for those who have cracked the JEE-Main exams, which were deferred because of the Covid pandemic and were held in September. Online counselling for admission to 141 seats in architecture in the engineering colleges will also start on October 14, said an official of the JEE board. The counselling for students selected through JEE-Main will be separate from the counselling being held for candidates who have cracked the exams conducted by the Bengal JEE board. The NITs and IIEST, Shibpur, are among the institutes that admit students entirely through JEE-Main. Ten per cent of the seats in Bengal’s private engineering colleges are set aside for those whose names figure on the JEE-Main merit list. The JEE board will hold counselling for those seats in private colleges. A notice issued by the JEE board says that the first round of registration and uploading of documents for the counselling will continue from October 14 to 19. The candidates can upload corrected documents from October 14 to 20 and the documents will be verified at virtual reporting centres from October 14 to 21. “Choice filling” and “locking” by candidates will take place from October 14 to 21. The first round of seat allotment results will be announced on October 23 and this will be followed by “seat acceptance” and payment of provisional admission fees by the candidates from October 23 to October 27 (6pm). The second and final round of seat allotment results will be announced on October 29. The three-round online counselling for admission to the BTech programme for those who had cracked the Bengal joint entrance examinations, which were held in February, started on August 12 and will continue till October 28. The decision to postpone the JEE-Main exams, usually held in April, because of the Covid-19 pandemic prompted the state board to stagger the counselling, JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Deshapriya Park scales down festivities||The puja at Deshapriya Park will be a muted affair this year amid the Covid pandemic, a far cry from its dazzling past. The organisers will build a small pandal around a concrete stage at the far end of the park, instead of an oversized structure that it used to erect before. The budget this year — Rs 10 lakh — is around one-eighth of that of last year. Five years back, when the puja had to be shut down following a mad rush to catch a glimpse of what was touted as the “world’s tallest idol”, the budget was over Rs 1 crore. The organisers of the Deshapriya Park puja, which is stepping into its 83rd year this year, failed to recall the last time the festivity was held in such a lacklustre way. “There is a funds crunch. We have some 200 members, who will pitch in with contributions. Apart from that we won’t be able to raise anything this year,” said Sudipta Kumar, the secretary of the puja. “No stall owners have approached us and the puja is just a fortnight away.” Over the past few years, Deshapriya Park was a must-go destination for pandal-hoppers and Lalbazar would have to draw up elaborate arrangements to channel the flow of visitors. View-cutters would have to be set up along the park compound on Rashbehari Avenue so vehicles did not slow down — and create snarls on the busy thoroughfare — to let passengers have a glimpse of the pandal and the idols. “We have decided that the idol would be a bit taller, maybe around 12 foot. There will be no elaborate arrangements for lighting,” said a member of the puja committee. “We will probably just illuminate the pathway from the park to the pandal.” Till last year, the organisers would spend around Rs 7 lakhs on lights. This year it would be just about a lakh. Almost all pujas, including the ones that would draw large crowds, are battling a funds crunch amid the pandemic. Puja committees have cut down the size of their idols and many have settled for a basic pandal. “We are planning to save some amount from our puja budget and donate it to those who have been working with us for years, including labourers and electricians,” Kumar said. The police have had a few rounds of talks with the organisers. “If the puja is organised on a smaller scale, it would be easier for us to control the crowd,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||ICSE YouTube sessions for Class X, XII students||The ICSE council will conduct virtual classes on YouTube in October for students of Class X and XII. The specialised classes by subject teachers will be distinct from the online classes being conducted by schools for their students. These classes will be for council students across the country. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has said that live lessons will be made available on the council’s website for viewing later. The council started live-streaming lessons in September on the council’s YouTube channel and decided to continue it in October. School heads have been asked to inform students and teachers. “In view of the positive response received from students, parents, and teachers, the council has decided to continue with these Live Lessons in the month of October,” Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the council, said in a circular to the heads of all council schools. “The links for the respective ICSE and ISC sessions have been provided in the schedule. You are requested to share these links with your students and teachers.” The first class started on Thursday and will continue till October 20. The council has said the timing for ICSE and ISC sessions in October will be 11am to noon. “During live sessions, students can put up questions for subject teachers. These questions will be addressed immediately after the session is over, in a time slot allotted for the interactive question-answer session,” Arathoon said in the circular. “Answers to questions not addressed during the live session will be made available on the notice board of the council’s website.” The schedule contains subjects such as biology, mathematics, and English literature for ISC and English literature and mathematics for ICSE students. The council has said each live session at the ICSE and ISC levels includes assignments given at the session’s end. “If students upload the assignments, schoolteachers can grade them. We had received positive feedback from students regarding the initiative,” Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School, said. “In fact, the live sessions are made available for viewing later for the benefit of students who could not attend the session because of power cuts or Net connectivity problems,” Biswas said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake’s bumpy ride to Puja||Durga Puja is less than two weeks away and the roads of Salt Lake are riddled with potholes. Pandal-hoppers may have to brave cratered roads as the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is still to start repairs. Multiple stretches of arterial roads that lead to crowd-puller pujas, including the AJ Block and FJ Block Durga Puja, are in “terrible shape”, according to residents. Two stretches of Broadway that connects Salt Lake to the Bypass have craters that look like sinkholes. A couple of water supply main pipelines underneath the road near the Amul roundabout on Broadway and at the FE roundabout that leads to FD park have cracked because of which the asphalt top has been eroding gradually. A traffic policeman posted near the Amul roundabout said several two-wheeler riders had skidded while trying to negotiate the stretch. A section of Second Avenue near the Administrative Building of Salt Lake in DJ Block that leads to the AJ Block puja pandal is filled with potholes. More than 10 craters appear after a relatively smooth stretch of the road taking motorists and two-wheeler riders by surprise. Parts of Second Avenue near Tank No. 9 need urgent repairs as the asphalt top has gone, leaving behind huge craters. “I have had a dozen punctures in the past week. There is no way one can drive on this road without damaging the vehicle’s undercarriage… and damage to tyres is given,” Biswanath Sarkar who drives a Toyota Corolla said. In AG Block, the road along the canal — from the AL Block till the Baisakhi overbridge — that had been dug up to lay a new water pipeline at least a year ago is still to be repaired. The surface is uneven on either side and the asphalt top is not wide enough even for two-wheelers. Tapas Chatterjee, the mayoral council member in charge of roads, promised patchwork repairs before Durga Puja. “Work had stalled because of manpower shortage…. during the pandemic. We will carry out patchwork repairs soon.” A civic engineer said the urban development department had promised to release Rs 4 crore for road repairs in Salt Lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Harder to stop child marriages||The prevention of child marriages has taken a hit during the pandemic. Teachers in the districts now don’t get to know if a girl has been married off as schools are closed. Earlier, they used to alert the authorities in case a girl stopped attending school, those working with children in the districts said. Whenever someone drops out, teachers check on the family to find out why the girl has stopped attending school, Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said. “Now, at times they are unable to know... it is a challenge. But despite such challenges, we have been able to stop child marriages in 90 per cent of the cases reported to us.” Also, the absence of school has resulted in a decrease in peer-group interaction that used to help track child marriages and elopements. During interaction with one another, students used to talk of their problems, those working with children said. “The family might have one phone and the girl might have to wait to use it to call her friend,” a member of an NGO working with children said. Also, when a marriage has been fixed, parents will want to snap all access to communication, the member said. And because of the digital divide there is hardly any online class and this has led to a communication gap with teachers. “The information flow has been hampered in the absence of schools,” Sisir Thanikal, the community engagement head of an NGO, International Justice Mission, Calcutta, said. Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre (KMWSC), a wing of the Loreto Congregation in South Asia, which works in North and South 24-Parganas and Nadia, have formed adolescent groups to track the movement of girls. “The girls call up their peers every day to keep track. But the same phone that is used to track them can be used by others to trap them,” Nabanita Shome, the programme manager for anti-human trafficking at KMWSC, said. Director Sister Monica Suchiang said the pandemic had increased the challenges. “Underage marriages are being held because of the economic condition of families and parents are concerned about the safety of their daughters. Challenges are much more now… but that cannot be an excuse for us to sit back.” The state commission for protection of child rights conducted a webinar recently with district social welfare officials on steps to prevent child marriages. Sudeshna Roy of the commission had moderated the session. “We have been worried about girls being at home ever since the lockdown started. We decided to take some steps… we started a help desk to receive calls on child marriages... an awareness campaign has helped in reporting such cases,” Roy said. Such marriages have been reported from West and East Midnapore, East Burdwan, Murshidabad, South 24-Parganas, and Jalpaiguri, she said. At the webinar, the district social welfare official of South 24-Parganas had raised the matter of communication challenges as officials have to cross rivers in some places “There are riverine blocks and communication is a challenge. In some places like Sagar, Basanti, and Gosaba we have to cross rivers to reach some homes… intervention has been a problem during the pandemic,” the district social welfare official had said. If communication gets delayed, intervention takes a hit. By the time, information arrives and arrangements are made to reach the home, the marriage has been solemnised. Another problem is the “restoration” of a girl back in the family because parents are often unwilling to take them back. “They will have one mouth less to feed during such trying times,” Chatterjee Chakraborti said. Parents have to be counselled to take back their daughters. “Visiting homes and counselling parents have been a challenge during the pandemic and also to keep girls at homes after they have been brought back,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-277
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Emeritus professor at JU passes away ||Ananda Deb Mukhopadhyay, an emeritus professor at Jadavpur University and former vice-chancellor of Vidyasagar University who was hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19, died on Thursday morning. He was 82. Teachers at JU said he was put on ventilation early this week. Mukhopadhyay did his MSc in geology from JU in 1961 and later did his PhD at the university. He taught at JU from 1966 to 1998 and served as VC of Vidyasagar University from 1999 to 2003. He was later appointed Emeritus Professor at JU. Mukhopadhyay also served as chairperson of Digha Development Authority. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said in a condolence message: “Ananda Deb Mukhopadhyay performed his duty as the vice-chancellor of Vidyasagar University with extreme proficiency. He was actively associated with the National Council of Education till his last breath. His death has created a void in the academic sphere of Bengal.” Parthapratim Roy, the general secretary of the JU Teachers’ Association, said Mukhopadhyay had established the School of Oceanographic Studies, one of the first interdisciplinary schools at the university. Mukhopadhyay is survived by a son and a daughter. His wife died a few years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
09-10-2020||Calcutta||UBI sounds like begging: Laureate||Universal basic income is not a charity but a legitimate demand to put money in the hands of people who don’t have it and spur demand, instrumental in reviving the economy from the Covid-induced slump, a veteran economist said on Thursday. “Human beings deserve to live. If the right to life is fundamental, whatever is required to sustain human lives should be constitutionally provided by the State,” said Raghabendra Chattopadhyay, who has taught at IIM Calcutta for three decades and is a visiting faculty at IIM Bodhgaya. He was speaking at a webinar on “The COVID 19 Pandemic — Lives, Livelihood and Challenges”, organised by the postgraduate department of economics at St Xavier’s College (Autonomous), Calcutta, in collaboration with Yunus Centre Bangladesh. Muhammad Yunus, Bangladeshi social entrepreneur who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006 along with Grameen Bank, addressed the webinar before Chattopadhyay. Yunus had a different take on universal basic income (UBI). When a student asked him “if the pandemic had spurred the requirement for UBI”, he said: “UBI, to me, sounds like begging. For survival, you don’t want … to depend on charity. It is a weakness of the system that people have to live on donations and alms.” Chattopadhyay, whose areas of interest include empowerment of women, public policy and management, development and the State’s role in social sectors, contradicted the Nobel laureate. “The UBI can help in creating demand. You give money to the poor; they will use it to buy consumables. If people don’t have money, supply is like creating inventory. There is no supply solution to a big economic crisis. Take any in the past 100 years; you cannot have a solution without demand creation,” said Chattopadhyay, also associated with the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab — co-founded by economists Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee and Esther Duflo. The webinar dealt with the impact of Covid-19 on livelihood. In his keynote address, Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, said the pandemic’s impact on Indian economy had been aggravated by the “wide inequality, huge informal labour market and lack of policy and information”. In India, as many as 41 lakh youths lost their jobs because of the pandemic, the majority of them in the construction and farm sectors, according to a report by the International Labour Organisation and the Asian Development Bank. Among the haunting images of the lockdown are those of hundreds of thousands of out-of-work migrant workers walking back home. The Prime Minister’s “Rs 20 lakh crore” stimulus has so far proved inadequate in facilitating recovery of an economy pummelled by the pandemic. Giving cash handouts directly to citizens to address the economic pain is being advocated by many economists and public policy experts, including former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan. Yunus compared the global economic order as an engine that was “headed for death”, thanks to rising global warming, inequitable distribution of wealth and Artificial Intelligence. “The Covid-19 pandemic has stopped the train which people were riding. It has also offered us a chance to think…. There is a rush to get back to the pre-Covid world. But is it worth going back to?” Calling Yunus “a great thinker and a great dreamer”, Chattopadhyay described himself as “minnows who have to look into the immediate future”. “We have to discuss economics as given… where one per cent population controls almost 50 per cent of the country’s wealth,” he said. Revival of the MSME and the “so-called unorganised” sector, must for any economic revival, would require increasing demand generation, he added. That is where UBI can be instrumental because it will make people “ready users for products from the unorganised sector”, said Chattopadhyay. “It is not giving alms to a beggar. It is an acknowledgement of the State’s responsibility towards citizens.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
09-10-2020||Calcutta||Keep satellite units open: Govt||The state government has requested private hospitals not to shut their satellite facilities for Covid patients ahead of the festive season, which many fear may see a spike in positive cases, even if the units have only a few patients now. Several private hospitals had tied up with hotels to set up satellite units for Covid patients who are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. But most have only a few takers. Some hospitals have already closed their units on grounds of non-viability and a few others could follow suit. “The vacancies in the hospitals’ SHF (satellite health facilities) are declining since last week. Some hospitals are thinking of closing down SHF. Don’t do this without increasing the number of beds for Covid in main hospitals,” a senior health department official posted a few days ago in a closed WhatsApp group, which includes representatives of many private hospitals. An official of the state health department said it was not the right time to reduce infrastructure for Covid-19 treatment. Many homes may face a problem keeping a Covid patient isolated if relatives visit them during or immediately after Puja, he said. Besides, a number of public health specialists have warned that crowding during Puja might lead to a spurt in Covid cases. The state government had on June 15 said private hospitals could set up the satellite facilities for Covid-19 patients with no or mild symptoms, to free up beds reserved at the hospitals. “We had taken two floors of a four-star hotel in Salt Lake with 24 rooms. There were nurses deployed and doctors would visit the patients twice a day. The occupancy had started falling from August and so we had to close down the satellite facility,” said Debasish Dhar, group vice-president, ILS Hospitals. Other hospitals, too, said patient occupancies were going down at satellite units. Initially, private hospitals were flooded with asymp-tomatic Covid patients or ones with mild symptoms. There was fear among people, which often led to neighbours putting pressure on Covid patients to get admitted to hospital or shift to a satellite facility. Also, many people opted for satellite facilities after insurance companies started reimbursing the cost incurred for staying there. The rate for one day’s stay at a satellite facility varied between Rs 3,000 and Rs 9,000, and that included doctor’s consultation fee and the cost of food and medicines. But for the last couple of months, patients with mild symptoms or without any symptoms are staying at home and consulting doctors over phone or video calls. A private hospital off EM Bypass runs a satellite facility with 52 beds at a hotel nearby. On Thursday, there were only 13 patients at the unit, an official at the hospital said. Some of the hotels are reluctant to continue with the tie-ups with the hospitals because they are expecting guests during the Puja. “The hotel where we have a satellite unit has told us they want to discontinue the arrangement because they want to resume normal operations. A satellite facility on the premises might affect their business,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. He said there were talks with a few other hotels to set up the facility. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has a 52-bed satellite unit at a hotel but most of the rooms are vacant. “We are running it at a loss but we are going to continue with it,” said Alok Roy, chairman, the Medica Superspecialty group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
09-10-2020||Calcutta||New Town plant starts supply in Salt Lake ||After a long wait, Salt Lake started getting its share of filtered water from the New Town water treatment plant from Monday. This additional water is supplementing the seven million gallons drawn daily from the Tallah water treatment plant all these years. Civic officials say there will be no need to draw underground water henceforth to offset the dearth in supply of treated water. “The problem of high iron content in Salt Lake’s water supply should be a thing of the past henceforth,” a civic official said. The corporation is currently getting four million gallons per day (MGD) from New Town, of which 3MGD is being distributed across Salt Lake. The remaining 1 MGD is being distributed in Wards 22, 25 and 26 in Baguiati and Kestopur. An interconnection will be made from the two overhead reservoirs in Ward 26 of Kestopur so that Ward 23 and 24 can also benefit from the new supply. Eventually they will get supply directly from the reservoir currently under construction behind Tank 5 in Baisakhi, for which pipelines have been laid under the Kestopur Canal. As mentioned in a cover story in The Telegraph Salt Lake titled ‘Where our extra water will be stored’ on March 15, 2019, encroachment at the Tank 5 reservoir in AF Block had held up this project. Work on the reservoir could only be started three months ago after the encroachers were shifted at the intervention of local MLA Sujit Bose and some trees were cleared by the forest department. Construction is still under way. The encroachers have been shifted to an adjoining site, where a water tap has been promised to them. Salt Lake’s requirement peaks in summer when 11 MGD water is needed. The current requirement of 9MGD is already being met with the new supply supplementing the water from Tallah. When the second phase of work at the New Town plant gets over by this winter, another 4 MGD has been promised to the corporation. “Now they are producing 20MGD. In the second phase, production will rise by another 20MGD. Once their fifth and final phase of work gets completed, they will reach their capacity of 100 MGD. We will get a total of 20MGD water from them at that point,” said Swapan Maitra, executive engineer, PWD and PHE, of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. Though 4MGD is available, in the first week, the corporation is drawing 2MGD from New Town. “We are making sure there is no overflow at the tanks, leading to wastage. Gradually more water will be drawn,” Maitra added. A test done on the current supply has shown satisfying results. “There is no iron, no arsenic and little turbidity. If the water pipelines are clean, it is as good as potable water,” he said. The Corporation was drawing 2 to 2.5MGD from the underground water table through 30 submersible pumps at its 15 water tanks. “We will stop using them,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
09-10-2020||Calcutta||British Council inks deal with library||With a month left for the completion of its first anniversary, New Town Library at Nazrul Tirtha is giving another reason for local residents to sign up. The library, founded on November 12 last year, has entered a partnership with the British Council to launch a resource centre which will give its members access to several facilities from the United Kingdom’s international cultural and educational services wing. A memorandum of alliance was signed to formalise the arrangement on October 1. Said Debashis Sen, chairman of Hidco, the administrative body in charge of New Town: “We have built this as a smart library with RFID tags. We want this to be a space not just for storage of books, but a community space where people can connect with each other. That is why we have built a seminar room cum audio-visual screening space where language classes are held. We have digital resources to browse e-books. But not everything can be achieved on one’s own. That is why we have tied up with the British Council library.” Added British Council director, east and northeast, Debanjan Chakrabarti: “Libraries are no longer silent spaces. They are safe spaces to have open discussions. What we offer most importantly is access to our digital library collection. There are over 1.3 lakh books, journals, magazines and newspapers in our online catalogue which would open a whole new window to a world of knowledge. One can access music and movies as well. There is also a separate database for children.” The New Town Library has taken 10 institutional memberships which can be used by members to log in to the British Council digital library, using the 10 desktop computers housed in the library, including two in the children’s section. A discount in membership fee is also being offered to New Town Library members who might want to become individual members and access the digital resources of British Council from home. Instead of Rs 1,800, they pay Rs 1,400 a year. The British Council also promises to bring its range of services to New Town. “We hold Study in UK counselling sessions from time to time which we plan to hold here as well. We also organise workshops and lectures with thought leaders. During literature festivals, the authors who visit us in future would be able to come and interact with members here,” Chakrabarti said. New Town Library members would also be invited to film screenings and workshops at the Council’s Camac Street address from time to time. In a post-Covid world, Chakrabarti pointed out, people would be less interested in commuting long distances. “Libraries would need to become a lot more accessible.” A corner has been set up in the library, named after the British Council, where books on loan from the British Council library are being displayed. The first lot of 430 books has arrived and is a mix of fiction and non-fiction, including several for children. New Town Library houses about 11,000 books with around 300 members on its rolls. Sen informed that talks were on with consultants to start career development courses. “We have held French and German language classes here. A Spanish course will also be offered soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-278
