10-10-2020||Calcutta||Crocodile swims into village pond in Sunderbans||A 10ft-long crocodile strayed into a pond in a Sunderbans village prompting villagers to take photographs of the reptile. Officials from the South 24-Parganas forest range office and trained personnel from the Bhagabatpur crocodile sanctuary in Patharpratima mounted a rescue operation along the muddy banks of the pond. Crocodiles swimming into ponds are uncommon after nylon fencing had been done around villages. On Thursday hundreds of people had gathered around the pond in the Patharpratima Block of South 24-Parganas to catch a glimpse of the reptile. Milan Kanti Mandal, the divisional forest officer (DFO), of South 24-Parganas, said the crocodile was a male. “The team could spot it only when its nostrils surfaced to breathe … it was constantly swimming around the pond… it was a challenge to locate and catch it.” Forest officials lowered a nylon net at one end of the pond and started pulling it towards the bank. The crocodile managed to give the team the slip several times before it was netted. “Crocodiles are incredibly powerful… we needed several men to pull the net in as it was trying its best not to get caught,” Mandal said. Once near the bank the team used bamboo poles to “steer” the reptile head towards them. One of the team members, an experienced crocodile handler at the Bhagabatpur crocodile sanctuary, threw a gunny bag connected with a rope over its head and caught hold of its snout. Crocodiles cannot open their jaws once pressure is applied from above and he held on to the upper jaw while another person got on top of its back to restrict its movement. “Once the crocodile could not see anything it made things easier for us and we managed to tie it down with ropes,” Mandal said. “The pond is connected to one of the creeks nearby through a narrow channel. It is likely that the crocodile made its way into the pond through the channel,” a forest official who was part of the rescue team said. The reptile was later released into a creek near the Kalash forest. “Our men acted swiftly and rescued it before it could harm anyone or be harmed by villagers,” forest minister Rajib Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
10-10-2020||Calcutta||Quest to build a ‘beautiful society’||A girl in her early 20s seated on a wheelchair came to Nehru Children’s Museum in 1992 because she wanted to learn how to operate computers. She could not speak but had a compass fitted to her head and a book of letters on her lap, which she made use of to point out and express herself. The person at the museum who was approached did not want to refuse her but was unsure whether they would be able to accommodate her. So she approached the director. Founder Jugal Srimal took the girl to the class she wanted to go to and told the students that the “main objective” of Nehru Children’s Museum was “to build a beautiful society’, not to train them in operating a computer. Members and staff of the museum paid tributes to Jugal Srimal, the founder-director of Nehru Children’s Museum, on Thursday on the occasion of his birth centenary. “That society will be built by all of you. No matter whatever the challenges are for a beautiful society, each one of you has to hold hands...,” Sikha Mukherjee, the administrative secretary of the museum quoted Srimal as telling the class, back in 1992.  Memories and anecdotes were shared about Srimal, who was also the founder trustee of Tagore Foundation, a trust formed to promote Bengali culture. Srimal got the land on Chowringhee Road, on which the museum stands, from the Bengal government in 1969. The museum was inaugurated on November 14, 1972. The museum has clay models that narrate the stories of Ramayana and Mahabharata and costume dolls from over 96 countries, some of which were collected by Srimal. Various embassies have also presented dolls to Nehru Children’s Museum. “There are over 1,000 dolls now, about 350 of which were collected during my father’s time,” said Srimal’s son Sudip, who is now director of the museum. Jugal Srimal was born in an “aristocratic and cultured zamindar family” of Azimganj, Murshidabad, on October 8, 1919. “If my father would have been here today he would never have allowed us to celebrate this day. He was always against publicity…. For his centenary, we had planned a five-day programme with 1,200 invitees, but because of Covid-19 we had a small programme remembering him,” said Sudip Srimal. From the oldest employee of the museum Ramendra Das to senior employee Dipti Biswas, each one had a story to share. Jugal Srimal’s work was not restricted to the museum but went much beyond that, said Prabal Dutta, joint director of the museum. Dutta spoke about the founder-director’s reading habits. “He would not be able to go off to sleep at night without reading but he had noticed that the habit of reading was going away…. He thought that people were not interested in buying books or borrowing it from library, but if the books reached them the interest of reading would sustain. So he formed Tagore Mobile Library,” Dutta recalled. Jugal Srimal gave away his collection to the library. Those who attended the programme said they were missing the children. The institute has 1,400 students learning various activities like song, dance, painting and drama. On Thursday, a portrait of Jugal Srimal made by 20-year-old Sourav Saha, who has been learning painting in the museum since 2015, was unveiled by Rotarian R.K. Bubna. A book titled “Shishuder ja prappo ta jeno tara paye”, written by the founder before in the 1940s, was released on Thursday. Granddaughter Indrani Sengupta, now the secretary of the museum, found it among his manuscripts. “I was young and not ready to take the responsibility but he told me it was not about age but how I handled the responsibility,” said Sengupta. “...Last eight months have been difficult but we have paid our permanent staff and used up our savings to tide over this period. We have appealed to our friends and well-wishers and many have responded,” said Sudip Srimal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
10-10-2020||Calcutta||State's Durga Puja doles challenged in High Court||The state government’s decision to pay Rs 50,000 to every community Durga Puja organiser was challenged in Calcutta High Court on Friday. A division bench, headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee, fixed the matter for final hearing on October 14. An activist associated with the CPM’s labour arm Citu has challenged the legality of the state’s decision. A PIL has been moved before the same division bench, challenging the legality of the state’s decision to pay Rs 1,000 every month to every Hindu priest (purohit) of Bengal. The court has fixed the matter for hearing in mid-November. But the court made it clear that priests who have already received the money from the state will have to return it if the order goes against the government’s decision Last year, the state had paid puja organisers Rs 25,000 and Rs 10,000 the year before. This year, the amount has been raised to Rs 50,000. While making the announcement, the chief minister had said organisers were reeling under a financial crunch. Last year, a similar petition had been filed in the high court but the court had declined to issue a stay after the state’s advocate-general Kishore Datta had said the state paid the donation to campaign for its “Safe Drive Save Life” programme through the committees and that the police department paid the amount. At this, the petitioner had moved the Supreme Court. The apex court, too, had declined to issue a stay but had said that the state police administration would have to take the responsibility of maintaining accounts of the money paid for the purpose. On Friday, when senior counsel Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya moved the petition, Justice Banerjee asked lawyers from both sides to produce last year’s order of the Supreme Court. Since the lawyers did not have a copy of the order, the bench adjourned the hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Calcutta||Presi alumni help for booksellers||The Presidency College alumni, many of who used to frequent the bookstalls dotting the College Street footpaths during their college days, on Friday extended a helping hand to booksellers hit hard by the pandemic. The alumni joined hands to raise money for 300 booksellers who came to the association’s office on the Presidency University campus to collect cheques of Rs 1,300 each. Friday was the first instalment of the help being extended to the booksellers ahead of Durga Puja, Bivas Chaudhury, the alumni association secretary, said. Booksellers may have resumed business but their earnings have been hit hard because buyers are not frequenting the stalls the way they used to earlier, Chaudhury said. “Their captive reader base vanished with the closure of the campuses that line Boipara. We are trying to help them as much as possible.” Some publishing houses have already decided to make books available on digital platforms as people have stopped visiting bookstores to avoid any sort of gathering. The lockdown had already destroyed their lives, Cyclone Amphan in May added to their woes, an alumna said. “The cyclone devastated the bookstall heritage corridor on College Street, stretching around 1.5km around Presidency University. Stalls had been damaged and books were strewn all around on waterlogged streets.” The association has set its sight on helping 500 booksellers. It has decided to raise Rs 24 lakh. “We will keep helping them as and when a decent sum is raised,” Chaudhury said. The association has compiled a list of bookstall owners and got it verified through the councillor and various local bodies. Pratap Das, one of the booksellers who collected the cheque on Friday, said: “It made me feel happy that these former students have not forgotten us. This gesture touched us.” The TTIS School Directory 2020, a book with information on more than 200 schools in the city and on its outskirts, was launched on Friday evening. The 14th edition of the directory was launched by Suborno Bose (centre), chief mentor, IIHM; Joyita Majumdar (right), the principal of Ruby Park Public School; and Jhuma Biswas (left), the principal of St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore, during a show on Friends FM. The title sponsor for TTIS School Directory is IIHM, in association with St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore and Shyamnagar, powered by Ruby Park Public School and admission partner is admissiontree.in. “We are proud to be associated with it because the directory brings to the table a lot of value for parents. The directory and admissiontree are a perfect match for parents,” Bose said. The directory will be available on the stands from Saturday. P||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Calcutta||Harsher section invoked in car case||Police on Friday submitted a chargesheet for the Anandapur incident where a woman was allegedly assaulted and forced out of a Honda City and then another woman who tried to rescue her was hit by the car as it tried to speed away. The accused — Abhishek Pandey — has been charged with attempt to murder, outrage of modesty of a woman, voluntarily causing hurt, rash and negligent driving, causing grievous hurt by doing a rash and negligent act so as to endanger human life or personal safety of others. If convicted, Pandey could be sent to jail for up to 10 years. Earlier, the policehad booked Pandey under IPC section 308 (attempt to culpable homicide not amounting to murder). In the chargesheet, the section has been amended to 307 (attempt to murder). Officers said Section 307 of the IPC was tougher than 308. “Initially, we had thought that the woman who was assaulted and the accused barely knew each other. After assaulting her, the man was in a hurry to escape and accidentally hit Nilanjana Chatterjee (who rushed to the rescue of the other woman) while fleeing,” said an investigator. “But later we learned that the two (the accused and the assaulted woman) knew each other for years and there was no reason for him to drive the car in such a rash manner. So, a harsher section (attempt to murder) has been invoked.” The incident happened close to midnight on September 5 off EM Bypass, in front of Abhudoy housing complex in the Anandapur area. Chatterjee, who was in her car, heard screams of a woman from inside a Honda City. Chatterjee’s husband Deep Satpati had driven their car in a way that it blocked the Honda City’s way before Nilanjana stepped out. The next moment, the other woman was allegedly pushed out and the vehicle sped off, hitting Nilanjana. Chatterjee suffered fractures in her left tibia and fibula and underwent surgery to fix the bones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Calcutta||Tridhara opts for simple pandal minus theme||In its 74th year, Tridhara Sammilani, one of the biggest crowd-pullers in south Calcutta, is dispensing with the services of a theme-maker for its pandal. It will be a simple structure coming up on Manoharpukur Road, a stone’s throw from Deshapriya Park. “The pandal will be less than half our usual size. Unlike other years, I do not want too many visitors this year. It will be impossible to maintain distancing norms otherwise,” Debashis Kumar, the puja’s general secretary said. Kumar is a member of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators. Other factors, too, reinforced the decision to downsize. The theme that was chosen last November for this year’s puja was cancelled, anticipating the pandemic situation. The first bamboo pole at the pandal site was planted on October 3, days after the state government announced the puja directives. “There is hardly time to try anything elaborate,” he said. Well-known theme-maker Gauranga Kuilya, a Tamluk resident, had been in charge of the pandal and the idol for the past eight years. “He brings 100-125 labourers from the districts to work on the pandal. Even if we could find space for them to stay, what would we have done if there was an infection outbreak among them? The local decorator’s men go home at the day’s end; so, there is no overnight gathering,” Kumar said. Economic compulsions, too, played a hand. Budget is down to one-fourth. Not a single advertisement has been finalised yet. “Talks are on but it is unrealistic to expect much,” he said. That has impacted the publicity budget as well. “Around this time in any other year, our banners would be all over the city. This time, we have no plans to put up anything beyond the immediate neighbourhood,” Gargi Mukherjee, the puja’s communications coordinator, said. From 400, the order for banners has come down to 20-25. Kuilya is making only the idol this time. “I have executed mammoth projects for Durga Puja; I will do so again in future. But this year, the general mood is downbeat. Erecting a gigantic pandal amid the pandemic would be like dressing up to see one’s father’s body,” the theme-maker, who has lost close associates to Covid-19, told The Telegraph from Tamluk. Kumar spoke of sagging public morale. “So many people have lost their livelihoods. Durga Puja will happen as a matter of course but the spirit is missing. That’s why we are going with the slogan Ei akale bodhan thak, utsab noy. (Let there be awakening, not celebration),” Kumar said. Tridhara, which is holding its puja magazine release, with artist Shuvaprasanna and author Narayan Debnath, over videoconference on Saturday, does not want even people of the area to crowd during sindur khela or anjali. “Our 65-year-old priest is wary of the possibility,” he said. So, the whole process will be streamed live on the club’s social media sites. “If someone insists on coming to the pandal, he or she will have to watch the proceedings on two giant LED screens that will be put up at the pandal’s entry and exit gates. They will have to bring their own floral offerings and deposit them in containers placed near the screens. We will not let anyone in except the priest’s helpers.” Kumar sounds a word of caution. “The Covid situation will worsen as we get closer to the Pujas, given how people are out shopping. If, as a political leader and civic body administrator, I go all out in organising puja this year I will lose the moral right to dissuade other pujas nearby from taking the extravagant route. For us to have no more than moderate footfall at Tridhara, we need neighbouring pujas to scale down plans, too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Calcutta||Time to cooperate even more with cops||Police commissioner Anuj Sharma asked Puja organisers at a meeting on Friday to ensure that no visitor is allowed inside pandals without a mask and without getting his or her hands disinfected, an organiser who was at the meeting said. The organisers were also asked to enforce social distancing protocol and offer masks to those who don’t have one. The city top cop explained to the organisers that adequate precautionary measures at pandals would help prevent a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases after Puja. He then asked the organisers to ensure that pandals have enough room for air circulation and, if possible, keep the roof open. “We have always received your cooperation. This year is different and we want it even more. I had tested positive for the coronavirus and have recovered. No one should take chances. Please adhere to the guidelines that have been laid down,” an organiser quoted the police commissioner as saying at the meeting, held at Netaji Indoor Stadium. “The police commissioner reminded us in great det-ail about the norms, which the chief minister had told us earlier,” said Saswata Basu of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgostav Committee. At a meeting with puja organisers in September, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had spelt out this year’s festive norms, including how pandals should be built to let air flow through it freely. Public health experts have been stressing the need for ventilation to minimise chances of spread of the coronavirus. Mamata had also urged the organisers to deploy more volunteers to prevent crowding inside pandals. Sharma’s word of caution came around the time when several puja committees have been calculating the amount they would have to spend on sanitisers and dispensers, depending on the likely footfall from Saptami to Navami. “That is no small amount. On an average we would need around 500 litres of sanitisers for the three days,” said Sandipan Banerjee of Behala Notun Dal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Calcutta||More Metro trains from Monday||Metro Railway will increase the number of trains and extend the timings from Monday in response to increasing passenger count. “From October 12, there will be 146 trains daily from Monday to Saturday. The interval between two trains will be around eight minutes in rush hours,” said a Metro official. The carrier now runs 122 trains daily from Monday to Saturday. “The last trains will leave Dum Dum and New Garia at 8.30pm, instead of 8pm,” the official said. The last train will leave Noapara at 8.25pm from Monday. When the services resumed on September 14, the number of daily trains was 110 and Sunday services were suspended. The Sunday train count will also go up to 64, instead of 58, from October 18. The first and last trains will leave the terminal stations at 10.10am and 8.30pm. The Sunday services, which resumed on October 4, see the last train leaving the terminal stations at 7.30pm now. Before the pandemic, the carrier used to run 288 trains every day from Monday to Saturday and carried over 600,000 passengers. For the first few days since the resumption of services, the Metro passenger count hovered around 20,000. One leg of the East-West Metro tunnel between Esplanade and Sealdah was completed by a boring machine on Friday evening. Engineers and workers broke into applause as soon as the machine — Urvi — broke open the diaphragm wall inside the upcoming underground Sealdah station around 4.30pm. Two boring machines had started moving from Esplanade towards Sealdah in early 2019 but work had to be stopped after buildings in Bowbazar subsided when one of the machines hit an aquifer in August 2019. Urvi will now make a U-turn and burrow the other tunnel from the opposite end till Bowbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
