11-10-2020||Calcutta||Music video launched by Bengal child rights body and Unicef||A song that speaks of equal opportunities for girls will be part of the playlist at several Puja pandals in Calcutta. The song is part of a music video that was launched by the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Saturday on the eve of International Day of the Girl Child. This year the theme is: “My voice, our equal future.” The video is a collaboration between the commission and the Unicef. Several Calcutta-based artistes and an actor-activist from Bangladesh have featured in the four-minute video. “Amio egote chai, soman amader adhikar. Chhele ar meyer taphat korona ei gota duniyai (I want to move ahead; we have equal rights. Don’t discriminate between boys and girls in this world),” goes the song. The video shows girls — newborn, toddler, students and teenagers — in various spheres of life. A girl is seen writing alphabets in one frame. In another, a group plays cricket with elan. “Every year, we collaborate with the Unicef to celebrate the International Day of the Girl Child,” Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said. “We do a lot of work on the ground. But this year, the pandemic has stalled much of the work. So, we decided to make a music video with a mass appeal.” The plan was conceived in the end of September and the video was ready in 10 days, she said. The video was shot in the Ram Bagan slum area in north Calcutta. The music video was launched on the commission’s Facebook page on Saturday evening. “It will be shared on social media. It will be aired on TV and radio. We have got in touch with several Puja organisers… they will play this at their pandals,” she said. The video features Iman Chakraborty, Anirban Bhattacharya, Parambrata Chatterjee, Anupam Roy and Rafiath Rashid Mithila, an actor from Bangladesh. Mithila has been working with child rights advocacy in Bangladesh for over a decade now. “The song delivers a message that girls should have voices and choices. Shooting with the children was a humbling experience,” Mithila, the head of early childhood development programme of BRAC in Bangladesh said. Roy, who wrote the song and composed the music, said the “central theme” was “equality of opportunities”. “Our brief was clear. The song had to be simple and catchy, something that would appeal to the masses.” Chatterjee Chakraborti and filmmaker Sudeshna Roy have directed the video. “Educating men is the key to gender equality. We hope this video reaches out to as many people as possible,” Roy, who is part of the commission, said. “The commemoration on October 11 every year reminds us of the importance of calling upon everyone to adopt, practise and promote equal opportunities and rights for girls and boys,” Mohammad Mohiuddin, chief, Unicef office for West Bengal, said. “The music video is an innovative and creative message, which will be disseminated as an appeal and call to all duty-bearers towards this recognition and practice,” Mohiuddin said. The Covid pandemic has posed serious challenges in terms of increasing school dropouts and child marriages. This newspaper has reported how child marriages have been on the rise during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Calcutta||5-year-old wades into New Town pond to get ball, drowns||A five-year-old boy who was chasing a ball fell into a pond next to a playground in Jyoti Nagar, on the outskirts of New Town, and drowned on Saturday, police said. Ayush Mondal was kicking around a small ball a little distance away from other children in the playground near a club called Milan Sangha, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The pond is next to the ground and Ayush’s ball fell into it, he said. The boy went into the pond, which has a sloping bank, to try and grab the ball when he started drowning, another officer said. “The other children were a distance away and nobody saw him walking into the water. He did not know how to swim,” the officer said. Residents and passers-by saw Ayush floating face down in the pond and pulled him out. They alerted his parents and the police. Neighbours and members of the club took him to the sub-divisional hospital in Salt Lake, 6.1km away, where he was declared dead. “The boy had lost consciousness when he was brought in. We could not revive him,” a doctor who examined him said. Ayush was extremely playful and used to be seen in the playground whenever his parents let him out, neighbour Parimal Majhi said. “Like all children his age, he used to love playing outdoors. His family is inconsonable,” said Majhi. The pond where Ayush drowned is around 5ft-deep and like many water bodies that dot the city, it does not have a guard wall or parapet around it. The banks are slippery because of algae and moss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Calcutta||Private hospital meet on surge-readiness||The state’s health regulatory commission has asked private hospitals if they are ready for a surge in critical Covid patients during the festival season. The commission plans to hold a meeting on Monday to discuss the preparedness. The chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday posted a voice message in a closed WhatsApp group of private hospital representatives, in which he says an increase in the number of critical cases is anticipated. “Our festive season is just knocking at the door. We don’t know what is stored for us. We are anticipating an increase in number of critical patients, particularly during the festive days,” retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee said in the message. “Let us sit together and introspect whether we are ready for the situation. Durga Puja, followed by Diwali and Chhath will really be a crucial period that we have to cover. I would earnestly request all of you, particularly hospitals having approximately 200 beds and above, to take responsibility for a meeting.” On Friday, the state’s chief secretary Alapan Bandyopa-dhyay held a meeting with commission chairperson Banerjee and health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam to discuss the preparedness of both government and private hospitals during the Pujas, a government official said. “Along with the private sector, we have asked government hospitals to enhance their services in the festive season. Everyone knows this Puja… it’s a different situation,” the official said. The official later told Metro that 24 CCU beds and 24 HDU beds were made functional at ESI Baltikuri in Howrah. Metro had earlier reported about several private hospitals requesting doctors, nurses, paramedics and other support staff not to take leaves during the festive season as they apprehended a surge in Covid numbers. The same report spoke of hospitals trying to enhance infrastructure. An official of a private hospital said 22 Covid patients with moderate and severe symptoms had been admitted to the hospital on Friday. The hospital has no vacant beds for Covid patients now, the official said. Officials of some private hospitals said it would be difficult for them to increase general beds in their hospitals but they would try to create more critical care beds because the fear is there would be more demand for ICU beds for Covid patients in the festival period. “Now, 75 per cent of our beds in the Covid wards are general beds while 25 per cent are for critical care patients. We can increase the critical care beds to 40 per cent. But, it will be difficult to increase the actual number of beds because for six months we did not have other patients… they have started coming now,” the CEO of a private hospital said. If the meeting is held, hospitals will seek the regulatory commission’s assistance for uninterrupted services, which is essential for Covid treatment, officials of some hospitals said. “The tankers carrying oxygen to refill our oxygen tanks should be allowed to enter the city during the Pujas. Usually these plants are outside the city. In pre-Covid times, we used to fill up our oxygen tanks every four days on average. Now, we have fill up the tanks every alternate days,” Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said. The CEO of another hospital said they would request the commission to ensure ambulance services were smooth. Some would want trucks carrying medicines from other states allowed entry to the city because the demand for particular types of antibiotics and other drugs have increased manyfold, according to officials of a few hospitals. “We are continuously trying to increase the number of beds and other infrastructure to accommodate the maximum number of Covid patients. We will work together with the commission to face any situation during the festive season,” Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, said. Barua is the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. He said AMRI had already requested its doctors and nurses to be on duty on the Puja days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Calcutta||Don Bosco’s co-ed college from 2021||Don Bosco Park Circus will start an undergraduate co-educational college on its campus from 2021. The state higher education department gave its “no objection” to the Don Bosco Educational Society on Saturday to start Don Bosco College, a self-financing undergraduate institution affiliated to Calcutta University to start from this year. But Father Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco Park Circus, said the college would start from next year. “It will be a co-ed college and it is scheduled to start from 2021. The college will start on the same (Park Circus) campus. Apart from offering subjects in science, commerce and arts, the college will run professional courses as well,” he said. Asked why not from this academic session, a school official said the approval came in October; so, the session would start next year. The higher education department has extended the deadline for undergraduate admissions till October 30 for this academic session. “We had submitted the proposal to the department in November last year. Had the no objection arrived in February or in March, we could have started the college from this year,” the official said. The college will offer honours in English, physics, chemistry, mathematics, accounting and finance and bachelor of business administration and computer science. The inspection got delayed because of the pandemic and that is why the NoC could not be issued earlier, a department official said. “Besides, the Don Bosco Educational Society was advised to follow certain norms after the inspection. After the compliance, the NoC was issued,” the official said. “The physical infrastructure maybe ready, but the college requires time to appoint teachers and members of the non-teaching staff. It has to finalise who will head the college,” the department official said. A vice-chancellor said the launch of the college would fulfil the “need for a good undergraduate college”. “Besides, I feel parents won’t send their children to study in colleges outside Bengal because of the pandemic… for them, the launch of a good college in the city will be a boon.” When asked what triggered the move to start a college, Father Bikash Mon-dal said: “Most of our stud-ents look for good colleges… we will cater to this demand. Students of other institutions, too, will benefit. I have to get in touch with Calcutta University for completing the affiliation.” A department official said the department was sure that Don Bosco College would grow as a good college. “The Educational Society runs a self-financing college, Don Bosco College of Arts and Science, in Chennai. They run a college in Siliguri. Then there is Assam Don Bosco University. We are sure this rich experience will come handy as they start the college in Calcutta,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Calcutta||Kashmir pins tourism hope on Bengal||Kashmir is counting on Bengal to revive tourism in the Valley, stalled since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019. A team of officials from the directorate of tourism, Kashmir, was in Calcutta this week to meet tour operators. “As various sectors of the economy are being unlocked for normal activity in Jammu and Kashmir, we are ready to host tourists from all over India. Most of our tourists come from Bengal, Gujarat and Maharashtra,” Ahsanul Haq Chishti, the directorate’s deputy director and part of the team visiting Calcutta, said. “We are in Calcutta to pitch Kashmir once again as the place to be in this winter.” Kashmir has been a popular holiday destination for centuries, thanks to its snow-capped mountains, lush green valleys, lakes and houseboats and hospitable people. The tourism sector has been a significant contributor to Jammu and Kashmir’s economy. But the sector has been hit by a series of events, starting from the abrogation of Article 370 and the subsequent prolonged Internet shutdown. The Covid-19 pandemic has been a near-death blow for tourism. There are around 500 hotels and 800 guest houses in Srinagar, around 900 houseboats and 400 shikaras on the famed Dal Lake, an official of the directorate said. “All of them are facing a livelihood challenge.” “The people of Kashmir are dependent on tourism. They desperately want tourists back again,” another official said. “The Internet curbs have been lifted and there is uniform 2G connectivity in the Valley now.” Apart from the traditional favourite destinations such as Gulmarg and Pahalgam, are a string of new destinations have made to the tourism list. Doodhpatri (valley of milk), a bowl-shaped valley in the Pir Panjal Range of the Himalayas at an altitude of 8,957ft above sea level in Budgam district, is one such new destination. It is an alpine valley covered with snow-clad mountains and tall pine and deodar trees. The only worry — too much snowfall in winter often makes the valley inaccessible. Another underrated destination, officials said, was Yousmarg, a small meadow bordered by the majestic snow-covered Himalayas and green ridges. Tour operators in Bengal are in the know about the easing of Covid restrictions, including the lifting of curbs on entry of people to J&K by road, rail or air, and opening of all tourism destinations, parks, hotels and restaurants. “Kashmir tourism has prepared a calendar of activities for celebrating autumn. A golfing event is slated at Pahalgam. A saffron festival has been planned at Pampore by the end of this month. Events and activities have been slated for winter, especially at Pahalgam and the ski destination of Gulmarg,” a member of the visiting team said. Kashmir has always had a special place in the hearts of tourists from Bengal, according to tour operators in Calcutta. Last year, there were “big bookings” for Kashmir during Durga Puja but the Centre’s decision in August to scrap the special status of J&K made plans go haywire. “But we keep getting queries on Kashmir. If the situation is conducive for travel, there is no other place like Kashmir, more so because foreign travel is not happening,” an operator who met the visiting team said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Calcutta||Women make Bengal government doorstep delivery a hit||A doorstep delivery of essential items for senior citizens during the lockdown has now turned into a full-fledged delivery system for the entire city and parts of Howrah. A state government agency has been promising everything — from locally produced vegetables and select fruits to grocery, fish and meat products — at the doorstep. The West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation has been delivering such items and more to people in Calcutta within hours of them placing orders on WhatsApp or on the department’s website. The corporation is an autonomous organisation under the Panchayat and Rural Development Department. Freshly-cooked meals, too, are available. The entire operation has been outsourced to the women of Self Help Groups in various districts. The corporation, which has been training members of Self Help Groups in agriculture, fishery and animal resource development, used to sell their produce in New Town before the pandemic struck. They sold at fairs and haats (Ahare Bangla and Saras), too. The corporation started doorstep delivery for the elderly once the Centre announced the lockdown. A WhatsApp group was formed. Also, the state government began an exercise to create a database of all senior citizens living on their own in Calcutta, Howrah and Salt Lake. Orders are placed on the WhatsApp group or on the corporation’s website. The corporation started expanding from vegetables, essential items such as pulses, cereals, and oil, and fish and meat to cooked meals, moringa powder, Mecha sandesh (a GI product from Beliatore in Bankura), crabs, Kadaknath chicken and fresh hilsa. Before Durga Puja, the corporation intends to introduce chicken dust, mango flake, and dried fruits. Primarily, Self Help Groups were trained in pisciculture and rearing animal husbandry. “We are into research, output and production,” Soumyajit Das, special secretary, Panchayat and Rural Development, said. Das personally responds to every WhatsApp order. “The initiative here is to empower women, the entire operation is run by women from Self Help Groups handpicked by us.” Piu Bag from Birohi Mahila Samannay Samiti in the Haringhata Block has been supervising girls from her Self Help Group in the supply of vegetables to the corporation this month. “We cultivate bottle gourds, ladies fingers, onions, cauliflowers… we have been supplying to the corporation after the lockdown. We are getting a better price here than elsewhere. My girls are helping out in the corporation canteen, too, and they get a monthly salary,” Bag said. Salekha Khatun from Hariharpara in Murshidabad is part of Nil Akash Mahila Samannay Samiti, which supplies spices and pulses to the corporation. “We have leased out 50 bighas this time in the hope of getting more orders from the corporation.”’ The department is now trying to grow the produce locally and Self Help Groups are being trained in vertical gardening and maintaining bioflock ponds at Mrittika Bhavan, the corporation headquarters. “We have noticed we need to produce locally to maintain quality. So, we are training them to grow here in Calcutta where they are supplying,” Das said. All customers give their feedback on the WhatsApp group and every complaint is attended to. Indranil Hazra from Belgachhia said: “A friend sent me the link to the WhatsApp group and I have been ordering since April. I am very impressed with the professional service as well as the range and quality of products.” His neighbour Subhasree Banerjee, a Corona warrior, along with her husband, too, have benefitted from the service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
