12-10-2020||Calcutta||An argument for open, unbroken space||Santanu Chatterjee is looking a little warily at November. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed the Bengal government’s plea to allow Chhath Puja in Rabindra Sarobar, the Dhakuria lakes. But the government is likely to move the Supreme Court on the matter. In any case, Chatterjee is apprehensive about what will happen on the day of the puja this year. Chhath Puja is being performed in the lake grounds for almost a decade now, causing much pollution in the lake waters, and protests from lake-goers and environmentalists have been able to stop the practice. Last year, thousands of worshippers forced their way through police security to perform the puja at the waterside. “There is nothing to protect the sanctity of the environment,” says Chatterjee, 55, a veteran lake-goer. Recently he has turned activist for the lakes. He looks around as we walk briskly through the grounds. It is about eight in the morning. The lake grounds are now open from 5.30am to 9.30am, due to lockdown. It is as if he is treading on precarious ground. Chatterjee knows the grounds like the back of his hand. He knows how many CCTV cameras are installed on the grounds and where, where dead branches are piled up, where a dead tree trunk needs to be uprooted, where the fish are most visible. Chhath Puja is not the only concern. The grounds still bear signs of devastation from Cyclone Amphan. Some of the other problems are much older. Chatterjee, a Kalighat resident, has been coming to the lakes since childhood. He feels protective about the place, but sometimes is also filled with a sense of futility. However much lake-lovers try to keep the grounds undisturbed, problems encroach. In the shape of unauthorised construction, or intruders, or pollution. More often than not they seem strong enough to displace the rightful claim of the city to the lakes as that rare bit of large, open space in contemporary Calcutta, choking with cars and construction. The lakes, artificially created by the British after acquiring 192 acres of marshy land in the 1920s under a Calcutta Improvement Trust (CIT) project, have been called the lungs of Calcutta.Chatterjee, a graduate from South City College, joined his father’s business of advertisement boards in the mid-Eighties. The boards would be set up on building terraces or streets. But his business began to slow down from the last decade. About four years ago, he shut shop. And turned to a place beloved from childhood, the lakes. “I used to come here with my parents. We would visit the lily pool,” he says. It was an area meant for children. But more than the pool, in which he does not remember the lilies, he talks about the mini zoo there with birds, monkeys and deer that attracted the children. The zoo is gone; the pool looks different. In the winter, the waters would be covered by migratory birds. They have almost disappeared. “And there was the hanging bridge, which still exists. So do the many fish under it. But much of the grounds then were unkempt. There were many more trees, but all parts were not accessible,” Chatterjee said. As he grew up, he got caught up in the life of his Kalighat neighbourhood. When Kalighat park, where he would play football and basketball with his friends, got taken over by the Metro project, he came back to the lakes. And after closing down his advertisement business, Chatterjee, a single man, returned to the lakes with renewed interest. In these decades, the lake grounds had been spruced up; they were much more people-friendly. A lot had been achieved by Sumita Banerjee, “the lady of the lakes”. Among her many achievements was being part of a successful campaign to stall the construction of a ladies hostel on the grounds. Chatterjee is part of National Lake Morning Walkers’ Guild, of which the convenor is environmentalist Soumendra Mohan Ghosh, who has constantly highlighted the importance of cleaning the waters. One persistent problem is the emissions from the swimming and rowing clubs on the northern and southern sides of the lakes. “They are polluting the lake waters,” says Chatterjee. “We have been talking about this for long.” The Chhath Puja will add to the pollution of waters. “And there needs to be constant gardening and beautification. By beautification we mean no construction, but landscaping, and addition of hedges, let’s say, of Kamini trees,” Chatterjee said. “And we must know that fish don’t need to be fed sliced bread. And the trees are getting fewer and fewer in number at the lakes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Students from 4 nations fight it out with wits||Debates over truth, technology and how charity can or cannot alleviate poverty were held over two days at a time the world is grappling with a pandemic. The BP Khaitan Memorial Discourse 2020, an international online debate competition, was organised by The BSS School in collaboration with Calcutta Debating Circle and in association with The Telegraph Young Metro on Friday and Saturday. “We had to connect everyone on a virtual platform within a specific time limit and ensure that we do not lose out participants while they are speaking. Students from four countries and as many as 10 cities living in different time zones participated in an online war of wit... everyone had to be more alert and proactive,” said Sunita Sen, the principal of the school. “Our students and teachers have really learnt to face real-time challenges and if efforts are honest, results will always show.” Twelve schools participated in the prelims on Friday and six of them made it to the final. The topics for the prelims were “Technology has dulled the human mind” and “Charity is wasted as it cannot alleviate poverty”. One of the prelims was moderated by communications coach S.V. Raman and the other prelim and the final by Swati Gautam, trustee, Calcutta Debating Circle. The topic of the final round, held on Sunday, was “Truth is what the masses believe in”. The topics were shared with the students three hours before the debate. “We wanted to choose a topic that was universal in its appeal, relevant and contextual and that made maximum impact in times of fake news. We also wanted to bring our youngsters in touch with what is the ultimate truth,” Gautam, said before starting the finals. “Debating isn’t as much about winning arguments as it is about finding common ground and bringing both sides together. Our founder president, B.P. Khaitan, a well known solicitor, would at times use this principle in his legal practice,” said G.K. Khaitan, trustee and secretary, The BSS School. The participating institutions were Harrow School, UK; Headington School, Oxford; Delhi Public School, RK Puram; Delhi Public School, Sharjah; Gems Modern Academy, UAE; Pathways School, Aravalli; Podar International School, Mumbai; Seth MR Jaipuria Schools, Benaras; Sunbeam School Lahartara, Varanasi; The Assam Valley School, Assam; The Bishop's School, Pune; and The BSS School, Calcutta. The winning team was Bishop's School, Pune. The first and second runners-up were Harrow School, UK and DPS Sharjah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Fever clinics  in Salt Lake||Fever clinics where one can consult a doctor and get medicines for free will be set up in various places of Salt Lake and adjoining areas such as Teghoria, Kaikhali, Baguiati and Rajarhat, said an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. The civic body decided to set up the clinics following a spike in the number of Covid cases in almost all 41 wards, the official said. Some of the areas where the spike in positive cases has been maximum include Duttabad (which borders Salt Lake), Kaikhali, Chinar Park and Teghoria. People running a temperature can walk into a clinic and get examined by a doctor. “If needed, doctors will advise Covid-19 tests and they can head to a testing centre run by us and get tested,” the official said. The civic body is running two testing centres in Salt Lake and Rajarhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||No more JEE board exams now||The state joint entrance examination board will not hold any more tests this year because of the Covid pandemic and has initiated a process to finalise alternative modes of admission, said an official of the board. The board took the decision on October 6 in consultation with the education department. “This year, given the rise in Covid cases, the JEE board will not hold any more tests and alternative modes of admission are being finalised,” said an official of the department. The JEE board, apart from holding the entrance test for engineering courses, conducts exams for admission to evening engineering courses at JU, nursing and other allied courses, and  undergraduate and postgraduate courses at Presidency University. Among these tests, only the JEE for admission to BTech courses could be held this year. The exams were held in February before the pandemic set in. The board was waiting for the situation to improve so that other tests could be held. “But considering the situation, we have decided against holding any further admission test this year,” said a board member. A notice issued by the JEE board on October 8 says JENPAS for admission to BSc (nursing) and eight other health related courses could not be held because of the ongoing “unprecedented pandemic” and the department of health and family welfare has entrusted the board to conduct centralised online counselling based on Plus-II board marks. The board was supposed to hold JEEDEC for admission to five-year evening courses for bachelor’s degree in civil/electrical/mechanical engineering at Jadavpur University. Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, a pro-vice-chancellor of JU, said the university had decided on an alternative mode of selection as the board would not hold the test. “Students who have passed diploma examination in mechanical, electrical and civil engineering will be admitted based on their performance in the last qualifying exams,” Bhattacharya said. The board had earlier scrapped the admission test for undergraduate courses at Presidency. Now, it has scrapped the admission test for postgraduate courses as well. “We will admit students to masters’ programmes based on the marks at the final-year graduating exams,” said a Presidency official. A board official said they would soon issue notifications announcing the alternative mode for admission to the master of computer application (MCA) course, second year (3rd semester) of the four-year undergraduate courses in engineering/technology and the undergraduate course in hotel management and catering technology. Repeated calls to the JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Arm lost in Metro suicide bid||Metro services were disrupted for an hour on Sunday afternoon after a woman jumped in front of a train at Belgachhia station. The 25-year-old survived but her left arm had to be amputated. She was first taken to RG Kar hospital from where she was shifted to a private hospital in Salt Lake. “Her left arm was amputated.... She has a fractured rib and needs multiple surgeries,” said an official of the hospital. The suicide bid happened at 11.20am, said a Metro official. The driver of the New Garia-bound train applied the brakes but the woman still got under the train. Train services from both ends resumed after 12.20pm. The disruption left many passengers stranded. Metro passenger count on Sunday was 19,176.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Group seeks disability survey||A disability rights group has asked the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to create a database of people with disabilities so the authorities would know who would need special care if infected by the coronavirus. The civic body has recently prepared a database of people with comorbidities in an attempt to further fine-tune the government’s Covid response. Covid patients with comorbidities — such as hypertension, diabetes and COPD — are more at risk of developing a critical form of the disease than others. In a letter to Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the CMC, Sruti Disability Rights Centre has suggested that the civic body include a column on people with disabilities in forms being used to collect information about comorbidities. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had said in a publication in March that “those with disability may be impacted more significantly by Covid-19”. When contacted by Metro on Sunday, Hakim said the CMC would implement the proposal during the next phase of the survey. “I am not aware of the letter but this is a good proposal. I am going to adopt it,” he said. Avijit Chowdhury, public health expert and mentor of Covid Care Network, which conducted the comorbidity survey along with the CMC, agreed that “there should be a column to identify people with disabilities in the next phase of the survey”. The rights group said in its letter to Hakim that when people with disabilities were getting infected by the coronavirus, they needed facilities that were different from others. The hospitals were not equipped to deal with these people, they said. Bahni Bhattacharya, a Dum Dum resident whose 24-year-old daughter suffers from autism, felt the lack of facilities for the disabled when she, her husband and her daughter tested positive for Covid-19 in September. After her husband and she were advised hospitalisation, she called the helpline of the state health department. “I requested them to admit us in the same hospital because my daughter would not have been able to manage on her own. The people I spoke over the phone said they were not sure whether such an arrangement could be made in any government hospital. Nor could they tell me whether any hospital had staff trained to deal with people with disabilities,” Bhattacharya said. The family finally got themselves admitted in a private hospital, where they were given beds in the same ward. “The treatment was expensive but I could not have left my daughter in untrained hands,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid data glare on hospitals||The state government is putting on notice private hospitals that have not joined an initiative to enter treatment details of each Covid patient every day in a system so the government could monitor whether the protocol is being followed. The Covid Patient Management System (CPMS) was introduced by the state health department on June 14 to monitor the condition of patients who have tested positive for Covid-19. “The system helps us in real-time monitoring of every patient across the state. Our experts visit critical patients to monitor their treatment. The system played a key role in bringing down the Covid case fatality rate in Bengal from around eight per cent to one per cent,” said a health department official. It also helps the government ascertain whether a patient has been made to undergo unnecessary diagnostic tests or made to stay in intensive care units without a valid reason, officials said. On the day CPMS was introduced, only three government hospitals had uploaded the data. More than 150 hospitals, including a few run by the government, later joined the initiative, officials said. However, data reveals that several private hospitals are not uploading details of their patients. CPMS data available with Metro for a few days in September and October revealed that some hospitals had not uploaded data even once on those days. “Most big private hospitals are uploading data every day but a few are not doing so. We are asking them to upload the relevant data every day,” an official said. There are four categories of hospitals, ranked on the basis of transparency index. The hospitals uploading all data are in the green box, and those are followed by the ones in the blue, yellow and red boxes. “PMS updation percentage is 0 per cent. The hospitals within this category have failed to comply with orders issued vide health and family welfare department’s order,” the note below the daily performance list states about the hospitals in the red category. Among the hospitals that were in the red category over the last few days were Ekbalpur Nursing Home (which data showed was treating 21 Covid patients), Tata Medical Center (four patients) and AMRI Hospitals Mukundapur (78 patients). According to a list prepared by the state health department, these hospitals were in the red category on Saturday, too. “We were uploading all data till recently. But the staff dedicated for the work have left. We’ll resume uploading data soon,” said an official of Ekbalpur Nursing Home. A Tata Medical Center official said they had written to the health department explaining why the data could not be uploaded. “The health department monitoring team had come to our hospital a few days back and were satisfied with our protocol,” he said. An official of the AMRI Hospitals group said their team was updating data in the later part of the day. A health department official said CPMS helped the government track and monitor online every Covid patient in hospital till his or her final outcome. It also aims to reduce mortality rate and improve recovery rate. “If the condition of a critical Covid patient improves and there is no need to keep him or her in the ICU, we ask the hospital to immediately shift the patient to the general ward,” the official said. “We have a dedicated team of five people that upload data of every patient daily. They have to visit every patient, take protections and note down all data and then compile those and update,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “The cut-off time to upload the date is midnight and our five-member team completes uploading all the data late in the night every day,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, eastern region, Narayana Health group of hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Brush with choice, for a day||A 10-year-old girl has seen her father rummage through garbage in dustbins outside a mall on Rashbehari Avenue. On Sunday, the ragpicker’s daughter spent close to 30 minutes at the kidswear section of the mall, from where she got a denim dungaree for herself. Moyna Mandal was part of around 25 children from destitute families who were taken to the mall by volunteers of two NGOs. They bought each of the children a set of clothes in the run-up to the festive season. “I have seen this dress on actors,” a beaming Moyna told The Telegraph. Most of the children who had the day out live on the pavement near the gurdwara on Rashbehari Avenue. Some are from slums around Kalighat. Many of their parents are ragpickers and some beg outside the Kalighat temple. A handful are labourers who have seen their income vanish amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The group reached the Triangular Park mall around 10.30pm in a mini-van and two cars. The volunteers guided the children to the kids’ section on the first floor. Twins Lab and Kush Sardar, 11, were spoilt for choice. Intent on buying similar clothes, they had almost zeroed in on two round-neck T-shirts and two pairs of denims. But a shiny black shirt hanging in a row forced a change in the decision. “Erokom ar akta hobe?” Kush asked a volunteer who in turn sought the help of a store employee. A tense wait of around 10 minutes ended with the staff finding another similar black shirt. The brothers, who study in Class V of a school run by the civic body, lost their father during the lockdown. Their mother works as a domestic help. “The children are used to getting used clothes. New clothes are like a dream for many. We could have given money to their parents to buy clothes but many of them would not, given the circumstances,” said Anish Dasgupta of We — Together We Can Foundation, that organised the trip with another NGO called Nari Sriniketan. The NGOs work with street and slum children in Calcutta. On Saturday, a group of children from north Calcutta were given a set of new clothes. “We wanted the children to come to a mall and buy new clothes and get soaked in the festive atmosphere, even if for one day,” said Sohini Chakraborty, another organiser. The two foundations comprise around 20 members. The projects are till now funded by the members themselves. Shopping done on Sunday, the kids came out of the mall, their faces beaming and the packets held tightly. But there was another round of goodies. After getting into the vehicles, each was given a box from a popular confectionary brand. Not everyone ate on the spot though. “I will take this home and share with my mother,” said Jay Sardar, 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Park order brightens stall hopes for pujas||Puja committees across Calcutta are gearing up to accept proposals for setting up stalls after the civic body decided to keep parks open from Friday, the desperation reflecting an overwhelming urge to find some source of revenue in Covid-hit times. A little more than 250 of the 756 pujas in the city are held in parks that are maintained by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and a majority of them depend heavily on stalls for their income. Amid the Covid pandemic, earnings from advertisements have been reduced to almost nil and sponsors, too, have remained lukewarm to proposals for setting up stalls from most puja committees. A number of puja organisers have seen a glimmer of hope of raising some money in the civic body’s decision to open the parks for pujas. Almost all organisers have decided there will be fewer stalls than previous years but stalls there will be. “We spoke to some stall owners on Saturday and have taken advance from a few. This year, we will possibly have around 20 stalls, half of what we had last year,” said Pabitra Basak, of Kumartuli Park puja committee. “These stalls will fetch us a little over a lakh. That's quite an amount for us in these times.” The organisers of a puja at Tallah Park met stall owners on Sunday to decide on the final rates. “We will reduce the number by a fourth. But some stalls are required. Residents of our locality depend on them on the festive days,” said Joydeep Saha of Belgachia Sadharan Durgostav. Between Saptami and Navami, stalls across pujas are usually the principal supplier of food to pandal-hoppers as well as residents of the respective neighbourhoods as many people prefer to stay away from the kitchen on the festive occasion. And not just food, some of the stalls sell myriad other items including costume jewellery and dress materials. “We will earn around Rs 10 lakh from 30 stalls,” said Avishek Bhattacharya of Tallah Barowari Durgostav Committee. This year the police in several parts of Calcutta have asked puja organisers to avoid setting up stalls to prevent gatherings, as a precaution against Covid-19. Fairs have been stopped and unless there is adequate space, organisers have been requested not to allow stalls. “We have around 20 gates and this year no agency has come forward to sponsor even one,” said Sandip Chakraborty of Badamtala Ashar Sangha. “Without stalls how will we survive?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||TV actor among 15 arrested in spa raids||Fifteen persons, including a television serial actor, have been arrested and a minor has been detained from two parlour-cum-spas in the city for their alleged involvement in a sleaze racket. Police said the addresses on Rashbehari Avenue and Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road were operating as sleaze dens. All those arrested have been booked under the Indian Penal Code section related to criminal conspiracy and various sections of the Immoral Trafficking Act. The police said a joint team of the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department and the special task force of Calcutta police raided the two establishments on Saturday following a tip-off and rescued several women who were allegedly subjected to flesh trade. “In one of the spas we found a television serial actor who had gone there as a client. He, too, has been arrested and booked under the same charges,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Sources said 11 people were arrested from the spa on Rashbehari Avenue, including the owner, manager, an alleged middleman and seven customers. Five persons were arrested from the spa on Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road and one minor was detained. Hundreds of parlours and spas have mushroomed across the city and many of them function as sleaze dens, the police said. “Many of these establishments run sex rackets in the guise of spa or parlour. The businesses had taken a hit because of the pandemic. But now we are getting information that these have started running again,” the officer said. The women rescued from the two parlours have been sent to a government home. According to official records, a large number of women who are trafficked and forced into prostitution are either misguided by their own family members with the intention to earn money for the family or cheated by men who pretend to be their friend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
12-10-2020||Calcutta||To the malls, with masks and eye on AC||The shopping meter peaked across the city's malls despite Covid fears on Sunday. With just one weekend left before Durga Puja, a steady stream of men, women and children wearing masks poured into City Centre in Salt Lake, South City Mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road and Acropolis Mall near Kasba. The crowd swelled as evening set in. The Telegraph went around to witness the buying spree The lights and the decoration on the mall’s facade drew admiring glances from passing motorists as well as those headed for shopping. On Sunday afternoon, a stream of cars, app cabs and two-wheelers was seen headed to the shopping destination and traffic slowed considerably as one got closer to it. The ground floor of the mall was an instant hit among photography enthusiasts and selfie addicts. The entire floor has been decorated with lights and models of some enduring symbols of the city such as tram, yellow taxi and hand-pulled rickshaw. Deep Biswas, the general manager of South City Mall, said footfall was steadily increasing with every passing weekend and things have been looking up since last week. He put Sunday’s footfall in excess of 40,000. Last Sunday, more than 35,000 people had visited the mall. “Footfall has been on the rise steadily and we are expecting things to look up from now as there will be an added rush of last-minute shoppers. We are taking all precautionary measures and the mall is staying open till 10pm,” Biswas said. An employee of an apparel outlet at the mall said there had been a marked increase in the number of buyers compared with last Sunday. “Sales are picking up as people are out puja shopping,” he said. Pooja Chettri, a cabin crew member of an airline, visited the mall with friends Natasha Biswa and Yeshmee Gurung to shop as well as to eat out. “We are all wearing masks and also carrying sanitiser. With the festive season so close, we did not want to spend the weekend at home,” Chettri said. The area around City Centre in Salt Lake was bustling with people as well as traffic on Sunday evening. The mall authorities said the footfall had been increasing steadily over the past few weekends.The restaurants at the mall, too, did brisk business and several had people queuing up in front. Srijita Saha, 22, who is pursuing a course in economics at Calcutta University, said nearly everybody in their group had been longing to step out and they decided to do some puja shopping together. “We decided to come here as the mall is open and is airy compared with other city malls. Everyone has the pandemic in the back of their minds and we did not want to visit a place that has central air-conditioning everywhere. We will have dinner before heading home,” said Saha. Sukanta Mukherjee, the mall head, said the footfall had been rising over the last couple of weekends. On Sunday, he said, more than 22,000 people visited the mall. “The sales are picking up and we are going the extra mile to ensure everybody is safe. People have realised that the virus is here to stay and are taking adequate precautions themselves,” Mukherjee said. At Acropolis Mall, too, Sunday witnessed a bigger turnout compared with the last weekend. The day’s footfall, an official said, touched 12,000. The general.manager of the mall, K. Vijayan, said they had been noticing an upward trend in terms of footfall over the past couple of weeks. “The turnout is increasing at 8 to 11 per cent on a daily basis. We are expecting the sales to surge even more as Durga Puja is still 10 days away and last-minute shoppers will drop in as well,” said Vijayan. The mall has been decorated with a floral theme aimed at “lifting the spirits of everyone”. “Our mall will remain open from 10.30am to 11pm till October 20. Sales were encouraging on Sunday. The restaurants and the food court, too, did good business,” another official of the mall said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
