13-10-2020||Calcutta||After Hathras, Nandana Sen translates mother Nabaneeta Dev Sen’s poem||Nandana Dev Sen, daughter of the late author Nabaneeta Dev Sen and Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, has translated her mother’s poem in reaction to the alleged gang rape and murder of a Dalit teenager in Hathras and said “a divisive age will be defeated and spurned”. Two lines in that poem go: “Thus, a divisive age will be defeated and spurned/ Though it brings on great wars, it will lose every time.” Speaking to The Telegraph, she described what moved her into translating the poem: “As the child protection ambassador for Save the Children India, I wanted to dedicate a poem to all girls on the International Day of the Girl. Violence against women and children is disturbingly on the rise, including sexual assault and exploitation. The unspeakably brutal rape and murder of the Dalit girl in Hathras has created a deep and collective trauma in our nation’s consciousness. “The utter horror and outrage of it are unimaginable and insupportable, and our vulnerable young girls feel more at risk now than ever.” On September 14, a teenager and her mother were collecting grass for their cattle from two distant parts of a large field when a group of upper-caste men allegedly overpowered the girl, gang-raped her, chopped her tongue and broke her spinal cord, paralysing her from the waist down. The brother of the victim had registered an FIR against the four accused on September 14. The girl had spoken about the atrocities on her from her hospital bed days before her death. The right-wing ecosystem of the country is bent on maligning the girl since her death. They have denied rape despite her own declaration. Uttar Pradesh police allegedly hijacked the body of the brutalised teen and cremated it in the absence of her immediate family on September 30. October 11 was the International Day of the Girl. Nandana said that while she was looking for a poem to dedicate to the girls on the occasion, she chose Ei Kaal: Chirokaal (Right Now: Forever) because of the “message of invincibility” that the words reflected. “I would have dedicated a poem to girls on the day in any case, but I think I chose this one because of Hathras,” she said. Actor-writer-child rights activist Nandana had translated 25 of writer-poet Nabaneeta Dev Sen’s Bengali poems into English in 2016. “This is a new translation I’ve just completed. It will be included in the forthcoming book of my translations of Ma’s poetry, titled Acrobat,” she said. Asked how Nabaneeta, who passed away in November 2019, would have reacted to such atrocities, considering the robust voice she has been, daughter Nandana said: “Ma always spoke out fearlessly against social injustices, especially hate-based violence, including in her poems like Najma and Utsab. I chose to translate Ma’s Ei Kaal: Chirokaal, one of her most beloved and iconic poems, because it has such an inspiring message of invincibility — powerful words that young people in our country truly need to hear right now, I feel.” Ever since the images of the body of the brutalised Hathras teenager being set ablaze by the police on a barren ground in the dead of night without the consent of her parents emerged, students across the country have taken to the streets though campuses are closed because of the Covid pandemic. Reflecting on the poem, Nandana said: “It is a difficult poem to translate, especially because I wanted to remain true not only to its voice but also its meter and rhyming, as well as her mighty mix of classical and colloquial language and epic metaphors. A challenge but one that I loved.” Time has not the power to extinguish me, Don’t think for a moment that I wait upon Time. Let Time keep on playing his absurd battle game, Every time he strips me, I rise clothed without shame; With the force of prayer, of spells magic and divine, All that was untimely will turn auspicious, sublime. In a just war, the rebel stands forever unafraid For her ally is Eternity, who, divinely arrayed, Guides her chariot, destroying the enemy line. Thus, a divisive age will be defeated and spurned — Though it brings on great wars, it will lose every time; From all our scriptures, this is the truth I have learned. Please know that I am cherished by an undivided, infinite age: Time will never have the power to scorch me with its rage. www.nandanadevsen.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Truck strike fuels food price hike fears in Calcutta||Vegetables, eggs, fruits, fish and other items can become costlier down the week following a three-day strike by truckers starting Monday. Thousands of trucks carrying essential items to the state have stopped on the way in response to the strike call. Around 25,000 trucks enter the state from outside every day on an average and most are headed for wholesale markets in and around Calcutta. Members of the West Bengal Truck Operators’ Association said nearly 70 per cent of the trucks did not enter the city during the day, sparking fears that the prices of some essential items may go up. “It has been nearly two years now that we have been asking the state government to allow trucks to carry more load in keeping with the revised norms of axle weight laid down by the ministry of road transport and highways,” said Subhas Chandra Bose, the general secretary of the association. “We have been forced to go on this three-day strike since the government is reluctant to accept our demand.” The ministry had on August 7, 2018, revised the axle weight of transport vehicles and increased it by around 25 per cent to bring down incidences of overloading. Following the new directive, the Bengal government allowed new trucks to carry additional weight. But the older ones have not been given the permission to prevent wear and tear of roads. Around this time of the year, Calcutta receives its supply of several vegetables other states. “We receive around 90 tonnes of onions from Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh daily. Almost an equal volume of cabbages reach us from Maharashtra every day,” said Kamal Dey, of the West Bengal Vendors Association. “If trucks don’t reach the Calcutta markets, the impact will be felt from Tuesday.” Rows of trucks came to a halt in Dankuni and Rishra (both in Hooghly), Basanti (South 24-Parganas) and Bongaon (North 24-Parganas). Egg prices could also go north as a large part of the city’s daily supply comes from Andhra Pradesh. Egg traders said the supply-demand mismatch could result in the price inching towards Rs 8 a piece, up by a rupee per piece.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja: Calcutta local club to the aid of idol-maker||Kesto Das’s makeshift studio, on a slice of the footpath in Manasatala Lane, got ravaged by Cyclone Amphan and his earnings for the entire festive season looked uncertain. But a local club has come forward to offer him space to make not only their idol but also any number of idols he gets orders for. Not just for Durga Puja but for Kali Puja as well. “Visitors to our puja can even book his Kali idols, which we will display in our pandal,” joint secretary of Khidirpur Sarbojanin Avijeet Das said. The club has a permanent raised platform on which it performs puja. It is here that Das can be seen working away on six sets of Durga idols, including the club’s own. Another adjacent space, under a tin roof, is where 10 under-preparation Kali idols stand. Kesto Das could not be more grateful for the opportunity. “Amphan destroyed work worth about Rs 35,000. There were Annapurna, Radha Krishna and Sherawali idols ready in my studio. The clients were supposed to collect them after the lockdown. The cyclone blew the plastic sheet off the roof. All I was left with were lumps of clay in a flooded studio.” The idol-maker was resigned to the prospect of sitting idle before Puja. “I had no cash in hand. How would I have bought raw materials for making idols or repaired my shed?” But when he reported his inability to deliver to the local club, they responded by offering him the puja venue to work in. “I am making as many Kali idols as I can in the little spare time I have in case I get orders from visitors during Durga Puja.” The club, which had a puja budget of Rs 6.5 lakh last year, will make do with Rs 1.25 lakh this time. They are thanking a local tradition they have for taking care of the lion’s share of the cost of rituals. “We hand each of the women who come on Dashami a gift packet, which includes a Lakshmir bhar (piggy bank). They put in whatever they can round the year and hand it to us before Puja the next year,” joint secretary Das said. “In previous years, we used it for charity.” The collection, this time, came to about Rs15,000 and will sponsor the puja samogri. The club will felicitate 100 Covid warriors. Among them will be joint secretary Das’s mother, a nurse at Command Hospital. The family had faced hostility from neighbours in Adarsha Pally, Behala, when she had tested positive for the coronavirus. “We were accused of spreading the virus in the locality. My insulin-dependent father and I survived on biscuits, instant noodles and milk for days as no one helped us with supplies. We were forbidden to open our windows and warned against stepping out, even though we weren’t infected,” he said, recalling the “harrowing days” in August. “Garbage collectors stopped picking our litter. My mother, who volunteered to work in the Covid ward as soon as she recovered, asked me if she was at fault for being a healthcare worker.” He has put the past behind him. “The neighbour who had threatened me got infected this month. Against the advice of friends, I went to his house with health supplements and supplies.” He believes in lending a shoulder to those in need. The idol-maker vouches for that. “My son will appear for Madhyamik next year. Had they not come forward to help me, I don’t know how I would have supported my family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Private hospitals to not refuse patients during Durga and Kali Puja||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission has asked all private hospitals to increase the number of beds for Covid patients and not refuse any patient during Durga Puja and Kali Puja. Also, the hospitals cannot bill a second day’s bed charge before a patient completes 24 hours’ stay and ambulances cannot charge more than Rs 3,000 to ferry patients within Calcutta and its suburbs, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said on Monday. Officials of private hospitals in the state, at a meeting with Banerjee during the day, pledged around 500 additional beds during Puja. Banerjee asked the hospitals to have the additional beds ready by October 22 (Sashthi), said officials of private hospitals who attended the meeting. The hospitals have to submit the augmentation plans by Wednesday evening. Doctors fear the number of Covid-19 cases in the city could rise sharply during Puja or after Puja. Banerjee also asked the hospitals to ensure no patient was refused treatment and be more transparent in their billing procedure. “We discussed increasing the number of Covid beds during Puja. About 30 hospitals with 150 or more beds came for the meeting. They have together pledged to increase 500 Covid beds during Puja. A good number of the additional beds will be ICU beds,” Banerjee said at a news conference after the meeting. “No hospital should refuse a patient. In case there are no vacant beds, they should provide the patient the necessary medical aid and arrange a bed in a hospital that has vacant beds. There should not be a case of patient refusal,” Banerjee said. He asked hospitals to not bill a second day’s bed charge till the patient spent 24 hours at a hospital. “Suppose a patient got admitted at 6pm. Hospitals are billing one day’s bed charge till next noon. After that they are billing a new day’s bed charge. We have said you cannot do that. You can bill a second day’s bed charge only after the patient has stayed more than 24 hours in the hospital,” he said. Several hospitals said they had already started the process to increase the Covid bed count. “We have initiated the process. Admission of patients dips during Durga Puja. It will not be difficult to convert some non-Covid beds into Covid beds during Puja,” said Sudipto Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. R. Venkatesh, the eastern region director of Narayana Health, which runs the Rabindranath Tagore Institute of Cardiac Sciences, said the hospital would add 25 beds, taking the Covid bed count from 105 to 130. “We will take 7-8 days to add the beds,” said Venkatesh. Banerjee said the commission would issue an advisory capping the ambulance charge at Rs 3,000 for ferrying patients within Calcutta and its suburbs. “The government is providing ambulances to take patients to private hospitals. The private hospitals should provide a free service to patients returning home,” he said. The commission will issue an advisory fixing various rates like Rs 500/hour for oxygen, Rs 300 for sanitisa-tion, Rs 25/km for air-conditioned ambulances and Rs 20/km for non-air-conditioned ambulances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Dine Out to Help Out: 20%, 4-day discount||Restaurants in eastern India are taking a cue from the Boris Johnson government’s “Eat Out to Help Out” scheme to increase footfall during the festive period. The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) said on Monday it had devised a scheme called “Dine Out to Help Out” to influence diners to support local restaurants, whose businesses have taken a hit because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed in March to slow down the spread of the disease. According to the scheme, participating establishments can offer a flat 20 per cent discount on food and non-alcoholic beverages to all their patrons from Monday to Thursday between October 12 and November 12. The minimum bill has to be Rs 500 for the discount to come into effect. The idea, according to HRAEI, is inspired by the initiative taken by the UK government in August. British politician and chancellor of the exchequer Rishi Sunak (son-in-law of N.R. Narayana Murthy) devised a scheme whereby diners got a 50 per cent discount on food and non-alcoholic beverages, upto GBP 10 per diner, when eating at a restaurant. The half-price scheme became popular and reportedly around 100 million meals were eaten at restaurants in the UK by the end of August. Here, there is no government support but members of HRAEI said already over 100 restaurants — including those in leading hotels in the city such as Taj Bengal, The Park, JW Marriott, Hyatt Regency, Novotel, Vivanta, HHI, Westin, Fairfield and Pride Plaza — were among those that had shown interest in the scheme. Hotels and restaurants in Guwahati, Kalimpong and Durgapur, too, are willing to participate in the scheme. The offer will not be available on the six days of Durga Puja — October 21 to 26. The association said member establishments were free to run the scheme at all or some of their outlets. “We have done a survey in the market among regular diners, who are currently avoiding eating out for fear of the virus or because they are being restrained about expenses. With the present dip in the economic situation in the country, discount offers like these are expected to be received with enthusiasm among guests. This will gradually increase the footfall in our members’ establishments, which is imperative for businesses to succeed,” said Sudesh Poddar, the president of the HRAEI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro passenger count inches up||A month into the resumption of commercial services, the Metro passenger count is inching towards what the authorities had geared up for. The passenger count on Monday was 77,565. The count was over 71,000 on Friday, too. The weekend saw around 56,000 passengers on Saturday and around 19,000 on Sunday. When service had resumed for all on September 14, Metro officials had said they were prepared for 100,000 passengers. The number of trains for the first few days was 110. The number of passengers for the first few days was under 30,000. It crossed 50,000 on September 25. The number has since gone up to 146 trains daily from Monday to Saturday. Before the services were suspended because of the pandemic, the carrier used to run 288 trains every weekday and the passenger count was more than 600,000 daily. The difference between the number of e-passes booked and actual trips made has not dropped the way it was expected to. An e-pass needs to be booked to enter a station and a smart card is needed to enter the platform. “Over 200,000 e-passes were booked on Monday. The conversion rate (of trips made from e-passes booked) is a little over 65 per cent. That is how it has been for around two weeks now,” a representative of the agency that designed the e-pass system said. The interval between two trains is around eight minutes in the morning and evening rush hour. The other intervals are 10 and 15 minutes. The last trains now leave the terminal stations at 8.30pm. Metro officials believe the count will go past 100,000 once the timings are extended further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Unrecognised faces behind Covid shields in Calcutta||He has not gone home for five-and-a-half months. A community hall in north Calcutta, not far from his Shyambazar home, has been his address for all these months during the Covid pandemic. The reason for his staying away from home for so long? To protect his family from Covid-19 because the work he does is something most in the city would refuse – to physically remove bodies of the people who die of the disease and take them for cremation. He has removed more than 200 such bodies since the Covid outbreak started in Calcutta, till September. There are many like him in the city but few recognise their toil. The man did not want to be named for fear that his family would be ostracised by neighbours. Let’s call him Surajit (name changed). Around 25-30 of Surajit’s colleagues involved in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s hearse service at the Ambulance Headquarters on CR Avenue have voluntarily taken up the job of carrying bodies of Covid-19 patients and are working for up to 17 hours a day. Even family members are staying away from most of the bodies fearing infection. At present, eight hearses are operational to carry bodies of Covid patients in the CMC area. Officials at the Ambulance Headquarters said all bodies of patients who die of Covid-19 have to be taken to any of the earmarked crematoria in a government hearse or a private vehicle arranged by the family after getting clearance from the CMC. “Initially, the thought of touching a Covid-19 (patient’s) body used to scare me. But now it does not,” said Surajit. His elderly parents live in his Shyambazar home. His wife is now in her parental home because staying in their one-room home in Shyambazar has become difficult during the pandemic. Similar is the story of one of his colleagues, who makes fortnightly visits to his family but does not cross the boundary wall of their house near Chetla. “I go till the wall to meet my wife and she hands me some food. Our young daughter fails to understand why her father is not returning home. Every time I get to leave, she cries,” he said. Many have completely stopped visiting their homes, fearing jibes from neighbours who feel they are a potential threat to the safety of the people in the neighbourhood. “That used to be a big problem. Now, people have understood to some extent. But still I avoid going to my neighbourhood. I can see from their body language that they feel a little scared when I am around. So I prefer meeting my family over WhatsApp video calls,” he said. The men work in teams, each comprising three members — a driver and two attendants. Once they get a call, each of them puts on fresh PPE which they often cannot remove for the next eight-10 hours, one of them said. Their “official” duty entails physically removing the body from the hospital stretcher to the hearse, driving to the crematorium and then taking the body out of the vehicle. In reality, in the absence of any family members, they often have to stay back till the bodies enter the electric chamber. How does it feel to touch the body of a Covid-19 patient? “We take all the precautions and wear PPE, rubber gloves and goggles. We have to wear the PPE for eight-10 hours at a stretch if there are multiple calls. But more than the physical discomfort, it is very traumatic to see a child’s body, unattended by relatives,” said a hearse vehicle attendant, who removed the body of a two-and-a-half-year-old child at Bagmari a few weeks ago. While carrying the child’s body, he was reminded of his own daughter whom he had not seen for months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Government Covid test labs to run during Durga Puja    ||Covid test centres in all government medical colleges and hospitals in Calcutta will remain operational during Durga Puja. Each will have 14 laboratory technicians working in three shifts under the supervision of molecular biologists, the health department has decided. A team of four technicians will be present in each of the three shifts at each of the six medical colleges and hospitals in Calcutta, including College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati, where Covid tests are being conducted. Two technicians will be kept on standby in case of manpower shortage. A similar arrangement will be kept ready at the School of Tropical Medicine and MR Bangur Hospital, too, where Covid tests are being done. The health department has recently completed the process of recruiting additional laboratory technicians at a monthly salary in the range of Rs 16,560-17,220. All of them have been sent to testing laboratories in Calcutta and in the districts. “There will be no holidays for laboratory technicians during Durga Puja. If any technician wants a leave, he/she may go on leave for a day or two now,” a health department official said after a coordination meeting with institutional heads on Monday. “A molecular biologist on duty at a particular laboratory will interpret the test results. The heads will have to draw up duty rosters accordingly,” the official said. On September 24, during a coordination meeting with puja organisers, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had asked the health department to ensure there were adequate arrangements across all hospitals during Durga Puja. No patient should face any difficulty, she had said. On Monday, health department officials discussed ways of running laboratories during the festive days so that no Covid suspect is denied an opportunity to get him/herself tested. Among the various steps discussed, it was decided if needed required laboratory technicians would have to work “overtime” and that they would be adequately compensated. Arrangements will be made for late-night home drops for technicians during the puja days if needed. The School of Tropical Medicine receives samples from Howrah and RG Kar Medical College and Hospital receives a part of its daily samples from North 24-Parganas for Covid tests. “All institutional heads have been told to ensure every laboratory nodal officer remains in touch with district magistrates to receive samples from the adjoining districts,” a health department official said. Bengal has been testing 38,000-40,000 samples every day and the health department official said they were gearing up to take on additional load in case there was a spike in the Covid numbers during or after the pujas. “In Calcutta, more than 90 per cent of Covid tests are being done through the RT-PCR method and not the rapid antigen way,” a senior doctor Sasthya Bhavan overseeing the arrangements said. “Accordingly, reagents and other necessary laboratory items have been sent to various test locations.” On Friday, the state’s chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, had held a meeting with health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam to discuss the preparedness of both government and private hospitals during the Pujas. The meeting at Sasthya Bhavan on Monday follows that. “We are trying to put in place a system in all government hospitals to enhance their services during the festive season. Tests will remain a crucial part of this arrangement,” a health department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Online Covid gear cheats arrested in Salt Lake||Two men were arrested in the Bidhannagar area on Sunday on charges of cheating people in the name of online delivery of hand sanitisers, face shields, gloves, and masks, police said. They apparently cheated a person with an order worth Rs 5 lakh by posing as a facilitator. They would act as contacts between wholesale dealers and customers who did not want to step out to collect their orders. As part of their modus operandi, the two would tell people they would contact a wholesale dealer of such items before getting a bill issued against orders placed. They would take the bill to a client and collect the sum, promising to deliver the items at their homes, the police said. “But they would make excuses and say the consignment had been delivered at a wrong address,” an officer of Bidhannagar North police station where a complaint had been lodged on September 4. It was only when the complainant was told the same thing a couple of times — goods he had ordered had been delivered to a wrong address and it would take some time for the goods to reach him — did he realise the fraud. Cops started investigating the matter based on his complaint and found the involvement of the two men. They have identified as Biswajit Das and Abhijit Dey. They have been booked for cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. They were produced in Bidhannagar court on Monday. The pandemic has forced many people to shift to the online mode for making payments and purchases, which they did not do earlier. “Hundreds of people are falling prey to online crimes… people tend to believe online advertisements and start calling up numbers they see on the Internet without realising the numbers could be fake,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Refund order to two Calcutta private hospitals||The state’s clinical establishment regulatory commission has asked Desun Hospital to return Rs 80,000 to a patient’s family for overcharging them. The commission also fined the private hospital Rs 20,000 for its “inhuman conduct” in not allowing the family to see the patient’s body before it was taken away for cremation. R Flemming Hospital, another private unit, has been asked to refund Rs 1 lakh to a patient’s family. Karun Ranjan Chatterjee, 70, passed away at Desun Hospital on August 14. His son Samik Chatterjee told the commission during a hearing on Monday that he and his mother could not have a last look at his father because the hospital did not inform them when the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) took away the body. Samik also alleged that the hospital did not arrange any conversation between the patient and his family since the septuagenarian’s admission on July 28. “Denying the family a chance to have a last look at their loved one was inhuman. We have said in our order that such hospitals should be shut down, but that cannot be done keeping in mind the plight of patients. We have fined the hospital Rs 20,000 for not telling the family when the body would be taken away,” retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said. “The man’s son also said they could not talk to him since his admission. The hospital allegedly did not arrange any video call,” said Banerjee. Tapas Mukherjee, the deputy managing director of Desun Hospital, denied the allegations. “We told the family to come and see the body. The patient spoke to his family several times over the phone. I do not know whether any video call was arranged because at that time few employees were willing to go close to a Covid-19 patient and organise a video call,” said Mukherjee. Banerjee said the commission asked the hospital to return Rs 80,000 to the family because they were charged more than the market rates for some pathological tests and treatments. “The charges for blood gas test and liver function test were more than what most other hospitals ask for,” he said. The total bill was Rs 7.84 lakh, of which Rs 2.5 lakh was paid by the insurance company, Rs 4 lakh was paid by the patient’s family and the hospital gave a discount of Rs 1.34 lakh. The commission’s order to return Rs 1 lakh is not part of the discount. The commission also asked R Flemming Hospital in Topsia to return Rs 1 lakh, out of the Rs 8.9 lakh the family of Shyambazar resident Tanusree Bose had paid during her discharge in July. “We found that some of the costs of treatment were on the higher side and ordered them to return Rs 1 lakh,” said Banerjee. He said the family alleged the hospital put the woman on ventilation when they wanted to take her away. The woman is now fine and at home, said Banerjee. “It is not true that we had put the patient on ventilation after the family wanted to take her away. The patient was on ventilation for 15 days. During her discharge we had given a discount of Rs 1.29 lakh. I cannot comment on the commission’s order till I see a copy,” said Sahid Khan, the manager of R Flemming Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Psychologist spells out strategy for Calcutta kids||Jotting down the positives every day and not dwelling on when the pandemic will end but adapting to changing demands can help kids deal with stress triggered by staying indoors, speakers at a workshop said on Thursday. Ishita Sanyal, a clinical psychologist and mental health activist, said she had found children enjoyed unsupervised online sessions with friends in the absence of parents and teachers. Allowing children the freedom to chat with friends between online classes, similar to what they enjoyed during breaks in school will help them cope with stress, she said. Sanyal, however, said there were many people who were unable to deal with stress and that spelling out strategies would help them. “There are many positives emerging from staying indoors. I often tell people to write in a diary the positives that emerge before them every day,” she told Metro. “Jot down what you feel are the positives of staying at home… remember them to feel happy in this atmosphere of gloom around us.” The workshop on coping with stress during the pandemic was organised by the US Consulate General Kolkata, in association with Turning Point, Calcutta, and Eastside Institute,  New York. Sanyal, the founder-director of Turning Point, an organisation which works with specially-abled children, spoke about the strategies adopted at the centre. On Fridays, students of Turning Point are allowed to chat with each other online and none from Turning Point supervise these sessions, she said. “Some parents told me that children chat for hours during these unsupervised sessions. They love it. They are again bonding with friends, something that had stopped when physical assembly at the centre had stopped because of the pandemic.” All schools can try such a strategy to let children bond better with friends and peers, “essential for the mental well-being of children”, Sanyal said. Forced to drop plans of pandal-hopping this year, teachers at Turning Point have asked students to enact the roles of Durga and her family as part of the strategy to cope with the change. There will be other cultural programmes, but students will participate online. Father Rodney Borneo, the principal of Loyola High School at Ekbalpore, was another speaker at the workshop. He said he always told people “this too shall pass” whenever someone complained of becoming restless. “I tell everyone this too shall pass. We have not been created to deal with the pandemic; we have been created for a greater purpose.” Kirandip Kaur, a student of Asian International School, said at the workshop people would do better to stop thinking when the pandemic would be over. “The more we think of it as something that will pass, the more we will resist changes. It is better if we accept the present and adapt ourselves to it.” A good number of people have adapted to the changed situation but there are many who are struggling when it comes to dealing with the fear of the disease and the stress. Many of these people are invisible; they are in their homes, Sanyal said. “Someone needs to reach out to them with the strategy of coping with stress. This is why it will be beneficial if such strategies are spelt out… if at least one from every family knows the strategy, others will benefit,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Food for 600 families in Calcutta and Sunderbans||Over 600 families in Calcutta and the Sunderbans got dry ration on Sunday, thanks to a campaign by the Dawoodi Bohra community of the city. The country is moving towards resumption of normal economic activities but many families are still without livelihood and struggling for two square meals a day. On Sunday, a team of volunteers visited several areas in the city and Salt Lake and distributed around 500 packets, each containing a kilo of rice, 250g of daal and soya chunks. The packets were distributed at Moulali, Eco Park and Golpark, under the Gariahat flyover and at Shalimar Ghat in Howrah. The recipients lived in slums, on pavements and under flyovers. They are out-of-work labourers, rickshaw pullers and cobblers, who have been hit the hardest by the Covid pandemic. The team then drove to Chandipur village in Gosaba block of the Sunderbans, around 90km from Calcutta. The destitute families in the mangrove delta are grappling with the aftereffects of Cyclone Amphan, in addition to the pandemic-induced slump. Around 150 packets were distributed in the Sunderbans. The Sunday drive, in the run-up to World Food Day on October 16, was part of Project Rise, a philanthrPopic endeavour by the Dawoodi Bohra community across the world. “As the name suggests, its aim is to raise and elevate the less fortunate among us. It strives to foster a culture of empathy, awareness and generosity such that no individual is neglected, overlooked or marginalised,” reads a poster of the campaign. The Dawoodi Bohra community has around one million members all over the world, including around 1,100 families in Calcutta. The community had organised multiple campaigns to provide food to the needy during the lockdown. The younger members of the community took the lead in Sunday’s drive. It was organised by Hizb us Saifiyatil Burhaniyah (HSB), an association of former students of MSB Educational Institute, a school run by the Dawoodi Bohra community. “Visiting the Sunderbans was a different experience. You have to see their plight to believe it,” said Khuzema Tasira, the secretary of the association. The packets were sorted at Faiz-ul-Mawaid-e-Burhaniyah, a community kitchen of the Dawoodi Bohras in Calcutta. Two NGOs collaborated in the Sunday drive, helping the organisers in selecting the recipients and with logistical issues. The distribution in the Sunderbans was in collaboration with Anti-Hunger Squad Foundation, a city-based organisation that has fed thousands of families during the lockdown. The campaign in and around Calcutta was done in collaboration with Robin Hood Army, a non-profit that collects excess food from restaurants to feed the poor. “Many people in the Sunderbans are in urgent need of relief. NGOs from the city are reaching out to them but many families are still left out,” said Zeeshan Majeed, of the Anti-Hunger Squad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Cycle stand for last-mile connectivity in in New Town||A cycle stand has been set up in New Town’s Action Area I where people can park their cycles and head to their workplaces. The move is an attempt to improve last-mile connectivity and to encourage cycling as a mode of transport, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority said. The stand where 70 cycles can be parked has come up near Nazrul Tirtha, home to several offices. The NKDA official said many officegoers had started using cycles to commute to ensure distancing rules were followed. So, the NKDA decided to build the stand “urgently”, the official said. The stand is close to an upcoming Metro station on the Airport-New Garia route. Once the Metro is operational, people will be able to park their cycles at the stand and take a train, the official said. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said they were trying to encourage people to take up cycling and consider it as “a serious means of transport”. “The lockdown has shown people how cycles can be used easily for commuting. We have cycle tracks in New Town and we want to encourage this non-polluting form of transport,” Sen said. The stand is equipped with CCTV cameras, mobile phone chargers and two large LCD screens to show the distance to landmarks in New Town, including the Unitech crossing, Eco Park and Sector V, from the stand, an NKDA official said. People will be able to lock their cycles. Two guards will be posted as well, the NKDA official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Mamata appeals  for caution during Durga Puja||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday warned against carelessness this Durga Puja amid the pandemic, urging revellers not to disregard the safety protocols at a time the outbreak appears to have reached the community transmission stage. Mamata’s warning came hours before Bengal reported 3,583 new cases and 60 deaths, besides 3,155 recoveries in the past 24 hours. The total Covid cases rose to 2.98 lakh, including 2.62 lakh recoveries and 5,682 deaths. “Puja is almost here now, practically begins from Monday…. I want everybody to have a good time this Puja. But I will, once again, humbly request each and everyone to wear a mask. Now the spread of the pathogen is increasing,” she told a news conference after a state cabinet meeting. “Community spread (transmission) is certainly happening… whether one admits it or not. Covid-19 is getting airborne too,” she added. The recovery rate, which started falling after months last week, fell from 87.98 on October 6 to 87.84 per cent on Sunday. It remained unchanged on Monday. The national rate is 86.39 per cent. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 1.9, behind the national rate of 1.53 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
