14-10-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University hands smartphones to students ||Somen Saren, a student of engineering at Jadavpur University, was missing out on online classes as he did not have a smartphone. The boy from Purulia, who is staying at his sister’s house in Sodepur (the university’s hostel is closed because of the Covid pandemic), would wait for his brother-in-law to return home from work at night and then use his mobile phone to access the recorded lectures uploaded on JU’s website. A fourth-year student of food technology and bio-chemical engineering, Somen heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday when the university handed him a smartphone. “I missed out on live classes for want of a smartphone.... I am relieved now as I have got a smartphone,” said Somen, who turned up on the campus during the day to collect his phone. “Our family income is Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 a month. My father can’t afford to buy me a smartphone,” Somen said. JU is handing smartphones to 200 students to bridge the digital divide and enable them to attend classes on digital platforms amid the pandemic, which has forced colleges and universities to discontinue in-person classes. A combination of live and recorded classes are being conducted under the distant digital mode. JU officials said around 20 students had visited the campus since Monday to collect smartphones. “Those who cannot come will get their phones through courier,” said Gourkrishna Pattanayak, the finance officer of JU. JU is also buying 800 students data packs for three months. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said: “We are taking all steps to reach out to students who cannot afford the devices.” The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has extended till November 16 the time for “submission of eligibility request and registration” of Class XI students for the 2020-21 academic session. The council had received requests from school principals all over the country for candidates who were "either in containment zones or had moved to their hometown" in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Court’s stand on minority-run schools ||The high court on Tuesday clarified that it had included minority-run institutions in the order not to meddle “in the internal affairs of these institutions” but to figure out “a best-fit” among a disparate set of schools and guardians and “that also for a limited period of time, with the paramount interest of the students in mind.” Article 30(1) of the Constitution, which protects the rights of the minorities, says that “all minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educa-tional institutions of their choice”. The junior judge on the division bench, Moushumi Bhattacharya, said in her part of the 68-page order that in ordinary parlance, “to administer is to manage or run the affairs of, and entails control in matters of everyday governance and being essentially of a non-transitory nature”. She said “matters of admission of students, selection procedures for such, appointment of teachers and staff, choice of courses to be taught, orientation or character given to the educational methods adopted, all form part of the right to administer”. She went on to add: “In the case at hand, our aim is not to intermeddle in the internal affairs of these institutions or supplant the present governing bodies of these institu-tions with a court-appointed agency; but to figure out a best-fit in a disparate set of schools and guardians and that also for a limited period of time, with the paramount interest of the students in mind.” Schools run by the Church of North India (CNI) had also cited the right to privacy to not disclose details of their account books before a court-appointed committee. Justice Bhattacharya wrote in the order: “The right to privacy, taken at its most obvious connotation, is the right of a person to draw his or her boundaries in terms of sharing information. It is a pro-individual right where the person can choose the company he keeps and the time and the agency to disclose what he wishes to. It is a right aimed at preserving the spatial and intellectual integrity of an individual in matters of choice and acts as a springboard for the connected freedoms which are guaranteed under the Constitution. “The argument against disclosing of accounts by the schools is not acceptable for two reasons. First, there is an unfounded apprehension that court is trying to ferret information out to the detriment of the concerned schools…. Second, a comparative assessment of financial solvency is to facilitate the process of reaching a solution. The schools cannot be permitted to take an unreasonable position to put speedbreakers in that path…. Article 30 (1) was contemplated by the framers to serve as a shield and not as a sword.” Six missionary schools run by the Calcutta diocese of the CNI had moved a special leave petition before the Supreme Court saying that minority schools enjoy financial autonomy to run their institutions, a freedom guaranteed by Article 30 of the Constitution. But the apex court of the country sent back the appellant schools to Calcutta High Court for recalling of the court's order. In about 15 pages of the 68-page order, there are references to minority institutions. A member of the West Bengal Association of Christian Schools said that they would study the order. “After studying the order if we find that it is interfering with the minority rights, we will challenge it,” said the member. “The minority institutions have freedom to administer as long as there is no maladministration. Charging reasonable fees is not maladministration,” said the head of a CNI school. Justice Bhattacharya said in her part of the order that “the cause of the dispute is the economic downturn brought about by the pandemic”. “The effect is physical attendance being substituted by online classes. The consequence is that guardians are being made to pay for facilities which their wards are unable to avail of. The endeavour of the court is that students must not be caught in the crossfire between their parents and the school authorities,” she said. Several schools said they were worried about possible “consequences” of Tuesday’s order. “The tuition fee component is used to pay salary to the teachers. So will we have to use all the reserve that schools have. There are families where a male teacher is the only earning member,” said the head of a private English medium school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Call to avoid Puja crowd to battle Covid||Public health experts have suggested measures such as social media campaigns with messages from doctors and regulation of public transport “to avoid crowding” during Durga Puja. They were speaking at an online meeting on Monday evening. “We are right in the middle of a major crisis, and after the Puja, a tsunami-like health emergency may occur unless we can avoid crowding at any cost,” said Hiralal Konar, a convenor of the joint platform of doctors, at the meeting. “The Puja is only days away. If pandal-hopping happens like earlier years, it will be suicidal,” said Dulal Bose, a physician and former sheriff of Calcutta at the beginning of the meeting. Most agreed that restrictions like wearing masks or using sanitisers will be ignored if huge crowds hit the roads together. Every year, millions visit city pandals during the Puja. Visitors often have to wait for hours in long queues with hardly any space between two persons. Manash Gumta, a physician associated with government health services, pointed out that the public health infrastructure was under severe stress and the situation might spin out of control if the number of Covid patients suddenly jumped after Puja. Cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar underlined the warning, saying availability of beds had already shrunk in most hospitals, particularly at private hospitals. He warned the virus would spiral out of control if there was any gathering of more than 20 to 25 people in an enclosed area. “Many come to the city from outside to see pujas. Suburban trains should not start before the Puja and public transport needs to be regulated so people cannot come to the city in huge numbers during the Puja.” said Arunabha Majumdar, a public health specialist and former director at the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health. Ajay Sarkar, a physician leading the Covid unit at a private hospital, observed that apart from discouraging thousands who were planning to visit pujas on foot, pandal-hopping in packed cars needs to be avoided. “The only way to drum up sense is to circulate messages from doctors combined with targeted social media campaign,” observed academic Sukanta Chaudhuri. “The clubs and local police should coordinate to avoid major crowding,” said Sandhi Mukherjee, a retired police officer. “It’s preferable not to play the microphones as far as possible, because if microphones blare, people will have to speak loudly to be heard, which, in turn, may increase release of viruses,” said Krishnajyoti Goswami, a public health expert. “We will soon write to the chief minister to share the suggestions and will urge her to see that crowding during Puja is avoided at any cost,” said social activist Naba Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
14-10-2020||Calcutta|| Blast in club rocks Beleghata||An explosion early on Tuesday inside a club in Beleghata destroyed a portion of the wall and the asbestos roof of a small room on the rooftop. Bricks from the damaged concrete wall flew and landed around 40ft away leaving people of the locality terrified. No one was injured, police said. Several residents said they heard a deafening sound around 6.30am. Some said the sound could be heard almost half a kilometre away, close to Gandhi Bhawan. “It was quite early in the morning… there were a few people on the road. I had stepped out for a cup of tea from a nearby stall when there was this sudden loud noise… we could see black smoke from a distance,” Tapas Malakar, a resident of the area, said. “It took us a while to understand the explosion had occurred inside the club building. Sometime later members of the bomb disposal squad arrived.” The police have sealed the Beleghata Gandhi Math Friends Circle Club, a double-storey building with a small room on the rooftop. A team of investigators from the city police’s detective department, along with officers of the dog squad and from Beleghata police station visited the club several times during the day, collecting samples and talking to some club members. “Such an impact usually happens when some high explosive substance is stored in a small place. There has to be the presence of ammonium nitrate that got mixed with fuel oil,” P.K. Ghosh, a former senior scientist with the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Calcutta, said. “Left untouched a mixture of ammonium nitrate and fuel oil will not explode. There must have been some trigger through some shock.” There is presence of soot on the wall. “We will examine the place once again on Wednesday to get a clear understanding of the nature of explosion,” a member of the forensic team said. Some club members said no explosive material had been stored inside the club building. They told cops that people on motorcycles with their faces covered had hurled bombs at the building. A few members said gas cylinders had been kept on the second floor and that they had exploded. It will take some time to piece together the information that has been emerging before arriving at a conclusion, senior police officers, speaking off the record, said. “The most crucial will be the preliminary forensic report,” an officer overseeing the investigation said. BJP leader Locket Chatterjee demanded the National Investigation Agency look into the blast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Pandal inspection starts; airflow tops checklist||A team of police officers on Tuesday inspected Durga Puja pandals across Calcutta to see if there was adequate provision for free airflow across the structure. The officers checked if puja committees had made adequate arrangements for unhindered flow of visitors in small numbers to pandals. The team of officers, led by Subhankar Sinha Sarkar, joint police commissioner, visited 20 puja pandals during the day to inspect the arrangements that have been made for the entry and exit of visitors and if pandals had been built in keeping with the government norms. Pandals should be built in such a way that there is unhindered airflow, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said at a meeting with puja organisers on September 24. Either the top or the three sides of a pandal should be kept open for air to flow freely and organisers should ensure there is no gathering of visitors to avoid the spread of the coronavirus. Tuesday’s inspection began with Kumartuli Park in the north and covered several other prominent pujas, including Mohammad Ali Park on Central Avenue, College Square, Santosh Mitra Square, Bosepukur Sitalamandir in Kasba, Ekdalia Evergreen, Deshapriya Park, Naktala Udyan Sangha, Suruchi Sangha in New Alipore and Behala Notun Dal. “Most puja committees have adhered to the norms laid down by the government for the construction of pandals to ensure free circulation of air,” Sarkar said. “We have instructed puja committees to ensure there are adequate arrangements for masks and sanitisers.” At Kumartuli, organisers told the police team that they would keep the top open for air to flow and that there would be several exit gates for quick movement of visitors. “The police team was more or less satisfied with our arrangements,” Pabitra Basak of Kumartuli Park said. “Officers, however, said volunteers should wear face shields. We will now have to think how to arrange them for so many volunteers,” he said. Apart from the entry/exit arrangements, the team wanted to check how organisers had decided to restrict the number of people converging before idols at a time, an officer said. Fewer people in front of idols would mean longer queues outside and the police wanted to check if there were enough arrangements to manage such long queues, the officer said. At Shibmandir in Mudiali, officers went through the entry/exit arrangements and spoke with organisers about people converging in front of the idol. “Pandal-hoppers needn’t stand. They can keep walking and watch our idol from a distance,” Partho Ghosh of Shibmandir puja committee, said. In Kasba and across parts of Behala and Kalighat, several puja organisers have ensured that visitors don’t have to enter a small zone to watch the idols. “We showed the team this year our gates are far wider than previous years and are more in number,” Sandipan Banerjee of Behala Notun Dal said. The chief minister is scheduled to inaugurate this puja on October 16, along with a few others in south Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court orders 20% school fee waiver||Calcutta High Court has ordered private schools in Bengal, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fees between April 2020 and a month after the schools resume physical classes. The schools have been barred from charging for facilities such as labs, sports and craft that students are not using during the pandemic. They can charge session fees but at 20 per cent less. Parents will have to pay the discounted fees by December 8. Many schools said they would appeal the high court order. The order will not apply to schools whose average monthly fees, calculated on an annual basis for April 2020-March 2021, are less than Rs 800.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Metro not to run Puja all-night trains||Metro trains will not run through the night from Saptami to Navami this year as a precaution against Covid-19, officials said on Tuesday. “We do not want to take any chances. Experts are anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases after the Puja. Metro travel is easy and fast and our night trains are packed during the Puja. So, we have decided not to run trains through the night this year,” a Metro official said. In 2019, Metro carried 61.6 lakh passengers between Tritiya and Dashami. On Saptami, Ashtami and Navami, the first and last trains left the terminal stations at 1pm and 4am. “We used to witness maximum rush between 8.30pm and 1am. There would not be an inch of space left to stand,” said the official. “When doctors are insisting on caution this year, we should not encourage such crowding.” A large number of Metro commuters on the Puja days were from suburbs and they would come to the city by suburban trains, which are still suspended because of the pandemic. When Metro services resumed on September 14, the number of daily trains was 110 and the last trains left the terminal stations at 7pm. Since then, the number of trains has gone up and the timings have been extended more than once. From Monday, Metro has been running 146 trains from Monday to Saturday. The last trains now leave the terminal stations at 8.30pm. The authorities want to extend the timings by around an hour by the Puja, sources said. Before the pandemic, the last trains left the terminal stations at 9.55pm. “Nothing has been finalised. The threat of Covid-19 looms large over us. The scale of the crisis is unprecedented and we have to act accordingly,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. Starting Wednesday, senior citizens will be able to enter Metro stations throughout the day without an e-pass. They will just have to show their I-cards at the gates. For others, an e-pass is mandatory to enter a station. A smart card is a must for entering a platform for everyone, irrespective of age. Till now, people aged 60 and above could enter Metro stations from Monday to Saturday without an e-pass between 11.30am and 4.30pm, provided they produced an age proof. Only on Sundays could they enter a station any time by just showing an age proof. “Now, that time bar has been removed in view of the increased train services during the rush hours,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Cinemas resigned to lean footfall till Xmas||Many cinemas are set to open by this weekend or the next but owners are not expecting good business before a couple of months. The absence of big Bollywood releases in the immediate future has dimmed the prospects of a good footfall. The halls that are re-opening, including multiplexes, will have to show re-released Hindi films or a handful of Bengali films due for release on October 21. The Centre had greenlighted the reopening of cinemas from October 15, following which the Union ministry of information and broadcasting issued a set of standard operating procedures for halls to re-open in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. The seating capacity has been curtailed to 50 per cent of the capacity. Sushant Singh Rajput films are the best bet for many hall owners until new releases arrive. Around 40 halls in Bengal, including some in Calcutta, have opted for Kedarnath, said sources in the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA). Inox said it was “all set to welcome back” audiences from October 15. The chain said it would discontinue paper tickets and issue only e-tickets. On offer will be old films. Single-screen hall owners are aware that old films are unlikely to draw visitors and they have curtailed the number of shows. But they want to open because there has to be a starting point after six months of shutdown. Halls which run Bengali films are also keen to bank on the festive season, traditionally associated with big releases. Owners are desperately waiting for the release of big-ticket Hindi films but that is not likely before Christmas, said exhibitors. The best-case, but unlikely, scenario is the release of one or two big films during Diwali, they said. Pranab Roy, who owns Menoka on Southern Avenue and Asoka in Behala, said both would resume screening films on October 16. But instead of four daily shows, there will be two. He will show Kedarnath and Chhichhore, both old films of Rajput, for now. “I am considering this as a trial run and waiting for our main supply line (big-ticket Bollywood films) to resume,” said Roy. Navin Chokhani, the owner of Navina, said the hall would reopen on October 21 with two new Bengali films. “Even before the pandemic, single-screen halls were not doing great. I am not anticipating a rush soon,” he said. A string of big-banner Hindi films is ready for release but the producers are holding them back because of the uncertainty in the market. Akshay Kumar-starrer Sooryavanshi and Ranveer Singh’s 83 are among the eagerly awaited biggies. “The producers want to wait for some more time…. Even if there is a semblance of normalcy, at least some mid and small budget Hindi films will be released,” said Satadeep Saha, the co-owner of SSR Cinemas, which runs multiples in and outside the city. The uncertainty in the overseas market, a big draw for Hindi films, is another reason delaying the release, said Firdausul Hasan, president of the Film Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Plea for ‘permanent’ London flight||The state government will request the Centre to make the direct Calcutta-London flight “permanent”, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday. “The Calcutta-London flight has just started. But it is still operating twice a week. I request the civil aviation ministry to increase the frequency and make it permanent,” Mamata said at a programme to unveil two open-roof double-decker buses that would take tourists to heritage spots of the city. Air India is operating twice-a-week flights between Calcutta and London from September. The flights were initially operated under the Vande Bharat programme (launched to bring back Indians stranded abroad during the Covid pandemic) and now as part of an air transport bubble scheme, an understanding between two countries to operate commercial flights. The airline had announced that the flights would operate till October 24 but the date was later extended till March 24. “Calcutta is the gateway to the Northeast and also to Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar. There is a lot of pressure (of passengers) to go to Europe. Many people want to go to Europe. So, we want the frequency (of the Calcutta-London flight) to increase,” she said. Mamata said the previous chief secretary, Rajiva Sinha, had written to the civil aviation ministry on the matter. “I have told the present chief secretary (Alapan Bandyopadhyay) to write another letter,” she said. “We have heard about a problem. When passengers are boarding the flight from there (London), they are getting Covid tests done, which is taking a long time. So, although there are many seats on the plane, passengers are unable to come,” said Mamata. She said the state government could arrange for rapid tests at the Calcutta airport. “The planes can be sanitised. We can also arrange for rapid tests. Those who test positive can be sent to safe houses and hospitals,” the chief minister said. A senior state government official said they were holding talks with Air India. “Officials of Air India have said there are some problems in increasing the frequency and making the flight permanent. But they are trying to find a solution,” said the official. Air India sources said the passenger count on the flights were “not encouraging”. “There is a demand for direct flights to London — from where people can fly to other parts of Europe — at least three times a week, but Air India has to be consistent with its service. Earlier, consistency was a big issue,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Wanted, a tree-trimming stylist for city||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation is pruning trees along the city’s roads ahead of Durga Puja. But it is not being done on all sides, resulting in one side becoming heavier, naturalists and environmentalists have said. As a result gusty winds can bring down such trees, they have said. The practice of pruning branches without thinking of shedding load equally from all sides has been blamed for trees falling during storms. Improper pruning had resulted in thousands of trees getting uprooted in Calcutta when Cyclone Amphan had struck in May, naturalists have said. In a meeting with civic authorities in the aftermath of the cyclone, several naturalists had highlighted the indiscriminate chopping of tree branches that left their balance distorted. The civic authorities had then promised to look into the matter. The way trees are being pruned across the city, it is difficult to say lessons have been learnt, Arjan Basu Roy, the founder of NGO Nature Mates, said. The NGO works for the conservation of nature. Branches have been chopped off according to convenience. Portions that are easy to access have been cut while the other end has been left untouched. Metro found several instances of such trimming near Deshapriya Park and along Manoharpukur Road in south Calcutta, along SN Banerjee Road in central Calcutta and near Kumartuli on Rabindra Sarani in north Calcutta. “I saw tree branches have been hacked in Dhakuria and on stretches along Rashbehari Avenue. They have been chopped from one side, making the tree heavy on the other side,” Basu Roy said. He and his team have restored many uprooted trees to their old positions. “Unscientific trimming distorts the balance of trees and they tend to fall when there is a storm. Gusty winds uproot trees that are heavier on one side,” Basu Roy, who was among those who met CMC officials in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, said. The CMC had held the meeting to seek suggestions on planting new trees and maintaining existing trees along roads in the city and in parks. The CMC has been repeating the same practice year after year, Mallika Jalan, an urban environmentalist who has surveyed parks in the Calcutta municipal area, said. “It seems no one is bothered about the health of trees in Calcutta. The buck stops with whom? The CMC has a department named parks and gardens but most of its work is done by engineers and contractors. “I am not belittling them, but it is not the job of engineers and contractors to look into the health of trees or how trees should be trimmed.” The system must be overhauled if authorities are serious about maintaining trees in public spaces, Jalan said. There is no available record of the number or the variety of trees in Calcutta’s public spaces, a civic official said. There is no immediate plan to do any such survey either, the official said. The civic body could not employ men to do the trimming of trees this year because the people who do the job have not returned to Calcutta after they left for their hometowns when the Centre announced the lockdown, Debashis Kumar, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators, said. “People on hydraulic ladders are trimming tree branches. If the people who do the job were to be there, they would have climbed the trees if needed to reach the portions that cannot be accessed by the ladder fixed on a vehicle,” he said. “We are trimming a few trees now. The trimming will be done in full force when the men who are experts in the job return.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||HC asks private schools to cut fees||The high court on Tuesday ordered private schools, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of tuition fees of students between April 2020 and one month after the schools resume on-campus classes. The bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya also restrained the schools from charging fees on non-academic heads like “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extra-curricular activities or the like” till in-person classes resumed. The order for concession will not apply to any school “where the average monthly fee (calculated on an annual basis over the year from April 2020 to March 2021) is less than Rs 800”. However, such schools may voluntarily offer discounts as they deem fit. Highlights of the order ● The schools will not be allowed to increase any fees in this academic year and there will also be no increase in salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff in this academic session. ● The schools have been given the liberty to charge session fees but at 20 per cent less. ● The discounted fees will have to be paid by November 30. Beyond December 8, schools have been given the liberty to disallow students for non-payment. ● Examination fees can be charged separately. ● “The minimum figure of 20 per cent reduction in the monthly tuition fees will be on the basis of the tuition fees charged for the corresponding month in the previous financial year,” the order says. ● The bench said private schools that were not among the 145 respondents would also have to abide by the order. The case will again come up for hearing on December 7. ● “In addition to the across-the-board reduction, every school will entertain applications for further reduction or waiver or exemption or delayed or instalment payments…” the order says. Every application must be supported by financial statements of the parents or guardians to justify the request. The statements should be certified by a qualified auditor and accompanied by a declaration by the applicant parent or guardian. ● Each application will be considered on merit (by the school). The applications have to be filed by November 15. Every application has to be dealt with separately and the decision communicated to the applicant by December 31. Till the decision is communicated and for a further period of two months thereafter, no coercive action should be taken against the student. ● Parents not happy with the school’s decision may appeal before a committee named by the court on Tuesday. The committee comprises Tilak Bose, senior advocate; Priyanka Agarwal, who appeared for the petitioner parents; and the principal of Heritage School. “The committee must endeavour to dispose of every application within 45 days of the receipt thereof and the decision of the committee will be binding, subject to the relevant schools having a right to apply to this court… for reconsideration there on cogent grounds,” the court has said. By November 30, the committee should indicate a dedicated email account where the appeals against the decisions of the schools on fees may be filed. ● There will be no refund of the fees already paid. “However, to the extent fees have already been paid which are in excess of the directions contained herein, suitable adjustments will be made over the remaining months of the financial year, unless the parents agree in writing otherwise,” the order says. ● For the financial year 2020-2021, a maximum of 5 per cent excess of revenue over expenditure will be permissible; the balance excess (without any mathematical precision) should be passed on by way of general concession or special concession in individual cases of extreme distress. ● If any school makes a loss as a consequence of following these directions, such loss can be made up in course of the next two financial years - 2021-22 and 2022-23 - if normal physical functioning resumes by March 31, 2021. “No amount towards the arrears on account of revision of pay to teachers or other employees can be passed on in the fees for financial year 2020-21. The amount on account of arrears may be recovered in 2021-22 and 2022-23, if normal physical functioning resumes by March 31, 2021,” the order says. It adds: “Parents and guardians of students are requested not to avail of the reduction in school fees if their financial situation does not merit the reduction. However, if any set of guardians or parents obtains the benefit, no questions in such regard can be asked.” ● “No unusual expense should be incurred during financial year 2020-21 and no development or infrastructure expense should be incurred until absolutely unavoidable,” the court said. ● The court’s directive cannot be cited as a precedent. It is only because of the pandemic and “the day's order will remain valid during the closure of schools because of the pandemic”. Counsel appearing for most private schools said af-ter the order that they had no other option left but to move the Supreme Court against the verdict. The bench has decided to monitor the issue till the schools reopen after the pandemic is over. A PIL by social activist Vineet Ruia, who had alleged that several private schools had been disallowing students to attend online classes or write online exams for failing to pay fees during the pandemic. The petitioner had also said the schools were charging fees for services that were not being provided to the students in the absence of on-campus activities. Following the petition, the bench had formed a two member committee headed by Jadavpur University vice chancellor Suranjan Das and directed all 145 respondent schools to submit their income-expenditure accounts to the committee. Tuesday’s order was based on that committee’s report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
