15-10-2020||Calcutta||Fake call centre nets 7 in Lake Town||Seven people were arrested on Tuesday night in connection with a fake call centre being run from a building in Dakshindari near Lake Town, police said. This is the third call centre to be shut down by cops. Callers cheat people by promising them high returns for giving their plots or rooftops on rent to install mobile phone towers on their plots or rooftops against payment. This call centre was known as “Advanced Solution” and it had been running for the past several months, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Their employees mostly men and women in their 20s used to call up people and promise them high returns for reactivating lapsed insurance policies against payment and for giving their rooftops or plots on rent for mobile phone towers, the officer said. The cops raided the call centre after a Jagatpur resident who had been cheated lodged a complaint with Lake Town police station. The police raided the call centre when its employees were at work and seized 40 SIM cards, smartphones and wireless phones, and hard disks. Not only people in Bengal but also in Mizoram and Meghalaya had been targeted, the officer said. “Callers would persuade people to pay a ‘registration fee’ and a ‘no-objection fee’ in the name of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India,” he said. “People have become more aware about frauds involving insurance policies… so, now they are luring people by promising them high returns for installing mobile phone towers,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||CMDA lines up measures for Rabindra Sarobar||The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, has decided on “a number of steps” for better maintenance of the lake environment. Antara Acharya, the chief executive officer of the CMDA, told this to Metro on Wednesday. She said she had toured the lake area at least thrice since the end of September. Her visits followed a Metro report on September 21 that spoke of the sorry state of affairs at Rabindra Sarobar, including the unchecked pollution in the lake waters. “We found a few irregularities and violations and decided to split the 192-acre lake area, starting from the Golpark-end till SP Mukherjee Road, into seven zones — five land zones and two water zones — for better monitoring,” Acharya said. The CMDA is contemplating the creation of a division, specifically for the supervision of lakes, she said. A nodal official has been entrusted with looking after each zone, a CMDA official said. The nodal official will have 10 workers with him/her. In case of any violation, morning workers and environmentalists can complain to such nodal officials. Details about the seven nodal officials and their contact numbers will be displayed at the site office, which has been recently set up at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium complex on the lake grounds. The clubs in the lake area, often held responsible by environmentalists and morning walkers for polluting the lake waters, have been sent various directives. These include: “We plan to rejuvenate the abandoned lily pool, a popular destination for children a few decades ago,” Acharya said. The Metro report on September 21 had highlighted how the lake area was scattered with tree trunks and branches, even four months after Cyclone Amphan had struck. Most of the dead trees have been removed and the lake waters cleaned in the past two weeks, a CMDA official said. “It’s a fact that almost four-fifth of the lake has been cleaned in the past few weeks,” environmentalist S.M. Ghosh, a lake regular and a campaigner for the lake, said. “Yes, the situation has improved considerably since September,” Santanu Chatterjee, a morning walker and activist, said. “Unless there is political willingness, the environment cannot be sustained properly,” environment activist Subhas Datta said, referring to the state government’s appeal before the National Green Tribunal to allow Chhath puja in the lake area. The tribunal has dismissed the plea. Dutta, however, alleged that the government was trying to encourage the puja in electoral interest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||City gets new 10 million gallon water reservoir||A 10 million gallon water reservoir was inaugurated adjacent to the Garden Reach waterworks on Wednesday. The reservoir will help increase the supply to areas south of Bhowanipore that receive potable water from the Garden Reach plant. The plant can produce 185 million gallons of water every day, but there is only one 29 million gallon capacity reservoir to stock water. The new reservoir will start functioning from Thursday; it will increase the storage capacity, a civic engineer said. Rashbehari Avenue, Gariahat, Golpark, Ballygunge, and parts of Kasba and Jadavpur receive potable water from the Garden Reach waterworks. All these places will benefit, the engineer said. “We can now supply water more efficiently. The demand changes with season... the demand is more in the mornings. The additional water in the reservoir can be diverted to areas where demand is more.” A reservoir is required to store the water that is produced during lean periods when the demand is less. “The demand is always less at night. But if we have more storage capacity, we can go on producing water at night that can then be thrust into the supply network in the morning. This will increase the pressure of the flow and take water to pockets that face water shortage now,” the engineer said. Mainak Mukherjee, the chief engineer of the CMC’s water supply department, said the operation of the new reservoir would be completely automated. “There will be minimal human interference. Chances of errors will reduce because of automation. The system will give alerts in case there is any abnormality in any component and this will help address the problem faster.” Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, inaugurated the reservoir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta to Dhaka flights set to resume soon||Passenger flights between Calcutta and Dhaka will resume soon under the air bubble transport arrangement between India and Bangladesh, civil aviation ministry officials said on Wednesday. “It has been decided that passenger flights between India and Bangladesh will start under the air bubble transport arrangement. Flights will operate between Dhaka and Calcutta, Delhi and Mumbai. The modalities of how many Indian and Bangladeshi airlines will operate are being worked out,” said the official. Air bubble arrangements are temporary arrangements between two countries to resume commercial passenger flights because regular international flights have been suspended as a precaution against Covid-19. A few evacuation flights had operated between Calcutta and Dhaka after flights resumed in May but after that there were no flights between the two countries. The Telegraph has earlier reported how the cardiology unit of a hospital in Chittagong, Bangladesh, has remained shut for months because the doctors, nurses and support staff from a hospital in Calcutta who were running the unit returned home following the Covid outbreak and are unable to fly back to Bangladesh. The Indian government has started giving medical visas to Bangladeshis who want to come to Calcutta for treatment. On Wednesday, representatives of the Calcutta Hotels, Guest Houses & Restaurants Owners Association met state’s tourism minister Indranil Sen and sought the government’s help to ensure that Bangaldeshi tourists start visiting Calcutta again. “Budget hotels, guest houses and restaurants around the New Market area are suffering heavy losses because Bangladeshi nationals are not coming,” said Rajesh Sethi, the general secretary of the association. “We have requested the minister to help resume bus and train services. We will also write to the Centre to start issuing tourist visas to Bangladeshis.” Manotosh Saha, an executive committee member of the association, said the rooms were all vacant over the past six months. “I have two guest houses in the area. Both would be 90 per cent full around this time of the year. Now, all rooms are vacant,” he said. The Travel Agents Federation of India, too, wrote to the state government on Wednesday, urging resumption of flights and buses between Calcutta and Dhaka. “Hospitals, guest houses, restaurants, foreign exchange stores, everyone is hit because Bangladeshis are not coming to the city…. We hope flights to Bangladesh will resume soon,” said Anil Punjabi, the chairman of the association’s eastern region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||IIEST to open canteens next month||All shops, including four canteens, on the campus of IIEST Shibpur will be allowed to reopen in phases from November 1 as the institute is preparing to recall PhD and postgraduate students after October 15. An order signed by IIEST registrar Biman Banerjee says the owner of the canteens will be responsible for enforcement of the Covid-19 protocol on the premises once they reopen. The departments have been asked to sanitise their laboratories and equipment, including computers and printers repeatedly before the students arrive. The Centre in its Unlock-V directive has said higher education institutions can reopen from October 15 for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental work. “We have to ensure that the students get to eat something as they arrive on the campus. Therefore the shops and the canteens have been asked to reopen from November 1,” said an official of the institute. “The research scholars and postgraduate students will stay in the hostels meant for them and also in the hostels vacated by graduating students. We want to lodge them in a scattered manner to avoid gatherings”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Hospitals asked to pay compensation for misdiagnosis and wrong treatment||Healthworld Hospitals in Durgapur has to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to a person who has said the hospital treated him for cardiac ailments though he had been admitted with abdominal pain, the state health regulatory commission said on Wednesday. At a hearing held on Wednesday, the commission asked AMRI Salt Lake to return Rs 91,000 to a patient’s family and CMRI to pay a patient Rs 25,000 as compensation. “Krishna Kumar Gupta, 60, was admitted to Healthworld Hospitals in December last year. He said he had abdominal pain but the hospital treated him for cardiac ailments,” Ashim Kumar Banerjee, retired judge and chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said on Wednesday. “He was asked to do an angiogram and an ECG. The hospital did an USG of the abdomen later.” The hospital told the commission that it had gone by the report of an USG Gupta had done at another place, Banerjee said. “But the hospital should have done an USG on its own.” Gupta got himself discharged from the hospital and was detected with a gallbladder ailment when he visited a hospital in Hyderabad. “He was treated for the ailment and is doing well now. We have asked the hospital to pay Rs 50,000 to the man as compensation,” said Banerjee. Probir Mukherjee, the hospital’s executive director, said: “I cannot comment as we are still to receive a copy of the order.” AMRI Salt Lake was asked to return Rs 91,000 to the family of a woman who had to undergo corrective surgery at the hospital following problems after a tumour surgery at the same hospital. The woman later died. “The first surgery cost Rs 2.5 lakh and the corrective surgery Rs 3.5 lakh. Though most of the cost was recovered from insurance, the patient’s family had to pay Rs 91,000 for both surgeries,” Banerjee said. “We felt the hospital had a moral responsibility in this case as the woman had to undergo corrective surgery and that cost more. So, we asked the hospital to return Rs 91,000.” The hospital refused to comment. CMRI was asked to compensate a 23-year-old woman who suffered leg burns while undergoing hip surgery. “She suffered an acetabular fracture. But the burns were detected on the side that did not need surgery. We have asked the hospital to give Rs 25,000 to the woman as compensation,” Banerjee said. A CMRI official said the hospital was still to receive a copy of the order. “We can comment on the next course of action after receiving a copy of the order.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Green tribunal slams Bengal government over CNG delay||The principal bench of the National Green Tribunal has slammed the state government for its “extremely slow pace” in bringing CNG to Calcutta and directed it take expeditious action. The tribunal’s directive, passed on October 12, was available on its website on Wednesday. “The learned counsel appearing for the state expresses inability on part of the state to fix any timeline… we are quite surprised that such a submission should come from the state,” the bench of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda said while hearing a petition filed by environment activist Subhas Datta. “We further notice the extremely slow pace at which the state is proceeding in enabling GAIL (India) Ltd to complete its project. “We accordingly once again direct the state to ensure that action is taken forward expeditiously to deal with the matter relating to re-routing of the pipeline and place before us an action plan with specific timeline in consultation with GAIL.” GAIL, mandated to bring CNG to city via pipeline, has earlier complained to the tribunal that the state has been sitting on its request to make land available for laying the pipeline. “The matter of bringing CNG to Calcutta has been lying since 2007-08 despite repeated judicial orders and two state governments completing their terms… and one is on the verge of doing so… clearly no one is bothered about the lungs of the people,” Datta said. “Bringing CNG to the city is critical for reducing diesel vehicles… diesel emission is primarily responsible for pushing up the level of PM2.5, the most toxic pollutant, in the air,” Anumita Roy Choudhury, an air pollution expert associated with Delhi-based environment think-tank Centre for Science and Environment, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Belur Math shifts Kumari Puja venue||Kumari Puja at Belur Math this Durga Puja will be held on a western balcony of Sri Ramakrishna temple in the presence of only two family members and a handful of monks, a change in practice forced by the Covid-19 pandemic. Kumari Puja was last held on a balcony of the temple 20 years ago. Over the past many years, the ritual used to be performed in the pandal beside the temple where Durga Puja would be held. This year the Goddess, too, will be worshipped inside the Ramakrishna temple. Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission authorities have instructed the would-be Kumari and her parents and close family members to undergo a Covid-19 test. Usually, a number of family members are allowed to accompany the Kumari. This year, however, only two will be allowed. “The family has been instructed to undergo a Covid-19 test and send us copies of the reports,” said a monk of the Math and Mission. “Our President Maharaj, Swami Smaranananda, and several other senior monks will offer flowers at the feet of the Kumari. So utmost precautions are being taken to ensure the coronavirus does not spread during the ritual.” Kumari Puja will be held on October 24 (Ashtami) and streamed live for the benefit of lakhs of devotees who will not be allowed inside the Math because of the pandemic. “There will be no volunteers and the brahmacharis who will perform the rituals will be screened,” an official at Belur Math said. “Unlike other years, the Durga idol will be placed inside the main (Sri Ramakrishna) temple. Markings have been made to demarcate the spots where sannyasis and brahmacharis will sit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Calcutta||ICSE council seeks  X and XII questions||The ICSE council has asked its affiliated schools to send question papers of their internal examinations for Classes X and XII. “We are keen to know the kind of tests conducted (half yearly or unit tests), the standards that have been maintained, the portion of the syllabus covered, the pattern of question papers and the rubrics the schools have followed,” Gerry Arathoon, the secretary and chief executive of the council, told Metro. This is the first time everything is being done online, from teaching to assessment of the children, and the council needs to know how the question papers have been set, said Arathoon. The chief of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations addressed more than 150 principals online at a regional meeting of the Bengal chapter of the Association of Schools for the Indian School Certificate on Wednesday. During the meeting, he asked the principals to send the question papers to the council. “Different schools may be doing it in different ways - some may be setting multiple-choice questions, some one-line answers or a paragraph and some may be giving subjective questions. We will get an idea when we see the question papers,” said Arathoon. “We will want to see only the question papers and that too for the board classes.” While holding the exams, some schools have asked students to write answers and upload them. In some schools, the question paper is a combination of multiple-choice questions and subjective questions for senior classes. Not all schools are setting 100-mark paper; some are opting for papers with less marks. Across the city, schools have been conducting the exams online and in some institutions teachers have devised ways to proctor the examination using technology. In several ICSE and ISC schools, exams were held in September and they were preceded by unit tests. Regarding next year’s board exams, the council could not say anything for certain because of the raging Covid pandemic. “We don’t know when it is going to happen and in what form (pen and paper or online). It will depend on how the situation unfolds,” Arathoon said. Usually, the board exams start in February and the practical tests precede the theory papers. “We have got some plans in mind. But we have to prepare for all eventualities and keep plans in place and fit those plans depending on the prevailing conditions,” Arathoon told this newspaper. He said the council would have to get the nod from the Centre regarding board exams and also find out whether it would be viable for the states to conduct them. “What we understood is that we will have to collate all the tests that we have conducted for Classes X and XII so far and send the question papers to the council. The council will study them,” the principal of an ICSE school said. “Some of our questions are application-based.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Visitor-free Santosh Mitra puja||Santosh Mitra Square in central Calcutta will not allow visitors on its Durga Puja premises except people living in the neighbourhood and carrying photo identity cards, the organisers announced on Wednesday. The move is aimed at avoiding a large gathering and reducing the chances of the spread of the coronavirus. “The people of the locality will need to carry their photo identity cards to enter the premises,”  Sajal Ghosh, the general secretary of the puja committee, said. The Santosh Mitra Square Sarbojanin Durgotsav in Lebutala Park is in its 85th year. Thousands of people queue up for hours every year to get a glimpse of the idol. The proximity to Sealdah station gives many an easy access to the puja. “It was a difficult and heart-breaking decision. But we were left with no other option. We do not want to become a possible reason for causing a spike in the infection,” Ghosh said. People of the area are welcome. “Durga Puja is a community festival. We cannot imagine the celebration without the involvement of the people of the area… they participate in all cultural and social activities of the club throughout the year,” another puja committee member said. The committee has arranged to live-stream the puja rituals and other cultural events on their YouTube channel and Facebook page. “This year, we are requesting people not to come this way… instead catch up with us on our Facebook page and Youtube channel. Ebar-er pujo hetey noy, Net-ey dekhun (don’t walk this Puja, catch us on the Net),” Ghosh said. Although the decision to keep away people may discourage corporate sponsors, Ghosh and fellow organisers have said none of the grandeur in lighting or pandal has been curtailed. The structure of the pandal has been altered according to government instructions but there has been no change to the height and design of the idol, according to organisers. “We had hoped for the Covid numbers to drop before Durga Puja. We never imagined so many people would step out to shop. Even if our decision costs us financially, it is any day better to save lives than money,” Ghosh said. Police said the decision would have an impact on the traffic plan, which would be altered accordingly. “We will have to hold a separate meeting with the organisers to fine-tune crowd management details,” an officer with the central division said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Appeal to doctors: Be in city during Puja||The state clinical establishment commission on Wednesday appealed to doctors at private hospitals not directly involved in Covid treatment to stay in the city during the festive period so they can help their colleagues if there is a spurt in Covid cases. At a news conference on Wednesday, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said the private hospitals would be asked to keep contact details of these doctors so they could be called if there was a surge in the number of Covid patients. Banerjee said it was usual for many doctors to leave the city during Durga Puja. “Our experience shows that doctors such as skin specialists, eye specialists and plastic surgeons are not that burdened with patients during the pandemic. We appeal to them to stay in the city on festival days,” he said. “It is mostly general medicine practitioners, pulmonologists and critical care specialists who are bearing the maximum workload of treating Covid-19 patients. We appeal to other doctors to help their colleagues who are primarily involved in treatment of Covid patients if any emergency arises,” Banerjee said. An official of a private hospital said cardiologists, nephrologists and neurologists, too, were directly involved in managing Covid patients. Sudipto Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said the commission’s appeal would strengthen the hands of the administrations of private hospitals. “This is a very good appeal. The managing director of our hospital had issued an appeal to all doctors to not take leave in October this year. We have received a very good response,” said Mitra. “We are issuing this appeal to doctors through the press and media. We have asked the administrations of private hospitals to talk to their doctors. The private hospitals can keep contact details of all such doctors so their services can be used during an emergency,” said commission chairperson Banerjee. When asked if the commission was making the appeal for only the four days of Durga Puja or for a longer period, Banerjee said: “We are requesting them to stay in the city during the festival period. It is up to the doctors to decide.” An official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said the city was reporting about 500 new Covid-19 cases about a month ago. The daily numbers have gone up to over 700. The count will go up further if people throng the streets and pandals during the Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Migrant Mother as the goddess at Barisha Club in Behala||The Union government might claim ignorance about the plight of migrant workers during the Covid pandemic but a neighbourhood in Calcutta will this year replace the traditional Durga with a migrant mother. An idol of a mother in a pale sari, walking with a shirtless toddler in her arms, will be worshipped as the goddess this year at Barisha Club in Behala. Behind the mother will be her two daughters — one with a baby owl in the crook of her arm and the other caressing a duck. A fourth sibling, pot-bellied and with the head of an elephant, give them company. Together, the mother and her four children are walking towards a small, more traditional image of the goddess with 10 hands inside a halo looking for relief. She is seeking relief for her children. She turns back when someone calls her. The caller realises the migrant woman is the goddess herself and hails her. The idol worshipped at Barisha will be the migrant mother with a child in her arms and three children trailing her. In its 32nd year, the theme at Barisha Club is Tran (Relief). “The goddess is the woman who braved the scorching sun and hunger and penury along with her children. She is looking for food, water and some relief for her children,” said Rintu Das, the artist. The subject narrates what millions of Indians had seen from the comforts of their drawing rooms — millions of migrant workers walking hundreds of miles to return home in the wake of the country-wide lockdown announced suddenly by the Narendra Modi government. Das, a graduate from the Government College of Art and Craft, has been working with big pujas of Calcutta for several years now. This is his third consecutive year with Barisha Club. “During the lockdown, all I remember seeing on TV and reading in newspapers was migrant workers returning home on foot, some of them dying on the road. Some of my friends who drove to Bengal from Delhi and other parts of northern India gave me vivid details of what they saw on the roads. Durga Puja was still months away. But the indomitable spirit of the women walking home with children overwhelmed me. In my mind, they embodied the goddess,” said Das. Durga Puja, Bengal’s biggest carnival, is beyond a religious event. It marks the homecoming of the daughter and is a celebration of womanhood and motherhood. Das’s idol symbolises all these virtues. Barisha Club’s idol will not have weapons. The mother’s face is kind and her eyes are sad but protective. The demon, according to the organisers, is hunger. The goddess will not have weapons. In one arm, she has baby Kartick and an empty bag in the other. There is no weapon and no asura. The sudden announcement of the lockdown compelled millions of migrant workers to return to their home states from their workplaces. The unplanned lockdown, absence of an adequate financial cushion and denial of transport spawned a human tragedy not seen in India since the Partition. Many migrant workers died en route. A research group called the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) said in September that 972 deaths had been counted among migrant workers till July 4 during the course of the lockdown. On September 14, asked in Parliament if any compensation was given to the families of migrant workers who had died, the Centre replied that the question did not arise because no data of people dying on the way were kept. For Das, the opportunity to give a medium to his thoughts came when puja organisers of the club approached him with a problem. The economic slump meant dearth of advertisers and corporate sponsors, leading to a severe budget constraint. The budget last year was over Rs 60,00,000 but this year, getting even a fifth of that amount looked very difficult, said organisers. Das is said to have told the organisers that he was ready to go ahead, whatever the budget was. Under Das’s directions, the goddess and her children are being given finishing touches at a studio in Krishnagar by an idol maker called Pallab Bhaumik. The idols are due to reach the Barisha Club pandal, less than five minutes’ walk from Diamond Harbour Road in Behala Sakherbazar, on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to inaugurate the puja on Friday. The two main components of the pandal are bamboo poles and jute sacks. The sacks were used during a series of donation drives that the club undertook during the lockdown to give rice, pulses and other dry rations to poor and destitute families, like countless other similar campaigns in and around the city. Once ready, the pandal will have elements of a relief distribution camp, said Das. There will be audio clips saying: “Please wear a mask…. Please maintain social distance… No mask, no relief.” Work on the puja started in the third week of September. Till the start of September, the organisers were mulling to organise a “ghot pujo” inside a small club room. “But the artist’s concept changed our minds. The subject is such that it calls for frugality, not splendour. No pandal can fully capture the plight of workers during the lockdown. But we can at least show some empathy,” said Debaprosad Bose, a founder-member of the club and one of organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
