16-10-2020||Calcutta||Festive feast||X-Spicy, Indismart Hotel Where: Sector V Taste case: As part of the Bong Thai Fusion, try Padmar Ilish in Thai Green Curry and Gangar Chingri in Red Curry. Unusual ingredients like lotus stems have been used to make Crispy Fried Honey Chilli Komal Kakri and Thai mangoes lend themselves to make Thai Raw Papaya, Mango and Aamshotto rollups. Restospeak: “Since Bengalis’ favourite Puja getaway — Bangkok — is out of bounds, we have brought home its cuisine and that too with a local twist,” says Somek Choudhury, founder of the Kolkata Food Trotters Facebook group, that is presenting the festival in association with X-Spicy. Price pinch: Rs 899 for a pre-plated meal When: October 21 to 24, noon to 4pm, 7pm to 11pm. Orders must be placed 24 hours in advance. Antipasti, Golden Tulip hotel Where: DD Block Taste case: The festival offers buffet and a la carte with special emphasis on Bengali cuisine. Try Anarasi Pulao where mutton and pineapples are cooked in “dum” style to prepare pulao and served in two halves of a hallowed-out pineapple. They also offer a lesser-known variant of Sukto that makes use of radhuni, poppy and mustard paste and milk instead of water. You love paturi made out of banana leaves, now try bekti paturi wrapped in lotus leaves. Chingri-Mochar Paturi is another favourite of chef Ratan Jana where he sautes prawn and mocha together to create a taste richer than the sum of its parts. At the hotel’s rooftop lounge Noir, kebab platters and vodka-based “Bengali cocktails” using coconut water, lemon and mangoes will be served. Desserts include innovative dishes like Amshotto Sandesh. Restospeak: “Keeping the pandemic in mind we have reduced the price of the buffets and increased the festival duration as we want to welcome as many people as possible. We offer different menus on different days and while Bengali food is the mainstay we shall also offer Asian and Mughlai cuisine,” says general manager Sumanta Maity. Price pinch: Sashthi, Saptami, Dashami buffet at Rs 799; Ashtami, Navami buffet at Rs 899. Kids’ buffet for those up to 10 years of age at Rs 555 (with additional burgers, pasta, brownies etc) When: October 18 (a la carte) to 26 De Sovrani Where: DD Block Taste case: The hotel is laying out two separate buffet meals, one at the first floor restaurant Sand, and the other at Deciduous. The premiere buffet at Sand will have 51 items, including hilsa, mutton and an alcoholic beverage. The economy one will have 40 items. Sky View, the roof-top cafe, will have live music, cocktail pitchers and hookah. Teen Paan Rose and Strawberry Vanilla continue to be the most popular hookah flavours. There are drinks and light meal combinations on offer too. Screening of IPL matches is an added attraction. The ground floor bar will serve unlimited pourings of Indian-made foreign liquor for an hour and half at Rs 1,399. Restospeak: “We are doing our best to ensure a safe, good time for our guests. At the entry point, we are offering foot covers, head covers and gloves. Every table has a sanitiser bottle. Our staff quarters are nearby so they don’t have to commute by public transport. Our cooks have face shields on. We do regular UV treatment of our kitchen,” said Kamalini Paul, managing director. Price pinch: Rs 999 for the premiere buffet, Rs 555 for the economy buffet When: October 22 to 25, noon to 3pm, 7pm to 11pm, (at Library) 11am to 11pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Readers' speak: Doubt cast on road repair before Pujas||I was astonished to read the report titled “Hope of road repair as civic body starts survey,” published on September 18. Roads of Salt Lake are riddled with potholes and the corporation officials are hoping to complete repairs before the Pujas! How will this ever be possible? The festival is around the corner and I wonder if even the funds requested by the local MLA for repairs from the urban development and municipal affairs department have changed hands yet. Parthasarathi Roy,Cluster XI, Purbachal  Container cafe Apropos the article “New Town cafe sets sail in ship container” published on September 18, Cafe@Ecospace is an exemplary initiative courtesy the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). It takes New Town a step ahead in its ongoing effort to smarten up. Not only is the idea of converting a metal vessel into a roadside cuisine eco-friendly, but the lip-smacking menu is also pocket-friendly. The al fresco dining experience complies with social distancing norms too. Above all, in the era of pandemic-induced job losses, the endeavour serves as a model of employment and empowerment of women. Hope the cafe also brightens the famished faces of the passers-by. Sharmistha Dhar,  AC Block  Sweet return It was wonderful to learn that the sweets mall in New Town finally has opened its doors after six long months (“Misti Hub reopens after six months,” published on September 25). This is especially good news for me, as misti is an indispensable part of my life. I can’t imagine a day without eating sweets! Since Misti Hub was inaugurated 2018, I have gone there several times with my family and friends to buy and taste sweets. And now that I now got the good news of its reopening, I shall head to the confectionery mall as soon as possible. Sourish Misra,SA Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
16-10-2020||Calcutta||App to control crowd in pandals||The Bidhannagar Commissionerate is encouraging the use of an app to reduce the crowd in pandals. The app, which went live on Google Playstore on Wednesday evening, is called QU. “This year, the Covid situation is such that we need to restrict the number of visitors inside the pandal to ensure social distancing. The app would allow controlled crowd management,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner, traffic. A puja committee needs to register after downloading the app and post a volunteer each at the entry and the exit of the pandal. They will update the app about the number of people going in and coming out. The app will keep track of the number of people inside. The figure can be tracked by the police to stall visitor entry for some time, if needed, Sarkar pointed out. It can also be used by pandal-hoppers to check if a chosen pandal is crowded — an arrow on a meter points to a green, orange or red band, depending on whether the pandal is empty, moderately crowded or full — and help decide on the time of visit. The app also offers bookings for slots during anjali and sindoor khela. “We added this after the chief minister suggested doing them in batches. The booking has to be made on the day,” said Lalima Chakrabarty of PhoneQ Tech, which has developed the app. She and Rachit Mehrotra thought of the idea in March when social distancing became necessary. A start was made with managing customer queues in medical stores and electronic goods stores. “Then we approached the Bidhannagar Police and it was suggested that we create provisions for puja pandal crowd management,” she added. The developers are talking to the big pujas to bring them on board. “Though our focus is the Bidhannagar area, we have also enlisted Chetla Agrani, Ahiritola, Chorbagan etc.” Several local pujas have agreed to use it. She mentioned AA, AB, AC, BA and CD blocks in Salt Lake and Tarun Sangha and Bharat Chakra in Dum Dum Park. “Our target is 200 pujas,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Online show to evoke pre-Puja feel||Gulabi Gang, a DB Block-based group, hosted an hour-long virtual show on agomoni, titled Bajlo pujor ghanta. The show brought together group members from different parts of the country. Child artiste Sharanya Mitra was up first, pointing to the cheer in the vernal air which indicates the advent of Puja. The most eye-catching segment of the show was Nabadurga, on the nine forms of the goddess worshiped during Navratri, who appeared to the chanting of stotras followed by a narration of the significance of each form. Trident and lotus in hand, Rama Mitra, was Shailaputri, the first incarnation of Durga, who is the daughter of King Himalaya. Indrani Basak logged in from Gurgaon as Brahmacharini, Durga’s meditative form. With a crescent moon on her forehead, Lakshmimoni Sen from Bangalore became Chandraghanta, signifying peace and prosperity. One by one, the others made an appearance — Rinku Banerjee as Kushmanda, the creator of the universe; Mou Dubey as Skandomata, with a lotus in her hand eradicating fear from our minds; a sword-wielding Mohua De Sarkar as Katyayani, the slayer of Mahishasura... The most striking appearance was that of Sonali Basak as Kalratri, the dark-complexioned destroyer of evil spirits who is said to contain the universe in her third eye. The two other forms — Mahagouri and Siddhidatri  — were portrayed by Chandrani Mukherjee and Anjana Banerjee respectively. Sharanya Mitra paid tribute to all nine forms of the goddess by dancing to the song Oi bajey monomajhe agomoni, followed by Sisire sisire sharad akashey. The second phase started with DB Block resident Dhrubojyoti Sarkar  chanting Durgastotra, followed by Priyanka Niyogi’s Bharatnatyam.   Teacher in a distance education institute, Kamalika Banerjee logged in from Delhi to sing and dance to a popular agomoni song Gouri elo dekhbe chalo. “It was really challenging for me to sing and dance together to such a fast song at my age, but I wanted to go back to my childhood days when artists like Jamuna Barua used to perform and sing together. It was exciting to perform all the way from Delhi with my DB Block friends,” the middle-aged lady told The Telegraph later. Somdatta Basak, an IT professional posted in Gurgaon, and homemaker Indrani Basak presented a musical piece titled Matri rupeno sangsthita, with the message of victory of good over evil. Septuagenerian Tarun Mukherjee impressed with his Chandi paath.   “I perform Chandi paath every year on Saptami, Ashtami and Navami since the inception of Durga puja in our block. This chanting comes from my heart. This year, everything is uncertain so I didn’t want to miss this opportunity of chanting the mantras online,” said Mukherjee, a veterinarian by profession. The concluding event was Mou Dubey’s recitation of the poem Abhijojon, written by Bidhiti Chakraborty and highlighting the present condition of women’s safety and urging women to protect themselves by learning self-defence. “People are used to listening to Mahisashurmardini on the radio seven days ahead of Durga puja. Because Mahalaya happened way in advance, this year is an exception. Our attempt was to rekindle the essence of Mahalaya in our mind with Puja finally knocking on our doors. So we organised this show just a week ahead of Puja. To trigger that nostalgic feeling, we even played the signature tune of Akashvani Calcutta that we used to hear since our childhood to begin our virtual show,” said Sonali Basak, the  organiser and director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Puja amid a pandemic||It may not feel like it, but Monday is Tritiya. The big ticket Pujas will be opening on the day and the rest of the week, well, you can hear the priest chanting mantras over the loudspeaker, see your block’s idol over Facebook and shower flowers on the computer screen in the name of pushpanjali. Durga Puja 2020 will be like no other. The festival will be one where despite making ample arrangements, organisers will pray that you stay safe by staying home. “For several years now our puja has been featuring on the list of top five crowd-pullers of The Telegraph Salt Lake and our attempt every year is to reach the number one spot. But this year we have taken a U-turn,” says Moinak Dutta, an organiser from AJ Block. “Never thought I would say this but this year, the less the crowd the better.” Themes come calling Like AJ, most blocks are performing no-frill pujas. But a few are keeping alive their tradition of presenting themes. The FD Block pandal will be decorated in a Jungle Book-like setting but they have reduced their budget by more than half, to Rs 40 lakh. Visitors will have to watch the idol from a distance of 30 feet. “At AE (Part 1) our theme is on how the lockdown has brought people together. “Our budget and pandal are a quarter of last year’s but it will still live up to our reputation,” says block secretary Supriyo Chakraborty. “If people decide to go pandal-hopping they will not miss our block.” For this, there will be fogging machines in the pandal, sanitisers at the gate and those in queue will be asked to stand far apart. New Town’s Balaka Abasan predicts high footfall too. “Most other big pujas have scaled down so people are sure to flock to us,” says secretary Prasanna Kumar Roy. “Even with a meagre budget we are building a spectacular Ram temple but we have ensured that visitors can see the idol without entering the pandal.” Venue change The pandemic has caused some pujas to change the venue, either to curb costs or to make the pandal roomy. Both AE (Part 2) and Purbachal 2R have shifted their pujas outside the community hall. “This year our idol will only be 5ft tall so we had thought of shifting it out of the park and into the community hall,” says Mouli Nath Maji, EC Block secretary. “But the government directive asked for the pandal to be open on three sides and so we let it remain in the park after all. Minus committee Since social distancing made it unsafe to hold meetings, some blocks did not even form puja committees. “Our block committee is organising the puja this year. It wasn’t possible to create a puja sub-committee,” says Parthasarathi Upadhaya of HB Block. At several blocks, the tenure of the block committees has expired but elections were out of the question this summer. “Being a lawyer, I realise the gravity of such a situation and so we could not take any major decisions. We members of the old committee are carrying on as there is no choice,” says Chandra Sekhar Bag of BK Block. Then again, the pandemic has given young blood a chance. “I am usually busy with theatre round the year but this time there are no shows and so I decided to help organise the puja,” says Snehashis Mukherjee of CA Block. The young entrepreneur is the “acting” secretary of the puja committee since elections for the post could not be held. “It is a blessing in disguise actually, since those who usually organise the pujas are senior citizens who cannot roam now.” Priests in quarantine Some blocks have priests coming in from different districts and so organisers, like Purbachal 2R, will have their priest, his helper and the cook check into their community hall a few days in advance and stay put in quarantine. “Our priest hails from Katwa, where Covid isn’t a major issue. So he was planning to saunter in on Panchami by bus and with a gamcha tossed over his nose,” says a shocked Arunabha Hazra of CD Block. “I’ve told him I shall be pick him and his assistant up tomorrow. They’ll live in quarantine on the first floor of our community hall till Lakshmi puja. Their transport, lodging and sanitising fees have driven up our budget but better safe than sorry.” Cultural programmes online “Of all the sacrifices this puja, the cancellation of cultural programmes hurts most,” sighs Upadhaya, better known “natok jethu” in HB Block. “For two months preceding the pujas I coach children and their parents for plays and audio dramas. This year I’m missing it all. We had thought of presenting the plays online but even for that the actors would have to mingle for practise.” At places like New Town’s Greenwood Park, residents will record performances at home and the compiled videos will be uploaded on Puja days on the complex’s Facebook page and the website DurgaFest.com. Major rituals like inauguration and anjali will be streamed live too. CA Block will WhatsApp a PDF document and video to residents with timings and special guideliness for this year.  Their puja will be inaugurated by garbage collectors and night guards — Covid warriors — and will be streamed online. Blocks that haven’t opted for online shows say residents — many of whom are elderly — would struggle with the technology. So they will be airing Chandipath and Mahalaya songs on the loudspeaker as a substitute for live shows.  Dhaak on DJ console The one department Purbachal 2R is not compromising on is dhaakis. “Nothing will feel like the pujas this year but at least residents can shut their eyes and relish the rhythm of the dhaak beating outside their homes,” says joint treasurer Kinshuk Das. Again, the dhakis from Murshidabad will be in quarantine at their hall from beforehand.   CD Block is not taking the chance. “We have cancelled the dhaakis but there will be a DJ console next to the idol belting out dhaaki beats,” promises Arunabha, an achor and DJ who will play the music himself. In the CA Block budget, the lion’s share has gone to the sound system so that every household can hear the goings-on at the pandal. “Also, some block youths will be playing RJ and holding chat shows, quizes and the like over the sound system. Residents will be able to call in with their answers and interact,” says Snehashis. Labony is reducing the number of dhaakis in its famous dhaker badyi show. “Six dhakis will come in place of 10 from Murshidabad,” says secretary Sumit Sarkar.  Festive meals missing Till last year, thousands would dine at puja community lunches and choosing the recipe for these meals would be a matter of great debate. This year most blocks have called off the service. New Town’s Balaka Abasan will be sending home parcels on two days, Salt Lake’s AJ Block has asked residents to come pick up their parcels and take home. “Some residents were requesting parcels but we have refused outright,” says Tapas Sengupta, AE (Part 2). “The purpose of community lunch is to eat together. No family in the block is starving and if the bonding doesn’t happen there is no point in sending packets home. Someone suggested we feed the needy instead but very few would donate money for that. And besides, we would have to hire a bus and bring the needy to the block in the first place. These are impractical suggestions.” At CK-CL Block secretary Shanti Ranjan Paul was getting inundated with requests for meals. “Residents want a break from cooking these four days so we are inviting a restaurant to set up a stall and provide home deliveries. They may earn profit seling snack items but meals they have to provide at subsided rates,” Pal says. Similar is the predicament at IA Block. “IA Block is known as khaiye block,” confesses secretary Sukdeb Saha, “and residents shall be missing the community lunch sorely. I have promised them a feast once the pandemic is over.”  One grand offering Most blocks have reduced the height of their idols but a few have gone for what should be spectacular-looking artwork. “There is hardly anything to look forward to this year so we thought of presenting residents the best possible idol. This is the only department we can indulge in safely so we are getting it sculpted by the renowned Sanatan Rudra Pal,” says Saha of IA Block. AB Block will have an idol by Sanatan Pal. “This year no one is in the mood for themes but we need an idol with expressive features as people are looking for solace from the pandemic. We want an idol that evoke devotion,” says secretary Gopal Dutta. AE (Part 2) decided to get the idol sculpted in the block this year. “Kumartuli is a crowded place this season and it would be risky going there to order, follow up and bring home the idol,” says Sengupta.  Puja without an idol New Town’s CD Block has done away with the idol and will be performing puja on a ghot. “Any idol, no matter how small, would attract devotees. Since many people still refuse to wear masks we thought it would get risky and have done away with the idol altogether,” says Sithi Kana Ghatak, an organiser. This will be the second edition of their puja. Another casualty this season is the puja souvenir. AE (Part 1) has only managed two or three ads and may publish a thin souvenir but IA Block has cancelled it. “The economy is so bad that we don’t have the face to approach any company for a Rs 10,000 cheque,” says Saha. Printing the souvenir costs them Rs 80-90,000.  Coronanjali Anjali arrangements are giving organisers sleepless nights. Residents of FD Block are being discouraged from coming to the pandal for it. “We will send them the link to our Facebook live session where the anjali will be streamed,” says secretary Saumitra Mukherjee. The organisers are sending a packet to every home with four masks, a pen cum sanitiser, a residents’ pass, car parking sticker and an empty packet. “This packet is where we are asking them to collect the flowers that they will offer virtually for anjali. After the Pujas, it will be handed to an NGO to make compost.” In case a resident insists on offering anjali in person, entry will be allowed with mask and sanitisation. “We are hoping not many would step out,” says Mukherjee. CK-CL Block has tied up with a TV channel to screen their anjali live and is hoping residents will follow it from home. HB Block has erected garden umbrellas with baskets for devotees to pray under and offer their flowers in. AJ Block is requesting residents to get their own flowers. Chakraborty of At AE (Part 1) says this is the year for —not pushpanjali but — coronanjali. “We will not allow flowers at all,” he says. “If you join your hands and pray sincerely, the goddess will still hear you out.” “We had screened our anjali on Facebook last year but it more NRIs than residents tuned in. This year we expect better response,” says Bidula Banerjee Ghatak, puja secretary of BL Block. “They will also have loudspeakers emitting chants and limited coupons for those who insist on coming to the venue.” CD Block will stop visitors at the entrance of the hall. “That’s a good 20 feet away from the idol and the idea is that they can get a closer view on Facebook, sitting home,” says Arunabha. The have issued limited coupons for anjali and sindur khela and also downloaded the QU App which will manage crowd and inform users when to come in. Greenwood Park shall go contactless with puja pronami. It has taken up NKDA’s offer of a QR code to enable cash to be digitally deposited. But Sengupta of AE (Part 2) calls organisers to be strict about the protocols. “People are tired of staying home and are sure to venture out, but we have to be strict, even if it means asking come to stand out during anjali. Otherwise, there’s no point sanitising the community hall repeatedly,” he says. At Vedic Village whole fruits will be offered instead of chopped ones, “and to apply tika we shall use tika sticks that I’ve made out of earbuds and cotton and decorated with peacock feather. I had used these last year too but back then it was to avoid sindur from entering nails and the mouth. This year it’s for hygeine purposes,” says Bhawna Shah, one of the organsiers. At FE Block, sweets will not be accepted as offering. “One can at best offer whole fruits and a drop box will be put up for saris,” says an organiser, Basab Basak.  Fund raising trouble Given the state of the economy, asking for “Pujor chanda” has become a touchy subject. “We have brought our budget down to Rs 2 lakh and have not quoted any figure for subsciptions. Residents are free to give whatever they can,” says Bag of BK Block. Last year DB Block had quoted Rs 2,000 as subscription but this year Rs 1,000, 500…anything is acceptable. “We are not forcing anyone. If we fall short we shall pull out of the the block’s savings we have collected by renting out the community hall,” says general secretary Loknath Sastri. “The Rs 50,000 aid from the chief minster will be a great help too. If we are left with any surplus we shall donate to the needy.” The idol at Greenwood Park is a good five feet shorter this year, but the tip for the Kumartuli porters who will deliver it will be no less than other years. “In place of five dhaakis, two will come this time but we will transfer the same amount that we paid last year in the accounts of the others. We believe that the state government’s grant of Rs 50,000 is best spent this way,” says secretary Sukanya Basu. While CD Block appreciates the Rs 50,000, they rue that their sanitisation budget alone will touch Rs 45,000. CA Block started off not seeking ads at all. “Had we got ads we would have to spend it on the puja and make it grand. Not this year,” says Snehashis, who was still approached by a hospital and a new restaurant in their block for sponsorship. AE (Part 1) secretary Chakraborty says many residents are taking advantage of the economy to skip paying. “These residents with rich NRI children claim they have no money for the puja but go all out to buy Rs 1,200 hilsas, which are always out of stock in our markets! This is chance pe dance.” Many residents are reluctant to pay the same sum as last year given that that community lunch has got knocked off. “This is why we are sending them a leaflet with teh budget break-up. They read it and understand that subscriptions only cover the cost of the idol and rituals. Food is paid for by sponsors, who have vanished this year,” says Sengupta of AE (Part 2). Blocks are also requesting online payment but are having to accept cash and cheque from senior citizens. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid-19 infections rise further in Bidhannagar||Salt Lake and its adjoining areas have witnessed a spike in the number of coronavirus cases this month. There has been a rise of at least 1,000 fresh cases in all 41 wards of the Corporation in October. “This could be because people are visiting their workplaces, using public transport as well as visiting shopping hubs ahead of the Pujas,” said a civic official. The figure for active Covid patients at end of September was 7,036 but by October 14, the total number had touched 8,500. However, another civic official pointed out that the rate of recovery had also increased compared to the earlier months. More than 4,000 persons have been cured of Covid although it has claimed at least 52 lives in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area. The upward trend is in sync with the number of cases increasing in the North 24 Parganas. On Wednesday, the total tally in the district stood at 61,629. The number of fresh cases reported on Wednesday across the district stood at a staggering 752 cases while in areas falling under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation the figure was 106. The total number of deaths in the district so far is 1,309 with 14 patients succumbing on Wednesday alone. An official of the health department said they were following all protocols laid down by the government but that people too have to be careful. “Now-a-days we see people moving freely without masks or any care for social distancing,” he complained. “If this continues, no amount of sanitisation will help.” Although Duttabad is the only containment zone in Salt Lake, several blocks, like BE Block, are reeling under the onslaught of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Event to let kids shop for dress||This Sunday, stalls will come up in New Town fair ground solely to welcome young shoppers aged two to 15 years. They will pick a dress of their choice but their parents will not have to foot the bill. An initiative is being taken whereby people are being asked to gift a dress each to about 300 underprivileged children from New Town and its surroundings. “These children never experience the joy of choosing their own dress in a shop before the Pujas. Even when they are gifted a dress, it is either old or a random one chosen by someone else,” said Ankur Roychowdhury, vice-president of New Town Forum & News, a social welfare organisation comprising New Town residents. Arrangements have been made with three dress manufacturing units which will set up shop from 9.30am to 4.30pm on Sunday. “We have given them a price range of Rs 300 to 350 for each dress. Coupons are being given out to the identified children, mentioning the time slot when they should report. We do not want 300 children to turn up together,” he added. Half the kids have been chosen from the slums adjoining Bagjola Canal in Action Area 1 and from Sardarpara on the border of Action Area 3. The others are children of local domestic help and caretakers. While some donors have handed over the price of a dress or two to the organisers, some will visit the spot to witness the children pick up a dress for which they will pay the shop in person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta’s first post-Covid camp in Duttabad ||The first post-Covid health camp of the city took place in Duttabad on Sunday. And given the range of complications that the recovered patients reported, it proved to be what one of the organisers described as “quite a lesson” for the doctors themselves. The camp was organised by Protect the Warriors, an organisation of doctors, in association with Sparsho, an initiative of minister and local MLA Sujit Bose. “The only post-Covid clinic running in the city is in Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. But because it treats Covid patients too, many who have recently recovered from Covid are scared to visit the place. So we thought of taking post-Covid care to such people in the form of local health camps,” said Abhik Ghosh, secretary of the organisation and an ENT specialist residing in CB Block. Since Duttabad has as many as 122 recovered patients and most of them are unlikely to get access to or be serious about proper follow-up treatment, it was decided to hold the first camp there. Response was enthusiastic, with 64 patients, including five children, turning up for the camp, to be checked by 16 doctors from various disciplines. “Covid-19 can lead to complications later, especially for those who took oxygen therapy for 15-20 days,” said infectious diseases specialist at ID hospital Yogiraj Roy. “Covid is a new disease about which we know little. We are finding patients reporting breathing trouble and weakness even a month after recovery. Some develop heart or lung problem. There are also complaints of burning sensation during urination, stomach trouble, fever in the evenings...” said Pritam Roy, state coordinator of World Health Organisation. At the camp, Ghosh came across patients whose sense of taste and smell had not returned even a month and half afterwards. Some had a distorted sense of smell. “They may smell incense sticks while eating mangsho bhaat. Many had such badly damaged lungs that they would have to continue doing breathing exercises and checking on their oxygen level. Also 10 per cent pregnant mothers deliver Covid-positive babies. They also need follow-up treatment.” PTW plans to send teams to puja pandals to educate organisers about Covid protocol on Tritiya and Chaturthi. “We are planning more camps after Puja,” said Ghosh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Idol immersion to be allowed in time slots||This year, you need to get your immersion time and day approved by the police if you plan to go to Upasana Ghat in New Town. The authorities have taken the decision to space out the immersion of idols by giving each puja committee a definite time slot in advance to reduce chances of a big gathering leading to risk of Covid-19 infection. “In the online application that you submit, you have to point out the date and time when you intend to immerse the idol. If a particular time of the day gets overcrowded, we might ask you to change the time or the day,” said deputy commissioner, New Town, Bishop Sarkar. Immersion is allowed from Dashami to Trayodashi (October 26 to 29). Sarkar was addressing an audience of puja organisers of New Town at a meeting called by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority and the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation at Biswa Bangla Convention Centre last week. The police is also discouraging elaborate processions. “The number of participants in the immersion group must be kept to a minimum,” he said. The civic authorities will waive the immersion fee charged from pujas outside New Town this year. It was free for New Town pujas anyway, an official said. Two contests will be organised this time. Speaking at the event, Hidco and NKDA chief Debashis Sen said the dhunuchi dance contest held every year at the immersion ghat will happen with a reduced number of participants. “We are used to groups of 10 or 20 people putting up beautifully choreographed dance sequences. This time the maximum number for participation in the contest will be four,” he said. The NKDA will have a dhaaki in attendance who will play with every group of participants. “You do not need to bring a dhaaki,” Sen said. Labourers will also be provided like every year to pick up the idols from the vehicles right down to immersion in the water, he added. “We will distribute prizes for the contests in December.” Instead of the contest on aesthetic excellence, the civic authorities will award pujas in New Town on the basis of their Covid-19 protection measures, it was announced. The top three Covid-safe pujas will be chosen from housing complexes and blocks. With infection through currency notes being a possibility, NKDA is giving puja organisers an option to avoid contact in collecting pronami. “You can pay the amount you usually do after offering anjali digitally this year. If you approach us with your puja committee’s bank account details, we can generate a QR code for you. A visitor on scanning your code can pay you digitally and the amount will get deposited in your bank account. We will provide the back-end technical help,” Sen said. He urged organisers to try out the option. “After all, we are a Smart City,” he said. Two housing complexes have since approached NKDA for the QR code — Greenwood Park and Animikha Abasan. He also urged puja inaugurations to be done virtually if any guest was to be invited to do the honours. A slide show was put up with the Puja guidelines that had earlier been announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on September 24. In response to the directive to keep three sides of the pandal open, some organisers asked whether they could continue to hold puja in their community hall.  “We are doing it inside the hall for 10 years now,” said a representatives of Jal Vayu Tower. Another puja committee member asked whether keeping three doors open would be safe enough to reduce chances of infection in a hall. “I am not aware of the answer,” Sen said, adding that his advice would be “indirect”. “At Swapna Bhor, we were supposed to hold the puja in the banquet hall. But after the state government’s directive was issued, the puja has been shifted to the verandah outside,” he informed, leaving organisers to make their own deduction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Doctor in ICU as car hits Metro pillar in Calcutta||A doctor driving a Hyundai Venue and another person in the car were critically injured when he apparently lost control and rammed into a Metro pillar near the Avishikta crossing early on Thursday, police said. The vehicle overturned on impact and landed on another four-wheeler moving in the same direction, the police said. Two other people in the Venue and the occupants of the other car escaped unhurt. The doctor, attached with a private medical college and hospital, has been admitted to the ICU of KPC Medical College and Hospital with head injuries. The other person, attached with a city veterinary college, too, is in the ICU with arm injuries, the police said. The doctor has been booked for rash and negligent driving, mischief and causing hurt by a rash and negligent act so as to endanger human life. Occupants of the other vehicle have lodged a complaint against the doctor with Garfa police station. The vehicle was headed towards Garia from the Ruby crossing when the accident occurred around 1.05am. “It is apparent the vehicle was moving at high speed. It is sheer luck that all four occupants survived,” a traffic police officer said. “Also, it is a miracle that occupants of the other car escaped unhurt.” Several motorists who drive on the stretch said it was difficult to negotiate the Metro pillars. “There are stretches where one has to drive slowly to negotiate the pillars that have come up in the middle of the road. A slight lack of concentration or speeding can prove costly,” Debraj Chatterjee, who travels on the Bypass every day, said. Officers of Garfa police station said the Venue would undergo a mechanical examination to ascertain the exact cause of the accident. The doctor lives in Jadavpur while the other occupants are from Garia and Kamalgazi on the city’s southern outskirts and Nadia district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||New Town gets  e-waste museum||The New Town authorities will upcycle waste items collected from its three action areas and Sector V in Salt Lake to prevent waste and hazardous materials from stockpiling at dumping sites. From old smartphones to used drinking water jars, garments and electronic gadgets will be collected from residents and offices. For this, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority inaugurated a waste museum and a store for upcycled products near the New Town bus stop on Thursday. The NKDA has partnered with the Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage, an NGO that works with women self-help groups, to upcycle waste items collected. Women from more than 100 self-help groups will make bags, furniture, jewellery and home decoration items from waste items. The finished products will be put up for sale at a display counter. The Merlin Group has partnered with the NKDA and will display upscaled items at the Acropolis shopping mall in Kasba. The NKDA will train residents in segregating waste at source and in recycling techniques. Those who want to discard waste items, including e-waste such as used laptops, mobile phones and other gadgets, can do so at the waste museum, Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said. “We want to encourage residents to recycle and upcycle waste items.” E-waste has proved to be the most dangerous. “E-waste is often burnt or dismantled manually. The ash finds its way into canals or streams. The items that cannot be reused are left at dumping sites… they release corrosive chemicals into the ground,” Sen said. India is among the top five e-waste generating countries in the world, according to a report published last year by the trade body Assocham and NEC Technologies India Pvt Ltd. China, Japan, Germany, and the US are ahead of India. Maharashtra produces maximum e-waste in the country — 19.8 per cent of the country’s share. Bengal is at 9.8 per cent. The global volume of e-waste is expected to reach 52.2 million tonnes by 2021 from 44.7 million tonnes in 2016, according to the report. The volume of e-waste will keep rising exponentially because of the rise in the use of electrical and electronic equipment, a report by the World Health Organisation says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Book an e-pass for Covid protocol-compliant pandal visits ||Best pujas, check. No queues, check. Social distance, check. Calcutta’s top pujas have come together for a project that would allow visitors access to the pandals without waiting in queues and by maintaining social distance. The project is not some virtual tour and people will very much be able to visit the pandals in person. All one has to do is buy an e-pass that would pre-book slots at 41 big-ticket pujas in the city. The Forum for Durgotsab presents Puja ePass, partnered by The Telegraph, was formally launched on Wednesday. An e-pass for a single person costs Rs 236. The maximum number of persons for whom passes can be booked at one go is 20. On offer is a bouquet of 41 top pujas of the city, where visits can be planned in advance. The pujas can be visited on five days, from Panchami to Navami. Each day has been divided into four six-hour slots. The booking process is simple (see chart). After a person books the slots, the link of a QR code will be sent to his registered e-mail address. The code has to be displayed at the entry points of the pandals. “There will be an exclusive gate for e-pass holders. They will undergo a thermal scanning before entering the pandal. They do not have to wait in queues. The idea is to plan in advance and have a safe tour, by maintaining proper Covid-19 protocols,” said Saswata Basu, general secretary of the forum, an association of over 350 Durga Pujas in and around Calcutta. Basu is also the convener of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgostav Committee, one of the 41 pujas that have collabo-rated in the project. “There will be a cap on passes issued for each slot so that the number of visitors is manageable. Restricted entry, no queue and fixed timings make this a safe venture, in keeping with the guidelines of the state government,” said another organiser managing the back-end operations of the project. The system is also convenient for large groups and people who come from outside Calcutta, he said. The Covid-19 pandemic had cast a cloud on Bengal’s biggest carnival this year. The puja organisers were doubtful of being able to go ahead with the festivities. But on September 25, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had laid out the plan for Durga Puja 2020, issuing guidelines from inauguration to immersion. The directives, issued keeping the spread of Covid-19 in mind, include spacious pandals, low-key inaugurations, pandal-hopping between Tritiya and Ekadashi and staggered timings for anjali and sindoor khela. “The e-pass system is unique and useful. We are used to having around five lakh visitors each day during the Puja. Even if there are a few thousand e-pass holders in a fixed time slot, managing them with due social distancing protocols will not be tough for us,” said Partho Ghosh, general secretary of Shibmandir Sarbojonin Durgotsab, one of the popular pujas of south Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Former journalist and broadcaster Kishore Bhimani passes away||Kishore Bhimani, former journalist and broadcaster whose voice brought the action on 22 yards alive on radio and television for generations of cricket lovers, passed away on Thursday. He was 81. He was admitted to Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital since September 14. He is survived by wife Rita Bhimani and son Gautam. Bishen Singh Bedi described Bhimani as “one of the good old-fashioned crkt writer(s)” in a tweet. Commentator Harsha Bhogle told Metro: “Kishore was part of a generation where people covered cricket with an understanding of life. He understood finance, business, horses, music…his connection with the rock music world was legendary. He brought that perspective to cricket. His heart bled for Calcutta. He knew everybody. His house was open. He enjoyed the good life. His joie de vivre is what I remember most about him.” Educated at the London School of Economics and St Xavier’s College, Bhimani covered 157 Test matches and 203 one-dayers. Among them were tours like the West Indies in 1976 and England in 1986, as also milestone moments like Sunil Gavaskar reaching 10,000 runs in 1987 and the final over of the India-Australia tied test in 1986. “‘It’s a tie, it’s tie,’ he repeated in his staccato voice on air as Maninder Singh was adjudged leg before wicket to Greg Matthews. Those words reflected the shock of all viewers,” recalled Malavika Banerjee, director of the Kolkata Literary Meet where Bhimani was in conversation with Sunil Gavaskar in 2017. “Gavaskar had asked for him,” she said. Bhimani was close to many overseas players too. The likes of Clive Lloyd, Viv Richards and Imran Khan would drop by at his house. “He was a great raconteur, an encyclopaedia of cricket anecdotes,” said former Bengal captain and national selector Sambaran Banerjee. He compiled and authored over a dozen books, including a novel called The Accidental Godman in 2012. A steward at the Royal Calcutta Turf Club for five years from 2006, he was fond of racing. “He (Bhimani) owned his first horse Time and Tide in the early 70s,” said Pritheesh Verma, a judge at RCTC. “He would jointly own a horse with Ravi Shastri in later years,” added Cyrus Madan, one of the stewards now. In the 70s, he was the official commentator at the races. “He was already commentating on cricket and football. In later years, he and I commentated on rugby too at CC&FC,” Madan said. Bhimani also had a tremendous passion for theatre. “He was a good poker player too,” added Varma. “He could converse with people both older and younger to him and make them feel at home. He had a tremendous sense of humour,” Madan said. His entry into cricket commentary was “accidental”. “He went to cover a domestic cricket match because the regular cricket correspondent was absent,” wrote friend and colleague Utpal Chatterjee, a former sheriff of Calcutta, in a social media post. Bhimani wrote in The Statesman on the historic victory in April 1976: “In the dusty twilight of a deserted stadium I gaze upon a wizened old groundsman sweeping away…. So much has happened here in the dressing room under the Geddes Grant Stand — Lloyd’s decision to declare; the promotion of ‘Jimmy’ Amarnath and Bishen’s persistence with his own bowling and the confident last-ditch stand of the never-say-die Patel and Madan Lal and the lone Indian cheering hoarse in the Errol dos Santos Stand…”. Readers would agree cricket reporting prospered for the “accident”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Why celebration? Calcutta High Court asks||The high court on Thursday asked the Bengal government what was the need to celebrate festivals at a time schools and colleges are closed for so long because of a pandemic. Justice Sanjib Banerjee, the senior judge on a division bench that was hearing a public interest litigation, raised the question and several others. Some of them were: The division bench posed the questions to the state’s advocate-general, Kishore Datta, after he submitted that 37,000 clubs had been given a dole of Rs 50,000 each so they could distribute masks and sanitisers among people. Each of the clubs has been organising Durga Puja for at least 10 years. The court also asked why the government could not distribute the masks and sanitisers through police? “What is the necessity to engage Puja committees in the distribution of masks and sanitisers?” Justice Banerjee asked. The bench was hearing a petition by a leader of the CPM’s labour arm, Saurav Das, who had challenged the government’s decision to give doles to Puja organisers. Counsel for the petitioner and senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya submitted before the bench that the government was encouraging the organisers to hold Puja without taking precautions against the spread of Covid-19. “There is every possibility of a massive spread of the disease after the Puja,” Bhattacharyya said. At this, Justice Banerjee asked the advocate-general: "Where is the blueprint of your safeguard measures?” He asked the lawyers from both sides to sit together to chalk out a blueprint of possible protection measures. The bench scheduled the next hearing for Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Three colleges seek tips from RKM Vidyamandira||Representatives of three colleges have approached Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, for advice on how to improve their positions in national ranking exercises. The education ministry has recently asked Vidyamandira, an autonomous college, to mentor other colleges because of its consistent stellar performance in the ranking exercise, National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). The three colleges have sought to know how to prepare themselves better for the evaluations carried out by the NIRF authorities and NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council), said Swami Ekachittananda, the officiating principal of the college. “The representatives of the colleges have approached us verbally seeking to know how we can mentor them in those areas. We will soon meet to decide on what the college can do,” the Swami told Metro. Of the three institutions that approached Vidyamandira, two are run by the government and one is a private engineering college. Vidyamandira had ranked ninth, 11th and seventh in NIRF in 2018, 2019 and 2020. In October 2013, the college had been re-accredited by NAAC with Grade A (highest grade). A teacher at Vidyamandira said it was important to keep track of the data of the crucial academic activities and other engagements and submit a comprehensive report for the assessments – an area where the colleges in Bengal are found wanting. “You need to have comprehensive data on total citation count over the previous three years, number of publications, patents published and granted. Many institutions do not maintain data and they need to be mentored in these areas,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Most cinemas shut on Day 1 of reopening in Calcutta||Most cinema halls in Calcutta remained shut on Thursday, the day the Union home ministry had said they could reopen from. Inox Swabhumi and Madhyamgram were among the multiplexes that opened on Thursday with 50 per cent seating capacity. On offer was a string of re-released Hindi films. A spokesperson declined comment on the footfall. The remaining cinema halls of the chain will open in the coming days according to operational readiness, the spokesperson said. Some popular halls in Calcutta, like Priya and Menoka, should open doors on Friday, said sources in the Eastern India Motion Pictures association. Last-minute preparations — to ensure Covid-19 protocols are in place before opening — were underway at both halls on Thursday. Friday is the usual date of film releases. Some more halls are likely to reopen by next weekend. A string of Bengali films — such as Koel Mallick-starrer Rawkto Rawhoshyo and Mimi Chakraborty-Anirban Bhattacharya-starrer Dracula Sir — is due for release on October 21 (Panchami). No big-budget Hindi film is going to be released any time soon and Sushant Singh Rajput’s old films are the best bet for some exhibitors once the halls re-open. When the halls resume operations, the number of daily shows will be curtailed at many. “Apart from banking on the traditional association between the Puja and Bengali films, there is not much we can do,” said an exhibitor who owns halls in Calcutta and outside. Hall owners are desperately waiting for the release of big-ticket Hindi films but that is not likely before Christmas. Some of the halls which are dependent on Hindi films only — like Paradise in Esplanade — have not yet decided on the date of re-opening. “There is no point in running old films,” said Debashish Dey, in charge of operations at Paradise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Bengal calls for regular London flight||The state government has requested the civil aviation ministry to introduce a regular passenger flight from Calcutta to London and to at least another destination in Europe. Air India officials said there were very low bookings on the London flight now but tour operators feel the demand would have been more had the airline increased the frequency. “Cities like London, Frankfurt and Amsterdam used to be having regular flights directly with us. The subsequent discontinuations have adversely affected Bengal and the entire eastern and northeastern part of our country,” Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopdhyay wrote to civil aviation secretary P.S. Kahrola. “We look forward to your introduction from Kolkata at least one direct daily flight to London and another one to any other important destination in Europe.” Air India had announced that it would run Calcutta-London flights till October 24 but later extended the date till March under an air bubble transport arrangement. Air India sources said the demand for seats on the London flight was low and that is why the frequency, now twice a week, would be reduced to once a week from November. But tour operators said the demand would have risen had the frequency of the flight been increased and tickets sold onwards from London. " “The demand needs to be created by selling tickets onwards from London to other European destinations and the US, where many students and businessmen want to travel,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. Dubai flights Emirates, IndiGo and SpiceJet are operating flights between Calcutta and Dubai under the air bubble transport agreement. A  SpiceJet official said the demand for seats was “satisfactory” on the Dubai flights. It is now operating three flights in a week to the UAE destination. Fly Dubai, another Dubai-based airline has also opened bookings for flights to and from Calcutta on October 20, 21, 28 and 29, said sources. The airline has written to the tour operators for the bookings. Metro reported on Thursday that the civil aviation ministry had decided to allow flights between Calcutta and Dhaka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Clinic tie-up plan to fight Puja surge in Calcutta||The state government has asked private hospitals to tie up with nursing homes so that the bigger healthcare units can create more critical care beds for Covid-19 patients while patients with moderate symptoms can be treated at the smaller facilities. The government made the plea at a meeting on Wednesday, where private hospitals were also told that they would be given the licence to install equipment for treating Covid patients at the satellite units they have set up in hotels. The state government had earlier asked private hospitals to increase the number of beds ahead of the festival season, apprehending a sharp rise in the number of Covid cases during and after the Puja. “We have asked the hospitals to tie up with nursing homes so the Covid treatment infrastructure can be augmented. Patients with moderate symptoms can be treated at nursing homes under the supervision of doctors of the hospitals with which the tie-up has been done. If the patient’s condition becomes critical, the person can be shifted to hospital,” Bengal health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said on Thursday. Many private hospitals have said they will convert general beds dedicated for Covid treatment into critical care beds, in anticipation of a surge in the number of critical Covid patients. Many private hospitals have told the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission that they will together add about 500 Covid beds before the Puja. But government officials said that might not be enough. Hence, the request to tie up with nursing homes. “We have tied up with 20-odd nursing homes in and around Calcutta. Our doctors and nurses are going to these nursing homes to treat Covid patients when required,” said Rupak Barua, the Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. “Many patients are reluctant to go to nursing homes because they are not sure about the facilities there. A tie-up between hospitals and nursing homes will boost their confidence,” Barua said. An official of a nursing home in Calcutta said nursing homes had difficulty accommodating Covid patients because of lack of infrastructure. The health department has also offered to provide a clinical establishment licence for the satellite facilities set up by hospitals in hotels. “If we get the licence, basic monitors can be installed and we can keep crash trolleys with equipment to treat a patient who collapses suddenly. Also, oxygen cylinders can be kept,” said R, Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which has two satellite units. “Now, we keep only patients with mild or no symptoms in satellite units. If these equipment are installed, patients with moderate symptoms can be kept there, too,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta walk for Stan Swamy||A march that will not differentiate between religions and political affiliations to show solidarity with Father Stan Swamy and demand his release from jail will be led by St Xavier’s University vice-chancellor Father J. Felix Raj in Calcutta on Saturday afternoon. The protest organised by the Mother Teresa International Award Committee will start from St Xavier’s College on Park Street and end in front of the statue of Mother Teresa at the Park Street-Camac Street crossing. “There are protests, rallies, solidarity marches all over the country and in international forums. So far there have been none in Calcutta. This is the first solidarity march here and this march is irrespective of religion, irrespective of political affiliation and to show solidarity to Father Stan Swamy, who is 83 years old,” Fr Felix Raj said. “India is a country where senior citizens are respected and there should be a compassionate, concerned approach for them. If the police think there is something they should investigate. But be more compassionate --- not only this Jesuit father but all senior citizens should be treated with compassion. I want the government to change the attitude of arresting and keeping in jail any senior citizen.” Fr Stan Swamy was arrested in Ranchi on October 8, taken to Mumbai the next morning and sent to judicial custody till October 23. Father Stan Swamy is a Jesuit from the Jamshedpur province of the Jesuit Order. Fr Felix Raj said: “Fr Stan speaks for the poor and their rights. He has a spirit like Mother Teresa. He is fearless and only fears God, for he knows he is serving him by serving the poor.” The Mother Teresa International Award Committee, which has called for the walk, is a secular body started in 2001. The committee has been handing out awards to distinguished people from across the world in fields like education, social work, sports and culture. “The arrest is politically motivated. As a true Jesuit who follows Christ, Fr Stan Swamy is sharing in the sufferings of Christ for the sake of justice and truth.… It is time for all academicians, thinkers, philosophers, theologians and the like to come out openly and speak out against the arrest of activists and acts of injustice,” Fr Felix Raj had written in this newspaper. Fr Felix Raj said he had written to the Prime Minister asking for the release of Fr Stan Swamy. “I have written to the Prime Minister, asking for his intervention in this and considering the advanced age of this Jesuit father,” he said. Invitations to the walk have been sent to various churches. In line with the pandemic-induced restrictions, the organisers are keen to ensure that not more than 50 people assemble. “The idea is to express solidarity in spirit and not in numbers. Let it spread out to many more places and many more days -- that may be more powerful,” said Fr Felix Raj. After the first walk on Saturday, the churches will be asked to hold walks or protests independently. The chairman of the award committee, Anthony Arun Biswas, said it would be a peaceful procession against injustice. “Fr Stan Swamy is someone who has been serving the poorest of the poor and we protest against this injustice of keeping him in jail in an unjust way. We demand his immediate release,” said Biswas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
