17-10-2020||Calcutta||Should I go pandal-hopping?||⚫Daktarbabu, when will Covid go away? ⚫Can I go for Puja shopping? ⚫I am planning my daughter’s wedding in January, will it be possible? The Covid-19 pandemic has changed a lot of things in our lives, including the questions we ask doctors. Queries once reserved for astrologers are now being directed at doctors. One doctor recently received a handwritten letter from a patient which contained questions like whether he could go out to buy milk or drink warm water mixed with fresh lime juice. “Most of these questions are not related to treatment. But we understand that people are now under a lot of stress and are often unsure about taking any decision,” said a public health expert. From travel plans to children’s marriage, many are turning to doctors for advice. The Telegraph spoke to some leading doctors in the city — surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay, pulmonologist Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, nephrologist Arup Ratan Dutta, psychiatrist Ranadip Ghosh Ray and liver diseases specialist and public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury — to know some of the questions people are asking and the answers. When will Covid go away? None of the doctors, public health experts or scientists dealing with viruses knows the answer. In all likelihood, Covid will stay like most other viruses and can mutate. We have to wait for some time to know the answer. When the vaccine arrives, can I return to normal life after getting a shot? There are several unanswered questions like when a Covid vaccine will arrive, when it will be available for mass distribution and how effective it will be. “The influenza vaccine provides only 60 per cent protection, so we are not sure about the effectiveness of the Covid vaccine,” said one of the doctors. Air pollution is again rising after the lockdown norms were eased. Does increased air pollution make me more vulnerable to Covid? Air pollution has no direct link with someone getting infected by the coronavirus. But there is definitely an indirect link, said doctors. “Dust particles enter our lower respira-tory system and prolonged exposure to air pollution compromises the condition of the lungs. Since Covid-19 essentially attacks the respiratory system, someone with compromised lungs is more likely to become critical,” said a doctor. Can I go for Puja shopping? This is a public health issue. Public health experts and the state government are apprehending a spike in the number of Covid cases during and after the festival season. Shopping in a crowded place is one of the worries. One should take adequate precautions like wearing masks, sanitising hands and avoiding touch as much as possible. These measures will definitely bring down the risks. Is it safe to go pandal-hopping? Like shopping, one should take necessary precautions. It’s better to avoid crowded pandals. The best option is to stay home. If I meet friends and relatives and go pandal-hopping on all Puja days like before, will anything happen to me? No one has an answer to this question. The higher the exposure, the more the risk of getting infected by the coronavirus. The problem is many infected people are asymp-tomatic and temperature checks at pandals, shopping malls and restaurants will not be able to detect infected persons. So doctors are advising people to celebrate in a restricted manner and take as many protections as possible. Again, the best option is to stay home. If I have Covid, will it stay in our genes and affect the next generation? Covid is extremely contagious. So, a Covid patient is kept in isolation. But there is no scientific data suggesting that the virus stays in genes. Will I be able to fight Covid better if I drink warm water mixed with fresh lime juice on an empty stomach? Will multi-vitamin pills protect me from Covid? Micronutrients such as Vitamin C and zinc are important to develop the immune system and play a vital role in promoting health and nutritional well-being.  However, there is no scientific evidence that micronutrient supplements can play a role in Covid treatment. Is it safe for me to travel to Mumbai to meet a relative or for the relative to visit me in Calcutta? Mumbai has a high number of Covid cases and in Calcutta, too, cases are rising every day. People are now flying between Mumbai and Calcutta. If one takes proper precautions all through, it does not matter who goes where. Can I go on a holiday? Travelling is not advised by public health experts at the moment unless it is absolutely necessary. Also, regular international flights and long distance trains have not yet resumed. But, people are planning holidays. Taking precautions is important. One should go through government advisories carefully. My daughter’s wedding has long been scheduled for January. Can I go ahead with the plans? The state government is allo-wing wedding ceremonies. But social distancing should be maintained and the number of guests needs to be restricted. Can I visit the market to buy vegetables and fish? Can I go out to buy milk? People are going out to buy stuff, so there is no reason why one should not. But those with co-morbidities and el-derly people should avoid going to markets and other congested places. Anyone visiting shops must wear masks and sanitise hands frequently. Can I colour my hair? The state government has allowed parlours to reopen. So one can visit a parlour provided the staff are maintaining all hygiene norms prescribed by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||BP Poddar Hospital asked to return Rs 1.7 lakh||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Friday asked BP Poddar Hospital to return Rs 1.7 lakh to a Covid patient’s family after they complained that they had not been given any bill and the hospital failed to furnish any record. The private hospital in Alipore was also asked to return Rs 14,000 to a Covid patient who was admitted there from June 13 to 16. The hospital had charged Rs 28,901 as non-medical expense and a good part of it comprised PPE charges that exceeded the ceiling imposed by the state government, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said. The government had on June 26 announced that private hospitals could not charge a patient more than Rs 1,000 for PPE per day. The hospital had billed a woman Rs 3.5 lakh for undergoing treatment for Covid from July 11 to 19. “The woman’s family had complained that they were not given a bill. We asked the hospital to give us a copy of the bill but they could not,” Banerjee said. “We asked the hospital to keep Rs 1.8 lakh — Rs 20,000 for each day of the patient’s nine-day stay there — and refund the rest,” Banerjee said. Mohit D. Bhagat, the assistant general manager of the hospital, said he had to go through a copy of the order before commenting. “But how is it possible for someone to pay Rs 3.5 lakh without any bill? The amount is important enough for the person to approach the commission,” Bhagat said. As for the commission’s order in response to the other complaint against the hospital, Bhagat said: “We will do the needful as per law”. The commission asked the RN Tagore Institute of Cardiac Sciences to return to a patient the Rs 1,700 it had charged for a prostate-specific antigen test. The patient said he underwent the test at the hospital but the report was from Dr Lal PathLabs. “The charge of the test was way above that of the laboratory (Dr Lal PathLabs) or most other reputable laboratories,” said Banerjee. “The hospital said during the hearing that their equipment to do the PSA test was not working. But they could not give any justification for charging the patient Rs 1,700 for the test. The laboratory (Dr Lal PathLabs) charges only Rs 760. Another very reputable laboratory charges Rs 700,” he said. An official of the hospital said: “We will comply by the order”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Hope in Puja rain forecast||The Met office has predicted a rain-soaked Durga Puja, which public health experts consider good news in the season of pandemic as showers could prevent crowding at pandals and a consequent surge in Covid cases. Satellite images studied by the Met office predicted a rainy spell in Calcutta and the rest of south Bengal between October 21 and 26 (Panchami and Dashami). The intensity of the rain is likely to peak on October 22, 23 and 24 (Sashthi, Saptami and Ashtami), according to the forecast. The southwest monsoon starts withdrawing from the city from the middle of October. But not this year, said a Met official. “The usual date of its withdrawal is October 12. But monsoon is witnessing a delayed withdrawal this year. A low-pressure area is likely to form over central Bay of Bengal on October 19 and become more marked over the next 24 hours,” said a statement from the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The system is likely to move towards the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast. But a trough of low pressure is likely to form, extending from the system to Bangladesh. Under the combined influence of the two systems, south Bengal will see significant incursion of moisture-laden south-westerly winds,” said G.K. Das, the director of the IMD, Calcutta. “Calcutta is tipped to get multiple spells of rain from October 21. The showers will last for the next five days. The intensity is likely to peak on October 22 to 24,” said Das. Because of high moisture incursion, the days are likely to be sweaty and uncomfortable, he said. Doctors and public health experts are fearing a surge in the Covid-19 numbers after the Puja. The state government has asked the private health-care sector for more beds on standby. “The rains might just help in arresting the surge if people chose to stay indoors,” said a public health expert. Last year and the year before had seen rain-free Durga Puja. But for Calcuttans, rain often emerges as the real Mahishasura during the Puja. Last year, the Met office had issued a similar forecast — rainy but not a washout — for the Puja. Saptami to Dashami were humid but there was very little rain. It poured on Ekadashi. The days leading to the Puja are likely to be sunny and hot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Kumartuli Sarbojonin  takes puja to Amphan-scarred Kultali||When Devipaksha starts on Saturday members of a Kumartuli puja committee will be busy with the idol in their neighbourhood. A few others will be in Kultali, about 100km from the city, overseeing puja preparations there. This year, Kumartuli Sarbojonin Durgotsav Committee has decided to organise Durga Puja for some 800-odd residents of Shyamnagar, a village in Kultali, still struggling to recover in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. This will be the first time a Durga Puja will be held at Shyamnagar and members of the Kumartuli puja committee have decided to adorn the interiors of their pandal at Kumartuli with pictures of gleaming faces from this village. “The cyclone had left behind a trail of devastation; we were looking to visit a village with relief materials. We contacted some of our men in Kultali who visit us every year to help us lift the Durga idol. They recommended Shyamnagar,” Debasish Bhattacharya of Kumartuli sarbojonin said. “We have decided to hold a small puja at this village, utilising a portion of our funds. The smiling faces of these villagers during Durga Puja will be our biggest reward.” After the initial rounds of visits to Shyamnagar, the committee members sat down with some of the villagers in September and finalised the plan to organise Durga Puja there. A small ground at the end of the village was identified for the villagers to set up a small pandal. The Kumar-tuli sarbojonin members will take the idol from Calcutta, along with various items needed for Durga Puja. The puja will be organised at an estimated cost of Rs 3 lakh. In Calcutta, the committee members decided to trim down their puja expenses to meet the expenses of the puja in Kultali and accordingly two idols were ordered, the one for Shyamnagar smaller. “While going through some of photographs of our visit to Shyamnagar, we decided to decorate our pandal with the faces of villagers. We will have them framed and they will be all over the interiors of the pandal,” a committee member said. The decision to organise the Durga Puja brought smiles on the faces of Shyamnagar villagers, many of who usually walk down a kilometre to be part of the festival in an adjoining village every year. “Amader pujo chhilo na. Ei bar hobey (We did not have a puja of ours; this time we will have one),” Alok Das, a villager, said. Some villagers were sceptical about outsiders organising Durga Puja. A few had asked if this would be the first and last time. “We assured the villagers we would with them till they were ready to organise a puja on their own,” Bhattacharya said. “The idea is to ensure when we see the lights in Calcutta, our brothers and sisters in Shyamnagar, too, will enjoy theirs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Winter steps listed for healthy lungs||Prevent burning of waste, compel all builders to ensure construction materials are covered, stop running commercial vehicles aged 15 years or older, and encourage work from home at least till the end of winter. These are some of the steps that can save Calcuttans from inhaling poor air during winter as it can leave their lungs compromised during the pandemic, doctors and air quality management specialists have said. The authorities are aware of this but how well these steps are implemented will determine whether Calcuttans breathe clean air this winter, Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of the Centre for Science and Environment, said. The research and advocacy organisation based in Delhi works on environment issues. The ultra-fine pollutant in air, PM2.5, can enter the lungs and trigger symptoms like asthma, pulmonologist Ajoy Sarkar said. Covid-19 has been affecting lungs among other organs, he said. “The smaller particles can go inside the alveoli and respiratory bronchioles and cause bronchospasm, which is narrowing of the bronchi. The function of the lungs will get affected.” If someone whose lungs are already compromised gets infected with the coronavirus, that person can develop serious complications, Sarkar said. “The absence of enough wind during winter traps pollutants closer to the ground. The authorities in Calcutta have to ensure that local generators of pollutants are reined in so that they do not add to the existing pollutants in the air,” Roy Chowdhury said. Kalyan Rudra, the chairperson of the state pollution control board, said the state government had “used water sprinklers very effectively last year to prevent dust from rising”. “District magistrates are alerted the moment burning of crop residue is noticed so that it is stopped.” Rudra said a panel headed by a chief secretary was working on replacing old commercial vehicles. Air quality experts said the government should prevent the entry of such vehicles to Calcutta, at least till the end of winter keeping in mind the pandemic. Roy Chowdhury stressed the need to continue “working from home”. Before the pandemic, people were urged to use public buses to reduce the number of private cars on roads. “But crowded public buses are not viable now… which means the number of private cars can go up and increase the pollution levels.” “The government must ask private companies and even its employees to work from home for a longer period. This will reduce the number of vehicles on roads, which in turn will reduce the emission of particulate matters,” she said. Burning waste material is common in the city. Road cleaners of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation can often be seen burning dry leaves. This releases an infinite number of particles, which rise in the air or settle in the ground and get further broken down when vehicles run over them, resuspend in the air and enter the lungs when people breathe, according to air experts. Similar particles are emitted by old commercial vehicles and coal ovens. “There are other factors that contribute to air pollution in Calcutta such as trans-boundary pollution. Pollutants from Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh flow into the state with wind,” an air quality expert said. “Pollutants generated from burning crop residue in various districts add to the pollution in Calcutta.” Controlling pollution from other states will take time and the involvement of other states but controlling local sources of pollution is up to the state government and it can be achieved faster, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Driver run over in road rage||A government bus driver who got off the bus to confront a private bus driver on BT Road on Friday was run over and killed when the other driver tried to flee, police said. The accident occurred near Chiria More in north Calcutta on the Dunlop-bound flank of BT Road in the afternoon. Both buses on route 78 (Barrackpore-Aurobindo Sarani- Barrackpore) were moving in the same direction when the private bus apparently grazed and broke the government bus’s  right rear-view mirror while overtaking it. “The government bus then overtook the private bus from the right and blocked its way before the driver got off to confront the other driver. He demanded an explanation why the private bus driver had broken his rear-view mirror,” a traffic police officer of the fatal squad said. “They had a heated argument... the private bus driver tried to flee and pressed on the accelerator.” The bus tried to negotiate past the state bus when the state bus driver came under its wheels, the police said. He was declared dead at RG Kar hospital. The private bus driver was arrested on the spot. He has been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. He knew the consequences of his rash driving, an officer of Cossipore police station said. Both buses have been seized. A fire broke out in a multi-storey building on Ganesh Chandra Avenue on Friday night, leaving several residents injured while they tried to scamper out. Eyewitnesses said a child was severely injured when he jumped out of a first-floor balcony of the building — 21 Ganesh Chandra Avenue — and had to be rushed to hospital. Police said the fire was detected around 10.15pm. Fire officials said the blaze possibly started from the meter room. Till midnight, at least 10 fire tenders were fighting to control the blaze.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Eco Park to reopen today||Eco Park in New Town will reopen on Saturday but will allow only up to 50 people at a time on its 480-acre campus. The park’s ticketing system will shut down once 50 tickets have been printed, said an official of Hidco, which runs the park. Eco Park has a digital ticketing system that records the time of entry as well as exit and reflects it on the ticketing database in real time. Once the number of visitors inside the park comes down from 50, fresh tickets will be issued. To ensure that visitors to the park don't crowd around or stand too close to each other, the park employees and guards have been asked to be extra vigilant and ensure that proper distance is maintained between individuals as well as those in groups. The park authorities have drawn large circles on the lawns and grounds to enforce the social distancing protocol. "We have placed signage to indicate where people can sit and where they cannot. Masks are mandatory and we will not allow people to sit or stand in clusters. We will also monitor crowds through the network of CCTV cameras installed throughout the park," said Debashis Sen, the chairman-cum-managing director of Hidco. Even though the restaurants and the resort on the premises had opened earlier, the park had remained shut. All adventure activities such as kayaking, water zorbing and speed boat rides will remain suspended. Only tandem cycles and single seat bicycles will be offered for ride, a Hidco official said. According to him, every park employee will wear personal protection gear including masks, face shields and gloves. The guards and the employees have been trained to act as "queue monitors" as and when required. The neighbouring Eco Urban Village and Nazrul Tirtha, which houses a multiplex, will also reopen for visitors. Hand sanitising stations have been set up at Eco Park, Eco Urban Village and Nazrul Tirtha. In Salt Lake, Nicco Park has resumed operations and is running all "dry" rides at 50 per cent capacity. People above 65 and children below 10 years are not allowed in the park. The Wet-o-Wild section is shut. "Our men in front of the rides will carry sanitisers. All rides will be cleaned and sanitised at least twice a day," said Rajive Kaul, the promoter of Nicco Park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Crippled mother, son found dead at home||An overpowering stench from a two-storey building in Patuli prompted neighbours to alert police who broke into the house on Thursday evening and found an 88-year-old woman lying dead on the floor, maggots crawling on her. The decomposed body of the woman’s 50-year-old son was hanging from the ceiling fan in one of the rooms on the first floor. No suicide note was found. Police have learnt during a preliminary investigation that the son, Subhomay Mitra, had recently lost possession of a bookstore at Lake Market that his late father had taken on rent. He was working as a contractual employee of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Apart from him there was no one to look after his crippled mother, Manjusree Mitra, the police said. The police received an alert around 7.15pm on Thursday that a foul smell had been emanating from a building in Garia’s Kanungo Park. On reaching the spot, they found the main door locked from inside. “We broke open the door and entered the house only to find the decomposed body of an aged woman lying on the floor. There were worms on her body. It was clear that the body was a few days’ old. Her son was found hanging from the ceiling fan in one of the rooms on the first floor of the house,” a police officer said. The bodies were sent for post-mortem. An officer familiar with the probe said that going by the condition of the bodies, it appeared the woman had died before the man. “There were no injury marks on the woman. It seems to be a natural death. The post-mortem will reveal the cause of death. The mother and the son were lying dead inside the house for at least three to four days,” the officer said. Some neighbours told the cops that they had last seen the two a week ago. Shankarananda Guha, an elderly neighbour, said the son had been depressed ever since he lost the bookstore his father had taken on rent. Mitra, the neighbour said, had been out of work for a few months. There have been many incidents in the city of the aged and the uncared dying without anyone to keep tabs on them. Calcutta police encourage elderly residents to enrol with Pronam — a project that involves cops from local police stations keeping in touch with the aged. Elocutionist Pradip Ghosh passed away at his Jodhpur Park home on Friday. He was 78. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee described him as a “bright star in the world of  elocution” in her condolence message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Open-air gym for New Town ||An open-air gymnasium and a workout zone were inaugurated in the Eco Urban Village complex in New Town’s Action Area II on Friday. The gymnasium has been set up after a survey on residents revealed they wanted to work out in an open space because of the pandemic, an official of Hidco, which has installed the machines, said. The gym is built along the lines of callisthenics parks and outdoor fitness stations, popular in South Korea, Europe and Australia, the Hidco official said. The park has a bunch of fitness equipment — including an aerial stroller, sit-up station, standing waist twister, double big shoulder wheel, chest and shoulder press exercise set-ups, and a ski walker. Every machine has a label explaining which body part/s would benefit from it. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said Hidco made it a point to have equipment that don’t require a trainer. “All the equipment are placed in such a way that distancing rules are maintained. Visitors will be asked to clean and wipe every equipment after use,” he said. People will have to pay Rs 10 a day to access the open-air gym. They can work out for as long as they like, the official said. Smriti Agarwal who lives in a nearby complex said she was a regular at the Eco Urban Village where she would jog or go for morning walks. “I jog and do freehand exercises in the park. I can’t wait to try these machines tomorrow morning. This is a great addition to the park.” A couple of years ago, Hidco had installed gym equipment at bus stops across all three action areas. But they hadn’t proved too popular. People mostly used them as seats while waiting for buses, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
17-10-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur to call some researchers and employees back to campus||IIT Kharagpur will call some researchers and employees associated with projects back to the campus. These researchers who are called project staff will be in batches of a few — at the most 10, an institute official said. The institute doesn’t want these staff in large numbers on the campus as it could trigger a health risk, the official said. A similar situation had led to the closure of the campus early in September. The supervisor of each project has been asked to email the dean of sponsored research and industrial faculty the name of a specific member of staff from the project. “Specific information such as project code, date of completion, and specific urgency on meeting the deliverable has to be mentioned in the mail to help the institute prepare a priority-based list on those who would be recalled. The plan is to bring back the first batch of 10 by the third week of October,” the official said. It has been specified that those researchers and employees must secure accommodation at the Vikram Sarabhai Residential Complex (VSRC). Project scientists live in the complex. They have to quarantine themselves for 14 days on reaching the campus, following which they will be allowed entry to the academic area. “We are allowing entry of project staff in a phased manner. We will then think of allowing other PhD and postgraduate students,” Somesh Kumar, the dean of students’ affairs, told The Telegraph. The Centre has said higher education institutions can be reopened from October 15 only for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental works. Each department has been asked to take appropriate action for sanitisation of their laboratories and equipment ahead of the arrival of members of the project staff. Considering the insufficient medical facilities in Kharagpur town, the institute has been cautious while recalling researchers, an official said. Although the number of people infected with the coronavirus has come down on the campus, it is still on the rise in the immediate surroundings. “As beds are not available in adequate numbers, we are concerned if any assembly could lead to another outbreak. Most of those infected had to be referred to private hospitals in Calcutta last month,” the official said. The BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus is not equipped to handle Covid patients. At IIM Calcutta a student of the executive MBA course who was among those allowed on the campus last month to use the institute’s facilities to attend online classes tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The entire batch has been quarantined again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
17-10-2020||Calcutta||New clothes to win trust in conflict zones||Over 2,500 children and women living in areas prone to human-animal conflict will get a new set of clothes in the run-up to the festive season. The areas are Dakshin Shole in West Midnapore, human settlements around the Narayanpur forest in Hooghly and Kumirmari village in the Sunderbans. Dakshin Shole village in Salboni, around 21km from Midnapore town, is a hotbed of human-elephant conflict. Herds of marauding Dalma elephants raid the village frequently, destroying crops. People living in tribal hamlets around the Narayanpur forest, 25km from Singur, have been accused of hunting monitor lizards, fishing and civet cats, birds and other animals that are found in the forest. Kumirmari village, in the Basirhat range of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, derives its name from crocodile. Man-wild conflict in the mangroves needs no introduction. The loss of livelihood because of the pandemic has forced many people living on the fringes to enter the forests for fishing and collecting firewood. More than 15 people have been killed in tiger attacks in the Sunderbans this year, according to official estimates. Thousands of workers returned to the Sunderbans from various cities in the wake of the lockdown. Many of them depended on farming and fishing for survival but Cyclone Amphan inundated vast swathes of farmlands and waterbodies with salt water. The distribution of new clothes is an attempt at inclusive conservation management, said Joydip Kundu of the Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), an NGO that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict and is behind the project. “The aim is to win the trust of the local population. We are trying to make them part of the festivities. In return, we expect them to be part of our conservation efforts,” said Kundu. The project is in its fifth year, he said. The drive is being conducted in collaboration with the forest department in phases. Around 2,400 people, including children, have got new clothes till Friday. The list of recipients was prepared with the help of the joint forest management committees. “The people of the Sunderbans have suffered a lot because of the Covid-19 pandemic and Amphan. They are yet to recover from the twin blows. We want to make these marginalised people a part of the festive celebrations,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, who was part of the distribution campaigns. “We want to engage with children in one way or another. If we can catch them young, they can be the agents of the change we seek.” In the past, people living on forest fringes were brought to the city and taken to pandals by SHER. This year it won’t be possible because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
