18-10-2020||Calcutta||Water woes  in Salt Lake||An underground pipeline network in Salt Lake’s IA Block has sprung leaks in at least five places, triggering a water crisis in a couple of blocks. At least two craters filled with water and multiple puddles have formed near the Amul roundabout close to Salt Lake stadium. On Saturday, several residents of IA and LA blocks in Sector III said they did not receive water in the morning. Rathindranath Mukherjee, a resident of IA Block said, water in his house ran out by 11am. “We were without water without any warning. We had to buy packaged water jars.” Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation officials noticed water leaking from a joint connecting several pipes in the network, a civic engineer said. The pipes carry water from Tank No. 13 to IA, IB, IC, JC, JD, KB, KC, LA, LB and a few other blocks in Sector III. Broadway has been filled with several craters because of the leak. “These pipes are joined with a lead joint, which seems to have given away. Multiple pipelines have leaks as well,” the engineer said. Indrani Bhattacharya, a resident of IB Block, said her family had been facing water shortage for the past several days. “The supply has reduced to a trickle… our water tank at our house barely gets filled,” Chakraborty said. A resident of IC Block, Sandeep Kumar Jha, said the crisis had forced him to buy potable water. “We are storing as water as much as possible… but I still have to buy drinking water.” Another engineer of the Salt Lake civic body said all joints as well as pipes in the underground water network would be replaced in phases. The civic body has started overhauling and cleaning water pipes to prevent leaks and wastage. But the existing network, which had been laid when the township was coming up, has weakened with age, the engineer said. “Sediment deposits inside pipes have reduced their capacity to a large extent and weakened them considerably,” the engineer said. Salt Lake is supposed to receive close to eight million gallons of water every day from the treatment plant in New Town. But the township hasn’t been getting it because of inadequate supply pipelines. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority has been laying pipelines across Salt Lake to ensure it gets adequate water supply. The new pipes are made of high-density polyethylene — a synthetic material, which according to officials, is not prone to leaks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
18-10-2020||Calcutta||School heads march for Father Stan Swamy ||Heads of schools, priests and teachers came out during the pandemic to protest against the arrest of 83-year-old Father Stan Swamy on Saturday who has been in jail for the 10th consecutive day. The Telegraph spoke to some of those who were present. Father Rodney Borneo, Principal, Loyola High School “What has happened smacks of complete denial of the entire process of democracy and the respect for the senior strata of society. The fact that this man has spent more than 50 years in the service of tribal community is being totally ignored.” As long as he was giving food to the poor he was hailed as a hero the moment he asked why are these people poor he has been arrested.” Father Devraj Fernandes, Principal, St Aloysius Orphanage and Day School “I came here to stand for Father Stan Swamy who has been arrested in an inhuman way and confined in jail. As a true disciple of Jesus he stood for the marginalized and the downtrodden.” Sister Jayshree, a member of St Catherine’s Homes and Sister Pranita Lepcha, Superior, St. Teresa’s Higher Secondary School “We stand for justice and his release. Despite the risk (of a pandemic) one has to stand for justice,” said Sister Pranita Lepcha who came with five other sisters and non-teaching staff.” Anthony Arun Biswas, Chairman, Mother Teresa International Award Committee “He(Father Stan Swamy) has been working for the poor for so many years…he has been serving the poorest of the poor and now he has been put in jail. What is his crime? Is doing good a crime? This is a political game.” Reverend Shreeraj Mohanty Presbyter-in-charge, St Thomas’ Church Free School Street “We stand in solidarity with Father Stan Swamy and through our silence presence ask the government to do justice to a person who stood for adivasi voice. I believe our silent protest will make a difference.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
18-10-2020||Calcutta||Hakim calls for rethink on meter box location||The fire brigade and the CESC have to think about old houses with electric meter boxes below staircases and close to exits, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said. “They have to do something… there are hundreds of such houses. The CMC no longer allows meter boxes near exits,” he said on Saturday. “How will people come out in case of a fire if the meter box is near the exit?” Hakim asked. “I had once gone to a house on Clive Row… the electric wires from the meter boxes went up the walls along the wooden stairs. I shuddered at the thought of a fire breaking out… how will people come out? “It is impossible for the CMC to check if meter boxes are fixed near the exits of old houses. The fire brigade, too, will find it difficult to do so…. I will speak to the CESC; they have to ensure that fire rules are followed while giving permission for new meters.” A retired fire brigade officer said the fire directorate had suggested that old buildings shift meter boxes to a passage outside buildings and away from exits. “This is a genuine problem with old houses. We had suggested several years ago that owners and tenants can build a shed on a passage and shift the meters there to keep the exit free of fire hazard.” A CESC official said the company had stopped issuing new meters in case of property apportionment. “We no longer issue new meters in old buildings if space is now divided between two or more people and if the meter box is near the exit,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
18-10-2020||Calcutta||Meter box blaze cuts off exit, kills 2||A 65-year-old woman and a 12-year-old boy were killed in a fire in a seven-storey building at 21 Ganesh Chandra Avenue on Friday night. Twenty fire engines fought for more than six hours to bring the fire under control by dawn on Saturday. The boy, Unais Rahaman, died when he slipped and fell off the rooftop. Samima Begum was found dead inside a toilet on the fifth floor of the building, Moon House, built in 1938. Unais was taken to SSKM Hospital and then Belle Vue Clinic where doctors said he had died. At least five other people, including two women sustained burns. Sanatan Behra, 50, and Anjan Barik, 56, have been admitted to the trauma care unit of SSKM. Both are critical because of the extent of their burns, according to doctors at the hospital. Samima Begum, several residents and eye-witnesses have said, had taken refuge inside the toilet after failing to climb a steep flight of steps to reach the rooftop where other residents were after the fire had broken out and the building was covered in black smoke. Doctors at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital where she had been taken to said she had suffered an asphyxial death after struggling to breathe inside the smoke-filled toilet. “The door to the rooftop was open or else more people would have possibly died,” a fire officer said while drawing parallel with the 2010 Stephen Court fire on Park Street, which had left 43 people dead. The fire started from an electric meter box to the right of the building’s entrance which, some residents alleged, is cramped with empty packing boxes and rows of two-wheelers parked on one side at night. Some 50-odd families who live in the building as tenants got to know of the fire around 10.20pm on Friday when thick smoke enveloped the building and cries of “aag (fire)” rang out in the air. Once they realised the fire had started on the ground floor, they kept calling each other up and asking everyone to gather on the rooftop. Manwar Khan said he was getting ready to go to sleep when he heard a commotion from his fifth-floor window on Ganesh Chandra Avenue below. His wife was in the bedroom and he in the drawing room. As he opened the windows to find out what the commotion was about, a gush of thick black smoke hit him on the face. “The power had snapped and the lift wasn’t working. It was difficult to see through the smoke,” Wali Ahmed, another resident said. “The only option was to use the stairs. There were elderly people and children. It became difficult with every passing minute.” With the flames leaping up and black smoke swirling around the night sky, several residents of the building adjoining Moon House found it difficult to breathe. “It seemed something had exploded… when I opened my windows, there was smoke and fire outside,” Nadira Patherya, a resident of Premier House, the building adjacent Moon House, said. Residents of Moon House who had gathered on the rooftop realised if they could reach the rooftop of the adjacent building they use the stairs to go down and out in the open. But a barbed wire fence came in the way. “We finally managed to cut the fence and brought everyone to the rooftop of the adjacent building,” Gulzar, a resident who owns a computer shop on the ground floor of Moon House, said. Firefighters said they had trouble accessing the building’s reservoir on the ground floor and that electric cables dangling at the entrance had posed a challenge. Hydraulic ladders were brought in to reach the top floors. Additional fire engines were brought in as water ran out. Fire services minister Sujit Bose was among those on the spot. “There were no means to fight the fire inside the building,” a fire officer said. Police have started a case of negligence resulting in death against the owner who has told investigators another person was responsible for the building’s maintenance. Residents alleged that repeated reminders to install new wires and keep the building safe from fire had fallen on deaf ears. “We are waiting for the report of forensic experts,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
18-10-2020||Calcutta||Moon House and a mindset||Moon House on 21 GC Avenue was next to the building in which I lived — as in sharing the same wall and joined at the hip so to speak. It is a building I knew best after my own by the virtue of all my adda friends living there — Ram on the sixth floor, Tushar on the fifth, Dipen on the fourth and Raju on the second. It is a building where we started our company Trisys in 1995, occupying the mezzanine floor and probably only a few metres from the machine room that started the fire. The Moon House terrace was where we would hold the annual dandia, covered by The Telegraph with a picture on the front page in October 1982. Moon House was in a state of perpetual civic ruin; the corridor that led from the gate to the lift would be a parking lot for bikes at night (‘Yahaan nahi rakkhega to kahaan rakkhega?’ could well have been the indignant response). A paanwalla blocked 40 per cent of the gate during the day with no one questioning his right. The collapsible lift door would extend only 70 per cent after which the lift acquired a sensory intelligence to jerk into vertical motion. The lights on the landing gave the impact of a 20W bulb, presumably to save electricity. The bottom corners of each landing were more red than grey mosaic. Over the years, the corridors and landings narrowed; there were apartments built into the terrace with residents possibly looking the other way. The water ‘wars’ were legendary as that precious liquid would be pumped only two hours each morning. The liftman would be perpetually drunk, barefoot and unwashed. There was never security to man its main gate (the durwan would generally be absconding) so anyone could walk in and tour the building from ground floor to top without being asked ‘Aap kaun hai?’ So why did residents not demand better conditions? One, because the moment they did, the makaan-maalik would say ‘Bhaara badhaiyye’ (raise the rent), the instinctive trigger for residents to dissolve (I would be surprised if the total monthly residential rentals for a seven-storeyed building as large as Moon House could have been higher than Rs 50,000). Two, the residents reconciled and made their peace with the civic collapse (‘Ab aur kitna kharaab hoga?’), little realising one day residents might have to lose their lives because of their indifference. Three, Moon House was a happy community; the paanwalla was ‘part’ of the landscape and could not be ejected; the liftman had to be retained in larger humanitarian interests; the durwan may have been slack, arrogant, over-aged and under-trained but so what. Four, there was no concept of a residents’ association; every discussion came down to the singular point (rent versus rights). I can almost imagine residents saying ‘With what face do we ask for better conditions?’ Five, in most such Waqf buildings, the only money or real income the caretaker landlord generated was when tenancy was transferred from one to another (happened rarely). Six, there was a progressive dilution in the building’s character — residential owners moving out and commercial offices (with no emotional stake in the building) moving in. Seven, someone in the government did certify Moon House as safely livable year after year; so, who the hell were residents to complain? The story of Moon House then is not about isolated indifference. It is about a mindset. It is about you and I staring probable danger every day in the face and dismissively saying ‘So what?’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
18-10-2020||Calcutta||Traced, gang abandons 26kg gold  ||A gang of armed men abandoned a vehicle with 26kg of gold ornaments they possibly had looted from a non-banking financial institute in Howrah’s Jagachha on Saturday when they were caught in a queue at a police checkpost. At least five men with their faces covered in masks had entered the institute around 1.30pm and held all employees at gunpoint inside a room before taking away their phones, preliminary investigations have revealed. They had cleared the vault of 26kg of gold ornaments and left in a white car, police said. Their operation had lasted not more than half an hour. Police officers in Howrah scanned CCTV footage and zeroed in on the number plate of the vehicle in which the men had fled. The number was circulated across the state. A few hours later, around 6pm, the police received information that the stolen gold ornaments had been found in an abandoned car with the same number plate on NH2 in Burdwan. The police in Burdwan said they had received an alert about a white Suzuki Swift Dzire that had possibly been used by the gang to flee. “We were alerted by Howrah police about the robbery. During a check near Nababhat on NH2 we found the car with the gold ornaments. We have handed over the vehicle and the ornaments to Howrah police,” Bhaskar Mukherjee, the East Burdwan police chief, said. Cops had been posted at eight strategic points in the district, the police said. There was a long queue of vehicles at Nababhat because of the police check and the suspects left the place the moment they realised they were caught in a queue leading them straight to the checkpost, the police said. Cops in East Burdwan are trying to get footage of CCTV cameras closest to the spot where the vehicle was found abandoned to get pictures of the men. The police are trying to find out where the men had been immediately after robbery. “It is apparent they had gone somewhere before heading for Burdwan. There is a time gap,” a Howrah police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
18-10-2020||Calcutta||True Spirit of safety steps||Is every visitor wearing a mask? Has sanitiser been sprayed in all hands? Is the queue socially distanced? Is the pandal well-ventilated? Come Tritiya and these are some of the questions that need to be on the minds of every pandal volunteer. Safety has acquired an entirely new meaning this Durga puja, as the dance of the pandemic continues unabated. Therefore, in its 18th edition, the True Spirit Puja movement, which is all about making our greatest festival safe, happy and meaningful, has gained a whole new significance and momentum. Covid-19 safety compliance measures have been added to the parameters of judgment in CESC The Telegraph True Spirit (TSP) Puja 2020, in association with David & Goliath, with Friends 91.9FM as radio partner and ABP Ananda as television news partner. Social commitment of the puja organisers also acquires added import in the light of the disruptions brought upon by the virus as also the trail of devastation and distress left behind by the cyclone Amphan. The older parameters remain, like visitor comfort – by providing drinking water, toilet facilities, first aid and help desk – fire and electricity safety measures, traffic management, waste disposal, eco-friendliness and display of TSP signage. “This year is the 18th year of collaboration between The Telegraph and CESC. This year is also the year of the pandemic. Hence both the institutions thought it wise to adopt online screening of the pandals so that safety prevails. And that is at the heart of True Spirit Puja this year,” said Joyneel Mukherjee, executive director, corporate communications, CESC. Indeed, the entire process has shifted online—from application to judgment. Over 300 pujas from across Calcutta and Howrah had applied on the newly created website truespiritpuja.com and after screening, close to 250 have come on board. On Chaturthi and Panchami, the first round visits of judges will take place virtually, followed by the final round on Sashthi morning when organisers of the short-listed pujas will give the judges a virtual walk-through of their preparedness in receiving visitors to the pandal. Said former Mrs Universe Richa Sharma, who is the brand ambassador of David & Goliath and will be part of the final day judges' panel: “This year, Durga Puja should not only be celebrated with basic safety measures -- like fire protection, security of assets, etc. – but there should also be escalated assurance of salvation by ensuring appropriate distance among the guests visiting the pandal, temperature check at the entrance and repeated sanitisation. Entry should only be permitted if guests are wearing their masks, that too in limited numbers at a time. Enjoying Puja is important but Covid-19 should not be taken lightly.” The pujas adjudged to be in the top three in each of the four zones will be in contention for the top prizes. The Model Puja and the three Five Star pujas will be declared on Sashthi and be handed the prizes by the evening. The others making it to the honours list will receive their prizes on Saptami, allowing them to display the trophy and the certificate before visitors on the remaining Puja days. But it would be no time to put their feet up. For in no other year has it been so important for each and every puja organiser to stay vigilant and true to the TSP pledge till the last visitor has left the pandal and the idol has been immersed. This year, the penalty for not doing so will be far more serious than docking of points.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
18-10-2020||Calcutta||Other brothers behind Stan Swamy||The Centre should release Father Stan Swamy, otherwise all minorities will come together and agitate, an Imam of Nakhoda Mosque said at the end of a silent walk on Park Street expressing solidarity with the 83-year-old Jesuit priest. “If one brother is facing injustice, the other brothers will not be silent spectators…,” said Maulana Shafique Qasmi. Maulana Qasmi added: “Father Stan Swamy has been arrested without having committed any qasoor and it is our request that the government release him unconditionally. Else, all minorities in the country will agitate against this.” The Imam was part of a protest where a group of Christian priests and nuns walked through Park Street. School principals and teachers joined them. Archbishop Reverend Thomas D’ Souza, who joined the event after the walk concluded, said: “The way he was treated, very inhuman way, cruel way I might say. It is not acceptable to us. Therefore, along with all countrymen, right-thinking people, people of goodwill, we also want to show our displeasure and certainly want to protest against that treatment to an elderly, sick person who has worked for the poor. Therefore, today we appeal and demand that he be released and like him so many others…. “Thank you for coming here to show your solidarity for this particular cause. Once again, we appeal to the government to release Father Stan Swamy.” The archbishop added: “We are here to show our solidarity with him. He is not alone but we are with him so that his suffering and the cause for which he has fought and has been fighting… for the tribals, the Dalits, their issues of injustice, their human rights, has been uppermost for him all his life. To tell him we are with him.” Maulana Qasmi said: “We condemn this arrest… and appeal to all that people should raise their voice against those who are being oppressed…. If we want everyone to be good, we have to treat everyone with love and sympathy. We should not think who is being subjected to cruelty. If one person is being subjected to injustice, all others are brothers and sisters. If one brother is facing injustice, the other brothers will not be silent spectators. It’s an appeal to the government to release Father Stan Swamy.” Father Stan Swamy was arrested in Ranchi on October 8, taken to Mumbai the next morning and sent to judicial custody till October 23. Father Stan Swamy is from the Jamshedpur province of the Jesuit Order. The vice-chancellor of St. Xavier’s University, Father J. Felix Raj, one of the leaders of the rally, said the Calcutta protest would inspire many others to raise their voice. “We are here as brothers and sisters of Father Stan Swamy and raising our voice. And I am sure our rally, our attempt, our effort will be an inspiration to many, many churches, to many, many communities and centres, to many, many organisations to start and express their opposition, express their protest, raise their voice,” said Father Felix Raj. “This is the 10th day he (Father Stan Swamy) is in jail. Let us wait and see what happens…,” Father Felix Raj added. “He has been working for the people of Jharkhand, particularly for the tribal community, for more than 50 years. He is not an activist alone. A man who has studied, a man who has researched the lives, the problems of the tribal communities. His life has been issue-based. His stand for the tribal community has been issue-based. He has faced all these issues and stood with the poor tribal people, particularly the youth, particularly for their rights, the language that they have. So he has been standing with the tribal community and this is the consequence that has happened,” Father Felix Raj said. Father Felix Raj said the case against Father Stan Swamy could continue. “But there must be a compassionate, concerned approach towards a senior citizen.” The number of participants at the rally was restricted to abide by Covid protocols. Schoolteacher Beulah Caleb said: “Covid or no Covid, it is important to come for a cause like this and make the government listen.” The walk, organised by the Mother Teresa International Award Committee, started from the gates of St. Xavier’s College and ended in front of the statue of Mother Teresa at the crossing of Park Street and Camac Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
