19-10-2020||Calcutta||Part of puja funds to help the needy||A puja in Kasba’s Rajdanga has allocated a part of its budget for buying sewing machines, beauty kits, saris and a month’s grocery for some women from South 24-Parganas whose income has been hit by Covid-19 and Cyclone Amphan. Rajdanga Naba Uday Sangha handed over the sewing machines to 15 women, beautician’s kits to 50 women and grocery to 100 women, said Susanta Ghosh, the president of the puja committee. Ghosh said the club had distributed ration among residents of the Sunderbans immediately after Cyclone Amphan devastated their villages. “We kept aside Rs 5 lakh from our Puja budget to help them,” said Ghosh, who is also the ward coordinator of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s ward 107. Among the recipients was Kanika Dalui from No. 10 Punyakhali village in Basanti block. Kanika, 35, used to work in a creche at a school in Kasba. The creche closed after the lockdown was imposed in March. “The children are at home. There is no need for the creche. We lost our jobs as a result,” she said. Then Amphan ruined the seeds that she and her husband had sowed. “We were already living on reduced income after I lost my job. Then the cyclone completely ruined our investment of about Rs 5,000 we made in sowing the crop,” she said. Kanika said the ration provided by the club - rice, wheat, cooking oil and turmeric - was adequate for one person for a month. The elder son and mother of Prabhabati Mondal, 49, who got a sewing machine, lost work during the pandemic. Prabhabhati works as a tailor and trains women in her village in sewing. “In earlier years, I would have no time to spare before Durga Puja. This year I have little work,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Fatal fall in bid to flee||A man died after falling from a third-floor apartment in north Calcutta from where he was allegedly trying to flee as police were knocking on the door. The incident happened on Saturday night inside a housing complex in Chitpore, where the man — identified as Abdul Hossain, alias Shentia – was staying in his employer’s apartment. Police said Hossain and a few of his colleagues, who too were employed by the flat owner, were drinking in the apartment when a brawl broke out. The fight spilled outside the flat, prompting guards of the complex to intervene. Hossain ran inside the flat and locked the door. A team from Chitpore police station, which reached the spot following an alert from residents, found the flat locked from inside. “When cops knocked on the door, Hossain tried to slip out of the balcony using a curtain. But he soon lost grip and tried to hang on to a nylon rope. But he lost grip again and fell on the lawn,” said an officer. Hossain was taken to RG Kar hospital, where he was declared dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
19-10-2020||Calcutta|| Two ‘tusks’ seized, 7 held||A pair of purported elephant tusks were seized and seven persons were arrested from a house in Jyangra, near Baguiati, on Sunday. Officers of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, accompanied by a team from Baguiati police station, raided the house following a tip-off that a pair of elephant tusks were on sale. The seven persons who were arrested were allegedly trying to sell items that looked like elephant tusks. Trade in ivory is banned under the Wildlife Protection Act and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. An officer of the bureau said each seized item measured around 18inch in length and weighed around 3kg. “We were very vigilant and it took some time to arrest the men based on specific intelligence,” said Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director of the bureau.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Early morning blaze at LIC Building, three injured||A fire broke out early on Sunday on the third floor of LIC Building on Central Avenue, barely 500m from Moon House on GC Avenue where a fire had claimed two lives on Friday night. Eyewitnesses said they were awakened by explosion-like sounds around 3am on Sunday and saw black fumes coming out of the fourth floor of LIC Building at 22 Central Avenue. Some residents of the area alerted police and the fire services department. Five fire tenders reached the spot and took more than an hour to control the blaze. The three people who were inside a canteen in the building when the fire broke out were evacuated. They suffered burns and were taken to SSKM Hospital. “The fire appears to have started from some inflammable items in the kitchen,” said an official of the fire services department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Brief visit to homes damaged by fire||Living space damaged, electric connection snapped and the only wooden lift completely burnt — 50-odd families of the fire-ravaged Moon House at 21 Ganesh Chandra Avenue struggled throughout Sunday trying to retrieve whatever little they could lay their hands on. Since late on Friday, when the fire broke out in the metre room on the ground floor of the seven-storey building, the structure had been cordoned off and no one was allowed to enter. The curb was relaxed on Sunday, from morning till afternoon. Two members from each family were allowed to visit their flats for a brief period and no one was allowed to remove any heavy item. “We are not sure whether the building is fit for living. We will decide on whether the residents can move back in after the forensic experts finish their inspection,” a police officer said. “The building will have to be cleared and marked safe to enter before residents can be allowed in.” The fire, which broke out around 10.15pm on Friday, killed two residents - a 65-year-old woman and a 12-year-old boy — and left several others injured. Around 20 fire tenders took over six hours to control the blaze. Residents of Moon House have since shifted to relatives’ houses in Bowbazar and other parts of the city. On Sunday they returned to the building to pick up clothes, valuables and cash while gearing up for the uncertainty spawned by the fire. “My cousin’s marriage is scheduled for November 1 and several items meant for the groom’s family were in our flat. My sisters could retrieve some clothes and a few jewellery items,” said Gulzar Alam, a resident of the top floor of the building. “Where will we stay? How will we prepare for the wedding? Life has suddenly become very uncertain.” Police said they would like to consult with civic engineers on whether the building was fit for living any more. The heat from the fire, which raged for several hours, had eaten into several parts of the building and officers said they would not take a risk by allowing residents to return to Moon House without the consent of a competent authority. An official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said the civic body was yet to receive any formal request from the police about Moon House. If such a request comes, the CMC asks the owners and tenants to get the building inspected by a certified structural engineer. “We have received no request from any agency about the fire-hit building on GC Avenue,” said the official. “The fire brigade, CESC and the police have the primary responsibility to decide whether people could be allowed back in a fire-ravaged building. The CMC gets involved if these agencies approach us and seek our opinion on whether the structure is fit to live in.” Many tenants said the building had been neglected for decades and alleged that the landlord had refused to spend on maintenance. “Around four years ago, officers from the fire services department had asked the landlord to make arrangements for installing fire safety gadgets. But no such effort was made,” alleged Manwar Khan, a resident who had shifted to his relative’s family in Tollygunge. “The space leading to the stairs on the ground floor was rented out to two-wheelers for parking.” Investigating officers said the owner had told them that electric cables were replaced a few years back and talks were on to increase the overhead storage capacity of tanks to fight any emergency. The building does have an underground reservoir, which apparently had water when the fire broke out. But fire-fighters said they couldn't access it because the keys were not available. “We are trying to find out how a part of the building's main entrance was converted into a garage,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Rescuer in tenancy dispute killed ||A man who tried to rescue a neighbour when he was being assaulted died after being allegedly stabbed in his chest and hit on his head in Tangra on Saturday night. Six persons have been arrested and charged with murder and attempt to murder. Police said Anil Das, whose father owns a building on DC Dey Road in Tangra, allegedly hit one of their tenants following a tenancy-linked dispute on Saturday night. Some other members of the family allegedly joined Anil in assaulting the tenant. “Manoj Ram, who was a resident of the locality and not related to the tenant, intervened and tried to rescue him. Suddenly, Anil stabbed Ram in his chest with a pair of scissors. Another family member then attacked Ram on his head with a wooden plank. Ram was also attacked by four other members of the family,” said an officer of Tangra police station. A man named Gautam Das, who lives in the same locality, tried to rescue Ram from the six members of the Das family. Residents of the neighbourhood rushed to the spot and took Ram, in his early 30s, to the NRS Medical College and Hospital, where he was declared dead. Based on a complaint filed by Ram’s wife, officers of Tangra police station registered a murder case against six members of the family -- Sunil Das, Anil Das, Rabi Das, Baby Das, Bedania Das and Sanjay Das. The six have also been charged with attempt to murder for attacking Gautam Das with a pair of scissors, that left his arms grievously injured. All six were arrested early on Sunday and remanded in police custody.  The police said Ram was an electrical contractor by profession. Investigators said they had seized the murder weapon and collected blood samples from the spot where Ram was allegedly attacked on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Stay with family, do  not crowd pandals||The house is a ship and the terrace its deck, says one of the many posters at a community puja in Kasba’s Haltu. The message: spend time with your family members on the deck of the ship, there is no need to crowd pandals. Purbachal Shakti Sangha is one of 50 pujas in Calcutta that have come together to campaign for the safety measures needed in the festive season amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Paray Paray Covid Asur Badh, an initiative by 91.9 Friends FM, saw all participating pujas come together for a Zoom session on Sunday morning — where they showcased the safety and awareness measures undertaken at the pandals through slogans, wall paintings, street arts and similar tools to make this a “Puja with a difference”. The session was streamed live from the Facebook page of the radio station. At Shyampukur Adi Sarbojonin, a graffiti on a wall showed the goddess, her face behind a mask, and her hands carrying sanitiser, a thermal gun and other weapons to combat Covid-19. There was a slogan accompanying the painting: “No mask, no entry”. Almost all clubs showed how circles had been drawn on the roads leading to the pandals so visitors could maintain distance among themselves. Masks, sanitisers and thermal guns were also in place at the pujas. Doctors and public health experts have expressed fears of a surge in the Covid-19 numbers during and after the festive season. They have repeatedly urged caution and restraint on the part of revellers. The state clinical establishment regulatory commission has asked all private hospitals to increase the number of beds for Covid patients and not refuse any patient. On September 25, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had laid out the plan for Durga Puja 2020, issuing guidelines from inauguration to immersion. The directives, issued keeping the spread of Covid-19 in mind, include spacious pandals, low-key inaugurations, pandal-hopping between Tritiya and Ekadashi and staggered timings for anjali and sindoor khela. “This year, 91.9 Friends FM has come up with a project called Covid Asur Mardini where the demon to be slayed is the Covid-19 virus. The pujas in Calcutta have made this a mass movement to ensure that everyone comes together to enjoy the festive spirit with all the safety and precautions,” said Jimmy Tangree, the station head of 91.9 Friends FM. Sunday’s virtual session turned out to be a festival in itself — a collage of innovative posters, placards and paintings. Tikiapara Sarbojonin in Maniktala showcased a canvas inspired by Madhubani paintings. The canvas had 10 Covid-related messages, each accompanied by a weapon used by the goddess. Jagat Mukherjee Park in Sovabazar displayed a unique canvas — acrylic on wood and cloth. A painting showed the masked goddess washing her hands at a basin. She looks into a mirror and the reflection shows her unmasked face. “The image offers a peek into our actual self. But in reality, there is no place for complacency and a mask should always be worn. Even the goddess sets an example,” said an organiser. At Mudiali Club, the organisers spoke of ensuring the safety of the artisans and workers. “A puja is not only about the organisers and revellers. The workers who are behind all of this — their safety and well-being are also paramount,” said an organiser. Metro Railway will run 156 trains daily from Monday to Saturday, starting October 19. The number is now 146. Starting next Monday, the last trains will leave Dum Dum and Kavi Subhash (New Garia) at 9pm, instead of 8.30pm. The last train from Noapara will leave at 8.55pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Chirp delight and Chhat worry||Dozens of migratory birds have checked in at Rabindra Sarobar, raising hopes of an exciting winter of birdwatching and also stoking fears that many of the winged visitors would exit if Chhath Puja is allowed on the banks of the lake. The migrants include one Taiga Flycatcher, which breeds in the Siberian region and round the Himalayas to winter in a warmer clime, birdwatcher Arka Sarkar said. The bird was sighted in September. A Yellow-browed Warbler and a Thick-billed Warbler, seen earlier this month, also flew over the Himalayas. Among the other significant sightings were a Crow-Billed Drongo and a Chestnut Winged Cuckoo, which breed in the Himalayas, said Sarkar. “Both these birds are passage migrants, meaning their stay at the Sarobar is a stopover in their flight from the Himalayas to the place where they winter. The Cuckoo travels to south India during winter,” he said. “It feels so exciting to know that birds in the Sarobar have actually flown thousands of miles, from the Himalayas as well as places in the extreme north like Siberia,” said a regular visitor to the Sarobar. “The winter migratory birds are the ones that come down from the extreme cold climate in the mountains during winter. They spend the winter months in the plains and again return to the mountains around the onset of summer,” said Sudip Ghosh, an IT professional and a keen birdwatcher at the Sarobar, who is also compiling a list of birds seen there. The good beginning to winter birdwatching may not sustain, fear the birdwatchers, if Chhath Puja is again allowed. “Crackers are burst, drums are beaten during the rituals. This scares and irritates the birds for sure,” said Ghosh. “Every year, we notice this phenomenon. Migratory birds are not found at the Sarobar immediately after Chhath Puja. The passage migrants do not return at all,” said Sarkar. The National Green Tribunal has turned down an appeal from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar but Firhad Hakim, the urban development minister, has said the state government could approach the Supreme Court against the order. Rabindra Sarobar is now open to visitors for three hours every morning. The authorities are likely to keep it open for longer hours. Hooded Pita, a rare resident bird of south Bengal, has also been sighted at the Sarobar this year. “It is an important sighting because of its rarity,” said one birdwatcher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Shopping frenzy on last Sunday before Puja||The city’s shopping malls erupted in festive frenzy on the last Sunday before Durga Puja as young faces looking for the latest fashion picks headed to the shopping hubs in droves. Many were, however, spotted without masks. Quite a few were wearing masks but those were hanging around their ears or below their chins. Public health experts have again and again been stressing the need to wear masks and sanitise hands to prevent Covid-19 infection. The Telegraph hopped from one mall to another to witness the shopping blitz The parking lot of the Salt Lake mall was chock-a-block on Sunday afternoon. The restaurants at the mall, too, did brisk business as people stepped in for some sip and bite after a round of shopping. Metro spotted an elderly couple from Salt Lake, Soumyajit and Priyadarshini Chatterjee, walking out of the mall carrying four shopping bags. “I bought a sari for myself and a couple of shirts for my husband. We also bought some clothes for our grandchildren. Puja is knocking on the door and we could not stay back home,” said Priyadarshini, who taught at a government-run school. Sanjana Agarwal, 26, who headed to a restaurant for lunch with friends, said: “We have been cooped up inside our houses for so long that we had to be here shopping today. All of us are wearing masks and we are carrying sanitisers as well,” said Agarwal. A college student and her friend were spotted without masks. “We are heading to a restaurant. How can we eat with masks on? So we have taken them off,” said the girl who refused to be named. Sukanta Mukhopadhyay, the mall head, said the footfall crossed 35,000 on Sunday. A steady stream of cars, two-wheelers and app cabs was seen making its way towards the mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road on Sunday afternoon, slowing down traffic. The guards at the main entrance to the mall asked visitors without masks to wear one. “I have left behind my mask in my car by mistake. They did not let me in. I am headed to the parking lot to fetch the mask,” said Arvind Saraogi, a businessman from Alipore. The mall recorded footfall in excess of 48,000 on Sunday, an official said. “The shopping pattern has changed completely. People who used to visit malls multiple times to shop have changed tactics and are visiting once or twice and buying all the stuff they need,” the official said. Dum Dum resident Gitanjali Sehanobis had come to the mall with her mother and sister Mouli on Sunday evening for dinner. “We stepped out for the first time since March and are here for dinner. We have brought sanitisers and are making it a point not to touch anything, including escalator grab rails,” said Gitanjali, who works at an IT company. The Kasba mall was teeming with shoppers on Sunday afternoon. One of the big draws at the mall was the gaming arcade, where parents took their children to play while they headed to stores. The food court as well as the restaurants were bustling as well. A mall official said the day’s footfall had crossed 20,000. “All stores at the mall are doing good business. We are ensuring that everyone is wearing a mask. Sanitisers have been kept at the entry and exit of the stores,” said K. Vijayan, the general manager of Acropolis Mall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
