20-10-2020||Calcutta||Principal of MP Birla Foundation School dead||The principal of MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School, Herbert George, died in the city on Monday following a short illness. He was 75. George had been principal of the Behala school from 1988 and was known as a “strict disciplinarian”. He gave importance  to both academic and co-curricular activities. Before joining MP Birla Foundation, he was associated with Don Bosco Liluah and St Augustine’s Day School, Calcutta. He is survived by his son and daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Pujas start to mark visitor-rekha in Calcutta||Durga Puja organisers wasted no time and started to demarcate the 10-metre boundary outside pandals beyond which Calcutta High Court has allowed visitors. Some painted a boundary and some have put up barricades after leaving 10m around the periphery of the pandal’s external structure. Some big puja pandals — like Singhi Park in Dover Lane and the neighbouring Hindustan Club — have been built in a way to ensure drive-through viewing where people need not step out for a dekko. “Our pratima (idol) is anyway visible from the road. We are calculating the distance of 10 metre starting from the pratima (idol), because if we start calculating from outside the pandal, people on the other side of the barricade will have to stand in the middle of the main road,” said Bithi Basu, the general secretary of the Hindustan Club puja committee. Singhi Park puja committee members said they would wait for government orders before deciding if anything needed to be done to their structure. Several puja committees, however, complained against the last-minute directive. “Initially, there was confusion on the point from where we have to calculate the distance of 10 metre. But now things are clear. It would have been easier for us had the instructions come a little earlier,” said Sandip Chakraborty, of Badamtala Asharh Sangha. Members of the Mudiali puja committee said they had made all necessary arrangements keeping in mind the government directives till now. “Now we are holding discussions on one particular point. If only a few fixed number of people are allowed inside the pandal on the Puja days, the others won’t get any chance at all. But they, too, are an integral part of the festivity,” a member said. The court conceded: “It is possible that the aforesaid measure may not be able to control the spread of the pandemic if people come out to the streets in big numbers.” But the division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee, which issued the order on pandals on Monday, wanted to discourage people from stepping out altogether. “If the pandals are made no-entry zones and a certain distance from all sides of the pandals is covered as a part of the no-entry zone, the public at large will be aware that there will not be any access within the pandals or even close to the same and the affinity to take to the streets may be less. It will also be possible in such a scenario for the virtual coverage of the pandals, as has been appropriately suggested in the guidelines by the State, and for ordinary citizens to make do with virtual darshan this year and wait for the normal fare to return the next year,” the order said. Mudiali, like many other pujas, is banking on its live streaming set-up to reach out to people who would not be able to enter the pandal. Many big puja organisers said the dhakis and the priest and his help would mandatorily have to be allowed inside the pandal. “This means, out of the 25-30 people whose entry will be permissible, six to seven will be dhakis and priests. That will result in even fewer club members and residents of the neighbourhoods entering the pandal,” said a puja committee member in south Calcutta. The secretary of Bosepukur Sitalamandir puja committee, Kajol Sarkar, said: “It is surprising to see the new directive on Tritiya while we have entered the fifth phase of unlock. For a big puja like Bosepukur Sitalamandir, the pandal’s visibility will not be a problem even from a distance of 30ft. But the smaller ones inside lanes and bylanes will face difficulty in complying with the court order,” Sarkar said. In its order, the high court said that though the state and the police had mentioned elaborate plans on crowd management and sanitisation, there was lack of clarity in implementation. “Notwithstanding the exemplary guidelines issued both by the State and by Kolkata Police, it does not appear that there is any blue-print which has been prepared for the implementation of the relevant measures,” the order said. According to the state’s figures, the Calcutta police district alone has 3,000 pujas. Around 34,000 pujas across Bengal have got a Rs 50,000 dole from the government this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta clinic for post-Covid recovery||Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on Monday launched a clinic for people who have recovered from Covid-19, many of whom are suffering from complications such as lung fibrosis, heart ailments, neurological problems and arthritis. The clinic will run between Monday and Saturday, alongside the regular OPD services. Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, the director of medical services at the private hospital, said anyone suffering from persistent problems after recovering from Covid-19 could visit the clinic. He said elderly people or those with comorbid conditions were at greater risk, but complications were found in others, too. Even those who recovered at home and were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic could visit the clinic and get themselves checked, he said. “Covid-19 is not a disease of two weeks in all cases. It is leaving behind footprints in many patients even after they have recovered,” said Bandyopadhyay. “We have a patient who is now admitted in the hospital with arthritis (after recovering from Covid). Lung fibrosis is the most common footprint of Covid-19. Other post-recovery complications are lack of strength in legs.” A doctor at the hospital said fatigue and shortness of breath were the most common post-recovery problems, while lung fibrosis was the most dreaded. “For shortness of breath and fatigue, we are recommending breathing exercises,” said the doctor. A doctor in another hospital said lung fibrosis meant that the tissues of the lungs were scarred. “It has been found that those who received delayed treatment are having lung fibrosis. Some of them could need lifelong oxygen support,” he said. Rana Dasgupta, the chief executive officer (eastern region), Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, said many Covid patients contacted them following recovery because of complications. “Many patients who have recovered from Covid-19 at our hospitals have been contacting us for symptoms they are having and not knowing where to go. To address these issues we have set up the clinic, he said. Asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients are consulting doctors online after they test positive as there is a bar on them stepping out of home for 17 days after the onset of symptoms. “It is advisable that they consult a doctor in-person once after recovery,” said Bandyopadhyay. A few other private hospitals in Calcutta are running similar clinics. Arafat Faisal, the head of medical services at Fortis, where a similar clinic functions, said they were usually asking patients for two or three follow-up checks depending on the severity of the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||NIT issues hostel exit plan for students||The graduating students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Durgapur who hail from other states can collect their belongings from hostels, the institute has said. The authorities want to sanitise the hostels and keep them ready for the institute’s research scholars, an NIT official said. The institute on Monday issued guidelines with the protocol students have to follow on reaching the campus to collect their belongings, which they had left while vacating the campus in March when the Centre had announced the lockdown. The NIT had in July asked students living in Bengal to collect their belongings, the institute official said. Now that the travel restrictions have been eased, students from other states can collect their belongings from the hostels. “The Centre has advised institutes to resume academic and research activities in phases, including visits by PhD students who require laboratories for their work,” Anupam Basu, the NIT director, said. “Once students collect their belongings, we can start disinfecting the hostels to accommodate PhD students while maintaining safety protocols.” If the students living outside Bengal find it difficult to reach the campus, they can authorise someone living in Bengal to collect their belongings, another institute official said. “We have to sanitise the rooms thoroughly before research scholars are allowed in.” Since classes are being held online, second and third-year students are not present on the campus, another official said.  First-year admissions are underway. Research scholars across the country have long been petitioning the education ministry to let them resume research work as many had to leave crucial research midway because of the lockdown, a teacher said. At NIT Durgapur, outgoing final-year undergraduate students who live in Bengal had to vacate the hostels 4, 5 and 13 between July 27 and August 2 and hostels 9 and 10 between August 3 and 10. “A similar detailed exit advisory will be issued for those who are from other states,” an official said. At the Durgapur institute, half of the seats are reserved for those domiciled in Bengal. Students have to wear face masks and follow distancing rules on reaching the campus. They have to return any pending library books.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Use safe homes, government to patients||The state government wants more Covid patients —asymptomatic or with mild symptoms and staying at home — to be encouraged to use the safe homes. This will ensure better utilisation of the facilities and monitoring of such patients, government officials have said. The government recently held a meeting with district health authorities where the chief medical officers of health of the districts and civic officials were present. They were told to urge Covid patients, especially the elderly or those with comorbidities, to stay either at government safe homes or at the satellite units run by private hospitals. When the health department receives information of a Covid patient, the CMOHs and civic health officials would be asked to speak to these patients. If they are elderly or have comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, renal problems, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, cancer, or other diseases that compromise immunity, they would be urged to stay at safe homes or at private hospital-run satellite units, a government official said. “Non-utilisation of safe homes and private satellite units is worrying. In the initial days of the pandemic, people with mild or no symptoms had rushed to hospitals. Now that the fear is gone, people prefer to stay at home and seek advice of doctors,” the official said. In Bengal, there are 200 safe homes with 11,507 beds. According to the state health department, on Monday, there were 1,276 occupants in these facilities, which is barely 10 per cent of the number of beds. The safe homes have facilities for regular health monitoring of patients. If parameters such as level of oxygen in blood become abnormal then they can immediately be shifted to hospital. But that cannot happen if one is at home, another official said. Although asymptomatic Covid patients and those with mild symptoms are advised home stay, many, particularly those with comorbidities, turn critical because they often fail to realise when hospitalisation is required. “Several people have died because of delay in getting admitted to hospital. We have been able to bring down the number of deaths through timely intervention. But better surveillance by bringing more people to institutional quarantine will further bring down the death rate,” a health official said. In Bengal, 6,119 people have died till Monday because of Covid. Sixty-three people died from the disease on Monday, according to health department records. Of this, 84.6 per cent of patients had comorbidities. The safe homes were created for people who would find it difficult to follow safety protocols at home and for those who needed monitoring. There are at least two safe homes in Calcutta with proper infrastructure but most beds are empty, a health official said. One is at Anandapur off the Bypass and another at New Town. At Calcutta airport, for example, a safe home was created for international passengers reaching the city. The facility was created at the old domestic terminal building but later it was shut down because for want of takers. The satellite units run by private hospitals, too, have a few takers. Metro had recently written how many private hospitals were planning to shut down the facilities because of recurrent losses. The government, though, has urged them not to do so. Private hospitals have tied up with hotels to set up the facilities. “To popularise these satellite units, we have proposed to private hospitals that they will get clinical establishment licences to set up monitors, oxygen cylinders and other facilities so that patients with moderate symptoms, too, can be treated there,” a government official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro to run fewer trains during Durga Puja||Metro Railway will run 64 trains every day from Saptami to Dashami (October 23 to 26), instead of 152 daily trains now, an official said. On October 23, 24, 25 and 26, the first and last trains are likely to leave the terminal stations at 10am and 9pm. The timings and the number of trains from Saptami to Dashami are similar to the present Sunday schedule. Metro sources said the order was in keeping with the spirit of the high court’s Monday order that all puja pandals must be treated as “containment zones”. The order does not say anything about public transport. “The high court has discouraged crowding at pandals. We want to run a reduced number of trains to send a message that people should stay home during the Puja for their safety,” said the official. From Monday to Saturday, the carrier runs 152 trains every day. The number was increased from 146 from Monday. The first and last trains leave the terminal stations at 8am and 9pm. Till last week, the last trains used to leave at 8.30pm. Metro had earlier reported that unlike previous years, there would be no Metro trains through the night from Saptami to Navami as a precaution against the spread of Covid. Doctors and public health experts have been fearing a surge in Covid numbers after the Puja. The city’s transport lifeline ferries a substantial load of puja revellers every year. At stations like Dum Dum and Kalighat, a sea of heads is a recurrent sight throughout the day. In 2019, Metro had carried 61.6 lakh passengers between Tritiya and Dashami. On Saptami, Ashtami and Navami, the first and last trains left the terminal stations at 1pm and 4am. The suspension of suburban trains, which most people from outside the city count on before they hop on to Metro, will also have reduced the puja crowd. The carrier’s daily passenger count has breached the 80,000 mark and is inching towards 100,000, the target the authorities had set in the run-up to the resumption of commercial services. Amid the Covid pandemic, officials are apprehensive of managing even a fraction of the usual Puja rush. “We respect the high court’s decision. The puja schedule is being finalised. This year’s Puja is different from the past and we have to take into account the risks associated with the pandemic,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission colleges start classes||Two colleges run by Ramakrishna Mission started classes on digital platforms for first-year undergraduate students earlier this month and a third will start in November even as state-aided colleges are yet to take a decision amid the Covid pandemic. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, started classes on digital platforms on October 3. An official of Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Centenary College, Rahara, said they had started doing so on October 1. A notice posted on the website of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, says the first-year undergraduate classes will commence on November 9. Swami Ekachittananda, the officiating principal of Vidyamandira, said classes were being held through both online and offline mode. “Teachers are holding classes through teleconference for those who don’t have access to the Internet or don’t have a smartphone’’ he told Metro. A teacher said that at times they were holding live online classes for students who have good Internet connectivity at home. Study materials in the PDF format are being mailed or WhatsApped to the students. “At our college there are students who are first-generation learners and many of them are from remote areas like the Sunderbans. They cannot be expected to attend online classes. For them we are organising classes over phone individually or through conference calls,’’ he said. A similar blended approach is being followed at Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur. Classes will be held online or through offline mode based on the availability of options among students, said Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur. “Classes will be held through phone calls for those who lack a smartphone or are facing connectivity issues,’’ he said. Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Centenary College, too, will follow a similar approach. An official of the higher education department said that although they had said that first-year classes in state-aided colleges could start in December, they would welcome autonomous institutions like RKM colleges to start classes through suitable modes whenever they deem fit. “State-aided colleges re-quire time to put a mechanism in place for holding classes online. But the RKM colleges have the required expertise. So, why would we object to starting classes whenever they deem fit?” he said. Since the UGC is insisting on starting first-year classes at the earliest, the department does not want to come in the way of commencement of the session by those who can. Classes for the students in the intermediate semesters at the RKM colleges are underway and some of the students who are extremely poor have been brought to the campuses so they can use the Internet facility of the institutes to attend online classes. “Some of our teachers and former students have bought students smartphones to enable them to attend classes on digital platforms from home,” said Swami Ekachittananda, of Vidyamandira.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Nurse exodus hits plan to raise bed count in Calcutta||A fresh round of exodus of nurses from private hospitals could slam the brakes on plans to ramp up Covid beds ahead of the festival season. At least 40 nurses have resigned from Peerless Hospital in the past week. AMRI has had 40 nurses resigning from its three units (Dhakuria, Mukundapur and Salt Lake) in the past one week. Belle Vue Clinic has had 20 nurses resigning in the past two days. Officials of several other private hospitals said nurses in large numbers had submitted their resignations to join state government hospitals. The state health department had recently started a recruitment drive for nurses. At least 570 nurses have been recruited for government healthcare facilities in the districts, health department officials have said. Many of these recruits are from private hospitals. Private hospital nurses resigning to work in government hospitals is a regular phenomenon in Bengal. But nurses resigning in large numbers can pose a serious problem because all healthcare units have started expanding Covid beds ahead of Durga Puja, officials of several hospitals said. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Commission and the health department have separately asked private hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds because they fear a spike in the number of patients during and after the festival season. Private hospitals have pledged close to 500 additional beds during a meeting last week, the commission’s chairperson, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, has said. “So many nurses leaving on a day’s notice have posed a serious constraint in increasing the number of beds. We have started recruiting nurses… but most of those who have resigned were doing duties in Covid wards and at least one-fourth were in critical care units,” Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said. “It will take at least a month to train new nurses on donning and doffing PPEs and monitoring Covid patients.” The requirement for nurses has gone up because of the pandemic. “Earlier, nurses would work in three shifts. Now, in Covid wards they are working in four shifts for six hours. They are unable to work any longer wearing PPEs,” Ipsita Kundu, CEO, Charnock Hospital, said. The hospital has seen several nurses resigning in the past two days. Belle Vue Clinic has recruited 45 nurses from its college. The hospital has increased its Covid bed count to 160 from from 130. “The new recruits are undergoing rigorous training of 12 hours a day from Monday. We expect them to be ready to take care of Covid patients soon,” Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue, said. AMRI Hospitals has recruited nurses from colleges in Jharkhand, Odisha and Tripura. “We can’t stop the government from recruiting nurses. We also can’t prevent anyone from leaving. So, we are recruiting from wherever possible to meet the demand,” Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said. The hospital has increased 60 beds in its three units. At the meetings with the regulatory commission and health department last week, some of the private hospitals had said increasing beds would be a problem if nurses resigned. “The health department had assured us that the recruitment would be held now but nurses would join after the Pujas. But nurses are not reporting for duty after submitting their resignations… there is nothing one can do,” an official of a private hospital said. Better pay, job security and apparent less workload lure nurses from private hospitals to government ones, officials of several healthcare units said. Public health experts said there had to be a way out of the problem. “Private and government healthcare systems have to go hand in hand during the pandemic. A solution needs to be evolved,” a public health expert said. A health department official said recruitments were essential to boost healthcare facilities in the districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||No adda at Maddox Square Durga Puja||Maddox Square in Ballygunge will be a no-adda zone this Puja. Members of Ballygunge Durga Puja Samity, which organises the Maddox Square puja that has over the years emerged as a favourite meet-and-chat point for pandal-hoppers, have decided to prevent any gathering at the park as a precaution against Covid-19. In previous years, addas at Maddox Square would continue throughout the night on all five Puja days. “This time around 70 volunteers will spread out across the park in shifts and request everyone to leave after darshan,” said Amalendu Sarkar, one of the organisers. “We will request visitors with folded hands that let the adda sessions be held at your homes and not here.” This will be the first time that the organisers of the 85-year-old puja will make such a request to visitors. Members of the puja committee will visit the 350-odd homes of the locality with the request that none of the family members or guests stays back at park after darshan to lounge around. “We will try to explain to everyone of our para-family that since this year is different, we have been forced to take certain steps for the benefit of all,” said Subhasish Adak, of the puja committee. Apart from regular announcements through the public address system, the organisers have decided to set up a police picket inside the park for round-the-clock surveillance. Police will be requested to join the volunteers in requesting visitors to leave the park after seeing the idol. No stalls will be set up at the park to avoid crowding. Veterans recalled how decades ago Maddox Square would have night-long cultural programmes during Puja. While such programmes stopped long back, Maddox Square continued to be the favourite adda zone for puja revellers, including those from outside Calcutta. Metro had earlier reported how Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease, had appealed to the people to avoid crowds during the Puja to avert a spurt in Covid-19 cases after the festivity. “Puja will not be the same without adda at Maddox Square,” said Chaitali Deb, a second-year college student from Ballygunge. “But we have to come to terms with the new normal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
