21-10-2020||Calcutta||Portal relaunched for virtual puja pandal tour||A group of young professionals have relaunched a portal that will allow people to hop pandals from the comfort of their homes. The portal can be accessed on any device with Net connectivity. It offers a 360-degree view of 50 major Durga Puja pandals in the city. Sreebhumi Sporting Club, Chetla Agrani, Shibmandir and Badamtala Ashar Sangha are some of the pandals that can be viewed on the app. The portal offers Virtual Reality (VR) compatible visuals, which have been shot in high definition. One can access the web-based application by typing in www.thepujaapp.com on any browser. Once the page opens those logging in can click on whichever puja they want to tour virtually. From the grand facade of lavish pandals to the most intricate detailing, everything can be viewed. The portal can be accessed free of cost. It is the brainchild of Avishek Chakraborty, an engineer, Soumyo Mukherjee, a media professional, and Arpan Chatterjee, an animator. Mukherjee said the group had first launched the portal in 2013 with a couple of pujas. “We had started mainly to cater to people from Bengal living elsewhere. This year, we expect many people to log into the portal as they would prefer to hop pandals from the safety of their homes,” Mukherjee said. Durga Puja is the biggest festival in Bengal. The celebrations are now India’s official nomination for a pride of place on the “Intangible Cultural Heritage” (ICH) list for 2020, recognised by UNESCO. Visitors will not be allowed inside pandals, Calcutta High Court had ruled on Monday, while laying down a series to steps to be taken in and around pandals to prevent overcrowding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
21-10-2020||Calcutta||3 from each Puja club for idol immersion||Every Durga Puja committee can have only three people at an immersion ghat and committees will have to tell police the day and the ghat they want to use for immersion, the CMC has said. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation took the decision at a meeting on Tuesday. Knowing how many idols will be immersed at a particular ghat and on which day will help the civic body make proper arrangements, Debashis Kumar, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators, said. “That way no puja committee has to wait for long at the ghats.” It is still not clear, though, if there is any bar on the number of people who can accompany the idol till the immersion ghat. Several city police officers said there was no such guideline but long immersion processions would not be allowed. The police hoped a few people would be interested in going to immersion ghats because of the bar on processions, an officer said. Immersions will be allowed between October 26 and 29, Kumar said. “We will not allow more than three people at the ghat. We will install LED screens in some of the ghats for people to watch the immersion proceedings. Immersions will be allowed between 10am and 6am the next day at 15 ghats along the Hooghly. But Kumar, too, was not sure how many people could accompany an idol till the ghat. “It is up to the police to ensure not too many people get together in a lorry and head to a ghat.” An organiser asked if the civic body would ensure the area outside a ghat was not crowded. “Installing LED screens can lead to crowding,” he said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on September 24 said that the government would not organise the immersion carnival on Red Road this year because of the pandemic. She had urged puja committees to avoid large immersion processions. The officers in charge of police stations will have to coordinate and fix immersion dates in such a way that ghats do not get crowded, she had said. In previous years, too, puja committees had to tell the police their immersion dates. This time, apart from the date, they have to tell the police which ghat they will use, Kumar said. The other regular features like a separate zone to throw flowers and other puja items will be there this year, too. Idols will be picked up immediately after immersion to prevent the river from getting polluted, a CMC official said. They will then be taken to the Dhapa landfill site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Dussehra rituals on Net to avoid Covid spread||The pandemic will not stop the ritual of felling Ravana on Dussehra — only it will be online without spectators. Effigies (20ft each) of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhakarna will be set on fire at the Central Park in Salt Lake but all gates will be locked to prevent people from entering the park. The Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad, which organises Dussehra festivities every year, has not printed any invitation card this year. A few organising committee members and experts who handle the fireworks every year will be inside the park, along with a camera crew. The proceedings will be streamed live on Facebook. In 2019, more than 25,000 people had gathered at the Central Park where 60ft-tall effigies had been set on fire. Artists from various states, including Rajasthan had been brought for song and dance shows. The fireworks had continued for more than 45 minutes. And there was food for everyone present on the ground. Apart from Facebook, the organisers will make videos on YouTube. There is a dedicated website for people to log in and watch the proceedings free of cost, an organising committee member said. Sanjay Agarwal, the secretary of the Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad, said the group did not want to take any chance and put people at risk of getting infected with the coronavirus. “So, we have decided to hold the festivities online. We will not allow more than a dozen people inside the park. Most of them will be those who set the effigies on fire,” Agarwal said. Celebrated on the last day of Durga Puja, Dussehra is held on Vijaya Dashami to mark the triumph of good over evil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Xavier’s alumni Puja gift for 800 families||Eight-hundred families in the interiors of South 24-Parganas, for whom the upcoming festivities are a distant dream, got new clothes on Monday. The distribution camp was organised at Kharimutha and two adjacent villages, less than 10km from Kakdwip. Most villagers are still reeling from the twin blows of Covid-19 and Cyclone Amphan. The St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association organised the drive. New saris, dhotis and masks were among the clothes distributed on Monday. A set of mosquito nets, too, were distributed, keeping in mind the threat from vector-borne diseases, an association member said. The recipients were residents of Kharimutha and two nearby villages, Mollar Chowk and Pukurberia. “Many residents have had their homes ravaged by the cyclone. In the absence of regular income, they are still struggling to make ends meet,” another member said. Fishing and betel leaf farming used to be the two main occupations of the villagers. Cyclone Amphan, which made landfall near Kakdwip on May 20, flooded water bodies and farmlands with saltwater and left them unusable. Items that were distributed on Monday were collected from alumni members and college staff for the past week. On Monday, Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, flagged off the drive on the Park Street campus. “We, in St Xavier’s, believe festival is for all — may it be for the poorest of the poor and the joy of festivity increases by sharing with such unfortunates. So, by sending these festival special relief materials, we want to show our love and affection to them. The college and its former students have organised a series of drives to help the poor and downtrodden for the past seven months. It includes distributing food, essential commodities and medical help in several villages close to its Raghabpur campus in South 24-Parganas. Towards the end of June, a group of Jesuit priests led by Savio had visited Kharimutha village to distribute food and other relief material to villagers. “Father Savio has promised to adopt a village near Kakdwip to uplift the socio-economic condition of villagers as well as provide students living there with contemporary education,” an alumni association member said. “The formalities are going to happen soon after police complete the identification process by the end of this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake water leaks plugged||The underground pipeline network in Salt Lake’s IA Block that had sprung leaks in at least five places and triggered a water crisis in a few blocks was repaired early on Tuesday. A team of engineers and labourers from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation started to repair the pipeline network late on Monday and completed the work around 6am on Tuesday. The Telegraph had reported that the leaks had left several blocks with erratic water supply. The pipes that are at least 3m below the road surface had sprung leaks in at least a dozen places, an engineer of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. “A main joint where all the pipelines meet had ruptured. Water had spread all around, which led the road above to slightly cave in… huge craters, too, had formed,” the engineer said. The workers dug up the area to reach the pipeline before replacing a mechanical joint at the junction, the engineer said. The mechanical joint employs steel gaskets and bolts to withstand high water pressure. All the pipes with leaks have been repaired or replaced, the engineer said. Bricks and sand have been laid but the road has not been topped off with a coating of asphalt. “We want to give it time to settle down before resurfacing the road,” the engineer said. Water supply was restored to near-normal levels in all blocks where the pipeline carries water from the Tank No. 13, including IA, IB, IC, JC, JD, KB, KC, LA, LB, and a few other blocks in Sector III on Tuesday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid test rule changed for fliers from London||Passengers on Air India’s flight from London to Calcutta will no longer have to show a Covid negative certificate before boarding the aircraft but they will have to undergo a test and wait for about six hours after arriving here. The Calcutta airport authorities have created a waiting facility for such passengers at the old domestic terminal building that is lying unused. The facility has been created after the state government issued a revised SOP for passengers arriving from London. Passengers of the direct Air India flight from London not carrying a Covid-19 negative report “will be required to get an RT-PCR test conducted on payment basis from the state authorised designated testing facility at the airport,” the new SOP stated. “Since the estimated time for test results is around 6 hours, the airport director, Kolkata airport will designate a suitable waiting area/lounge in the airport premises for the passengers waiting for the results. During this period their passports will be collected by the state government representative.” According to the new SOP, passengers who test positive in the RT-PCR test will have to follow the state government’s instruction and visit hospital. “We have set up a waiting area for these passengers at the old domestic building. It can accommodate 150 passengers,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said on Tuesday. “Passengers of the Air India flight arriving on Thursday can wait here for the test results. The airline will let us know on Wednesday after 8pm how many passengers have boarded the flight without a Covid-19 negative certificate.” Washrooms have been cleaned and the air-conditioning system has been made operational in the facility where the passengers will wait till they get their reports. Counters have been set up for them to buy snacks and beverages. A separate paid lounge has been set up. The state government had in June converted the facility into a quarantine unit for passengers arriving on evacuation flights from other countries. The unit has since been disbanded. The old terminal, which the airport authorities have planned to pull down to facilitate the extension of the new integrated terminal, is also used for Haj pilgrims returning from Saudi Arabia. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had a few days ago urged the Centre to make the direct London-Calcutta flight regular and permanent. Later, Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay wrote to the civil aviation ministry on the issue. Air India is operating a direct Calcutta-London flight twice a week under the air transport bubble arrangement. Air transport bubble is an arrangement between two countries to temporarily operate commercial flights because regular flights are suspended as a precaution against Covid. Mamata also said she had received reports that the passenger count on the Air India flight was lower than expected because delays in getting Covid-19 reports in the UK were preventing many from boarding the flight. The relaxation of the rule requiring passengers to show a Covid negative certificate before boarding the aircraft has been extended only to passengers of the London flight. Passengers from other countries will have to produce a Covid-19 negative certificate before boarding a flight for Calcutta. The state government had stopped international evacuation flights after several passengers, including medical students, arriving from several countries went home, instead of going to quarantine facilities. Later, the government relaxed norms and allowed international flights to arrive provided passengers had Covid-19 negative certificates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||True Spirit Puja takes a virtual leap||“Santragachhi Kalpataru Sporting, we can’t hear you. Please leave the meeting and enter again.” “Realme5, please rename your Zoom ID.” “Kamar-danga Sishu Sangha, accept your breakout room invite.” Around 10am on Tuesday, as the 18th CESC The Telegraph True Spirit Puja went underway, the event managers handling the judgment process were in a tizzy. But unlike in the 17 earlier editions, their job was not to send off the judges in cars headed for different pandals across Calcutta and Howrah on time. The challenges this year were technological. The reason was, in order to ensure safety in a pandemic-hit period, CESC The Telegraph True Spirit Puja (TSP) 2020, in association with David & Goliath, with Friends 91.9FM as radio partner and ABP Ananda as television news partner, had taken a virtual leap. The move is as path-breaking as the launch of the TSP movement itself was, when in 2003 it made puja organisers focus on factors beyond aesthetics — safety and social responsibility. A website has been launched, truespiritpuja.com, to handle the entire process, from registration to judgment. “When any of the 200-plus participants registered, its name went into a randomiser which automatically put them in groups of eight. Since the visits would be virtual, there was no need to group clubs according to geographical location. Even the judges were assigned randomly,” said an event coordinator. A puja organiser was to give a virtual walk-through of the pandal to the judges over video conference, answering queries along the way. “We had 128 clubs to visit on Day 1. Our apprehension was a sizeable drop-out given the challenges of this medium. But just a handful had problems and would be accommodated on Wednesday’s roster,” said an official. The TSP team had coached the pujas in advance. “Some were unaware of the features of smartphones, like flipping the camera to selfie mode, but were keen to learn,” he added. Judges and puja organisers were both a satisfied lot at the end of Day 1. “Had I been asked to physically visit the pandals, I would have had second thoughts. This was as safe as possible,” said Neville Reay, a teacher at Don Bosco School, Liluah, a preliminary round judge. “After months of online teaching, handling a video conference was easy for me,” he smiled. Even the scoring was done online. Most organisers handled the walk-through confidently. “This is a wonderful initiative and the wisest under the circumstances,” said Mintu Patra, secretary of Aurobinda Setu Sarbojanin in Ultadanga who sailed though the 15-minute showcase challenge. “I am used to video calls with friends when I go on vacation. That helped,” he smiled. The preliminary rounds will continue on Wednesday, with the finals slated for Thursday when celebrity judges would log in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Clubs seek review of Puja court order||A forum of Durga Puja organisers moved a writ petition before a high court division bench headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee on Tuesday seeking modifications to its Monday order banning entry of visitors into pandals and in their immediate surroundings. Three other clubs — Samajsebi on Lake Road, Hindusthan Club on Hindustan Road and Suruchi Sangha in New Alipore — have also filed similar petitions before the court. “The order passed by this court yesterday has put our clubs in a lot of problem, Since the court passed the order without hearing the clubs, we want some modifications to it,” senior counsel and Trinamul Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee submitted in the court while moving the petition for the forum. Justice Banerjee said the bench would hear the clubs on Wednesday along with the petitions moved by the three puja committees. Lawyer Banerjee refused to say what modifications they want. “Since we have not yet told the court about the modifications, it would not be wise for me to make it public,” he said. According to Monday’s order, areas within 10 metres of a big pandal and 5 metres of a small pandal will be barricaded as “no-entry zones”. The idol can be viewed from 10 metres “beyond the furthest extremities of the pandal” on any side at big pujas, and from 5 metres at smaller pujas. Depending on the scale of the puja, only 15 to 25 organisers, including the priests and dhak players, will be allowed within the no-entry zone. And that list has to be the same on all puja days. Puja organisers have complained about several aspects of the order, including how they will put up a barricade at 10 metres from the pandal without blocking roads and how they will choose 25 persons who will be allowed inside the pandals. The court wanted to decongest pandals and felt prohibiting entry into pandals would discourage many revellers from stepping out amid the Covid pandemic. “The virus refuses to go away…. In such a situation, it may be judicious to err on the side of prevention than to allow the festivities to go on without any checks and repent later that adequate resources may not be available to provide for the massive cure that may become necessary,” the division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee had said in its order. Monday’s order came on a PIL filed by advocate Saurav Chatterjee. The petitioner expressed the fear that festivities might lead to a spurt in Covid cases. Counsel Banerjee said on Tuesday: “The clubs were parties to the case on which the court issued the order. So I prayed to the court on behalf of the clubs to give my clients the opportunity to submit their views.” An organiser of a central Calcutta puja said they wanted at least the people of the neighbourhood to be allowed inside the pandal. “The committee has more than 100 members. How can we say no to members?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Puja organisers fear revenue loss after Calcutta High Court order||Several puja organisers across Calcutta said they would lose financially if the high court’s Monday order resulted in a drop in footfall. The loss will largely be from the revenue that comes from advertisements in the form of banners, hoardings and displays at prime locations on the gates leading to a pandal. For several others, a large chunk of their revenue comes from stalls set up around the pandals. The larger the turnout at a puja, the higher the number of advertisers who would pitch for their products there. The rate is usually fixed on the basis of the location of an advertisement. “Footfall for us is like the TRP for television channels,” said Debasish Bhattacharya of Kumartuli Sarbojonin Durgostav committee. “Then comes the location of the ads. Between the first gate and the last, the difference is roughly of around Rs 40,000. If the footfall is really low, why would someone like to pay for the ads?” Badamtala Asharh Sangha in south Calcutta has decided to put up five gates. The advertisement at the first gate, which attracts the maximum number of eyeballs, has fetched them Rs 60,000. “If the sponsors start withdrawing one by one, what will we be left with?” asked Sandip Chakrabarty of Badamtala Asharh Sangha. It is just the opposite for banners and hoardings. The closer a spot is to the pandal, the more expensive it is. At a big puja, the ones closest to the pandal fetch the organisers around Rs 3,000 each, while those put up at a distance bring around Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200 each. The stalls, which sell beverages, soft drinks, fast food, junk jewellery, ice creams and sundry other items, have their rates fixed depending on their locations. Organisers of several pujas said the stalls at prime locations around pandals fetched them between Rs 50,000 and Rs 60,000 each. The ones far away from the pandal would fetch around Rs 20,000 each. “Two agencies called up on Tuesday morning and said they would not put up stalls at our puja this year. During the pandemic most puja committees have limited sources of revenue. Even those have started drying up,” said Partha Ghosh of Shibmandir puja committee in south Calcutta. Across Calcutta, puja committees got calls for cancellations on Tuesday, some for stalls and others for advertisements. “Several stall owners, including a catering agency and Mitra Cafe, have informed us about their decision to withdraw. Others said they would shortly,” said Avishek Bhattacharya of Talla Barowari puja committee in north Calcutta. “We had hoped to collect around Rs 10 lakh from the stalls. So you can imagine our condition.” In south Calcutta, several puja organisers had conceived of their “open pandals” with stalls placed at a distance of six feet from each other. Almost all of them had reduced the number of stalls by over 50 per cent compared with last year in keeping with the directives of the state government. As calls for cancellations started pouring in, most of them have started revisiting their budgets. “The contracts are usually done in a way so that the payment comes to us after the Puja is over. It applies to gates, banners, hoardings and stalls,” said Saswata Basu, the secretary of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgostav committee. “The passion for organising a puja is so overwhelming that most organisers in Calcutta usually pay from their pockets and then wait for the money from the advertisers. That is how the budget has been drawn up for most pujas. Now, we are in a fix.” Some puja committees that had taken advance payments from stall owners went into a huddle during the day to decide how to refund the money. Many said they didn’t have the money to return immediately. At many pujas, the organisers failed to pay their decorators on Tuesday (Chaturthi). Most decorators pay their labourers on Chaturthi and Panchami (Wednesday). With uncertainty about payments from stalls and advertisements, most puja committees have held back payments. “The 20-odd labourers I have hired are demanding money. Most of them are from the Amphan-hit parts of South 24-Parganas… Sunderbans, Diamond Harbour and Joynagar,” said Suvro Bhattacharjee of SB Decorators in north Calcutta. “We don’t know what to do because the four puja committees I have been working for have held back payments.” Several FMCG companies spoke to their agents on Tuesday to re-evaluate their Puja investments. “Four brands have asked me not to go ahead with their Puja branding till further notice,” said an agency owner. “I don’t know what to tell my boys who were hired to set up banners and hoardings. They don't want to lose out just before the Puja.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Pandal hurdles on Day 1 of implementing 10-metre order||Several puja committees across Calcutta appeared to be awaiting the outcome of the review petition in the high court before erecting barricades in front of pandals. Some committees that tried to draw the line beyond which visitors cannot proceed ran into a problem. If the prescribed rule (10 metres beyond the furthest extremities of the pandal for big pandals and 5 metres for small pandals) is implemented on the ground, the visitors may have to stand on the road, blocking the movement of others, to view the idol. At many places, organisers were consulting  police on how to go about barricading the pandals. The following are some of the pandals where the demarcated area may spill over into the road. The Singhi Park puja pandal in Gariahat, which has been built in a way to ensure drive-through viewing. Organisers said putting up a barricade at 10 metre from the pandal would mean stopping the flow of vehicles. They were yet to decide how to go about implementing the order The Nalin Sarkar Street puja, in north Calcutta. The organisers have set up a barricade at 10 metre from the idol. Visitors can walk into the pandal through a narrow street but cannot proceed beyond the barricade At Brindaban Matri Mandir, off Amherst Street, the organisers have set up a barricade at the entrance to a small lane, which is 10 metres from the idol Visitors take photographs at the entrance to the Ekdalia Evergreen puja pandal. Barricades have been put up at 10 metre from the idol, at the entry to the pandal Barricades placed at the entrance to the Tridhara Sammilani puja pandal on Tuesday Visitors at the Suruchi Sangha pandal in New Alipore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
