22-10-2020||Calcutta||Crowds spread the virus, National Covid-19 Task Force warns||Crowds allow the novel coronavirus a passage to spread, a public health specialist who is a member of the National Task Force on Covid-19 management said at a webinar on Wednesday. K. Srinath Reddy, who is also president of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), urged people not to engage in boisterous celebrations. If work from home is possible, why not pray from home, he asked. Reddy also cautioned people against taking off masks while visiting friends and relatives and suggested that individuals sit far from each other during such visits. Swami Satyeshananda, assistant general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Mission, said that as free citizens people have a responsibility towards themselves and society. “Swami Vivekananda had said that to be good and to do good to everyone is the essence of religion,” he said. “By not mixing... people will help themselves and the community at large.” The webinar titled “Covid-19 and Festivals — Say NO to Relaxations” was organised by the Covid Care Network, a voluntary organisation comprising health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from Covid. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury, also mentor of the network, said people should not indulge in irresponsible celebrations and urged all to take protective measures while going out. Among other speakers was economist and activist Jean Dreze, who spoke from Muzaffarabad in Bihar. “Piety does not require boisterous celebrations. If we have done work from home, why not pray from home? By allowing crowds, you will be allowing the virus a passage,” said Reddy. The problem with crowds is that one infected person can go on to infect many. “If two or three people are infected in a crowd of 100 people, they can go on to infect a large number of people in that crowd. That is how superspreader events are happening,” he said. Reddy urged people to be patient till a vaccine comes or the virus loses its virulence through evolution. “Wear a mask, sit far apart from each other, ensure good ventilation in the room and keep the doors and windows open. If possible, wear glasses and face shields,” he later told The Telegraph over the phone. Dreze drew parallels between forthcoming elections and festivals, and how both would lead to crowding. The Assembly polls in Bihar are scheduled from October 28. “Both forthcoming elections and festivals will draw crowds and crowds can lead to health hazards,” said Dreze, who was speaking from Muzaffarabad in Bihar. He also raised the issue of missing public health measures like door-to-door surveillance to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. He later advised that people visiting relatives and friends at their home should also put their masks on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||Heavy rain alert on Saptami, Ashtami in Calcutta||A rainy and windy spell is likely in Calcutta over the next three days, the Met office has said. Heavy rain is forecast in the city between Friday and Saturday (Saptami and Ashtami), which is likely to keep many people home. “A low-pressure area that formed over the central Bay of Bengal on Tuesday has intensified into a well-marked low-pressure area over the west-central Bay of Bengal. The system is likely to further intensify into a depression over the next 24 hours and a deep depression over the next 48 hours,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director general, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “It will move in a northwest direction and then take a north-northeast turn towards the Bengal-Bangladesh coast.” Under the influence of the system, the districts of East Midnapore, North and South 24-Parganas are likely to get heavy rain on Thursday and very heavy rain on Friday. Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia, are likely to get heavy rain between Friday and Saturday. The system is likely to cross the coast near the Sunderbans between Friday afternoon and Saturday morning, said a Met official. Calcutta is expected to see winds blowing at 50kmph, the Met office said. On Wednesday, the first half in the city was bright and sunny but clouds covered the sky in the evening. The clouds were accompanied by a breezy spell. “Overcast conditions have set in. Calcutta is likely to get some rain on Thursday as well. The intensity of the showers will go up from Friday. A spell of heavy rain is expected between Friday and Saturday morning,” said the Met official. The Met office has issued an alert for fishermen, asking them no to venture into the sea between Thursday and Saturday. “All tourist activities in the beaches of east Midnapore and South 24 Parganas should be suspended. The ferry services in the Sunderbans should also be suspended,” said Bandyopadhyay. The system on Bay of Bengal was initially tipped to head towards the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh coast, said a weather scientist. “It will turn into a deep depression but lose some steam before landfall,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||Pujas rush to reduce, from bhog to fruits||Several puja committees have decided to scale down their preparations for the rituals so that fewer committee members will be required to be present inside the No-Entry zone. Many committees have decided that the bhog will be prepared in smaller quantities compared with previous years. Other offerings, including fruits, too, will be scaled down so fewer people are required for washing and peeling. Only those who are thorough with the puja rituals will be allowed inside the No-Entry zone to aid the priests. “Till last year around 450-500 people would get community bhog every day,” said Sudipta Kumar of Deshapriya Park puja committee. “This year we have brought it down to the bare minimum. A very small amount of bhog will be prepared for the deity. The handful of people who will be involved in the rituals have been tested for Covid-19.” Throughout Wednesday afternoon and evening, many committees met to discuss the revised high court order before deciding on how to go about the basic puja rituals. A day before Sashthi, a division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee of the high court passed an order allowing big pujas (of pandal size 300 square metre or more, excluding the dais for the idol) to draw up a list of 60 people, including dhakis, who will be allowed inside the No-Entry zone. However, only 45 persons will be allowed inside the zone at a time. “We will have around 15-20 of our members and they will participate in the basic rituals,” said Joydeep Saha of Belgachhia Sadharan Durgotsav at Tallah Park in north Calcutta. “We used to prepare around 50kg of bhog every day. This year it will be the bare minimum for the Goddess.” “We have decided that women who know the puja rituals and have helped the priests perform them will be present inside the No-Entry zone,” said Rahul Shaw of Ajeya Sanghati of Haridevpur. Organisers of many big pujas said their daily offerings to the Goddess in previous years would include at least 5 to 7kg of several varieties of fruits. At least 12 people would be engaged to handle the offerings. “Since a large number of our senior members would probably want to stay away, the offerings this year would be less. Just a handful of members will be enough to handle that volume,” said Saswata Basu of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgotsav Committee. “From fruits to bhog, everything will be on a much lower scale.” Many puja committees discussed whether the preparation of the bhog and other offerings could be done at a place away from the puja premises. That will minimise the number of people who need to be present in the pandal. “With this arrangement, we can have a full strength at work but far away from the No-Entry zone,” said Sandip Chakrabarty of Badamtala Ashar Sangha. “We are trying to find a way so that just three of our 150-odd members can be inside the pandal to help the two priests.” Some puja committees who don’t have this option have decided to draw up rosters with men and women who are aware of the details of puja rituals. “We are telling our members to let the women take over. We will wait outside,” said Sanjay Majumder of State Bank Park in Thakurpukur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||True Spirit pujas extend a helping hand||Members of Aurobinda Setu Sarbajanin in Ultadanga have been visiting senior citizens in the neighbourhood with requests not to step out even for anjali. The club has put up loudspeakers across the neighbourhood for the mantra to be heard by all residents from home. A group of villagers in East and West Midnapore who lost their livelihood because of Cyclone Amphan did up two pandals in the city, one in Shyambazar and the other in the Girish Park area. An LED screen outside the 41 Pally Club pandal in Haridevpur will enable the passerby to view the decoration inside and the idol while abiding by the high court order. Though organisers were unsure till recently what the scale of the festival would be or if they would be able to allow visitors, many of them went ahead with the preparations adhering to the True Spirit Puja guidelines, that this year is also mandating adherence to Covid-safety protocol. Judges at the CESC The Telegraph True Spirit Puja (TSP) 2020, in association with David & Goliath, with Friends 91.9 FM as radio partner and ABP Ananda as television news partner, had to wear the additional Covid lens even as they evaluated over 200 pujas across Calcutta and Howrah virtually from the confines of their homes. A modest pandal, Shyambazar Pally Sangha, was decorated with sea shells, but what caught the attention of the judges was their social commitment, a key TSP parameter, pandemic or no pandemic. “When we visited a village in East Midnapore after Cyclone Amphan with relief, we saw that they had suffered huge losses. We employed the same people to make the pandal for us,” said secretary Subrata Bhattacharya. Salkia Chhatra Byayam Samiti, which portrays a village Durga dalan complete with a tulsi mancha, had put up flexes with pictures of their visits to deliver relief to Amphan-hit villages. Chorebagan Sarbojanin Durgotsab Samity in the Girish Park area also scored by generating jobs for around 80 artisans during the pandemic who came from a village in West Midnapore. They would have gone without work otherwise, said the general secretary of the club, Jayanta Banerjee. Tarun Sangha (Baghajatin) has put up microphones in the entire neighbourhood so that the people in the locality do not miss out on the rituals. “If they cannot come to the pandal we have to reach out to them and hence we have put microphones in the entire para, which will enable the 1,000 families to listen to the rituals and the anjali mantra from their homes during the pandemic,” said secretary Dibyendu Sekhar Bhowmick. Several puja committees have laid stress on sanitisation.  At Thakurpukur SB Park, last year’s Model Puja, 14 sanitising stands had been set up alongside the bamboo barricade with social distancing circles marked on the ground. There is even a robot equipped with sensors that dispenses sanitiser once a visitor places his hand in front of it. “It can also be made to dispense masks,” club member Sanjay Majumdar said, demonstrating the robot’s action on his mobile phone as someone approached it and sanitised his hand. Puja organisers are not sticking to sanitisation inside the pandal only. For example, Badamtala Ashar Sangha has hired an agency to sanitise the area outside the pandal everyday. “We have to keep the area sanitised also so that people walking or driving past feel safe even while maintaining the legitimate distance from the pandal,” said club member Subhradip Pal. The puja that has recreated Satyajit Ray’s Pather Panchali offers drive-in darshan. Which means one can drive by and see the idol without getting off the car. Initially, the organisers had created two lanes, one for pandal-hoppers and the other for those on foot. “Now we can keep only one lane to maintain the distance from the lane and we will allow small cars and pedestrians through it. We have over 25 volunteers managing the crowd,” said Pal. Many of the pujas have stocked up on sanitisers and a few like Behala Friends Club have also kept an oxygen cylinder. At Rajdanga Naboday Sangha, in Kasba, one can sanitise one’s hands and also phones. Kankurgachhi Yubak Brinda have been sanitising the interior of their pandal also. Judges saw a volunteer accosting a worker who was entering the pandal without a mask. In August, the club had organised a blood donation camp to meet the crisis during the pandemic. Salkia Chhatra Byayam Samiti had set up a sanitising tunnel and also a Covid counter stocked with fog machine, thermal gun, pulse oxymeter and sanitiser bottles. At Shibmandir, the sanitising process was on when the judges connected with the organisers on video conference. The Machuabazar Sarvajanik Durga Puja Committee provided devices and data recharge to children in the locality to attend online classes, many of whom could not make ends meet during the lockdown. In several of the pandals like Yubadal in the Bowbazar area, the underlying theme was fighting the pandemic or Amphan through drawings that showed how the doctors, policemen are helping fight Covid-19. Lalabagan Sarbojanin in Maniktala, which had designed its pandal such that the idol can be seen from the road, also saluted Covid workers through motifs on their pandal walls. The plea of each of them perhaps is enshrined in the message put up atop the entry of Telengabagan Sarbojanin Durgotsab Committee  — Kichhhu chai na Ma go, Corona mukti chhara (We want nothing, O Mother, except freedom from Corona). The pandal — open on three sides, as prescribed by the government — has put up a giant screen to allow visitors to watch the idol from afar. The club is in an area which was a containment zone in the past and has looked after its affected neighbours. So did members of neighbouring Aurobinda Setu Sarbajanin. “There was a family of three which got infected. We reached them provisions for 13 days,” said club secretary Mintu Patra. Helping each other out in distress, even when there is no Puja around the corner, is what True Spirit is all about.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||54 lorikeets rescued along India-Bangladesh border||Fifty-four lorikeets — brightly-coloured parrots that are found in parts of South East Asia, Australia and New Guinea — headed to the city from Bangladesh were rescued early on Wednesday, the BSF has said. The BSF, posted along the India-Bangladesh border near Bongaon in North 24-Parganas, rescued the birds. Forest department officials identified the birds by seeing their pictures, a BSF officer said. Lorikeets live in large flocks in the wild and are medium-sized parrots, a forest official said. They are preferred as pets because they can mimic and learn to talk easily. Officers of a BSF patrol team at the Tentulberia border outpost spotted a few men moving suspiciously with two large objects covered in clothes. When they asked the men to stop, they apparently dropped the objects and ran into a nearby bamboo thicket. “On inspection our men found the birds crammed in two cages that were each covered with a piece of cloth,” the BSF officer said. The BSF contacted the wildlife crime control bureau and the forest department, whose officials identified the birds and advised the officers to feed them some fruits, the officer said. At least six varieties of lorikeets, including 11 chattering lorikeets, 13 red and blue lorikeets, eight black-capped lorikeets, eight black lorikeets, six brown lorikeets and eight violet-necked lorikeets have been rescued. All the birds have been handed over to the hospital at Alipore zoo. A zoo official said the birds appeared “extremely traumatised” as they had been crammed in cages. “We have given them oral rehydration salts as well as some fruits.” The birds will be in quarantine for at least 14 days. The Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, bans trading in wildlife but wildlife trafficking has emerged as a multi-billion dollar trade. Southeast Asia is the largest market for wild animals as well as products from India. And Calcutta is the favourite corridor for smugglers, a forest official said. “Consignments change hands multiple times before reaching their final destinations,” the forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||State child rights commission to promote food sharing||The state child rights commission, in association with puja committees, will spread awareness in the city on sharing food this festive season. The campaign, “Share Your Food”, is a joint initiative of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights in association with Unicef. Posters in Bengali and English will be put up outside puja pandals to draw the attention of parents and children and to make them aware of the need to share their food with others, especially those who cannot afford. The campaign, endorsed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, was launched on social media in July to “inspire children to develop a habit of sharing food with others, especially with the underprivileged”. Sharing is considered to be one of the best practices that should be learnt from childhood, according to the commission. The commission felt the message needed to be reiterated during Durga Puja, which is a time for sharing. The campaign is part of the commission’s various initiatives to spread awareness on child rights and child safety. “There are many who order more than they can eat and there are others who have nothing to eat. The campaign is to make children realise they should not waste food… and what better time to spread this message because puja is a time for sharing,” Yashabanti Sreemany, a commission member coordinating the campaign, said. “We approached some puja committees and they accepted our proposal.” Posters will be fixed outside at least 16 puja pandals in the city. The posters have messages such as “Food for everyone, lot more fun”; “Helping a friend makes me feel real grown up,”; “I care, I share”; and “Doing my little bit to feed the hungry”, which has a picture of a boy preparing food packets. Subrata Mukherjee, the president of Ekdalia Evergreen, said the posters would help spread awareness among people. “Sharing is a social concept and it should be encouraged. We will put up the posters in such a way that they are visible to people passing by as well.” Anjan Ukil, the general secretary of Ballygunge Cultural Association, said the posters would be outside the pandal. “That way one need not enter the pandal to see them. It will be visible even to those who are driving past or walking by the area.” Several puja committees felt the pandemic had made it imperative for puja committees to spread a social message. “The pandemic has had an impact on everyone, especially the underprivileged. Others need to reach out to them… teach children the need to reach out,” Debasis Kumar, the general secretary of Tridhara Akalbodhan, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||Purulia kids get new clothes||A group of young men and women criss-crossed Gariahat on Tuesday evening to shop: not for themselves, but for 400 children in Purulia. Parents of these children cannot think of buying anything for them during the festive season because of financial constraints. Kids like Budhimuni and Samir, who live in the Arsha block of Purulia, received new clothes on the morning of Panchami, Wednesday, thanks to the group — all theatre activists. The activists took to crowdfunding from early October to raise money to buy clothes at Gariahat. Once they were through with the shopping, they took a bus to Purulia from Esplanade. “We took a vehicle to reach Bhimjara village and adjoining villages in the Arsha block to give the kids new clothes. This is how we wanted to spend Puja this year,” Subha Biswas, a member of Theatre Cafe, which is behind the initiative, said. The members of Theatre Cafe who are spread across various districts raised Rs 20,000 through crowdfunding and donated to the cause, too. “Initially, we had decided to help the kids with just the money… later we decided to scale up and launched the fund raising drive on Facebook,” Saikat Suman, a group member, said. A survey by the group revealed NGOs had been giving clothes to underprivileged children living on footpaths in Calcutta, a member said. “But kids in far-off places like Purulia were left out. We got to know of these children though our network.” Their parents are migrant workers and the pandemic has hit them hard. “The price of one set of clothes people like us buy can make up for many sets for such kids in the festive season,” Subha Biswas, a member who is part of “Gobordanga Rupantar” theatre group, said. Theatre Cafe that was launched three years ago to spread the message about new productions on digital platforms had started an initiative to help distressed theatre workers during the pandemic. They delivered essential items to people in the Sunderbans in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. The success of that initiative made them think of raising money for such children during the festive season, another group member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
