23-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja contest: What did they say?||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja: Khichudi bhog from star hotels in Calcutta||Residents of several housing complexes and neighbourhoods this Ashtami will be served the traditional khichudi-labda by star hotels, no less. With community lunch on puja days off the table, at least a couple of luxury hospitality addresses, whose business has taken a hit in this pandemic season, have sensed an opportunity and stepped into what is uncharted territory for them. “We have a tradition of serving community lunch for the neighbourhood on Ashtami and Navami, which had to be cancelled. When we received a proposal from Novotel of serving packed lunch we were initially hesitant, thinking star hotel rates would be beyond us. But later we realised that only a five star property can ensure hygiene that is so vital now,” said Sumanta Roy, the general secretary of Jodhpur Park Saradiya Utsav Committee. The puja has placed khichudi bhog lunch order with the hotel for Ashtami. “They are providing disposable cutlery in sealed lunch boxes,” Roy added. In Golf Green, the goddess will be offered bhog cooked in the sanitised environment of the New Town hotel’s kitchen. “We could not trust local caterers this time,” said Sudip Bose, secretary, Golf Green Sharadotsav Committee. Novotel, he said, would deliver packed bhog at the pandal which the priest would offer during the ritual. Residents will later collect their packets from one of six delivery counters. “This way, we are assured of almost contactless bhog delivery,” Bose said. The general manager of Novotel Kolkata Hotel & Residences, Sandeep Johri, explained to Metro how outdoor catering has emerged as a new vertical in this season. “People are not venturing out. So footfall is low. We were exploring various options, like having a bakery van parked in front of housing complexes every morning. Months ago, we had realised that this year, pankti bhoj will not happen. So we thought of taking the home delivery vertical further and doing large scale delivery.” Peerless Inn is also delivering to four prominent housing complexes off the Bypass in south Calcutta. “We have launched a home delivery segment under our QSR (quick service restaurant) outlet brand Aaheli Express, for which we have our own delivery channel. People prefer to eat Bengali cuisine during Puja, which is why they are approaching us. The cooking will happen at our base kitchen at the hotel and packing done on the spot maintaining hygiene norms,” Debasree Roy Sarkar, president, corporate development, Peerless Hotels. At Urbana, when community lunch was cancelled the organisers thought up alternatives. “Not having to shop for vegetables and step into the kitchen is part of enjoying Puja,” said Sujit Bhattacharya, president of Urbana Welfare Association. For Saptami, they decided to hand over packed lunchbox catering to Aaheli Express.  “They will deliver the boxes in each tower’s reception from where residents will collect them,” he added. This new-found business vertical, predict the hoteliers, will be there to stay even after the pandemic blows over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Flights from Calcutta to Bangladesh start on October 28||Flight services between Calcutta and Bangladesh will resume on October 28 and many airlines have already planned their schedules, airport officials said on Thursday. Airlines are planning to resume flight operations from Calcutta to Dhaka and Chittagong in the first week of November, according to officials of several airlines. One of the most popular international routes from Calcutta, commercial flights to Dhaka had been stalled because of the pandemic. Only a few evacuation flights had operated a few months ago. “An air travel bubble will be established between India and Bangladesh with effect from October 28 and will remain valid till January 31 next year or till the resumption of scheduled international flights, whichever is earlier,” the Centre has said in a letter to the directorate general of civil aviation. “Designated carriers of both countries will be permitted to operate services between India and Bangladesh under the bubble.” An air bubble is an arrangement between two countries to operate commercial passenger flights as regular services have been stalled because of the pandemic. SpiceJet, IndiGo, Air India, GoAir and Vistara are the Indian carriers allowed to operate flights to Dhaka and Chittagong from Calcutta, Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai as part of the agreement. They can operate up to 28 flights in a week from these cities. Biman Bangladesh, US Bangla Airlines and NovoAir are the Bangladesh carriers, which can operate a similar number of flights, according to the letter. On Thursday, US Bangla Airlines officials told tour operators in Calcutta that they would start daily flight services between Calcutta and Dhaka soon. Biman Bangladesh plans to start services from November 1, an official of the airline said. “We have been given the rights to operate daily flights but we’ll start with three flights a week and can add more depending on the demand.” SpiceJet will start operating on the Calcutta-Dhaka route from the first week of November, an official of the airline said. “Bangladesh is a very big sector for Calcutta. Medical tourism, trade, small and medium-scale hotels and restaurants heavily depend on people from Bangladesh,” Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India, said. “We had requested both the state and the Centre to allow flight operations. We are happy with the resumption of services.” Metro had earlier written how small and medium-scale hotels, eateries and foreign exchange stores suffered huge losses because people from Bangladesh were unable to visit India. A few patients from Bangladesh have been coming by road to the country with medical visas. Airlines expect more patients to reach Calcutta from Bangladesh with the resumption of flights, according to operators.umption of services," said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. Metro had earlier written how small and medium scale hotels, eateries and foreign exchange stores were suffering huge losses because the Bangladeshi nationals were unable to come. Few patients from Bangladesh have started coming with medical visas by road. Airline operators said they were expecting more patients to come to calcutta from Bangladesh now that flights would resume.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja organisers adopt new normal to fight Covid||Live streaming of puja rituals, a last-minute alternative route so visitors can see the idol without entering the pandal, automated thermal guns to check the body temperature of those allowed in — organisers in the city remained true to the spirit of the Puja even in a Covid-hit world. On Sashthi morning, puja organisers who made it to the top 12 briefed virtually the judges of the CESC The Telegraph True Spirit Puja (TSP) 2020, in association with David & Goliath, with Friends 91.9 FM as radio partner and ABP Ananda as television news partner. The judges did not have to criss-cross the city in a convoy of cars but hopped from one pandal to another within a few seconds and the organisers briefed them about what they had done for a safe celebration. For most puja organisers, Covid safety measures, social commitment during the lockdown and extending a helping hand to those hit by Cyclone Amphan were on top of their checklist. For Vivekananda Park Athletic Club in Haridevpur, which was adjudged Four Star Puja, the priority was not spending the budget on puja paraphernalia but utilising it to buy an ambulance that will be given to the health department. “We have kept the puja budget to a bare minimum and 80 per cent of the money that we raised have been spent to buy an ambulance. We thought it was more important to stand by the people during this pandemic,” said member Raja Chakraborty. Tala Park Prattoy, a Three Star Puja, altered their entry route so that visitors can catch a glimpse of the idol and do not have to return disheartened. “The police have demarcated the point up to which we can allow visitors. We are abiding by the rules. But we have also made an alternative route which was not there in the original plan. We incorporated it so that visitors can see the idol from a distance of more than 10 metres,” said an organiser while briefing the judges. Another TSP veteran, Ajeya Sanghati in Haridevpur, adjudged Four Star Puja, impressed the judges with the use of automated thermal gun and a Covid waste bin to dispose of masks. They also stuck floor mats on the ground to demarcate the positions to maintain physical distancing. “We didn’t make circles because it could get wiped off or washed away. We wanted to keep the demarcations prominent throughout the puja,” said the official while explaining to the judges. With a cap on the visitors in pandals, puja committees like Mudiali Club, another Four Star Puja, are live streaming rituals on social media platforms. Beliaghata 33 No. Palli Bashi Brinda, also Four Star, has made a new arrangement for anjali. “We have not more than 27 houses in the neighbourhood. We have placed megaphones and asked them to offer anjali from their homes. We will collect the flowers during visarjan,” said an organiser of the puja. Both Beliaghata 33 No. Palli Bashi Brinda and Dum Dum Tarun Dal have put up LCD screens for the crowd to see the idol from outside. Kakurgachi Yubak Brinda, another TSP veteran, will put up the screens for viewing. It was adjudged a Three Star Puja. Dum Dum Tarun Dal, a Two Star Puja, scored not just for moving with the times and providing visitors a glimpse of the pandal or idol on the screen, but also because they stood by two pujas in Amphan-hit Hingalganj, in North-24 Parganas. The Dum Dum Park club organised three pujas, one in the city and two in North 24- Parganas, where villagers, who are mostly dependant on pisciculture, lost their livelihood to Amphan and have no money to organise a puja. Making it to the top 12 pujas this year was Tangra Gholpara Sarbojanin Durgotsav, where the pandal depicted a phoenix and a prayer to rise like one from the pandemic. It was adjud-ged a Three Star Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja: True Spirit crown moves west across river ||Organising Durga Puja responsibly in a city afflicted by a pandemic is itself a heroic feat. To do so with an eye on Covid protocol and also compassion and care at heart, deserves a salute. That is why in its 18th edition, the Model Puja title of CESC The Telegraph True Spirit Puja, held in association with David & Goliath, and with Friends 91.9 FM as radio partner and ABP Ananda as television news partner, has gone west across the Hooghly to Salkia Alapani, that not only ticked every box on the evaluation sheet but achieved more. Over 200 pujas across Calcutta and Howrah had signed up to be measured on an even tougher True Spirit scale of merit this year and 12 pujas made the final cut. At the end of a three-hour virtual tour on Sashthi over video conference, the judges — Raima Sen, Nusrat Jahan, Yash Dasgupta, Gaurav Chakrabarty, Richa Sharma, Joyneel Mukherjee and Arijit Basu — came up with their pick of the top four. From the idol to the priest to visitors, care and compassion are evident in every respect at Salkia Alapani. “We heard of migrant zari workers in neighbouring Uluberia sitting at home without work and sent the Kumartuli-made idol to them to decorate. We have taken out a health insurance policy for Covid-19 for our priest and dhaki. To reduce risk of infection, we are sanitising the puja flowers daily,” said Sayantan Chakrabarty, a committee member. An isolation room has been set up, complete with PPE kit, pulse oxymeter and nebuliser in case a visitor is detected with fever on the automatic thermal reading meter that detects body temperature as one passes by. A doctor is also at hand to deal with such eventualities. Not content with sanitising hands of visitors, the club has set up a wash basin at the exit. The club has barred in-person anjali, asking residents to follow the ritual at home through live streaming on social media. Chetla Agrani Club, a Five Star awardee, has a pandal open on three sides to allow ventilation and keep the virus at bay. A gigantic bird with its wings spread sits at the entrance. “We want to fly free but in this situation we are trapped,” said a volunteer. The inspiration is Rabindranath Tagore’s poem Duhsamay, a title that captures this star-crossed time. The idol can be seen from the road while driving by, reducing footfall outside. The rituals will all be webcast live on the club’s website chetlaagraniclub.com. Suruchi Sangha, another Five Star Puja, is consistent in word and deed in naming its theme “Ebar utsab noy, hok manusher puja (Not celebration this time, let it be worship of people)”. They have spent 60 per cent of their budget on gifting clothes to 10,155 children and another 10 per cent on paying wages to the decorator’s men and the illuminators who had to sit idle during the lockdown. “Every year, they would start work on our pandal by July. What you see is the work of just a month. We did not want them to miss out on the earnings,” said the club’s cultural secretary Soumya Sarkar. To ensure that residents do not miss out on offering anjali, it has worked out a way to adhere to the high court order and yet ensure that sentiments are not hurt. “We have put up about 80 loudspeakers across the neighbourhood. The ritual will be webcast on our social media pages. A request can be sent to a dedicated WhatsApp number to get flowers offered by residents to the goddess picked up from respective homes and offered at Durga’s feet. We will even send them a picture as proof,” said Sarkar. They recycled their pandal structure from last year to minimise environmental impact and used an open-style plan. Hatibagan Sarbojanin Durgotsav Committee, the third to be adjudged Five Star Puja, has left its pandal “incomplete”. Wires are dangling, the tea kettle is hanging, hammers and nails lie askance. This is to freeze time at a moment labourers abruptly left and the lockdown ground life to a halt. The club made sure life went on for the locality. “We delivered masks to every family and to all buyers and sellers at the Hatibagan market in the early days of the lockdown. And neighbours who tested Covid positive were helped in seeking admission to hospitals or safe homes. Those who stayed home were supplied with necessities,” said Subham Roy Gupta, the assistant secretary. Thakurpukur State Bank Park Sarbojanin was inducted to the Hall of Fame this year. Behala Nutan Dal got the David & Goliath Puja That Cares while Manicktalla Chaltabagan Lohapatty Durga Puja Committee was named the Voiceworx Truly Managed Puja. Additional reporting by Anannya Sarkar, Shrestha Saha, Malancha Dasgupta, Jhinuk Mazumdar and Pramita Ghosh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Jayantibhai Thakorlal Mehta: Trusted, and loyal to city||A trader dealing in precious stones saw a business opportunity soon after India’s Independence. The princely states were being merged into the republic of India and the zamindari system was being abolished. Suddenly many of them were in market to sell a part of family jewels, for ostensible reasons. Simultaneously, a new class of rich was on the rise — businessmen mostly belonging to the Marwari community. Jayantibhai Thakorlal Mehta was at the right time and at the right place in history. With his deep knowledge in stones and affable nature, he soon earned a nationwide reputation as an estate jeweller, buying from princely states and zamindars and selling it to the new moneyed class. Mehta, who passed away in Calcutta earlier this week at the age of 103, moved to this city at an early age when his father Thakorlal settled down here. Jayantibhai’s uncle then ran a small diamond trading shop at Chorbagan. Being close to Rangoon also made sense as a part of the extended Mehta family was exporting rubies and emeralds from Burma to India. When a part of that same extended family moved to Antwerp, the diamond capital of the world, Mehta’s trade and business received a further fillip as it straddled India, Burma and Belgium. Hailing from Palanpur in Gujarat — the ancestral home to many of India’s top diamantaires — Mehta and his two brothers also saw an opportunity to up the game. There were not many jewellers dealing in diamonds apart from Hamilton & Co in Calcutta. Mehta saw a void which can be filled in the years after Independence. The showroom at Stephen House in Dalhousie, set up in 1930, grew to become one of the top names in diamond post-Independence. “I would say the way he handled the client, at a deeply personal level, and the trust he earned were behind the success of Thakorlal Hiralal,” Pranay Mehta, grandson of Jayantibhai and the force behind the TH brand today, said from Mumbai. Jayantibhai, who used to love classical music and playing cards, stayed back in the city even after the business moved to Mumbai. After operating for 50 years, the Dalhousie showroom closed down in 1980 in the aftermath of a massive tax raid. The business was confined to a workshop and office on Elgin Road-SP Mukherjee Road crossing. The office was shut down in 2010 when his son Satishbhai died and grandson Pranay decided to focus on Mumbai, the financial capital of the country, which is also close to Surat, the diamond cutting capital of the world. “Even though he spent at least six months with us in Mumbai, after one or two months he would miss Calcutta and want to go back,” Pranay said from the Horniman Circle showroom at Fort, South Mumbai. Pankaj Parekh, former vice-chairman of the Gem & Jewellery Export Promotion Council, recalled the splendour of the showroom at Stephen House. “In those times, trust was the biggest currency when one buys diamonds as there was no standardisation like today. When you bought diamond — and diamonds were usually bought by the HNIs and the ultra rich in those days — they had implicit trust in Jayantibhai and TH,” Parkeh, 76, said. The rise of TH also in a way mirrored the rise of India as the destination for cutting and polishing diamonds. The Jews, who controlled the diamond trade, were not interested in dealing in small-sized stones as they thought it was not worth the effort, price wise. Indians, especially Palanpuri Gujaratis, saw an opportunity in cutting and polishing those stones, which were otherwise destined to be crushed and used to lay airport runway tarmac. Several top industry families were loyal clients of TH and many of them continue to be today. Travelling abroad was not as frequent as it used to be today. “A wealthy patron may be often walking into Cartier, Tiffany or Harry Winston now but it was not that frequent in the 50s or 60s. For them, it used to be TH,” Raja Shah, whose father Viharilal Shah, was a friend of Jayantibhai, said. “TH was a well known brand out of Calcutta. Jayantibhai was a respected figure in the business. We, at Satramdas Dhalamal, used to compete with them but also did business together at times,” recalled couture jeweller Raj Mahtani. Although a diamantiere by passion, Jayantibhai worked closely with Laxmi Niwas Jhunjhunwala of Bhilwara Group and set up HEG Ltd and Rajasthan Spinning & Weaving Mills. “My grandfather never left the city which gave him everything. Calcutta was very much a part of him,” Pranay signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Log in to catch neighbours on song||While most blocks are forgoing cultural programmes this year, some are arranging for online screenings of live or pre-recorded performances. The shows will be screened on Puja evenings but can be watched later too. Music, dance and recitation by residents are the most popular items. So stay home and log in to the following — Special attraction: On Navami would be the children’s play Bhalo jar sesh bhalo' Vijaya Dashami (November 1) will be screened on- Special attraction: On Saptami a SaReGaMa artiste will perform modern Bengali songs at the community hall. But visitors can watch only online. Special attraction: On Ashtami, sisters Amritaa and Ayushi Dutta will display and talk about a miniature Durga puja pandal that they have erected at home. Special attraction: On Saptami, children will stage a comedy Corona Palayon, written by resident Onkar Banerjee. Special attraction: A virtual art exhibition will be up with residents’ paintings on Durga puja and  Navratri at https:// m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1547983398720230&id=444819142370000&sfnsn=wiwspmo||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||To go out or not...||Step out in fun or stay home in fear during the Pujas? Even on Saptami morning, this is a lingering question. On one hand is the lure of the festival that comes as a break after months of restrain at home. On the other is the ever-rising Covid count that threatens to spike if people roam about freely during the Pujas. The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to residents and found that while many have sworn not to set foot outside their homes these few days, majority plans to head out — whether to visit the pandals from outside or to meet friends. When a feverish Isha Dasgupta headed to get herself tested for Covid recently, she prayed. But she also counted. “My daughter and I were counting days to see if we would be out of isolation in time for the pujas,” sighs the Sraboni Abasan resident longingly. Mother and daughter tested positive and their isolation period lifted on Sashthi. “We love the pujas and would walk all night from pandal to pandal. This year we’ll wear new clothes and watch pandals on TV,” says Isha. “Even though I suffered badly, I cannot imagine October without the pujas. I feel people deserve the festival to uplift their spirits, even if that means setting up Covid testing units at pandals.” Incidentally Isha’s 91-year-old grandmother has also been pleading with the family to let her go offer anjali at the pandal. On the other hand are people like Debalay Gonchowdhury, who in other years scout for VIP passes, hire cars to go pandal-hopping and wear new clothes every day of the pujas but who have shut it all out this year. “This time no one even knows the puja dates for sure,” sighs the GD Block resident. “I was crossing New Market the other day and saw the place teeming with shoppers. As for masks, not even the policemen were wearing any. I’m not going to any pandal this year. It’s a recipe for disaster.” More respondents in the under-40 age group said they would be going out during the Pujas and parents of some students said their children were being coaxed into going out by their friends. “How can I not visit the pandals at all? The Pujas have come after a whole year,” reasons Suparna Mukherjee, a 20-something resident of P&T quarters in CC Block. “Even if my friends decline, I’ll surely go out with my parents. It’s a family ritual. We’ll follow safety protocols, of course.” Protip Chakraborty is in town for  the festival after two years and being an avid photographer, is itching to go clicking. “I’m also feeling sorry for puja organisers as they worked so hard and then the court ruled against visitors. I shall appreciate pandals from a distance this year but won’t miss them,” says the resident of Sunrise Symphony. The IT sector employee plans to avoid Pujas in narrow lanes in favour of those in big parks. “Salt Lake would have featured high on my list but I believe most of them are very simple this time. I shall follow the news on the first few days of the Pujas to assess the crowds at these pandals so I can decide where to go on Saptami and Ashtami.” The Chakrabortys usually drive down to Baisakhi or Karunamoyee and park their car there. They then hire an auto by the hour to show them around. “It saves the trouble of finding parking everywhere. But this year we are avoiding public transport,” Chakraborty says. Then there are social workers who will go out for the greater good of others. “I have cancelled pandal-hopping and restaurant plans but shall be visiting a senior citizens’ home in Narendrapur and Amphan victims in Subarbans during the pujas. I’ll also be meeting children of slums and an ashrams,” says Sormistha Mukherjee of DB Block. “I do these every year and cannot avoid these.” Some like Kakon Ghosh of BF Block cancelled their plans after the high court ruling on Monday. “My family and I were so excited,” says the student of mass communication, with a long face. “But if we cannot enter the pandals, it’s pointless going over. The news ruined my mood, and my friends and I also cancelled our plans to meet at the mall on Chaturthi afterwards.” Making it worse is how Kakon’s New Town college has decided to stay open through the festival to compensate for lost days during the lockdown. “They reason that since we won’t be going out for the Pujas we might as well study! The highlight this Puja will be the visit to my block pandal and clicking selfies with masks matching my outfit,” she grumbles. Jyoti Bansal of EC Block had thought of visiting some Salt Lake pandals too but her heart skipped a beat seeing photos and videos of shopping sprees pre-puja. “This when my son in London says people there are not even allowed to meet their families residing separately! I have now decided not to visit pandals or have friends come over. I’ll only order lunch from my favourite restaurant Amber once,” she says. Many residents plan to drive around town admiring what little of the pandals and idols is visible from cars. “What choice do we have?” asks Abir Chatterjee of FD Block. “In other years we stay out six or seven nights filming the pujas and this year visitors had started streaming in the day before the FD Block pandal was even inaugurated! We shall only do a car tour this year, that too after consulting with doctor friends.” Till last year a group called New Town Runners would either run, cycle or plog (walk and pick litter) around pandals in Salt Lake but this year they are yet to finalise plans. “We had thought of driving down to Salt Lake and running 4 or 5km in small groups to the pandals there on Panchami morning. We put the plan on hold after the high court order and are still deciding whether to go ahead with it,” says Chao Lengdon, founder of the group and a resident of Hiland Willows. Debolina Roy is dead against pandal-hopping this year. “I suffered major breathing trouble a while back and had to be hospitalised, even though I tested negative for Covid. It’s too risky to be out on the streets now and I shall only visit the idol at our own community hall once at dawn or midnight when it’s deserted,” says the resident of Eastern Grove. The 20-something plans to dress up in saris and stay home, clicking snaps and eating home-made delicacies. “I’ll enjoy with myself.” Samita Dutta, a Covid survivor, plans to visit the BE (West) idol once and then hang up her boots. “There’s no way I’m going any further after the kind of pictures being circulated from crowded pandals like Sreebhumi. There won’t be community lunch this year and the domestic helps will be on leave so I’ll have enough to do at home during the Pujas, thanks!” “If I survive this year, there will be many more Pujas to witness,” sums up Ashu Patodia, an FE Block resident in her 30s. “My family and I are not stepping out.” Shyamadas De has decided against visiting his HA Block puja as even his next door neighbour has tested positive. “The joke doing the rounds is that anyone who sees 100 pandals between Saptami and Dashami will get a free ride to Mt Kailash along with Durga. It’s a joke that we need to take seriously,” he says. Debraj Sengupta lost his father in December and so cannot offer anjali this year in mourning. “Nonetheless I had wanted to visit pandals extensively but I cannot do so now and risk the health of my elderly mother,” says the FE Block resident. CF Block’s Barin Sarkar is reluctant to visit his own block puja as he knows social distancing will not be possible. “We have been involved with this puja for decades. There was a time when I went door to door seeking actors and singers for our dramas  so I know everyone personally. When such thick friends meet after seven months, they will not just chat but embrace and I won’t have the heart to stop them,” says the senior citizen. “It is a painful decision but I cannot afford to go to the puja.” Gopal Das of DL Block anticipates the same problem. “People are sensitive and I will be hurting my neighbours’ feelings if I ask them to move away from me,” he says sadly. Das too will not step out. Rita Das thanks her lucky stars that her daughter and Keralite son-in-law visited them last October. “We showed them around thoroughly and my son-in-law loved it so much he said he would henceforth spend every puja in Calcutta. Alas!” The 65-year-old lady with co-morbidities will stay home and perform anjali listening to mantras over the loudspeaker. Sanjukta Saha’s family has a gas dealership and has been working overtime since the lockdown. “This is the only time in the year that we’ll get three days off. Otherwise we don’t even get leaves on Sundays. We shall use the pandemic as an excuse and not step out,” says the lady who has a lovely alternative to keeping busy this year. “We have a new Siberian Husky puppy in the family and will devote ourselves to him.” Several respondents said they would order meals from restaurants  instead of going over and majority of those heading out would be meeting friends. “I haven’t met my school  friends since we sat for our ISC exams in February so we are having a pyjama party on Saptami,” says an excited Tushnee Chakraborty of BL Block. “I won’t go pandal-hopping this year but time out with friends is a must.” Debalay agrees. “I plan to party with friends, but only with those who live within Salt Lake. It would minimise risk,” he says. “A Chelo Kebab during the Pujas would taste just as good as one after it and so I’m not venturing into restaurants either. We’ll either cook at home or order food over.” How are you spending Durga puja this year? Email to The Telegraph Salt Lake at saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Youngsters in charge at Millennium Tower puja||Most of the puja committee members at Millennium Tower this year are school and college students. With Covid making it risky for senior citizens to do the legwork, youths have been asked to chip in. The group that has taken over includes students as young as 14. “My friend told me of a meeting for children in the complex and I went along without knowing anything more,” says ninth grader Parmee Priyam Nath, who walked out of that meeting having signed up as a puja committee member. “When I got home and told my family this, they couldn’t believe it,” laughs the girl who got slotted in the rituals department. The rest of the list has similar profiles — school and college students and a couple of pass-outs. The only exceptions are the puja president — a senior citizen — and the secretary, who is 45. “I have always been active in the complex but my work entails a lot of travel. Since this year travelling is out of the question, the residents’ association asked me to head this young team and I took it up happily,” says Shouvik Roy, an entrepreneur, who is the puja secretary. The youths have been doing everything from choosing the theme to raising sponsorship for the puja with a Rs 3.5 lakh  budget. “The managers of the companies we visited would be confused at seeing such young members coming for meetings and many would even say so on our faces,” says Mukta Mitra, who’s pursuing sociology from a Delhi college. “But they were very co-operative and we raised a decent amount.” Mukta’s elder sister, Jhinook, 23, was leading this team and says it felt quite empowering. “Not only were we a young team but we were all women who drove down ourselves for the meetings. Initially we wondered if we would be taken seriously by the corporates but they were very supportive,” says the girl who has just completed her Masters in zoology. “Even we got to learn business communication hands-on.” Economics student Ananda Mondal is treasurer of the puja and led a team to raise subscriptions across the complex. “We got a mixed bag,” he says. “While some households cheerfully handed us cheques with chocolates, others drove us in circles without clearing the payment. I had to consult the previous committee members for advice on dealing with such residents. Apparently such people pay up after the Pujas.” For sociology student Riteeka Chakraborty, Puja 2020 came as a breath of fresh air after lockdown-induced stress. “The work was challenging but the distraction helped me concentrate better on my studies,” said the student who visualised their pandal. “We built a village hut with tribal and Madhubani motifs and verses from famous poems but we consulted a former committee member, Natraj Das, for advice whenever we needed.” At a time when most pujas have cancelled their themes, these students are proud to have pulled one off. Nandita Das, a medical student who has always performed dance and plays in the complex, has taken charge of the cultural committee. “It was an extension of the effort I put in every year but with the additional responsibility of ensuring that others deliver,” says the girl. The complex is going ahead with solo and duet stage performances. “This year, we have fewer performances as artistes are scared of Covid. Also, even though many outstation students are in town, their colleges are not affiliated to Bengal and so have not declared holidays for the Pujas. Their exams are on,” Nandita says. Parmee, for instance, waited with bated breath for her English exam to conclude on Panchami morning so she could run down and work on the puja’s inauguration later in the day. “If it wasn’t for Covid, I would have invited my school friends to come over,” says the teenager. “This year, the puja is more fun as I’m organising it myself.” Besides the fun element, Ananda felt the exercise has been a valuable experience in public interaction and teamwork. “I loved the responsibility but don’t see how I’ll be able to continue on the committee post-Corona. My college would keep me away from 9am to 7pm,” says the student of Jadavpur University. Mukta felt the youth have injected a splash of innovation in the procedures. “It seems previously the committee only had a rate card to present to potential advertisers. The new team has prepared a full-fledged sponsorship proposal,” says the girl who is the public relations and sponsorship head of her college film society. Shouvik, the secretary, felt any lack of experience in the students was more than made up by their passion. “They did such a good job that next year I would want to step down and have one of them serve as secretary,” he smiles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Bringing the deity home with precautions aplenty||Even though the Durga pujas celebrated at home do not have to bother about the high court’s decision on crowd management at pandals, the spectre of coronavirus still hangs heavy on them. Each of the families The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to is at their wits end on how to keep the virus at bay and still ensure a blemish-free puja. In these pandemic times, one can ill afford to say, “more the merrier”, an intrinsic feature of any celebration. For most of them the celebrations will be muted, having fewer family members and friends. The Das Chowdhurys of CJ Block are sad for not having the main driving force of the puja, Probodh Chandra Das Chowdhury, join them this year. The octogenarian family patriarch, settled in Sheffield, Yorkshire, is not travelling as at his age he is vulnerable to catch the virus. The family puja was started by his forefathers in Sylhet, now Bangladesh, at least four or five generations ago. Pratima Chowdhury, younger cousin of Probodh Das Chowdhury, has taken over the reins of the event along with the other ladies in the family. They plan to live stream the puja for all those members who will miss out. Talking about it, Pratima Chowdhury said: “My brother is unfortunately not coming over. One of the specialities of our festivities is that for us, Kumari Puja takes place on Navami, instead of Ashtami. We also offer 108 varieties of dishes (bhog) to the mother goddess on the day.” About precautions, another family member, homemaker Debjani Das Chowdhury said: “We are bringing home a much smaller idol, so that the men at home can carry it by themselves. Anjali will be performed in batches of three or four people at a time.” Amit Chakravarty, a molecular geneticist, and his wife Sudipa have been organising Durga puja at their CB Block home since 2002 and the Covid scare has meant that they stocked all necessary items needed for a safer event. From surface disinfectants, hand and vegetable sanitisers to infra-red thermal gun, they had them all in abundance even before they brought the idol home. “After the single-frame idol was brought home, we sanitised it. On Navami, we will hand out bhog boxes, instead of the sit-in feast. For our priest and his two companions, who come from Midnapore, we have arranged for a private car to transport them,” said Sudipa. For the Sikders of AE Block, this year will be a low-key puja too. Started by the late Pravash Chandra Sikder in 1977, his son Partha and his brother organise it now.  “We usually have 500-700 people partaking the bhog on Ashtami. This year, we will deliver the bhog to them. We will keep a wash basin at the entrance for the visitors and will sanitise the house every day,” said Partha, who runs his own business. The rising positive cases in the state after Mahalaya has forced the Roy Chowdhurys of GD Block to give their much-awaited family event a miss. “Due to rapid spread of the virus after Mahalaya, we could not firm up to hold the puja this year,” said Kaushik Roy Chowdhury, who stays in a joint family of 15 members. The puja was started by Kaushik's great grandfather at Dubolhati sub-division in Rajshahi, now Bangladesh. “My forefathers were the zamindars there,” said Kaushik. “All our family members, including children are disheartened. Even our immediate neighbours are crestfallen. We will place the holy urn (ghot) on the dais, where the idol is kept, and offer symbolic prayers,” said Kaushik. Homemaker Nandita Banerjee, who performs Laxmi, Jagaddhatri and Kali puja at home is scared at the sudden spike in the Covid graph in the state. The senior citizen is planning to bring home smaller idols, apart from restricting visitors to her place. “Even relatives are not welcome,” said Banerjee, a resident of BH Block. All the families are pinning their hopes on hosting a bigger and better event next year. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
