24-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta offers virtual Ashtami anjali to keep Covid at bay||It was virtual anjali for most people in Calcutta on Ashtami, Saturday, barring some neighbourhoods where people stood close to each other to offer anjali. In some places people stayed confined to circles at a gap of 6ft to maintain distancing rules while at some police had to intervene to ensure people followed distancing rules. Senior citizens in most parts of Calcutta stayed away from pandals. Several puja committees had arranged to live-stream the anjali on various platforms. They had shared links and passwords with residents so that they could watch the proceedings from their homes. “We had told residents to collect their flowers and give it to us. We placed these offerings to the goddess later,” Sandip Chakrabarty of Badamtala Asharh Sangha said. “Some senior citizens, though, turned up at the pandal as they did not want to use the virtual platform to offer anjali on Ashtami.” But in most places, residents, including senior citizens, chose the virtual platform to offer anjali. Several puja organisers said this was the first time in decades when the Ashtami anjali witnessed such a “scant turnout” at pandals. A small puja in Kasba saw people standing close to each other and even fighting to be the first to offer anjali. Reminders by the organisers had no effect as visitors tried to grab flowers and be part of a batch every time the priest chanted the mantras. A police team reached the venue and reminded the visitors of the high court order and the distancing rules they are expected to follow during the pandemic. But as soon as the cops left the people were back to what they had been doing. But the picture was different in big-ticket puja pandals in the north and south. People followed the rules and organisers ensured there was no crowding as every batch offered anjali. “Our turnout was small… around seven to eight per cent of what it has been in previous years… senior citizens were not around,” Amalendu Sarkar of Ballygunge Durga Puja Samity, the organisers of the puja at Maddox Square, said. In some pandals, people turned up in large numbers but followed distancing rules and stood in demarcated circles. “We had split the total number into small groups. They stood far from the barricade and offered anjali. But the turnout of residents was nearly 100 per cent,” Rahul Shaw of Ajeyo Sanhati in Haridevpur said. The distancing rules, along with the high court order, left many senior citizens ruing how they could not turn up at pandals to offer the Ashtami anjali. “This is no anjali,” Apurbo Ghosh, a resident of Kumartuli, said. “I didn’t step out; I chose to repeat the mantras sitting in front of my home idols… but that is something I do every day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Ashtami evening sees rise in footfall||Bright sunshine during the day and clear skies in the evening ensured more people were on the roads on Ashtami on Saturday than on Saptami. But it was nowhere close to the Ashtami crowd of previous years. Most big-ticket pujas in north and south Calcutta saw a high turnout, the crowd comprising mostly young people. Senior citizens stayed away from pandals and chose the confines of their homes rather than taking the risk of getting infected with the coronavirus by stepping out. “There was a slight rise in the number of people compared to Saptami,” Amalendu Sarkar of Ballygunge Durga Puja Samity, the organisers of the puja at Maddox Square, said. “But those who did come didn’t even pause after watching the idol, forget lounging in the park.” Police said cops were not trying to keep a count on people in pandals because the turnout was “a far cry from previous years”. “The surge of visitors in every hour was missing this time. Only those who have two-wheelers or cars tried to visit some pandals,” an officer in Lalbazar said. “Even that is negligible compared to what we are used to managing on Ashtami evenings.” For most people, adda sessions were restricted to homes on Ashtami, the day when Kumari Puja is held at Belur Math, the global headquarters of the Ramakrishna Math and the Ramakrishna Mission. On Saturday, “Uma”, as the kumari has been named this year, was worshipped in a small pandal on the western balcony of the main temple in Belur Math. Usually, monks bring the girl child and place her on a chair before worshipping her. This year, the child’s relatives were asked to bring her to the chair. The monks sat on chairs far away on a lawn. The compound wore a deserted look with no visitors from outside being allowed in because of the pandemic. Close to 100,000 people visit the Math every year on the occasion of Kumari Puja, a senior monk said. In most parts of Calcutta, people started trickling into the pandal areas from evening. Almost everyone had their faces covered with masks and many were seen with sanitiser bottles. The crowd at Suruchi in New Alipore and Tridhara along Rashbehari Avenue in the south or Hatibagan Sarbajonin in the north watched the idols from a distance. Some, though, paused for a quick “selfie session” in some of the pandals. “The number of visitors increased in the evening compared to the past few days,” Sandip Chakrabarty of Badamtala Asharh Sangha said. “Since ours is a drive-in and drive-out pandal, probably people didn’t find it a challenge.” The evening crowd grew in top-draw pandals in Salt Lake, Dum Dum and Lake Town. At FD Block in Salt Lake, a steady stream of people with their faces covered with masks could be seen walking and some clicking photographs of the Jungle Book-themed pandal and some taking selfies with Mowgli from across the barricades. Chandni Ganguly, a Dum Dum resident, reached the pandal with her daughter Ahona, a Class XII student of Auxilium Convent School in Dum Dum. “This is the first time we have stepped out during Durga Puja. Although the threat of Covid is there, we decided to step out as we could not stay cooped up in our house… we had to enjoy the festivities. We haven’t taken off our masks and we have brought hand sanitiser bottles with us,” Ganguly said. Visitors to the pandal could get a clear view of the goddess from far away. Banibrata Banerjee, a member of the puja committee, said the number of visitors was more than that of Friday. “On Ashtami, we had people coming from late afternoon. The number went up as evening set in,” Banerjee said. In AK Block, pandal-hoppers were spotted clicking photographs outside the pandal. “We are a bit sad because we could not enter most of the pandals we visited. So, we decided to take some photographs and have dinner at a restaurant,” Anandi Chatterjee, who tried visiting the Sreebhumi puja pandal but could not because of police barricades, said. The pandal of Dum Dum Park Tarun Sangha Club had a few visitors during the day. Many who had stepped out in the evening could not enter the pandal because of barricades. “We could not properly see the interiors of the pandal because of the barricades. This year is very different and we are happy to be out,” Sandeep Jha, who works in a Sector V company, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Puja panels in court ruling bind||The Puja-related ruling of the Calcutta High Court has created confusion among puja organisers. Puja committees that had set up food counters near the pandals are caught in a bind as residents were supposed to collect food packets from there. Banibrata Banerjee, president of the FD Block puja, said that they had decided to send the packets home. “Our volunteers will deliver them to prevent crowding,” said Banerjee. BJ Block is locking horns with police over interpretation of what a pandal is. While the puja committee insists that it is the structure that houses the idol, the police think it is any temporary structure in the same compound. “We left a gap of 11m from our idol. From there, we left another 10m gap to create a space with a shed where our residents could offer pushapanjali from. The police is taking the pandal boundary to be the periphery of that structure. In that case, we have to offer anjali from 100m away on the road!” said secretary Bhaskar Sinha Roy. AK Block is worried about losing revenue for the 10 stalls set up around the park. “Those who had booked them might want the advance amount back,” said secretary Aritra Sen. They plan to let residents in by rotation to see key rituals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||South Dum Dum to follow NKDA immersion model||The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) has set out to create a model immersion mechanism in two ponds under the South Dum Dum Municipality this year to explore how the immersion process can be executed adhering to the guidelines of the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) guidelines. The initiative will be put in place from Durga puja immersion till the observance of Chhath puja. According to Panchu Roy, chairman of the South Dum Dum Municipality, around 600 Durga and Laksmi idols are generally immersed in these two water bodies. WBPCB has decided to experiment with immersion in ponds taking a cue from the successful New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) experience and also because the union agency’s guideline bars immersion in flowing open water of the Hooghly. “We have decided to create a model immersion system in two ponds in South Dum Dum — Debi Ghat in Lake Town and Tank no. 4 in Dum Dum Park. Immersion will be organised in accordance with the immersion guidelines earmarked by NMCG,” said state pollution control board chairman Kalyan Rudra on Wednesday. Under WBPCB monitoring, the municipality will barricade and earmark a part of the water bodies for immersion. A synthetic lining will be spread out below the water to arrest the dissolving pollutants, the floating garbage will be continuously cleaned. A mobile water treatment facility is likely to be set up to treat the water where immersion will take place. The quality of the water will also be measured before, during and after immersion to assess the pollution trend. Rudra admitted that the idea had emerged from the successful execution of the pond immersion model executed by NKDA in recent years. According to NKDA chairman Debasish Sen, the idols are immersed through specially designed ramps with stairs on both sides at Upasana Ghat. “Idols are slid down the ramp into the water, restrained by ropes held by expert worker groups deployed by the NKDA. They push the idols into the water from where cranes pull them back onto the bank,” Sen explained to The Telegraph Salt Lake on Wednesday. The PCB immersion action was prodded by a meeting chaired by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay last Saturday where the importance of toeing the NMCG guidelines was stressed in presence of Rudra and PCB member secretary Rajesh Kumar. NMCG, which provided the guidelines in 2018, recently reiterated the mandate in a letter to the state government. “The chief secretary discussed with the municipalities the need to implement the mandate and clean up the river immediately after immersion last Saturday. Subsequently the principal secretary of the environment department also stressed the importance of the process before the district magistrates,” added Rudra. The NMCG guidelines state that “adequate arrangements should be made for designated idol immersion sites within municipal area or bank of river Ganga and its tributaries by constructing temporary confined ponds with removable synthetic liners at the bottom”. “This model is nothing new. Almost 15 years back, the ramp-within- water-body model was successfully deployed in Kalyani,” pointed out Biswajit Mukherjee, former chief law officer of the state pollution control board. Mukherjee has recently written to the state administration, urging them to ban immersion in the open stretches of all rivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Pray for a child, instead of a boy||The mode of offering a floral anjali to Durga might change this year but tens of thousands of worshippers will continue chanting a mantra that seeks a child from the goddess, instead of a boy. Many pujas in the city and neighbouring areas have pledged to make the pushpanjali mantra gender-neutral by urging people to say “santanan dehi” instead of “putran dehi”. The Telegraph had launched the campaign last year to fight gender bias. At least 150 pujas in Calcutta had supported the campaign. The high court order treating pandals as “no-entry zones” to combat the pandemic means anjali will not be the same this year. According to the court, only 60 people can access the pandal and its immediate vicinity of a big puja every day. The campaign for a gender-neutral mantra is expected to grow in strength, even without traditional anjalis. “We started the campaign but it became a people’s movement because of the participation of the pujas. Amid all the odds, many new pujas are expected to extend their support to the campaign  this year in addition to the ones who already have,” an organiser said. Banners to spread awareness about the proposed change are in place at several puja pandals in the city. “We plan to conduct a staggered anjali outside the pandal. Each session will have a limited number of worshippers. The hymns chanted by the priest will be played on sound boxes outside the pandal. The priest will chant santanan dehi and so will others outside the pandal,” Saswata Basu, the convener of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgotsav, said. “Last year, our priest had chanted santanan dehi instead of putran dehi. The drive got the wholehearted support of all our members and people of the area. We will continue with the new mantra, whatever be the mode of anjali,” Pratik Chowdhury from Dum Dum Park Bharat Chakra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Four  held in Chennai  for drug haul||Four men have been arrested in Chennai for allegedly sending narcotics to Calcutta using a courier service. From Calcutta, the contraband would be sent to Australia, an officer of the Narcotics Control Bureau said. The officer said the men were sending large quantities of pseudoephedrine and ephedrine, banned narcotics that are used to produce metaphetamine, which is commonly known as crystal meth. Pseudoephedrine and ephedrine both sell for around Rs 1 lakh a kg in the illegal drug market. The drugs were allegedly hidden inside showpieces such as vases and candle stands. The bureau had seized two consignments of the drugs around 10 days back from a courier company in the city. Around 6kg of pseudephedrine was seized on October 11 and around 4kg of ephedrine on October 13. “We found that both consignments had been sent from Chennai. The receiver was to send them to Australia,” the officer said. Officers of the agency then started tracking the consignment and sent a team to Chennai, from where the accused were arrested. The arrested men have been identified as Mohammad Hamid Alam, who hails from Bihar; and Kadir Ibrahim, Tabrej M. and Bashir Ahmed, all residents of Chennai. The officers are also trying to track down the receiver in the city. The four accused in custody are being brought to the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Puja with a difference, kid as a priest||A 13-year-old is the priest at the debut Durga Puja at a home for girls in north Calcutta. From pandal to food, everything has been arranged by the girls. A three-and-a-half-year-old is the youngest and most exuberant member of the organising committee, keeping “a keen eye” on the decorations and running around the pandal. A condition binds all the residents — all of them are HIV positive. Snhneer (abode of affection) in Teghoria is home to 26 girls. The youngest is three and a half and the eldest 19 years. The girls come from different districts. Over half the girls are orphans. Some of them have been discarded by their families. The girls reached the home — set up in 2004 — via Childline India Foundation. They live at the home, are enlisted at local schools and receive vocational training alongside formal education. “In the past years, some of the girls visited their parents or relatives during the Puja break. But this year, because of the pandemic, they have not been allowed to leave the home since March,” said Tania Das, the director of Bhoruka Public Welfare Trust, which runs the home. Das said the girls came up with the idea of hosting a puja inside the home this year. “I was a little apprehensive when I heard the proposal because Durga Puja needs elaborate preparations. There are so many things to take care of. But the girls were determined and I had to give in,” she told Metro. A small pandal was built in the courtyard of the home. Three sides of the pandal are open and the roof is covered with tarpaulin on the base of a net. The background of the idol has been decorated with thermocol plates of varying sizes. The idols — 15-inch miniature of goddess Durga and smaller versions of her children — were brought from a studio in Bagbazar by Das. A 13-year-old girl from Nadia is donning the role of the priest. She was trained for a week by a professional priest with the help of a book of shlokas. “I was nervous at the start of the training. But day one went off smoothly and boosted my confidence. I have been told that sincerity is most important, not the nitty-gritty of rituals,” the teenager told Metro over the phone. Food is also an important part of the celebrations here. The menu is simple. On Day One (Sashthi), breakfast was Maggi. The menu for lunch was rice, daal, alu bhaja and machher dim bhaja (fried fish roe) followed by chutney. Egg rolls were served for dinner. A local phuchka seller has offered free evening snacks to the children, said Das. Similarly, a patron has promised a hilsa lunch and another a mutton lunch. The youngest member of the home, a three-and-a-half-year-old girl, was found on a pavement over a year ago, said Das. She was extremely weak when she came to the home. But with proper food, medicines and care, the girl is able to run around now. The centre of everyone’s attention, she “tries her hand in everything” related to the pujas, including drawing alpana on the floor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||System tipped to trigger heavy rain in Calcutta veers towards Bangladesh||A system tipped to trigger heavy rain in Calcutta veered towards Bangladesh on Friday, the Met office said. A consistent cloud cover, stray drizzles here and there, gusts of wind and a slide in the Celsius are what the city got. The city sky is likely to remain cloudy in patches over the next couple of days on Ashtami and Navami. The maximum temperature is likely  to be under check, said a Met official. “The depression has lost steam and is now a well-marked low-pressure zone. It will lead to some cloud formation. If the sun comes out strongly in phases, there is a chance of thunderstorms,” a Met official said on Friday evening. The monsoon is expected to withdraw from Calcutta for this year over the next “three-four days”, which will lead to the entry of northwesterly winds into the city, said a Met official. A low-pressure area that formed over the central Bay of Bengal on Tuesday subsequently intensified into a depression and was headed towards the Bengal-Bangladesh coast, the Met office said. “The system was expected to gain steam and become a deep depression. It did not and remained a depression. It was supposed to make land-fall between Khepupara (Bangladesh) and Sagar Island (Bengal) on Friday afternoon. The depression kept moving more eastwards as it approached land,” said G.K. Das, the director of India Meteorological Centre, Calcutta. Around 2.30pm on Friday, the depression was around 140km from Sagar Islands. The system was too far from Calcutta to make any significant impact in terms of rain. But it led to a steady blanket of clouds and gusts of wind and a hint of cold. “The cool and comparatively dry northerly winds came from Sikkim, bringing the mercury down, as the sun remained hidden behind the clouds,” said a Met official. Winds from the Bay of Bengal are moisture-laden and they trigger rain in Calcutta, he said. The maximum temperature had been hovering around 35 degrees in the city for several days at a stretch. On Friday, the maximum temperature was 27.7 degrees, four notches below normal. On Thursday, when the overcast conditions had set in, the maximum temperature was 27.6 degrees. The monsoon, which stayed back in the city longer than usual, is finally set to withdraw for this year, said Das. “It should withdraw from Calcutta over the next three-four days. The withdrawal will be marked by the entry of northwesterly winds into the city,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Unusual Saptami as Covid fear looms||This Saptami was not the Saptami Calcutta usually experiences. As the Covid-19 pandemic forced many people to stay away from pandals across the city, puja organisers said they could not remember the last time they witnessed a Durga Puja like this. From north to south, the organisers of a number of big-ticket pujas lamented the low turnout. In the afternoon, only residents of respective neighbourhoods were seen around pandals. The count rose a little in the afternoon as a section of people ventured beyond their localities to see pandals and the deity. But for most puja organisers, that was nothing compared with the turnout in previous years. “Last year, even with the Tallah bridge inaccessible, around seven lakh people used to visit our pandal daily. This year, it is not even a fraction of that. We are not even trying to keep count as the turnout is pathetically low,” said Abhishek Bhattacharya of Tala Barowari puja committee, which is celebrating its 100th year. “Unlike other years, there is hardly any challenge in managing the crowd.” Pandal-hoppers who ventured out in their cars chose not to stop at any of the pandals and stand in any queue, however small that be. A few who walked in expressed surprise at the new experience — possibly for the first time they did not have to wait in a serpentine queue or wade through a crushing crowd to enter a big pandal. “We had expected at least some crowd on Saptami afternoon. There were only a handful of people. We could float in and out without any trouble,” said Sanchari Bhattacharya at the College Square puja pandal. A puja committee member at College Square said they weren't expecting the usual crowd since suburban trains were not running but such a poor turnout was beyond their expectation.  Across parts of south  Calcutta the crowd mostly remained confined to their neighbourhoods. Most senior citizens did not step out as a precaution against the coronavirus. Across most pandals the morning anjali was a low-scale affair. People offering anjali stood in circles drawn for them beyond the 10-metre barricade to maintain a safe distance among themselves. At Mudiali, there were some visitors in the afternoon, their faces covered with masks. The visitors stopped at the barricade set up at a distance of 10 metre from the idol. Some clicked pictures, while most took a quick U-turn. At Badamtala Ashar Sangha, organisers said the footfall picked up a bit in the evening but that was nothing compared with what they had  expected. “Compared to Thursday, the number of visitors was just a little higher. But we had expected much more. Our volunteers had no problem managing the crowd even though there were police,” said Sandip Chakrabarty, of the puja committee. At the Chetla Agrani Sangha puja, the number of police and volunteers outnumbered that of the visitors. The puja organisers — urban development minister Firhad Hakim is among them — ensured that no one walked in without their faces properly covered by masks. Those who had their masks on their chins were asked to pull them up. This time Lalbazar had decided to deploy two policemen at each puja pandal to ensure that the high court directive — barring entry into pandals — is strictly adhered to. An additional force was drawn up to manage the crowd. By Friday, a part of this force was withdrawn as streets witnessed a low crowd count across the city. Some of the pujas had an officer of the rank of inspector and a handful personnel outside their pandals. Assistant commissioners of police were asked to “cover” a cluster comprising a few big-ticket pujas in each area. “We have withdrawn some force keeping in mind the number of people who are either suffering from Covid-19 or have just recovered,” said a senior police officer. “The force for managing traffic has been kept more or less the same with nearly 6,000 cops on the roads.” Salt Lake and parts of Dum Dum and Lake Town were no different from Calcutta. Most roads and lanes wore a deserted look throughout Friday. Ankita Bhowmick, a Salt Lake resident, said was taken by surprise when she could walk right up to the pandal of the Dum Dum Park Barat Chakra without standing in any queue. “There were a few people but we could reach the pandal with ease. However, there was signage all over asking visitors not to enter. Policemen posted near a guardrail blocking the entrance said we would not be allowed inside,” said Bhowmick. For Kasba resident J. Monani, a visit to FD Park in Salt Lake proved disappointing. He said his son wanted to visit the pandal as it is built on the Jungle Book theme and he could see it from a distance on Saptami afternoon. However, in the evening when he revisited it, they found all entry points blocked by police for cars. At Sreebhumi, policemen posted on VIP Road were spotted asking pandal-hoppers to move on as they would not be allowed to enter. “We are not allowing people to go inside the pandal. But many are coming anyway to see the decorative lights and are stopping,” said a policeman posted on VIP Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
