26-10-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra ‘very critical’, consciousness levels dip||The health condition of legendary Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee remained "very critical" on Monday, neither improving nor worsening, his family sources said. The 85-year-old thespians platelet count had dropped on Sunday. "His condition has neither improved nor has it worsened. The condition is the same as yesterday (Sunday) as of now," a family member said. A spokesman of the city private hospital where he is being treated, said in a statement, "On the 20th day of hospitalisation and 17th day of ICU care Chatterjee's consciousness is not improving despite all our efforts. Rather it has decreased." His platelet count is little on the lower side and his haemoglobin has gone down, he said. "We have begun transfusion; we are correcting the platelet count. We are trying definitive therapy to end Covid encephalopathy which is the crux of the matter," the statement had said. Encephalopathy is a general term to describe a disease that affects the function or structure of the brain. "Our neuro board discussed ways like giving him invasive airway support after talking to his family," the spokesman said. The level of urea and sodium in his blood has gone up, he said. Stating that Chatterjee was "maintaining well on other organ functions," he said with prolonged ICU stay and invasive support there is always a chance of secondary complications due to his advanced age and comorbidities. "His organs like lungs and heart are working well and his blood pressure is normal but his consciousness is a cause of concern," the spokesman said. The critically acclaimed actor was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. Chatterjee, a Dada Saheb Phalke awardee, had tested negative for the infection last week after which he was shifted to a non-COVID ITU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||Colourful processions mark end of Durga Puja celebrations in Bengal ||The five-day Durga Puja festivities in Bengal came to an end on Monday, albeit colourful processions, which usually mark the occasion, were largely missing from the city streets, as the idol immersion ceremony was observed by just a handful of people. Dressed in traditional outfits and with masks worn on faces, devotees, while maintaining safe distance, touched the feet of goddess Durga as chants of 'asche bochor abar hobe' (till next year) rent the air. Women offered sweets to the goddess, even as the traditional 'Sindur Khela' (women smear each other with vermilion) was mostly restricted to organisers and a few local residents at the pandals. According to Kolkata Police sources, adequate arrangements have been made to ensure the idol immersion ceremony was peaceful everywhere, with CCTVs installed at all river ghats and personnel from civic bodies and Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) present at the venue to monitor the situation. All puja committees have been told to send bare minimum members to the ghats for  observing the rituals. Heavy cranes fixed atop boats were seen in action at some of the ghats to help lift and extricate the remains of the idols from the river to avoid water pollution. This year, however, the Durga Puja carnival at Red Road, where big ticket committees showcase their idols before participating in the immersion procession, has been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra ‘very critical’, consciousness levels dip||Celebrated actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s consciousness levels have dipped, and he may be put on invasive devices for airway support, doctors treating him at a   private hospital here have said. A board of neurologist and nephrologists is expected to take a decision on the future course of his treatment on Monday, ndtv.com reported on Monday. Some doctors have been quoted as describing his condition as "very critical." Sources indicated that the 85-year-old Dadasaheb Phalke award winner may also undergo “plasmapheresis or plasma exchange, a procedure that involves extracting a patient's blood to filter out the plasma components such as auto-antibodies in an attempt to reduce the attack on the patient's own body. "We will again sit with the family because they have been primed and they have primarily agreed for it. We will take a call on two major issues, one is invasive of every support to sustain things and plasmapheresis," Dr Arindam Kar, who is leading the medical team treating Chatterjee, said Sunday evening. Chatterjee was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic, a private hospital, on October 6 after testing positive for Covid-19. He had to be shifted to ICU on October 9 after developing some complications. His prolonged stay at the hospital was leading to further complications, sources in the hospital said. “You all know he is not keeping well. His consciousness, despite all our efforts, is not improving. Rather it has gone down," Dr Kar added. Mr Chatterjee's platelet count has come down and so has his haemoglobin while his urea level is up. The key problem, Dr Kar said, was COVID-19 encephalopathy. "That is the crux of the matter, the most important issue for which his improvement has not happened," the doctor said. Encephalopathy is a general term to describe a disease that affects the function or structure of the brain. Chatterjee had tested negative for Covid-19 last week after which he was shifted to a non-Covid ITU. He was doing well last week, and doctors seemed upbeat. He was given convalescent plasma therapy soon after his admission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||On Navami, pandal-hoppers come out||Saptami had a few people outside pandals. Ashtami evening had a fair turnout on streets and outside pandals. On Navami, Sunday, the crowd count started going up from the afternoon. Police and puja committees braced for a larger crowd at night. A college student who went out for a drive with her family on Sunday afternoon said there was such a gathering of people outside a restaurant in Kolaghat that they decided not to stop there and instead returned home to Bhowanipore. Puja organisers said they had expected more people after seeing the turnout on Saturday evening. “The number of visitors to our puja was more than double on Sunday afternoon and early evening compared to Thursday and Saturday,” Pratik Choudhury, the general secretary of Dum Dum Park Bharat Chakra, said. “We are expecting a stream of visitors well past midnight today (Sunday),” Saswata Basu, the convener of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durga Puja committee, said: “We had more than double the number of people outside our pandals on Saturday evening compared to Thursday and Friday. We have had quite a good turnout from Sunday afternoon.” Sandipan Banerjee, the convener of Behala Nutan Dal, said there was a queue of people waiting to approach their pandal on Sunday evening. “The queue started forming around 6pm. There was a queue on Saturday evening, too. This is, though, nothing compared to previous years… but way better than Sashthi or Saptami, which were dull.” The crowd everywhere had to stop 10m from pandals. Calcutta High Court had declared all pandals no-entry zones. No visitors will be allowed inside a pandal, the court had said while ordering barricades 5m from the entrance for small pujas and 10m for big pujas. Many committees have built their pandals in such a way that people can see the idols from far away. Partho Ghosh, the general secretary of Shib Mandir Sarbojonin, said they have had a good number of visitors from the start. “Our idol was visible from beyond 10m. So, people approached the barricades and saw our pandal and the idol. Also, most idols this time would be immersed by Monday or Tuesday; so, people will go pandal hopping today (Sunday).” A VIP Road resident, who went out with her husband and daughter on Sunday evening, managed to see a couple of idols from inside their car. “I could see the idol of Maniktala Chaltabagan and Bosepukur Sitala Mandir from the car. There were quite a few cars that slowed down outside the pandals to catch a glimpse of the idol.” The queue outside restaurants in the city on Sunday afternoon and outside some popular eateries on the outskirts of the city gave a hint of what might be in store at night. Arkopriya Pal, a student of Lady Shri Ram College for Women in Delhi, went on a “long drive” with her parents. She had planned to lunch at a Kolaghat restaurant. “Seeing the crowd, we dropped our plan and returned home to Bhowanipore. We ordered food through Swiggy.” A police officer said his duty had ended by 1am on Saptami night. “It stretched till 1.30-1.45am on Ashtami. I expect to be on the roads till 2.30am today (Sunday).” The officer said it was in “no way comparable to previous years” when cops had to manage crowds till 3am or 3.30am every day and an additional hour on Navami night. “Still it shows how crowd count has gradually increased.” The city police deploy most of its personnel on road at night during Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||Houston Puja goes digital||A Durga Puja in north America, billed as a meeting point of tens of thousands of Indians, has gone digital this year to combat the pandemic. Houston Durgabari Puja, in its 20th year, allowed only priests and volunteers inside the temple. Even though Durga Puja has been celebrated in Houston since 1975 — it was celebrated for the first time in Durgabari in September 2000. The entire puja and programmes were telecast on YouTube and Facebook this year. “Houston Durgabari is the nerve centre of our community — this puja is the epitome of our annual celebration. Every year, people in the Space City and rest of Texas and entire north America visit Durga Bari during the puja days,” Partha Sarathi Chatterjee, founding trustee of Durgabari and one of the key organisers of the puja, said on the phone from Houston. “This year, in the wake of the pandemic we wanted to give a message. Stay home and stay safe. We will bring the festivities to your home.” A fall/winter surge in Covid-19 numbers in the West has had doctors and public health experts worried. More than 84,000 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 across the US on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, a record one-day increase in infections during the pandemic. The pandemic has forced several Durga Pujas abroad to go the virtual way this year. At Durgabari, the pandemic did not affect the elaborate rituals. Every ritual — bodhon to anjali to sandhi puja — was followed to the minutest detail, said organisers. Spread over six acres of land with a central temple, auditorium, a multi-purpose education facility and playgrounds, Houston Durgabari stands on the banks of a big lake where birds flock in droves under the setting sun. Houston, home to Nasa’s Manned Spacecraft Centre, is known as the Space City. A host of cultural programmes lined up for this year’s celebrations were broadcast on social media. To create the puja ambiance, the pandal was soaked in Las Vegas-style lighting. “Thousands of people took part in the Sandhi Puja (that happened on Saturday morning, according to Indian time) from their drawing rooms. A day before, they had offered anjali to the goddess from their drawing rooms,” Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||Inspiration from the Goddess||A group of girls from deprived families whose hardships have intensified during the pandemic are drawing strength from Goddess Durga. In the run-up to the puja, Calcutta Rescue, an NGO, has reached out to the girls they work with and tried to instill confidence in them and help them fight the situation by citing the example of Durga as a symbol of woman power. The pandemic, which appears to have no end in sight, and the gender discrimination the girls are being subjected to have left many of them demoralised, one of their teachers said. “Many of the girls have started to believe their life is meaningless. For some, especially those who are not academically strong, there is family pressure to get married,” Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator of Calcutta Rescue, said. “We have tried to rebuild their confidence and help them resist early marriages. We encourage them to share their problems, seek help and speak out.” For example, a 17-year-old girl, who failed to clear Madhyamik in two consecutive years, but is a good dancer, was being forced to get married and made to think she is “worthless”. The girl, after this project, spoke to her teachers who told her there were vocational courses she could pursue — that of a beautician or a dance teacher. The girl then spoke to her mother about it and the marriage was called off. “We make girls recognise their inner strength; if we are able to change even one life we consider it as a success,” Chatterjee said. This was a month-long project and the girls made a video and spoke about the various roles the goddess has — a mother, a wife, and someone fighting evil. In the video, one girl is talking about the “tenacity of women, provided she is able to develop and hone her skills”. The girls can be heard saying “Provide us with opportunity”; “Respect women, save girls, provide the right nutrition. You will be close to your Durga”; and “Early marriage is no solution. Let me learn. Let me earn. I am your Durga”. Chatterjee said for many girls the circumstances were always difficult but the pandemic had intensified that. There is increased discrimination at home when it comes to them and their brothers. They are increasingly losing their confidence, an NGO official said. The girls will have to complete household chores and only then can they attend online classes. “During the lockdown the men in the family were not able to go out and they could not source alcohol; now, they somehow manage to get it and resort to violence at home,” the official said. Being a witness to such violence, these girls fear more violence if they show resistance. “But we need to make them realise that they can do anything. We have seen a change in them, too,” Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||Trucks spread wildlife awareness||Three vehicles themed on wildlife conservation have started doing the rounds of Calcutta and three adjacent districts. The improvised five-seater mini-trucks, decked out with paintings, posters and leaflets that raise awareness about some of the animals and birds commonly found in the urban and semi-urban landscape, have been criss-crossing Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. This will continue till November. “Turtle trade is illegal,” is written in a large font on a tableau atop a vehicle. “Fishing cat is our state animal,” says another. The vehicles were flagged off from Aranya Bhavan, the headquarters of the state forest department, on Sunday by state forest minister Rajib Banerjee. Recorded messages are played, too. “Forest and wildlife are inseparable parts of our environment. The creatures we see around us every day… the many birds like sparrows, common myna and animals like squirrel, turtle, snake, mongoose, civet cat and fishing cat… all these are defined as wildlife according to the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. These animals and birds help maintain the ecological balance. Come, let us pledge to save them by protecting their habitat — trees and water bodies and wetlands,” says one message. “One vehicle has been moving around Calcutta. Another is doing the rounds of North 24-Parganas; a third Howrah and Hooghly,” Om Prakash, deputy conservator of forests, wildlife (headquarters), said. The idea is to generate visibility during the festive season, V.K. Yadav, Bengal’s chief wildlife warden, said. “The animals found around us are not harmful. But they are often killed out of a misplaced sense of fear. We want to give people the message, ‘please contact us if you need help’.” The vehicles are manned by forest personnel. They have distributing leaflets, posters and brochures. Some posters have turtle images. “Hath dilei hajote (Lay your hand, land in jail),” reads an accompanying message. All promotional materials have the forest department’s helpline number.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
