27-10-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra not doing well, put on ventilator support||Legendary Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee was put on ventilator support as his condition worsened further on Monday evening, doctors said. Chatterjee’s health condition further deteriorated late in the evening and oxygen support is less than 40 per cent, said the spokesperson of the private hospital in the city where he has been admitted. The 85-year-old actor's haemoglobin has gone down as has his platelet count, the spokesperson said. "We had to protect his airways. At 3 pm, we put him on ventilation support... His oxygen support is less than 40 per cent, and there were increasing chances of aspiration and secondary pneumonia. "He is not that well. His health condition has definitely deteriorated. The medical board took a unanimous decision to protect his airway, and we did it by putting him on endotracheal intubation," the spokesperson said in a late-night audio statement. According to doctors, endotracheal intubation is a medical procedure in which a tube is placed into the windpipe through the mouth or nose. The spokesperson said, "Due to gastrointestinal bleeding and dehydration, his kidney functions which were fine till morning are now taking a toll. His urea and creatinine are also not good. His urine output is also not satisfactory." The critically acclaimed actor was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. Chatterjee, a Dada Saheb Phalke awardee, and the first Indian film personality to be conferred with the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, France's highest civilian award, had tested negative for the infection last week after which he was shifted to a non-COVID ITU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
27-10-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University ensures chicken lunch for slum dwellers on Dashami||Jadavpur University students who have been running a community kitchen to feed the poor raised a little extra to ensure people living in slums near Jadavpur rail station and under the Gariahat flyover could lunch with chicken on Dashami. These people have been surviving since the start of the lockdown on a meal comprising a bowl of rice and soya beans delivered from the kitchen on the university campus. On Bijoya Dashami (Monday), which marked Day 215 of the service, students wanted to do something extra to bring smiles to the faces of the impoverished. A group of students, including research scholars, along with former students and teachers, had set up the “Community Kitchen” in the parking lot near Gate No. 4 in late March to feed the poor in the neighbourhood. They started with khichdi before settling for meals comprising rice and soya beans. On Monday, 700-odd people had something better at lunch — chicken curry and daal, along with steaming rice — as part of an initiative to ring in the Puja for the disadvantaged. “One of the former students of the university contributed generously so that we could offer a different dish on Monday,” Jhelum Roy, a research scholar of the university associated with the initiative, said. The JU students did not restrict their efforts to offering a special menu on one of the days during Durga Puja. They gifted clothes to the destitute after an alumnae made a separate contribution for the purpose. As the volunteers set out on paddle-driven vans to serve lunch across the city, they gifted clothes to these people and their kids. As scores of Calcuttans hopped pandals, members of the community kitchen ran from one pandal to another to raise funds to keep the initiative running. “We visited the pandals of big-ticket Durga Pujas such as Tridhara and 95 Pally, requesting contribution,” a member said. Volunteers moved around with loudhailers and donation boxes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
27-10-2020||Calcutta||Food on wheels for the poor & hungry in Calcutta||Three cars stacked with food have been criss-crossing the city for the past few days. The occupants of each car have been stopping at rail stations, hospitals and slums to distribute food to the poor and destitute. On Sunday, the cars’ stops included Beleghata ID Hospital, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, SSKM Hospital, Sealdah and Howrah rail stations and the slum areas in Dhakuria, Park Circus and Taratala. At the hospitals, the recipients comprised relatives and friends of patients. Many of them were from outside Calcutta. They had camped on the outdoor premises of the hospitals. Rickshaw-pullers, mutiyas (people who ferry load on vans or on their backs), coolies, ragpickers, beggars and many out-of-work labourers were among the recipients at most other stops. The menu — steamed rice, daal and a mishmash of seasonal vegetables. “We have started a special Durga Puja drive keeping in mind that some are staying at their homes and some are venturing out to enjoy the festivities but many people maybe going hungry during the Pujas,” Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman of the IHA Foundation, said. “Therefore, we are celebrating this festival by feeding the needy and hungry at various parts of the city.” The foundation, which is behind the drive, has been instrumental in providing more than a million people with meals during the pandemic, according to organisers. What had started as a drive to feed the poor at gurdwaras during the lockdown gradually shifted to food being carried on wheels and distributed to the needy across the city and suburbs. After completing over 100 days of food delivery on the trot till July, the drive was back again to feed people on days of total lockdown in the state. The puja drive started last Wednesday and will continue till Lakshmi Puja, an organizer said. The menu is simple but the food is cooked every day and served hot. The Saptami menu was pulao and chana masala. Khichdi and subzi were served on Ashtami. On some days, the meal is followed by a desert like chutney, boondi (sweetened, fried chickpea flour) or kheer. “The civic body and police have supported the drive. Around 3,000 people are being provided with meals every day during the puja drive,” an organizer said. A crowd forms every time an IHA car reaches a distribution spot. Volunteers get off the vehicle and get about setting the gathering in order, asking people to maintain distance and to stand in a queue. At most places, food is served on the spot. But many people prefer to bring their utensils and take the food home. Some take the food home wrapped in polythene packets. “Many people try to make two meals out of one. Many people are still out of work and staring at hunger,” an IHA volunteer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
27-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid amid Durga Puja: Fear hits ice cream sales in Calcutta||Ice cream sales have plunged headlong this puja, thanks to the Covid-19 scare. Ice cream carts, an inseparable part of Bengal’s biggest carnival, stood outside pandals like every year. But the number of customers was few and far between, vendors manning the carts said on Sunday. “I have barely sold stuff worth Rs 12,000 from Panchami to Navami this year. Last year, I remember I had sold stuff worth around Rs 8,000 on Panchami,” Buddhadeb Gayen, an ice cream seller who has been camping near Mudiali Club’s Durga Puja for many years now, said. Gayen, who sells products of a frozen dessert brand owned by a consumer goods behemoth, said his commission was Rs 16.50 for every Rs 100 sale. Gulam Mustafa, who sells products of the same brand near the Ekdalia Evergreen Puja, said he had sold stuff worth Rs 12,000 on Ashtami last year. This year on Ashtami he could sell stuff worth Rs 1,800, he said on Sunday. The Covid-19 threat has led to a substantial dip in the number of puja revellers on the road this year. “Children are our main customers. This year, elders are doubly concerned about kids catching cold. Every now and then, a small boy or a girl is asking for an ice cream only to be refused by parents,” Mustafa said. Members of an odd-group that stop by his cart ask him to leave the stuff on the cart, spray disinfectant on the packs before having the ice cream. Dilip Sardar, who sells products of a local ice cream brand from his cart near the crossing of Pratapaditya Road and Rashbehari Avenue, said on Sunday he was still to make his first sale around 1.30pm. Cycling from his home off Prince Anwar Shah Road, he had reached the spot around 12.45pm. “Sitting idle for 45 minutes on a puja day is something I had never known till this year,” Sardar, who earns a commission of 25 per cent on sales, said. Rabi Ghosh, an ice cream distributor in south Calcutta, said on Monday business was down by “around 50 per cent” this Puja. Ghosh, who gets stock from the company and has around 15 vendors selling them in Jadavpur, Dhakuria and Tollygunge, attributed the slump in business to the suspension of suburban trains to a large extent. In the absence of local trains, tens of thousands of people could not visit the pujas in the city this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
27-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta: Two killed, five injured in three accidents||Two motorcyclists were killed and two pillion passengers injured in two accidents in Ballygunge and Beleghata early on Tuesday. Three others on a motorcycle were injured in an accident on the Garden Reach flyover, police said. Kingshuk Bhattacharjee, 30, a resident of Bhowanipore’s Rupnarayan Nandan Lane, died after the two-wheeler he was riding skidded near the crossing of Ballygunge Circular Road and Dover Road close to St Lawrence High School around 2.40am, police said. Moumita Paul, 28, who was on the pillion suffered injuries and she was given first aid at SSKM Hospital. Bhattacharjee was taken to SSKM Hospital where doctors declared him dead. “There was a very long skid mark at the site of the accident. We scanned CCTV footage of the area, but they did not cover the accident site,” a police officer said. Helmets were found from the accident site, the police said. But investigations are on to find out if the two had been wearing helmets at  the time of the accident, an officer said. In Beleghata, Debashis Chatterjee, 35, died after he hit the divider on CIT Road near Sukanta Mancha around 3am, the police said. Chatterjee, a resident of Bagmari Lane, was declared dead at NRS hospital. Arindam Dutta, 42, who was riding pillion, suffered multiple injuries, the police said. Dutta was taken to NRS hospital. Cops have found Chatterjee’ helmet at the accident site. Investigations are on to find out if he was wearing it at the time of the accident. Cops did not find Dutta’s helmet. Three people on a motorcycle were injured in an accident on Garden Reach flyover around 1.40am on Monday. Atish Balmiki, 27, Mukesh Balmiki, 28 and Rajendra Balmiki, 36, residents of Dr AK Paul Road in the West Port police station area, were taken to Ekbalpore Nursing Home, the police said. Atish Balmiki and Mukesh Balmiki are admitted to the hospital. Rajendra Balmiki was discharged after treatment, the police said. No helmets were found at the accident site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
27-10-2020||Calcutta||Pandal-hoppers take over Navami night in Calcutta||Navami night was the most crowded this year, several puja organisers in the city said. But Dashami afternoon and evening was conspicuously empty, police said. Several puja organisers had said on Sunday that they were expecting more people at night and the anticipation turned out to be true. Pratik Choudhury, one of the organisers of Dum Dum Park Bharat Chakra, said there people were headed for their pandal till 4am on Monday. Partha Ghosh, an organiser of Shib Mandir Sarbojonin, said people came throughout the night. Two Calcuttans who had stepped out on Navami night had a similar take. A woman in her 30s went to a friend’s place from Salt Lake to Tallah and it took her more than 50 minutes, which is more than what it takes her on a normal weekday. A man in his 40s found a 200m-long queue of people along Bidhan Sarani waiting to approach the pandal in Kashi Bose Lane. “The organisers ensured no crowding at the barricades outside the pandal. They stopped people from approaching the pandal accordingly; but in the process a queue formed leading to the puja,” the Gariahat resident said. “There was a good turnout on Sunday night and it extended till early on Monday. There were people at the barricades outside our pandal even at 4am,” Choudhury of Dum Dum Park Bharat Chakra said. “This is the largest number of people we had on a single day during Durga Puja.” Ghosh of Shib Mandir Sarbojonin said a steady stream of people walked past the pandal throughout the night. Shib Mandir Sarbojonin built their pandal in such a way that visitors could see the idol from beyond 10m, Ghosh said. Calcutta High Court had declared all Durga Puja pandals no-entry zones. No visitors should be allowed inside a pandal, the court had said and ordered barricades to be fixed five metres from the entrance for small pujas and 10m from the entrance for big pujas. A city police officer said 1,754 idols were supposed to be immersed between Monday and early on Tuesday. “This is excluding the idols worshipped in pujas organised at homes. The roads are completely empty. Every year, hundreds of people line up along the roads to watch immersion processions. There has been almost none this year. Immersion processions have been banned as a measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19.” Organisers as well as police officers said most puja committees had planned to complete the immersion by Ekadashi (Tuesday). The state government’s decision to not organise the annual immersion carnival on Red Road was the main reason behind most puja committees wanting to immerse the idols earlier than usual, according to police officers. “The idols of all big-budget pujas in the Gariahat-Dhakuria area will be immersed by Tuesday. In fact, barring a handful of big-ticket pujas, most idols were immersed on Monday,” an officer said. A puja organiser said committee members wanted to stay at home for now. “We had to spend a lot of time outside for the past four-five days. So, we would not want to expose ourselves to more people in the coming days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
