28-10-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra still ‘very critical’, to undergo dialysis||Doctors have decided to start dialysis on legendary Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee as his health condition continues to be "very critical", sources at the private hospital where the thespian is undergoing treatment said on Wednesday. The 85-year old has been "unconscious" since last week. "Mr Chatterjee's health condition is more-or-less the same as it was in the last 48 hours. There is no new deterioration. The haemologin and other parameters are stable, but his renal function is not... we have decided to go for dialysis to bring down the urea and creatinine levels. This will also improve his consciousness," one of the doctors said. “The dialysis will be for a short duration,” he added. The actor's creatinine and urea levels have been on the rise since Monday, and nephrologists are also mulling the option of providing "renal replacement therapy support". He is also suffering from secondary pneumonia. “Chatterjee's lung functions are more or less stable and his ventilation parameter is also good,” the doctor said. Chatterjee was put on a ventilator with endotracheal intubation on Monday evening to protect his airways. Endotracheal intubation is a procedure in which a tube is placed into the windpipe through the mouth or nose. “He is on a ventilator. His saturation is more than 95 per cent with basic oxygen support,” the doctor explained. There has been no deterioration in the mental status of the veteran actor, he said. Doctors were planning to carry out blood transfusion on Tuesday, hoping that it would improve Chatterjee’s condition to an extent. “His platelet count has not gone down from what it was yesterday. We have given him medicines to bring up that count. We are planning a blood transfusion later today; hopefully, that will improve his condition,” he said. Describing Chatterjee’s “unconsciousness” as their primary concern, the doctor said that at the moment they will “focus on dealing with the secondary infections so that the patient can be pulled out of the ventilation support”. “We will focus on secondary infections and their repercussions. We have given antibiotics and antifungals and expect him to respond to them. Once his physiological derangements are corrected, we will focus on his neurological parameters. The main issue bothering us is his unconsciousness,” the doctor said. The critically acclaimed actor, the first Indian film personality to be awarded the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres — France’s highest civilian award — was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. Last week, he was shifted to a non-Covid Intensive Trauma Unit, having recovered from the viral disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Engineering student found dead in pond||The body of a 22-year-old engineering student, who went missing on Sunday, was fished out of a pond near his house in Baranagar on the city’s northern outskirts on Monday. Police said Saurav Sengupta, a student of a private engineering college in Sodepur, had gone out pandal-hopping with friends on Navami night. His mobile phone was found on the steps leading to the pond in the locality. His gold necklace is missing, the police said. Sengupta’s family members have said he didn’t know how to swim and had never taken a dip in the pond. He has been murdered, the family has said. The family will file a police complaint after receiving the post-mortem report. Cops will question the friends with whom Sengupta had gone pandal-hopping on Navami night, the police said. A few of them have told investigators that they had dropped him off near his house around 1.30am on Monday after visiting pandals in north Calcutta. “Some of his friends told us that they were not aware of what happened to him after they had dropped him off near his house,” an officer of Baranagar police station said. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to find the exact cause of death.” Sengupta is the youngest child of Anirudhha and Sanchita Sengupta of Bhattacharjee para in Baranagar. On the night of Navami when he didn’t return, his parents called on his phone only to find it switched off, the police said. The next morning a resident of the area spotted a phone on the steps leading to the pond and alerted the family. The police were alerted and divers brought in. They fished out the body from the pond, the police said. A 15-year-old boy was injured after a portion of the first-floor wall of a two-storey building collapsed on an adjoining building on Martin Para Road in Anandapur on Tuesday, police said. Sujoy Mondal, the injured teenager, was treated at a nearby hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Tridhara shows way with immersion in pandal||What the fear of pollution could not do, the pandemic has done in Calcutta. A Durga idol was immersed in the pandal following the most environment-friendly “wash and melt” model and in the process spared the Hooghly of pollution. This year, Tridhara in south Calcutta club followed the “wash and melt” model. All the idols were washed and melted by spraying water from multiple water jets after positioning them within a makeshift 400sq ft water body adjacent to the pandal. Once the immersion of an idol got over — the outer clay and colour got washed off and the inner frame became partially visible — the same water, about 25,000 litres, was recycled to wash and melt the next idol. Once the process was completed for all the idols, the frames were taken to the Dhapa dumping ground just like the other idols immersed in the Hooghly are carried there after being taken out of the water. The “immersion” at Tridhara took close to 2 hours. “We have various restrictions because of the pandemic and risks associated with the conventional immersion in the Hooghly; so, we decided to follow this unique method,” Debasish Kumar of Tridhara, who is in charge of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s immersion proceedings, said. “We could cut down on cost as well as manpower in this process.” He said the club had followed the practice of clubs in Naihati. It is up to the other clubs in the city to decide if idols will be immersed this way, he said. The Telegraph had earlier reported about clubs in Naihati and adjacent Bhatpara, where Kali Puja is the bigger festival, going for such immersions. Water jets are used to melt idols there after a “darpan visarjan”, in which water from the Ganga is symbolically poured over the reflection of the goddess in a mirror. “Once darpan bisarjan is completed, the immersion is formally complete,” former Sanskrit College teacher Himangsu Pandit, who heads the team that publishes the almanac Bisudhha Siddhanta Panjika, told The Telegraph. Both the regulators and activists hailed the Tridhara move. “It’s a good environment-friendly initiative and we will be happy to support it if the Calcutta Municipal Corporation wants to expand the model in future,” Kalyan Rudra, chairman of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board, said on Monday. “A new and extremely worthwhile initiative,” environment activist Subhas Datta said. “Immersion pollutes our rivers and water bodies.” Immersion directives have been passed earlier based on Datta’s petition in court. Various studies have shown that the level of pollution, particularly that of highly toxic heavy metals, increases significantly because of the immersion of thousands of idols in the Hooghly. The National Mission for Clean Ganga, a central government agency, and the National Green Tribunal have been pushing for immersions to be stopped on open stretches of the river since 2018. “We have set up dedicated and barricaded portions in water bodies in Lake Town, Debi Ghat and Dumdum Tank No. 2, following the National Mission for Clean Ganga guidelines, to ensure environment-friendly immersion,” pollution board chairman Rudra said. “The base of water bodies has been lined with synthetic cover so to arrest the diffused pollutants. If the model works, we will think of expanding it in future.” The Tridhara or the pollution board’s initiatives are standalone ventures, environment activist Krishnajyoti Goswami said. “Unless these become the rule rather than an exception, we will not be able to save the Ganga.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Monsoon set to withdraw today||The monsoon is set to retreat from Calcutta for this year by Wednesday, the Met office said. Weather scientists have spotted telltale reversal of wind flow that marks the withdrawal of the monsoon, which stayed back longer than usual this year. The normal date of the season’s withdrawal is October 12. A low-pressure area had formed over the Bay of Bengal last week and delayed the retreat. But over the past couple of days, winds from north India are entering the city, instead of winds from the southwest, the direction of the Bay of Bengal. That means dry winds from north India have replaced the moisture-laden winds from the bay. “The southwest monsoon is expected to withdraw from Calcutta and the rest of the state by Wednesday. The rain has stopped. The northwesterly winds are coming into the city. The moisture content in the atmosphere is low,” said G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Weather scientists generally consider three to four rain-free days during this time of the year as a prerequisite to announcing the withdrawal of the monsoon. A dip in the moisture content in the air is another marker of the end of the monsoon. The last three days in the city have been rainless and a clear sky and bright sunshine have been greeting Calcuttans. The minimum relative humidity — a measure of the moisture content in the air during the driest part of the day — dropped to 36 per cent on Monday and stayed there on Tuesday. Till days ago, the minimum relative humidity used to hover above 60 degrees. As the moisture content in the air has dropped, people are not sweating like they had been a few days ago. The winds blowing in from northern and western parts of India are mild now. They will become stronger in the days to come, heralding the onset of winter. But a hint of chill is expected in the city in the early hours of the day, Das said. The minimum temperature slid to 21 degrees on Tuesday, a notch below normal. It is likely to remain on the lower side, said a Met official. The retreat of the southwest monsoon from the city is likely to coincide with the onset of the northeast monsoon in Tamil Nadu, the Met office has said. “The northeast monsoon activities might inject some moisture-laden winds into south Bengal, including Calcutta, but not before five-six days. The temperature will then be on the higher side because the moisture content will impede the flow of the winds from northern India. But it is unlikely to have a lengthy impact on the city,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||City loses its sweet tooth on Vijaya Dashami||Vijaya Dashami has never been so dull in the past for sweet shops in Calcutta. Almost all shops witnessed a drop of nearly 40 per cent in demand for sweets, between Monday and Tuesday, compared to previous years — something that industry veterans termed “unprecedented”. Rasogolla, sandesh and other varieties didn’t fly off the shelves like previous years, forcing several sweet shops across Calcutta to cut down on production in order to prevent wastage. “The drop in sales for Dashami was almost 60 per cent,” Dhiman Das, executive director of KC Das, said. “It is unbelievable. The customer count was so low that we could have closed our shop by 6pm. It is just that we chose to keep it open for several hours more. It’s unprecedented.” The Vijaya Dashami ritual usually involves visits to family members, relatives or others with sweet packets. Greetings end with an exchange of sweets, an event that sweet shops across Calcutta wait to cash in on. On days of Durga Puja, visits to any gatherings, big or small, would usually have guests turning up with sweet packets, at times from some of the most reputed names in the business. There has been a break from tradition this year, according to several sweet shop owners. People didn’t step out during Durga Puja and visits to families and friends were mostly without sweet packets. People have cut down on visits. And even if they did, many were unsure if carrying food would be a welcome gesture during the pandemic. The result was inevitable. Across Calcutta a large majority of around 8,500 sweet shop owners who had pinned their hopes on Durga Puja for revival of sales suffered a blow. “The overall drop in sale from Saptami has been around 50 per cent. We had to scale down our production… there is no point. The number of customers has dwindled and it has been very bad for most of us,” Partha Nandy of Girish Chandra Dey and Nakur Chandra Nandy in Hedua said. By Navami many shop owners had realised that this Vijaya Dashami won’t be like other years. “Many shops still managed some sales on Monday. From Tuesday, it has gone back to the lean phase. We don’t know when sales will pick up,” Jagannath Ghosh, the secretary of the West Bengal Sweetmeat Shop Owners Association, said. Some like Chittaranjan in Sovabazar and Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick of Bhowanipore said their tie-ups with online delivery platforms had been a saviour. “Customer count has been low. But we have not been hit, thanks to the online platforms,” Subhajit Ghosh of Banchharam said. Even the volume of corporate orders has gone down this year because of an increasing number of people shying away from offering sweet packets, several sweet shop owners said. Even politicians and others who would go for bulk purchases during Vijaya Dashami have not been keen on continuing with the tradition of gifting sweet packets this year. Some, though, have opted for online delivery platforms but that number is “not too encouraging”, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Stress on Plus-II marks for Presi PG entry||Some departments of Presidency University have decided to factor in marks of the Plus-II exams while admitting students from other universities to postgraduate courses as they are not satisfied with the way final undergraduate exams were held, a Presidency official said. The departments suspect that the results announced amid the Puja don’t reflect a prospective candidate’s merit. The eligibility criteria for the 83 seats will be announced in the first week of November, said another official of the university. At least three departments — biological science, chemistry and physics — had said in the last meeting of the admission committee that they wanted to give some weightage to the marks in the plus-II board exams a postgraduate aspirant had written in 2017. The remaining weightage can be given to the performance at the undergraduate exams. At Presidency, 20 per cent of the 417 seats (83) are open for students from other universities. At the admission committee meeting, the three departments suggested that 25 per cent weightage be given to the plus-II board exam marks, the Presidency official said. “The teachers representing the three departments said the final-year or the end-semester exams were written by students sitting at home and in the absence of any invigilation. So, the teachers are not sure whether the results reflected a student’s merit. According to them, the HS results will help them judge better the merit of a candidate,” the official told The Telegraph. Since on-campus tests could not be held because of the pandemic, all universities allowed the final-year undergraduate students to write their exams from home and send the answers through WhatsApp or email. The biological science and chemistry departments of Presidency have said they want to give 25 per cent weightage to the marks obtained in the science subjects in the plus-II board exams. The physics department has yet to decide whether they want to give 25 per cent weightage to the physics score or the marks in all science subjects in the plus-II exams. “We wanted to hold a test ourselves, considering that exams like JEE Main, NEET and the JNU entrance test have been held recently. But the proposal was struck down on health grounds,” a teacher in the chemistry department said. The state JEE board, which conducts the admission test for Presidency University, had informed the authorities last month that it would not be able to conduct any on-campus test this year, Presidency vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra’s kidneys not functioning well||The health condition of actor Soumitra Chatterjee, currently on ventilator support, worsened further on Tuesday, and efforts were being made to boost his blood platelet count, a senior doctor at the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said. The 85-year-old thespian’s creatinine and urea levels have been on the rise since Monday, and nephrologists were mulling the option of providing “renal replacement therapy support”, the doctor said. The actor, under treatment for the past 22 days, is also suffering from secondary pneumonia, he said. “Mr Chatterjee is barely conscious. He is being treated for dehydration. His kidneys are not functioning well. The octogenarian's urea and creatinine levels have been on the rise. His overall condition has worsened. He is definitely critical but we have managed to stabilise his condition a bit. “Our nephrologist is taking a call on whether he may be given any support in the form of renal replacement therapy. “He is on a ventilator. His saturation is more than 95 per cent with basic oxygen support,” the doctor explained. There has been no deterioration in the mental status of the veteran actor, he said. Doctors were planning to carry out blood transfusion on Tuesday, hoping that it would improve Chatterjee’s condition to an extent. “His platelet count has not gone down from what it was yesterday. We have given him medicines to bring up that count. We are planning a blood transfusion later today; hopefully, that will improve his condition,” he said. Chatterjee was put on a ventilator with endotracheal intubation on Monday evening to protect his airways. Endotracheal intubation is a procedure in which a tube is placed into the windpipe through the mouth or nose. Describing Chatterjee’s “unconsciousness” as their primary concern, the doctor said that at the moment they will “focus on dealing with the secondary infections so that the patient can be pulled out of the ventilation support”. “We will focus on secondary infections and their repercussions. We have given antibiotics and antifungals and expect him to respond to them. Once his physiological derangements are corrected, we will focus on his neurological parameters. The main issue bothering us is his unconsciousness,” the doctor said. The critically acclaimed actor, the first Indian film personality to be awarded the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres — France’s highest civilian award — was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. Last week, he was shifted to a non-Covid Intensive Trauma Unit, having recovered from the viral disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Diary of cop on duty for a Puja unlike any other||Durga Puja 2020 duty was in many ways different from other years for police, several officers said. An inspector posted in the central division of Calcutta police shares his new normal with The Telegraph Puja duty would usually mean standing for 12 hours at a stretch and not returning home before 5am the next morning. But this year I returned home before 2am every day except on Navami. On Sashthi, we were released before midnight! On other days, our duties ended some time between 1am and 2am. On Navami night and early Dashami morning, I had to oversee some immersion processions scheduled at the last minute. Although I could return home early, I failed to catch up with friends because unlike other years, my neighbourhood pandal was deserted. Despite all the awareness campaigns over the past seven months, some people were roaming around without masks. Many of the women who were without masks were reluctant to put on one when approached by women constables. One or two were prosecuted on the spot. Motorcyclists without helmets or masks or both were prosecuted without any exception. We had kept a stock of masks for those who could not afford one. We distributed over 1,000 masks to footpath dwellers from near three pandals — Santosh Mitra Square, College Square and Mohammad Ali Park — over the past five days. The Santosh Mitra Square puja committee (Lebutala Park), which had announced before the Puja that only residents of the neighbourhood would be allowed inside the pandal, had very few visitors. If one could not see the deity in the pandal, what’s the point of going to that puja? The crowd was exceptionally thin at most big-ticket pujas, such as Mohammad Ali Park and College Square, possibly because of a high court order limiting the number of people who could enter a pandal. However, there was a little rush outside pandals on Navami (Sunday). Lebutala Park, where hundreds of people sit and chat, was closed. College Square was closed to visitors, too. We had practically no crowd to manage, except a few revellers who would try to enter a pandal claiming they were not aware of the restrictions. It did not feel like a stressful Puja duty at all. We usually take turns to have a quick meal on Puja days. We mostly eat from food packets supplied by organisers or the local police station. Sitting and eating is a luxury. But this year, we had ample time to have proper meals while on Puja duty. On Dashami night, when there was practically no one outside the Mohammad Ali Park pandal, I returned to my room at the police station and had my dinner cooked at the canteen. Though I could sit and eat a proper meal, I was missing my colleagues and the rush. There were more two-wheelers on the road than cars. Maybe because a two-wheeler allows a closer view of the pandal and a glimpse of the goddess inside. We did not have to do much to push them away as most of them did not stop or park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||HC does its part on crowd control||Faces half hidden behind masks, streets with no crowds to manage, exchange of Vijaya greetings without the traditional embrace — Calcuttans are fervently praying that the “new normal” that cast a pall on Durga Puja 2020 fades away before the deity’s next sojourn. This year’s Puja was unique in many ways — because of Covid-19 — and many felt that the uniqueness had marred the revelry. The Telegraph depicts how Calcutta’s Durga Puja looked and felt this year amid the pandemic. Far fewer people compared with previous years stepped out this Puja — the lanes leading to some of the pandals were almost empty — possibly because of a Calcutta High Court order preventing the entry of visitors into pandals. Even on Ashtami and Navami even­ings, the crowds outside pandals were barely 10 per cent compared with other years. The roads were almost empty on Sashthi and Saptami. “I think people thought after the high court order that no idol could be seen this year. In a couple of days, the word spread that some idols were visible from a distance. That drew some people to pandals,” said Avishek Bhattacharya, the general secretary of Tala Barowari. “But even at its peak, the crowd was less than 10 per cent of other years.” An organiser of Shib Mandir Sarbojonin said: “The turnout was in no way comparable with previous years”. The idols of both these pujas were visible from beyond the barricades, put up at 10m from the pandals as directed by the court. Many felt that leaders across the political divide could have done better by asking people not to step out. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was heard asking people to watch the puja parikrama telecast by TV channels, instead of visiting pandals. But many other leaders, some of who organise big-ticket pujas, expressed disappointment at the high court’s order. A refrain among most organisers was that they could not ask people to stay away from pandals. Anirban Dalui, a doctor at the Rampurhat Medical College and Hospital and a public health specialist, called out this attitude of the organisers. “Whoever felt that asking people to step out during Puja was alright was just being irresponsible. Public health measures demanded that organisers did not publicise their pujas and made it less attractive this year,” said Dalui. Many pujas installed extra loudspeakers strategically so that the Ashtami anjali mantras reached all homes in the locality. The organisers of Badamtala Ashar Sangha kept urging residents to chant the mantras from home. Maddox Square, too, asked residents to offer anjali from home. Residents of some apartment complexes logged in through Zoom links to see the priest perform the anjali rituals and repeat the mantras after him sitting at home. Most pujas immersed their idols by Tuesday, unlike previous years when most big-ticket pujas used to take part in a carnival on Red Road on the last day of immersions. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that there would be no carnival this time because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Among the north Calcutta pujas, Ahiritola Sarbojonin immersed their idols on Monday and Maniktala Chaltabagan, Hatibagan Sarbojonin, Kashi Bose Lane and Nalin Sarkar Street Sarbojonin immersed their idols by Tuesday, police said. In south Calcutta, Babubagan, Ekdalia Evergreen, Singhi Park and Tridhara Sammilani immersed their idols by Tuesday. Most of these pujas used to take part in the carnival. Immersions will be allowed till Thursday. Metro Railway ferried lakhs of revellers during previous years’ Puja. This year it did not run the usual number of trains, thereby limiting the crowd. From Saptami to Dashami, there were 64 trains every day. Last year, 244 trains ran every day from Saptami to Navami and 132 on Dashami. The passenger count was a little over 1.16 lakh on the four Puja days this year, said an official. Last Puja, it ferried close to 26 lakh passengers. Unlike last year, when the service continued through the night, the first and last trains left the terminal stations at 10am and 9pm this year. Stations like Kalighat and Dum Dum, usually the most crowded on Puja days, had only a handful of passengers. The only outing for many was lunch or dinner at a favourite eatery. Around 2pm on Navami, the average waiting time outside Mocambo was over 30 minutes. Most restaurants extended the closing hours beyond midnight on the Puja days. Shiladitya Chaudhury, the owner of Oudh 1590, said people waited for lunch and dinner outside his restaurants on all four days. “The number of takeaways went up compared with last year,” he said. Finding a parking slot on Park Street was tough like good old days. A Salt Lake resident found a thick crowd outside a Kolaghat restaurant where she had gone to dine out with her family. She dropped the plan. “I would have caught Covid-19 had I stepped out in that army of people,” said one of them. Fewer people on roads meant that commuters were spared astronomical surges in app cab fares, which used to be a common complaint during the Puja in previous years. Same with yellow taxis — they only asked for “a little extra” over the meter reading. “I went to New Town from Kasba on Sashthi and came back on Ashtami. On both days, Uber charged me a little less than Rs 300. It was lesser than what I used to pay on a non-festive day during pre-Covid times,” said a Kasba resident. The number of app cabs on roads has reduced since the pandemic started as passengers dwindled. Even with fewer cabs, the fare surge was comparatively less. A taxi union leader said only 5,000 yellow taxis, out of 12,000 vehicles, ran during the Puja. From Tallah to Tollygunge, or from Behala to Salt Lake, no one was stuck in a snarl at any time of the day. “It was a smooth sail on all four days,” said a Calcuttan. Officers of Calcutta police’s traffic department, too, said vehicles were fewer compared with previous years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
