29-10-2020||Calcutta||Immersion accident averted at Sovabazar Ghat||Two men and a woman, members of a Durga Puja organising committee, dived into the Hooghly at Sovabazar Ghat on Wednesday to save a friend who had slipped into the river during immersion. Members of the city police’s disaster management group rescued the four from the river. The accident occurred around 4pm when a residential Durga Puja committee from Salt Lake had gone to the ghat to immerse their idol. “One of the youths slipped and fell into the river. Three others who were part of the same group jumped in one after the other to save their friend,” a police officer said. Members of the disaster management group who were on duty at the ghat jumped into the river and rescued them and averted what could possibly have turned into a major accident, the police said. The city police’s immersion guidelines allow four-five members of a puja committee at a ghat for immersion. The Salt Lake committee hadn’t violated the rule but they should have been more careful, keeping in mind the high tide, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Fire destroys Salt Lake pandal before immersion||A fire gutted the puja pandal of FD Block in Salt Lake, one of the most popular Durga Puja pandals in the township, on Wednesday morning. No one was injured in the fire, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Morning walkers in the FD Block park were the first to spot flames leaping out of the main pandal around 6:15am and they alerted the fire brigade, a fire officer said. Two fire engines from the Sector V fire station doused the flames in close to 45 minutes but by that time the pandal and the idols were gutted. Fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose reached the spot. A forensics team visited the pandal and collected samples from the site. “We have launched an investigation to ascertain what triggered the fire. Fortunately, the guards and dhakis were not inside the pandal when the fire broke out,” Bose said. Preliminary investigations have revealed a short circuit in one of the electrical lines had started the fire, a fire officer said. “It took us close to 45 minutes to douse the flames. The fire spread rapidly as the pandal had been built using bamboo shafts, paper, plastic, and cloth,” the officer said. The FD Block Puja committee had planned to immerse the idols on Wednesday evening. The pandal had The Jungle Book as the theme with Mowgli, Baloo, Bagheera, Sher Khan and others celebrating Puja together in a fantasy jungle. As the fire spread rapidly through the pandal several members of the puja committee as well as residents tried to douse the flames by splashing buckets of water. Residents of FD Block who live near the park said they had heard small explosions as each animal model went up in flames one after the other. “The fire is heartbreaking for us. We are completely devastated,” Rajorshi Dey, a resident of FD Block, said. Banibrata Banerjee, one of the members of the puja committee, said they had dipped all pandal materials in a fire-retardant solution and had fire extinguishers in the pandal. “We are not ruling out arson. Our pandal drew a huge crowd,” Banerjee said. Ashim Das, one of the artisans who had supplied the models of Mowgli and the other animals, said he was supposed to take them back to Kumartuli and spruce them up for installation on various boulevards in the township. “The plan was to install all the animals in parks and on dividers. Sadly, we will not be able to do that,” Das said. The residents of the block completed the rituals of Durga Puja on a raised platform outside the FD Block community centre on Wednesday afternoon. “The rituals had to be completed and we did so,” a member said. Lakshmi Puja and Kali Puja will be held as planned on the ground floor of the FD Block community centre, the member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja: How immersion fared at Hooghly ghats in Kolkata||Around 3,500 sets of idols — more than 12,000 in total — are immersed at Hooghly ghats in the city. This year, around 2,500 sets were immersed on the first two days of immersion — Monday and Tuesday. Here’s what Metro saw across 16 ghats in Calcutta on the two days The tide was out for most of Monday and Tuesday evening, when a large number of idols were immersed. During low tide, the water recedes from the banks, leaving a wide patch of mudflat that makes it difficult for labourers to immerse idols in water. “During ebb tide, idols usually take a long time to immerse. So, the diffusing toxic colour and chemicals get mixed with water in larger concentrations and settle in the riverbed. They can affect the flora and fauna,” said Arunabha Majumdar, a water pollution expert and former head of the environment sanitation department at the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health. Majumdar pointed out that though the overall load of immersion pollution did not vary with tide, immersion during high tide was more environment-friendly because the high volume of water would dilute the concentration of the pollutants and lessened the impact. “On both days, I found the structures (of idols) got embedded in the mudflats during low tide. It was proving difficult to extricate the structures and the delay was increasing the river pollution,” said environment activist Subhas Datta. Majumdar and Datta both suggested that the immersions be scheduled in a way that they coincided with high tide. While removing flowers from idols before immersion has more or less become a norm over the years, the accessories, especially cheap metal ornaments, are a major cause of pollution, too, said state pollution control board officials. According to the National Mission of Clean Ganga, a central government agency, all accessories should be removed from an idol before it is immersed. “Removing the jewellery is difficult because of public sentiments,” said a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official. “We found in our 2016 study that the level of toxic heavy metals like lead, a component of paints, in the river water increases nearly four times, from 0.49mg per litre to 1.85mg, during immersion,” said Krishnajyoti Goswami, a professor of biochemistry who published the findings in the Indian Journal of Applied Research. CMC sources said around 12,000 idols were immersed at 16 ghats. More than 80 per cent of them were immersed at the Baje Kadamtala, Gwalior and Nimtala ghats. “The Baje Kadamtala and Nimtala ghats have good infrastructure, including cranes (used to lift the bamboo structures of idols after immersion). But the facilities are poor at the Gwalior ghat, where the maximum number of idols are immersed,” a civic official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||TV actor held on gun theft charge in Calcutta||A television serial actor has been arrested in connection with the theft of two licensed guns and 100 rounds of ammunition from the apartment of a businessman friend where he had put up before Durga Puja. Complainant M. Lakshmanan, who lives in a highrise in the Panchasayar area, has alleged that two licensed guns — a .22 bore and a.25bore — and Rs 85,000 had gone missing from his apartment when he was in Chennai and a friend had put up in his place, police said. Lakshmanan had left Calcutta on October 15 and returned on October 21. A day later when he opened one of his cupboards with the key that had been with him all along he realised the two guns, ammunition and the money were missing, he has told cops. A person with a gun licence can buy and keep with him/her up to 100 cartridges, according to the arms act. On October 24, he lodged a complaint with Panchasayar police station, specifically naming the actor-friend who has been staying in his apartment when he was in Chennai. “His behaviour made us very suspicious. He was arrested on Tuesday night based on circumstantial evidence… he has been booked for theft and under sections of the arms act,” the officer said. The actor has been remanded in police custody for three days. “We verified the gun licences. They have been issued in Nagaland,” an officer said. “We ran a forensic check on the lock of the cupboard… there were no marks of tampering. This means there is a possibility that someone had a duplicate set of keys to the cupboard.” The guns, bullets and the money are still to be recovered. “The arrested actor is now claiming he has been framed because of some personal dispute with the businessman,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||IIEST supplementary exams on campus||Final-year BTech students of IIEST Shibpur will take the final-semester supplementary exams on the campus. The institute took the decision after a survey showed many students might not be able to take the test online for want of Net connectivity. The exams will be held on November 11 and 12 “in physical mode on the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology premises”, the institute said in a notice issued on October 22. Students have to clear the exams to get the degree, an institute official said. This will be the first such test on the campus since students had vacated it in March. Parthasarthi Chakrabarti, the IIEST, Shibpur, director, told Metro: “We will hold the tests in physical mode because several students face Net connectivity problems. Students will have to follow all rules while taking the tests.” The problem of Net connectivity came to the fore during a survey the institute had carried out last month. Of the 1,830 students surveyed, at least 15.5 per cent could not attend online classes in the last semester and 18.3 per cent faced “poor Net connectivity” at home, the institute official said. As students of the institute hail from across the country and Net connectivity is often not up to the desired level, the institute felt the need to carry out the survey. “We were convinced after the survey that the supplementary exams could not be held online. They had to be held on the campus,” the official said. Students will have to declare they are not staying in any containment zone, the notice has said. The signed declaration addressed to the deputy registrar (academic) Nirmalya Bhattacharyya will have to be mailed to deanac.communication@iiests.ac.in at least three days before the exam or the day of arrival to the campus. Students who would need to stay in hostels for the exams have to write to the dean (student welfare) with a copy to the chief warden at least seven days before they reach the campus. Students who are due to write the test have to give a declaration that they would notify the institute if their locality is declared a containment zone. “In that case, the institute will decide when they can take the exams, at a later date. Second-semester postgraduate students will take the tests on November 11 and 12,” Nirmalya Bhattacharya, the deputy registrar, said. He said the decision to hold the test in person was taken at a meeting of the senate on October 22. The institute will try to hold the exams successfully as this could provide a template for holding the final semester exams for second and third-year students. “The possibility of holding exams online is ruled out because of poor Net connectivity. If the supplementary exams can be held successfully by following all safety guidelines, we can think of holding the final semester exams following this model in a staggered way,” an institute official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Dhaka flight back with 6-day-week schedule||Flights between Calcutta and Bangladesh resumed on Wednesday morning. A US-Bangla Airlines flight from Dhaka landed at the Calcutta airport with 37 passengers around 10.15am and flew back to Dhaka with 30 passengers, airport officials said. US-Bangla will operate flights between Calcutta and Dhaka six days a week, the officials said. Several other airlines, including Biman Bangladesh and SpiceJet, have applied for slots to operate flights between Calcutta and Dhaka, they said. Commercial flights from India to Dhaka had been stalled, like flights to all other international destinations, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Only a few evacuation flights had operated some months ago. Flights on the Calcutta-Dhaka route are now operating as part of an air bubble transport arrangement, which was established between India and Bangladesh on October 28 and will be in force till January 31 or till the resumption of regular international flights. An air bubble is an arrangement between two countries to operate commercial passenger flights as regular services have been stalled because of the pandemic. For 32-year-old Ruby Khan, the air bubble gave her a chance to go back to her husband and son. Khan had come to India to visit her husband’s relatives in Ghatal, West Midnapore, and got stuck following the imposition of the lockdown on March 25. “There were no trains and I could not go back. Flights had stopped, too. I will be seeing my five-year-old son after so many months,” Khan said. Wednesday’s flight proved to be “extremely helpful” for 65-year-old Jharna Roy Choudhury, who has been diagnosed with cancer. She arrived in the city with husband Nilratan Dasgupta for treatment. “Ever since doctors in Dhaka diagnosed her with cancer, we wanted to bring her to Calcutta for treatment. But we could not because flights were all suspended. The resumption of flights has been a boon for us,” said Dasgupta, who is from Chittagong. Hundreds of patients from Bangladesh visit Calcutta for treatment. A few patients have been coming by road with medical visas. Sajjad Iqbal, a passenger on the US-Bangla flight, has come to the city for treatment of gastro-intestinal problems. “We faced a lot of problems because of suspension of flights,” Iqbal said. Metro has published reports highlighting the problems faced by small and medium-scale hotels, eateries and foreign exchange stores in the absence of tourists from Bangladesh. Airline operators said that now that flights have resumed, more patients from Bangladesh would come to Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||School quiz in Kolkata: Is paying fee a priority?||Schools have been asking parents during pre-admission interaction how the Covid pandemic has impacted their income and whether paying the fee would remain a priority for them if they face a financial constraint. Many schools would always ask about the family income in admission forms but the question has become more pertinent now, conversations with a number of school administrators suggest. This year the focus is also on the ability and willingness of parents to pay, the principal of a city school said. Schools are trying to "assess the attitude of parents", one of them said. Another principal said it was important to ask the parents whether paying the school fee was a priority for them because the pandemic would not be over soon. Many families have suffered losses in businesses or pay cuts because of the pandemic and the lockdown, which was announced to contain the spread of the virus and which almost brought the economy to a halt. At a prominent English-medium school, where the number of applicants at the entry level is much more than the number of seats, the authorities have been asking parents about the impact of the lockdown on their businesses and how they managed to tide over the crisis. The principal of a Christian missionary school, where the pre-admission interaction with parents will be held later, suggested that income would become an important criterion for selection. “It will become pertinent and it will also help in assessing their (parents’) background, whether their businesses have been affected. It will reflect on how they were able to tide over things,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Ireland said that being a church-run school, their mission was always to help but there were certain limitations. “If we have 100 students, it is not possible to give concessions to all. So we have to choose those... it will not be a policy for any and everyone,” he said. Many schools put up their fee structures on their websites and it is expected that parents would make a choice accordingly, but this year schools are making an extra effort to understand the paying capacity of parents. In some schools, the scoresheet has a column for fees. “The situation now has taken the spotlight on the ability and willingness to pay. We would hate to reject a child but we have to assess and have to be practical,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. The school will also draw the attention of parents to the fee structure. “We are having a conversation with parents to understand their situation and how they have been impacted by the lockdown. Some of them described how the initial months of the lockdown were tough for them...,” said a school head. “We have to know from parents if their child’s education is their priority. We will want to know from them that if faced with a financial constraint, what would be their priority. Their child’s education or shopping or dining out?” said Nabarun Dey, the principal of Central Modern School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Supreme Court stays some points but not main school fee waiver||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to immediately interfere with Calcutta High Court’s directions to private schools in Bengal to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fees and completely waive the fees charged for services the students did not avail themselves of because of the pandemic. But the apex court stayed portions of the judgment that asked schools to consider individual applications from parents for further waiver and allowed parents to approach a committee formed by the high court if they did not get redress from the schools. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah issued notices to the original petitioner, Vineet Ruia, and the state for their reply on a batch of special petitions filed by organisations challenging the impugned October 13 judgment of the high court. Although various counsel appearing for the petitioners urged the court to stay the directions for waiver of fees, the bench orally declined to pass any such order but said it was issuing notice to the respondents and staying only the directions 8 to 16 in paragraph 61 of the high court order. “…Permission to file special leave petitions is granted. Issue notice. In the meantime, directions 8 to 16 contained in para 61 of the impugned judgment be not implemented,” the bench said in a written order. The next date of hearing has not been fixed. Directions 8 to 16 allowed parents to write to schools seeking further relief in terms of waiver or exemption or delayed or instalment payments. It also allowed them to approach a three-member committee if the school failed to address their concern. The apex court passed the directions while dealing with the special leave petitions filed by Association of Schools for The Indian School Certificate West Bengal Chapter and several other schools assailing the October 13 judgment on the ground that it was contrary to several Supreme Court rulings that said private unaided schools were free to manage their affairs without any interference from the State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Many minus masks, alert for North 24-Parganas||Nearly half the people of North 24-Parganas are not wearing masks and that could result in a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the district, senior health department officials warned the district administration on Wednesday. Sources said health department officials told the sub-divisional and block development officers of North 24-Parganas at a meeting during the day to immediately start enforcing the mask rule with the help of police. If required, more and more people will have to be booked for not wearing masks and repeat offenders will have to be fined religiously, the officials representing the district administration were told. “The number of Covid cases is rising in the district but a large number of people are still reluctant to wear masks. This can’t go on. The district officials have been asked to ensure strict enforcement,” said Tapas Roy, the chief medical officer of health of North 24-Parganas. Health department officials said Barasat was a case in point. “The number of active cases in Barasat stood at 354 on October 17. On October 28, it was 454. In just 10 days the count increased by 100,” said an official. Public health specialists are repeatedly stressing that wearing masks, along with social distancing and frequent hand washing, will significantly bring down chances of infection. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has on several occasions appealed to people to wear masks when stepping out. Health officials said visitors’ turnout at pandals in parts of Bidhannagar, South Dum Dum, North Dum Dum, Baranagar, Kamarhati, Panihati, Barrackpore and Barasat had jumped on Ashtami and Navami. While most pandal-hoppers wore masks, many were spotted on roads or at stalls without one. Since a large part of the police force was busy in law and order duty, there was not enough prosecution for violation of the mask rule. “People started visiting pandals in large numbers from Ashtami,” said Asani Mukherjee, a member of the board of administrators of Barasat Municipality. “There may have been some slip-ups on the fringes and in rural pockets. But most residents of the town are aware about the utility of masks.” Health officials said irrespective of rural or urban pockets, the number of cases across North 24-Parganas has been rising steadily. More than 800 cases are being reported every day. With most Covid cases opting for home isolation, the health department has decided to meet officials from North and South 24-Parganas on Thursday to discuss how to monitor Covid patients in home isolation so they don’t develop serious complications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Late Diwali makes crackers more toxic||A late Kali Puja and Diwali this year means the air quality that day could be more toxic than previous years as pollutants released from firecrackers will float in cool air for a longer duration, air quality management specialists have warned. If firecrackers are burst indiscriminately this year, too, the effect on the air quality will be far more severe, the specialists said. Kali Puja and Diwali fall on November 14 this year. Last year, Diwali was on October 28 and Kali Puja the day before. Air quality management experts have urged the authorities to widely publicise the need to refrain from bursting firecrackers. If people are not aware, no regulatory body can enforce the ban on the bursting of illegal firecrackers, they said. The Covid-19 pandemic has made it all the more necessary to prevent a spurt in air pollution during Diwali, the experts pointed out. Doctors said inhaling toxic air could affect the functioning of the lungs. K. Srinath Reddy, the president of the Public Health Foundation of India, said: “The innate immunity of a person decreases in cold weather. It makes people more vulnerable to infections. Inhaling pollutants released by firecrackers can cause inflammation. If the novel coronavirus infects such a person, the likelihood of de-veloping complications is more.” Reddy, also a member of the National Task Force on Covid-19 management, called for “a smoke free Diwali and Kali Puja”. Anupam Debsarkar, a professor at Jadavpur University’s civil engineering department, who specialises in environmental engineering, explained why pollutants lingered in the air for a longer duration in winter. “During winter, the surface temperature is lower than other seasons. As a result, the air close to the ground is also cooler. Cool air is heavy and it stays close to the ground, instead of rising. The pollutants released by human activities remain trapped close to the ground as the cool, heavy air does not move away quickly.” During summer the warm air closer to ground rises and cooler air fills the vacuum. Because of the air circulation, the pollutants get dispersed in summer, something that does not happen in winter, said Debsarkar. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of New Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said “the levels of PM2.5 reach 10 to 15 times the permissible limit in Calcutta immediately after Kali Puja and Diwali every year”. PM2.5 are tiny particulate matters that can go deep inside the lungs and disrupt their functioning. Prolonged exposure to PM2.5 can lead to severe diseases, including cancer, doctors said. An official of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board told Metro that they were not being able to raid firecracker factories like previous years because of the Covid pandemic. “The raids have been fewer this year. But we have information that firecrackers are being manufactured in lesser numbers in our state. We are not sure though about the level of production in Tamil Nadu’s Sivakashi and China,” said the official. “Apart from the locally manufactured ones, a lot of firecrackers that are sold in Bengal are made in Sivakasi and China.” Reddy said he apprehended crowding during Diwali, which could further increase the risk of the spread of Covid-19. “As cold air takes longer to disperse, crowding will mean clouds of the novel coronavirus released by an infected person would float for a prolonged period. Even in an outdoor environment, the risks of getting infected will remain,” added Reddy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||During home isolation, timely call to doctor is a must||Many Covid patients in home isolation ignore initial signs of complications and react only when the condition turns severe, doctors involved in Covid treatment in Calcutta have said. Patients should consult a doctor immediately if the oxygen saturation level falls below 94 and they have breathlessness. Getting admitted to hospital at the right time can cure a patient quickly; late admission can even prove fatal, the doctors have said. The tendency among some people to avoid going for a Covid test despite clear symptoms should be discouraged. People should get themselves tested so that the treatment is right and they should isolate themselves from others if they test positive for Covid-19. The Indian Medical Association’s Bengal chapter held a meeting with senior health department officials on Tuesday regarding better management of patients in home isolation. “The IMA will train doctors looking after patients in home isolation and update their knowledge,” Santanu Sen, the secretary of the IMA’s state chapter, said. This is one way in which patients in home isolation can be better managed, Sen said. The state government has engaged ASHA workers and self-help groups to make people more aware of what they should do when they stay isolated at home after testing positive for Covid-19. While ASHA workers have been doing the work for months, self-help groups have been engaged in awareness campaigns recently, a government official said. “There are many patients who don’t consult any doctor when they are in home isolation. They ignore symptoms like breathlessness or dip in oxygen saturation levels,” Sudipto Mitra, a doctor and the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said. “When their condition becomes severe, they land up at hospitals. We have been encountering multiple patients reaching the hospital a week after having tested positive for the virus.” Many people don’t even go for Covid tests but take medicines based on hearsay or messages received on WhastApp, Mitra said. Rahul Jain, an internal medicine specialist at Belle Vue Clinic, urged people not to experiment at home. “There are people who despite having breathlessness are buying oxygen cylinders and taking oxygen at home. This should never be done without the supervision of a doctor. Speak to a doctor and follow their advice or visit a hospital when you feel there is any complication. Timely hospitalisation can cure people with multiple complications quickly whereas delayed hospitalisation can be fatal for someone who has ignored initial symptoms.” Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a doctor at Beleghata ID Hospital, said the hospital had received patients with oxygen saturation levels between 50 and 60. “That cannot happen in one day. It can happen only when someone has been neglecting the drop in the oxygen level in blood for many days.” An oxygen saturation level of 94-95 is fine, he said. Staying in touch with a doctor means more diagnostic tests can be done if needed. These tests will help determine the condition and prevent unnecessary hospitalisation, Bandyopadhyay said. “A doctor can recommend tests like CT-chest, D-dimer, IL6 and Ferritin to patients in home isolation. These tests help determine various parameters; knowing which can be necessary for a doctor to change medicines and treat accordingly,” he said. He cited the example of a patient who got admitted to hospital recently after spending a few days in home isolation. “The patient’s oxygen saturation level was normal but the CT-chest result was not good. The doctor advised hospitalisation. This was possible because the patient had stayed in touch with the doctor.” A lot of people are now recovering at home and this has given rise to a lax attitude among some people, a public health specialist said. “They think they will get well just by staying in home isolation.” People are getting cured by staying at home but under doctor supervision, a government official said. Several doctors said they had seen people with multiple comorbidities not consulting a doctor while staying in home isolation. When complications arose, these people landed up at hospitals, the doctors said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
