30-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja 2020: Gainers and losers||In a departure from other years, the puja week wasn’t a happy time across the board. Most people stayed away from pandals and so the ancillary industries around them were left high and dry. Then again restaurants and food delivery outlets recorded way better sales than they had expected from an ill-fated year like this. The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to various stakeholders to spot the winners and losers of October fest 2020. CD Block’s biryani outlet Oudh  1590 would open doors for dinner at 6.30pm but on Navami evening the first customers would be a college-going couple waiting outside from 4.30! “On other years I visit pandals every day of the pujas but this time I only visited my neighbourhood one,” said the girl who had come from Baguiati. Instead the friends had been coming over to Salt Lake every day to dine. “We ate at Darjeeling, Momo I Am and today at Oudh. Restaurants are safer than pandals as I’m sure they’re careful about sanitisation,” said the student of mass communication. Oudh had a seating capacity of 68 but manager Swarup Dutta said they had laid out 90 chairs in a make-shift waiting area under a shamiana outside. “Two to three hours was the standard waiting time but no one complained. It was as if they had shifted the adda from pandals to the waiting lounge,” he said. Hatari, that opened its sit-and-eat space in CF Block in mid-October, said footfall exceeded their expectations. “Ashtami and Navami were jam-packed and we got lots home delivery orders too,” said manager Purnendu Patra. 6 Ballygunge Place near City Centre had to go in for one-hour slots for diners and though footfall was less than previous years, it matched what they estimated this time. “I was shocked to see people drive in in Jaguars and BMWs, perch their six-month babies on the boot and eat dinner,” said Goutam Karmakar, owner of the Goutam’s outlet on EM Bypass. “They said they were fed up of staying locked up at home and so were going on long drives instead of pandals. On the way, they wanted to grab a bite. I thought I would have to shut shop at 1.30am during the Pujas but I was forced to stay open till dawn.” But caterers who serve meals at community pujas had to be disappointed. “We got just one puja contract this year in New Town and that too for a measly headcount of 50 or 60 people. This is not a patch on the contracts of over 1,000 diners we usually get during the Pujas,” said Nilanjan Brahma of Dui Burir Hesel in FC Block. Megha Kapoor, who had gone pandal-hopping to AE (Part 1) on Navami, looked longingly at the phuchka, roll and chaat stalls near the exit but then turned away. “We’re not taking a chance this year. In fact, not just me, even the kids traveling with us are not pestering us for a bite of anything on the street. We only want hygienic food this year,” said the lady who had come from Dunlop. In other years, the phuchka seller outside the swimming pool has to hire at least two helping hands to manage the Puja rush. This year, he sat fidgeting with his phone as The Telegraph Salt Lake approached him on Navami. “Few are stepping out of home this year and even fewer are eating street food. Sales are down to half,” said Umesh Prasad. “I’ve been here 30 years here and every puja has been great for business. Every puja except this.” Moirul Islam sells candy floss outside the BJ Block puja every year, “but on other years I run out of stock and have to call home asking for more. This year I am taking home unsold packets every night,” he said, sitting morosely on the footpath. Amulya Mondal, who runs a stall selling cigarettes, soft drinks and paan near Karunamoyee bus stand with his father Radheshyam Mondal, had stocked up on bottles of soft drinks, packets of chips and biscuits for  the Pujas. According to Mondal, they did not even manage to sell 30 per cent of the stock that he had picked up. “There were hardly people outside. Even those who were out seemed reluctant to make purchases,” said Mondal. Hawkers selling toys, hair clips, accessories had dwindled in number and so had their sales. “Many customers are scared to touch the products but I have a sanitiser bottle ready for them. Still, so few are coming,” said Archana Mondal, selling hair clips on the footpath of BJ Block. Raja Molla at FD Block had brought toys, “but there are so few children coming this year,” he complained. Some hawkers had to relocate. “I usually put up my stall outside the AJ Block puja but this year the block went for a simple pandal. I knew crowds would be thin so I switched over to BJ Block,” said Kanai Chauram, who sold toys and accessories of idols. “I used to make money selling at fairs but that’s a distant memory. And now the Puja season has also let me down. We’re all but ruined.” Shedding copious tears are auto and rickshaw drivers who would make a fortune ferrying pandal-hoppers across the township. “Most Salt Lake residents either dislike crowds or travel by cars and bikes. Eighty per cent of the Puja footfall comes from outside,” said Dipankar Mondal, an auto driver cooling his heels on Navami at the Tank 4 stand. “The visitors get off at Bidhannagar railway station, head to Sreebhumi and cross over to Salt Lake. This year, none of that was possible without trains.” It used to be common for passengers to reserve autos by the hour and be shown around the best pujas of the township. “Only one among the 22 vehicles at our stand got reserved for such a tour this year. In other years, each of us makes up to Rs 1,500 a day during the pujas and this time we are struggling to earn 200,” said another driver, Ajoy Mondal. “In other years we don’t get time to eat during the pujas; now we have time but have nothing to eat. We could have jolly well stayed home during this week but are unable to face our children who keeping asking for new clothes.” Rickshaw-pullers  have the same grouse. “Often people come and ask us which pandals are worth visiting and we take them around. Those trips would take hours. This year I can count on one hand the number of beautiful pandals erected. They can be covered in no time,” says Ashok Mondal, a rickshaw-puller at the City Centre stand who got only one such passenger. Panchanna Das, who has been ferrying passengers around Salt Lake for the past 15 years, said that he could not remember a time when there were no takers for his rickshaw to go pandal-hopping like this year. Many residents as well as visitors to the township often hire rickshaws and autorickshaws to go around the township and visit pandals to avoid the hassle of finding parking spots near top-draw pandals. “This puja was a complete dampener,” said Das, while adding that his daily earnings during Durga Puja dipped to less than Rs 300. Time was when customers would book cars to go pandal-hopping as early as Mahalaya. “We would get 50 to 60 bookings every night,” says Ripon Das of New First Driver Service and Travels in AA Block. “This year bookings are down to 40 per cent. Some people hired cars and headed to their ancestral homes or to Digha and Mandarmani instead.” Dreams Driver Service in Kestopur didn’t get a single pandal-hopping booking this year. “The handful of bookings we had got cancelled after the high court order banned visitors from entering pandals,” said Kanu Raul, who runs the service. “Also missing were airport pick-up and drops for NRI visitors coming to see the pujas or of residents leaving for vacations.” Many have hopped on to the Covid-safety items bandwagon this season. At BJ Block, an ice cream stall was selling hand sanitisers. “And the santisers are selling more than ice creams!” said the vendor, himself in disbelief. “My company has sent these pocket-sized bottles and I’ve given them prominent display.” But while the pujas required repeated sanitsation, the market wasn’t kind to all. “The sanitation market is huge but competition is even greater,” says Sayak Ghosh, whose IA Block travel agency switched gears some months ago to Unimax, a Covid-specialty store. “Everyone whose anyone has entered this market and many are using inferior products so as to offer cheaper rates,” says Ghosh. Their company won the contract to sanitise a Behala puja. Youth Merchant is another sanitising company that won a contract in Purbachal 2R and another one opposite Apollo Hospitals. “Both were thanks to personal contacts. We lost a third contract as a rival company offered to sanitise the place at Rs 20,000 less than us. I don’t know how that’s possible keeping in mind the price of genuine chemicals,” said one of the founders Sagnik Das. Additional reporting by Snehal Sengupta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Three Durga idols to be kept in state-run gallery||The idols of three Durga puja committees in the city, including the one which depicted the goddess as a migrant woman carrying her child, will be kept at a gallery run by a state government agency. The three Durga idols will be kept at the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority gallery in Rabindra Sarobar area of the city. The fibreglass idol of the migratory woman, on the road trail during the lockdown carrying her child and three other children trailing her, drew crowds to the Barisha Club Puja pandal to watch the deity during the puja days and the image went viral on social media triggering both praise and criticism from netizens. A section of people had felt the traditional look of the goddess cannot be experimented in a puja where all rituals are being followed while many others hailed the work of art. The idol, inspired by a watercolour painting by Bikash Bhattacharya and sculpted by craftsman Rintu Das, would be kept at the "Phire Dekha" (Looking Back) gallery where some Durga idols of previous years have already been kept, a puja committee spokesman said on Friday. Bengal minister Firhad Hakim said "the idol will be kept in the gallery for the time being. It was liked by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during the inauguration and it is an amazing work of art." Similarly, the beautiful Durga idol of Santoshpur Lake Pally made of paper and the idol of 74 Pally, Khidderpore have also been taken to the gallery, the organisers said. "We are happy that our idol, which could not be viewed by revellers due to Calcutta High Court order prohibiting entry of visitors 10 metre from the pandal entrance, can now be seen by everyone at the art gallery - from morning walkers in the lake compound to tourists," Santoshpur Lake Pally General Secretary Somnath Das said. The Santoshpur Lake Pally idol has been made of paper pulp. A KMDA official said some Durga idols are being displayed in the gallery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Bust breast cancer myth: city oncologist at webinar||The fear of biopsy prevents many from consulting a doctor even if they feel a lump in the breast, said a city oncologist at a webinar to raise awareness on breast cancer. “When early breast cancer arises in a female commonly and rarely in male, they will feel a lump… they do not want to come to the doctor because of the fear of biopsy. Because there is a myth that if you do a biopsy or operation on a cancer, it will spread,” said Shibashish Bhattacharyya, the head of the department and professor of medical oncology at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. “So this myth has to be busted by social workers… healthcare providers, rural practitioners, general physicians and gynaecologists.” Bhattacharyya said women should be encouraged to go for investigation because all breast lumps are not cancer. “Even before a biopsy there is an investigation called mammogram,” he said. He was addressing an international symposium on breast health organised by the NGO Sanjeevani Life Beyond Cancer. “Women often put themselves last on the priority list because they think treatment will entail expenditure and expenses on other things will get compromised. But eventually the cancer reaches an advanced stage, it becomes painful and they have to approach a doctor and the expenditure rises and treatment gets delayed,” said Ruby Ahluwalia, the founder of Sanjeevani. The webinar was organised mostly for students in the age group of 20 to 30. “Earlier, it was believed that cancer is a disease of the old but now a lot of young people are getting it. And if young girls or boys are aware, they will be able to handle both their and their parents’ health better,” said Ahluwalia. Pankaj Chowdhary, the president of Darjeeling Oncology Trust, spoke about lack of data and  called for increased awareness. Sucheta Paul, the head of the social work department at St Xavier’s University, said it was important to talk to students on these issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Second full moon of this month,  or blue moon on Saturday||Many eyes will be set on the evening sky on Saturday, the second full moon of this month, dubbed as the “blue moon” by some sky watchers. The moon is not going to look blue, Debiprosad Duari, the director (research and academic) of MP Birla Planetarium, said. “In modern parlance, a blue moon is the second full moon in a calendar month. The time between one full moon and the next is close to the length of a calendar month. So, the only time one month can have two full moons is when the first full moon happens in the first few days of the month, in this case on October 1.” But the original concept of a blue moon is part of folklore and practices of the medieval agrarian society, Duari said. “If a season has four full moons, the third full moon maybe called a seasonal blue moon, according to the old Maine Farmer’s Almanac.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||October rise in dengue numbers in the city||Several hospitals in the city have admitted more dengue patients in October than in previous months this year, and CMC officials attributed the rise in numbers to more people stepping out of their homes. Since human beings act as carriers of the dengue virus, their movement increases the chance of the disease spreading, an entomologist of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said. “An Aedes aegypti mosquito carrying the dengue virus can infect a human being through its bite. And an uninfected mosquito can pick up the virus by biting the infected human and then spread the virus to other human beings through its bite,” the entomologist said. When more people keep moving, it means an infected person can pass on the virus to an uninfected mosquito, which can then infect a human being, the entomologist said. The CMC’s vector-control work has not been adequate in the couple of weeks before and during the festive season, several people in the city said. “There is a vacant plot outside our apartment. Discarded home items, earthen cups, paper cups have been lying there. I did not see any CMC team cleaning the plot or spraying larvicide there in the past couple of weeks,” a Kasba resident said. At least 750 people have been infected with dengue so far this year in the Calcutta municipal area, a CMC official said. The number was 2,500 in the corresponding period last year, he said. “Our surveillance work has continued in full force.” A doctor at the Institute of Child Health in Park Circus said 80 children had been admitted with dengue to the hospital in October. An official of Peerless Hospital said 15 people had been admitted with dengue to the hospital in October. The chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital said the hospital had noticed a spike in dengue admission in October. All three, however, said the numbers were lower than last year. “Eighty dengue patients have been admitted to our hospital in October. In September, it was 65,” Prabhas Prasun Giri, a doctor at the Institute of Child Health, said. Sudipto Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said 15 dengue patients had been admitted to the hospital in October. The number was 10 in September, he said. Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, said they had 16 dengue patients in October and 12 in September. A spike in the number of dengue cases is seen every year around October and November, a CMC official said. “Last year, we were able to keep dengue infections under control till September but the numbers had seen a sharp spike in October and November. Going by experience of previous years, I would say the numbers can keep rising for another couple of weeks.” The bamboo poles used to erect pandals during Durga Puja are “good breeding places” for mosquitoes, according to CMC doctors. “Bamboo poles have a cavity on the top. When it rains, water accumulates inside the cavity. The Aedes aegypti mosquitoes find them suitable as breeding  grounds because they remain undisturbed,” a CMC doctor said. Also, people throw cups and containers here and there and they remain undisturbed for long. The World Health Organisation website says the Aedes aegypti mosquito “lives in urban habitats and breeds mostly in man-made containers”. The low rainfall during October and November helps in the breeding of mosquitoes, a CMC official said. Heavy and frequent rain during the monsoon washes away mosquito eggs. But the occasional rain in October helps the water to remain stagnant for more than seven days in a container, the official said. And it take seven days for an Aedes egg to complete the life cycle stages and turn into an adult. So, it is necessary to clean all open containers once every seven days, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||White cockatoos rescued from Bangladesh border||More than a dozen White cockatoos were rescued on Thursday while they were possibly being smuggled into the city from Bangladesh, the BSF said. Border Security Force officers posted along the India-Bangladesh border near Bongaon in North 24-Parganas rescued the birds. The BSF had received information that several birds would be smuggled into the city from Bangladesh near the Pipli border outpost in Bongaon, a BSF officer said. A patrol posted at the border outpost spotted a few men moving suspiciously with two large gunny bags on their heads, the officer said. Asked to stop, they dropped the bags and ran into the forested area. “On closer inspection, our men found the birds crammed into two wooden boxes,” the officer said. The BSF contacted the forest department who identified the birds and advised them to give the birds some fruits and water. The birds have been handed over to Alipore zoo. A zoo official said the birds were “extremely traumatised and dehydrated”. “We have given them oral rehydration salts as well as some fruits.” The birds will be in quarantine for at least 14 days. The Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, bans wildlife trade but wildlife trafficking has emerged as a multi-billion dollar trade. Southeast Asia is the largest market for wild animals, birds and products from India and Calcutta the preferred corridor of smugglers, a forest official said. “Consignments change hands multiple times before reaching the final destination,” the forest official said. A week ago 54 Lorikeets had been rescued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Fire breaks out at garment shop-cum-godown off VIP Road||A fire broke out in a garment shop-cum-godown on the ground floor of a four-storey building near the Joramandir bus stop off VIP Road on Thursday morning. Residents were asked to evacuate the building as firemen tried to douse the flames, a fire officer said. It took two fire engines and about 30 minutes to bring the fire under control. Police said no one was trapped or injured in the fire. Traffic on VIP Road near the Joramandir bus stop was held up for some time to give fire engines an easy access. As the building is in a narrow lane, the first fire engine that responded to the distress call had to turn back and a small engine arrived a few minutes later, the fire officer said. Residents of the building were the first to spot dense black smoke billowing out of the shop and they alerted the fire brigade. “We reached within 10 minutes. But we faced problems as our fire engine was too wide to enter the narrow lane… we had to call in another small fire engine. The fire was doused within 30 minutes,” the fire officer said. The fire broke out a few minutes after 11am, Srikumar Majumdar who stays on the second floor of the building said. “We saw dense smoke coming out of the shop and ran out.” Almost all residents of the building had been experiencing electrical problems and they had had a local electrician check out the lines. He had suggested a complete overhaul of the wiring system, Majumdar said. “We were supposed to discuss this in our next meeting but the fire broke out before that.” Birendra Sharma, the owner of the shop-cum-godown, said he had kept his shop closed for the past eight days because of low stock. “We did not have much stock left; so, we had kept the shop closed. We were waiting for a fresh consignment of goods before opening the shop,” Sharma said. Preliminary investigations showed a short circuit in a meter box inside the shop triggered the fire, a fire officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake FD Block puja committee files pandal arson complaint ||The puja committee of Salt Lake’s FD Block whose pandal and idols were destroyed in a fire on Wednesday has lodged a complaint with Bidhannagar South police station alleging arson. A member of the FD Block Sarbojanin Durgotsav Committee said they lodged the complaint as they felt somebody had started the fire deliberately. “We have demanded a thorough probe… we strongly believe someone set fire to our pandal. There are people in this block who are trying to seize control of the puja… since they have failed they decided to do this,” Banibrata Banerjee, the president of this year’s puja committee, said. A group of residents of the block have been trying for the past couple of years to take over the puja committee, he said. “These people wanted to undermine our capabilities and when all else failed they started a fire. A short circuit could not have triggered the fire as the decorators had snapped the main electric line on Tuesday night.” An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said cops had spoken to the guards and dhakis and recorded their statements. Police are going through footage of the CCTV camera installed on top of the FD Block community centre to ascertain the sequence of events. “So far we haven’t found anything to suggest someone started the fire,” an officer said. Most of the people cops have spoken to have said they tried to douse the flames with buckets of water the moment they saw the pandal on fire. “They could not do much as the flames spread rapidly throughout the pandal,” the officer said. Another officer of the commissionerate said the police were still to receive the forensic test report. The report might give an idea what triggered the fire, the officer said. The police have started a case under various IPC sections, including 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage). “We have collected the charred remnants of a meter box and some cables from near the pandal. We are examining them to understand if a short circuit had triggered the fire,” a state forensic sciences laboratory official said. An official of the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd said organisers had asked for electricity supply till Wednesday evening. The committee had planned to immerse the idols on Wednesday evening. On Thursday, the entire ground was cleared of the remaining installations of animals, trees and caves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||RKM to test English Masters aspirants via home assignments and viva voce||The Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous) in Narendrapur will test aspirants in English Masters through home assignments and viva voce this year. Science aspirants will have to appear for viva voce in physics and computer science through video call/audio call/ WhatsApp call. For chemistry, graduation marks will be considered. The college, till last year, selected students based on their entrance test scores and graduation marks. “This year, we have introduced an alternative mechanism to screen candidates because admission tests cannot be held under the prevailing circumstances,” Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, said. The selection procedure for English says “there will be an online home assignment test of two hours carrying 50 marks”. The test will be held on November 18 and candidates will have to answer two questions of 25 marks each. The college has worked out the model as it will help teachers get an idea about a candidate’s command over the language, a teacher of the English department said. The college will send the home assignment to the email id provided by a candidate, the college has said in its admission notification. Candidates will have to mention their name, application number and phone number at the top of the answer script. The test will start from 11.30am. Once candidates are through with writing the answers, they will have to send the answer script in PDF format to admengndp@gmail.com. The test will be for two hours and candidates will get a buffer of 15 minutes to send the answer scripts. Candidates will be shortlisted based on marks obtained in BA English Honours (converted to 50) and marks scored in the home assignment test (50). Shortlisted candidates will have to appear for viva voce of 30 marks. The final selection will be based on a weightage of 130. For physics and computer science, the viva voce dates will be announced later. The final selection will be based on marks obtained in BSc Physics Honours (converted to 100) and marks obtained in viva voce (30). The screening is not based solely on graduation marks because the college is not satisfied with the way the final semesters exams had been held early this month, a teacher of the physics department said. Students took the final semester exams from home following a UGC directive and there was no invigilation involved. “So, we are unsure whether the results reflect a student’s merit. The viva voce will help us get an idea about that,” the teacher said. This concern has prompted some departments of Presidency University to factor in Plus II marks during postgraduate admissions. If Net connectivity problems come in the way of a video call/WhatsApp call for viva voce, the college will screen candidates through marks alone, a teacher of the chemistry department at the Narendrapur institute said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta film festival deferred to January||The Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF), which was scheduled to take place from November 5 to 12, has been postponed to January. The festival will be held from January 8 to 15, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Twitter on Thursday. “We had cut down the scale of the event drastically. No delegates would have been allowed. In place of 350-plus films, we were about to screen just 80. Instead of a clutch of cinemas halls across the city, just six government venues would have been used for screening, that too with 50 per cent attendance…. Outstation delegates would have attended virtually. Now we are getting two more months to scale up. Hopefully, the (Covid-19) situation will improve by then,” festival chairman Raj Chakrabarty told Metro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Slow data upload delays comorbidity analysis||The uploading of data on the prevalence of comorbidities among Calcuttans, which was supposed to be done before Durga Puja, is far from complete, government and Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials said. Only 67 per cent of the data collected during a survey in September from households across Calcutta have been uploaded on the server of the civic body, the officials said on Thursday. Once the entire set of data of more than seven lakh people is uploaded, experts will do an analysis and deduce the number of Calcuttans suffering from comorbidities. “We have uploaded 67 per cent of the collected data, which is the data of a little more than five lakh respondents,” a CMC official said. The CMC had initially targeted to finish the uploading before Durga Puja but the deadline was extended to October 31, said an official. It is unlikely that the remaining 33 per cent of the data would be uploaded by Saturday (October 31). The survey was conducted to find out how many people are suffering from comorbidities like renal failure, hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The findings will help the government further fine-tune its Covid response. On Thursday, 61 people who had tested positive for Covid-19 died across Bengal, taking the death toll from the coronavirus disease in the state to 6,725. Around 84 per cent of those who died had comorbidities, according to the state health department. Officials said that once the people suffering from comorbidities are identified, the government would be in a position to monitor their health on a regular basis. If such a person tests positive for Covid, he or she will be asked to get admitted to a healthcare unit to prevent the condition from turning critical. A state government official said they had requested the CMC several times in the last couple of weeks to complete the uploading of the data so the analysis could start. “The data uploading process is very slow. Only four to five per cent of the data is being uploaded daily,” said an official of the state government. The comorbidity survey had taken place between September 7 and 30, during which data of nearly 7.5 lakh people were collected against the target of 8 lakh. “One reason for such fast collection of data was that several agencies were involved in the survey,” an official said. But the data is being uploaded from each CMC ward by data entry operators. “Each ward has one operator,” said an official. “The operators have numerous other tasks like entering the data on Covid patients in their respective wards, entering the data on distribution of medicines to family members, uploading data on dengue surveillance and Covid-19 surveillance programme. So it is taking some time,” said a CMC official. “Also many of the operators got infected with Covid-19 and work got stalled. Others filled in for them but the pace got delayed by two weeks or so,” said the official. A health department official said the CMC should have deployed more people or hired some agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools to come up with revised fees||Schools are calculating what fees they can charge after the Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to immediately interfere with Calcutta High Court’s order to waive 20 per cent of tuition fees and completely waive the fees for services students did not avail themselves of because of the pandemic. Long meetings are on to fix the heads under which the schools could charge fees. Some schools that had given parents the choice of seeking further relief in accordance with a high court order are in the process of removing that clause from their notice after the Supreme Court put a stay on it. After working out the arithmetic, a  New Town school decided that the fee for Class V will be Rs 4,800 a month, instead of Rs 6,000. At Indus Valley World School, the fee for Classes IX and X is Rs 22,134 for October and November, instead of Rs 27,667. At Delhi Public School Ruby Park, the tuition fee for Classes XI and XII (science) will be Rs 3,880 a month, instead of Rs 4,850. The session fee for Classes I to XII at DPS Ruby Park will be Rs 16,000, instead of Rs 20,000. Indus Valley and DPS Ruby Park had communicated to parents the revised fees days after the high court order. South Point, Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School, Birla High School Mukundapur and The Newtown School will issue notices about the reduced fee structure soon. The eight unaided Loreto schools in the state are uploading the information in compliance with the high court order. “We are complying with the high court order and it is being uploaded on the websites,” said a member of the Loreto Education Board. “We will be ready with the notice by Friday. We have provided concessions to parents during the pandemic and are working on the additionalities (according to the court order) and those additionalities will be provided,” said Brigadier (retd) V.N. Chaturvedi, the secretary general of Vidya Mandir Society, which runs Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School and Birla High School Mukundapur. Schools have to put up the revised fees on their websites or notice boards by October 31. “The special leave petition (against the high court order) has been admitted by the Supreme Court and the court has granted interim stay on certain points. We will await the final outcome in the Supreme Court and until that time we will comply with the high court order,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point. Some schools have told parents to keep paying fees at earlier rates if their financial situation does not merit any reduction in amount. “The fourth quarter will be painful for schools because we will have to offer the concessions and also make adjustments,” the head of a school said. The stay on certain points of the high court order by the Supreme Court has led the managements of a few schools to believe that institutions would no longer be sympathetic to parents hit hard by the pandemic. “Since schools have to give the option of waiver across the board and there is a stay on the point of individual application, schools might not want to offer more concessions. This will impact some parents who are distressed,” a school head said. The 11 schools under the Church of North India have filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court against the high court order. They include the La Martiniere schools, St James’ School and Pratt Memorial School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Senior citizens pull off own puja in New Town||In a pandemic-plagued Puja season, when the elderly are being advised to stay home, a puja took place in Swapno Bhor senior citizens’ park cum club in Action Area 1, New Town. The organisers were exclusively senior citizens. This was the second year of what is described in the banner at the gate as Prabinder Sarodotsav. “Because of the situation, the administration was initially hesitant to allow the puja. Later they relented when we agreed to abide by all rules and regulations they would set,” said Bhaskar Sardar, the puja secretary. A major change suggested by Hidco chairman Debashis Sen was shifting the puja out from the Snehodiya hall to the verandah of Swapno Bhor just across the road from the senior citizens’ home, to conform with the state government’s guideline of keeping three sides of the venue open. In fact, the decision to go ahead was taken as late as September 30. “Some suggested ghot pujo. But we were bent on getting an idol,” said treasurer Bibhas Krishna Palit. But as a precaution, they decided not to venture out all the way to Kumartuli like last year and sourced the idol from nearby Beleghata. The organisers do not collect subscriptions from the neighbourhood, nor do they approach offices for sponsorships. “In this situation, that would not have been advisable anyway. What we raise is purely from our members,” the treasurer added. Even then, many were staying away over the recent months. “Of our 700-odd members, about 110 subscribed. Some mustered courage and came after Puja started, even as late as Navami, only to pay the chanda,” said Prabhas Chandra Mahanta, a member. With the source of income so limited, individual members pitched in — some sponsoring the idol, some the bhog on specific days, some picked up the priests’ or the dhaki’s tab — over and above the Rs 500 subscription for individual members. Another challenge was the lack of helping hands for the priest. “Every year, we enthusiastically take part in cooking bhog and arranging cultural programmes. In fact, during this period, our age seems to reduce, we get so involved in making naru, preparing Sree, chopping fruits, drawing alpona… But barring a few, none could step out this time because of the heightened risk of infection due to various age-related comorbidities,” said Purabi Basu, one of the active members. One such braveheart was Pratima Singha. The resident of AD Block is a cancer survivor but nothing could keep the ever-smiling retired bureaucrat away from the puja. With her husband Mahesh Kumar Singha, who is also the puja president, she was present on every single day. Some residents of Snehodiya also came over. This was Uma Dasgupta’s first puja here. “I came to Snehodiya last October, just after Durga puja got over. I am enjoying the ambience here,” she said, seated in the sun on one of the socially distanced chairs placed in front of the idol. The only young presence was Jennia Paul. “My father is involved with the puja here. I like it better here than in our own block. So we come here daily,” said the IT professional from CE Block who was seen recording video clips of the rituals and clicking selfies on the lush lawn. In the absence of helping hands, the priests took up a Herculean task.  “They agreed to cook the bhog and chop the fruits themselves. Otherwise, we couldn’t have managed,” said Palit. Samiran Chatterjee may be just 27 but he already has 11 years of experience in performing Durga puja. The full-time priest at Nistarini temple in Sheoraphuli is camping here with his assistant Palash Chatterjee. “We are waking up at 3am to get the arrangements ready in time,” they said. Bhog is being offered twice a day. At mid-day, there’s anna (steamed rice) on Saptami, khichudi on Ashtami and pushpanno (pulao) on Navami. At night, we are offering sital bhog — luchi, pithe etc,” Samiran said. And if there is no cultural programme by members this year, that gap in the schedule too is being filled by the duo. “Palash is a professional singer and a student of veteran artiste Pramita Mullick,” informed Sanat Chatterjee, a resident of Sankalpa 4 who has been getting coached by Palash for two years now. “Our class happens online now,” he smiled. All those in the audience vouched for the Tagore and Dilip Kumar Roy songs that Palash presented as also the Chandipaath and agomoni songs by Samiran. The icing on the enjoyment cake was the impromptu dhunuchi dance by the members in front of the goddess, one or two at a time, to the beat of the dhak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Jubilee anjali to coronasuranashini||One of my earliest memories of offering pushpanjali during puja at Vidyasagar Niketan is the rush my friends and I would be in to stand in the first row of residents, barely a foot away from the stage where Ma Durga and her children would be housed in the finery of daker saaj. The idea was to be able to accurately lob our devotions at the feet of our chosen idol using the bunch of phool-belpata in our palms once the priest finished chanting the mantra. As is customary, we would get three turns: Ma Durga was the anointed recipient of our offering the first time, Ma Saraswati came next, and the third was for Lord Ganesh, for some reason my favourite. The ritual concluded with prayers led by the purohit, who would often get emotional enough to allow his voice to break while shedding a tear. It was a moment. For us, anjali would start off as a joyous offering, a rite of passage among friends every year during Puja, but culminate in this heady feeling of goodness mixed with accomplishment; an awakening of sorts, no doubt heightened by the welcome thought that soon prasad would be on way and our palates, dry from fasting, would finally be satiated. This year, Vidyasagar Niketan is celebrating 50 years of hosting Ma Durga. It is the oldest community puja in Salt Lake, and, therefore, a grand commemoration was planned, until of course a certain virus changed everything. The idol was shorter in height, the pandal distinctly small. Bhog, usually a four-day lunch spread of familiar puja delicacies, was on offer only on Ashtami, but home-delivered in use-and-throw containers. Anjali too had to be socially distanced. Most of my anjali compatriots have moved on. But the ones that are in town, do make it a point to come to Vidyasagar, even if for a day, during Puja and join the ones who are still living there. There was only one friend with me this time during anjali. The others had chosen to complete the ritual from their respective apartments. After all, the priest was on loudspeaker. We were a handful of people, with the young brigade of organisers urging us to spread out. There would be no pushpa in the day’s anjali. So, no flowers and bel leaves to clutch in our palms. It was left to thakurmoshai to do the honours for us. That meant no customary, round-arm, over-the-shoulder throw of our offering. Standing way back from the stage to be socially distanced, but with a clear view of Ma Durga, we began: Om namoh. Om Jayanti, Mangala Kali, Bhadrakali, Kapalini. Durga, Shiba, Khama, Datri, Swaha, Swadha Namostute. Esha sho chandana, gandhapuspa, billo patranjali, om, r`hing Durgaoi namoh... It was a moment. But there was no dawn mist breaking. Yet, I think I had a fleeting sense of that heady feeling of goodness mixed with accomplishment when the priest signed off on prayers by invoking the goddess as “coronasuranashini”. Or maybe it was just me, daring to be hopeful. Between Navami and Dashami, new coronavirus infections through the country had dropped below 50,000. That’s meant to be good news!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Women help families get back on track in the Sunderbans||Thousands of families in the Sunderbans, ravaged by the twin blows of the Covid pandemic and Cyclone Amphan, are inching towards a marginally better life because of a campaign led by women of the area. The women are also spreading awareness about the threat of human trafficking — the delta, already infamous as a hotbed, saw a sharp spike in the number of women trafficked in the aftermath of Cyclone Aila, which struck in 2009. The efficacy of the anti-trafficking drive will be tested after the resumption of trains, said Sankar Halder, the founder of Mukti, the NGO funding and mentoring the women. A network of women self-help groups, which counted around 5,000 members before the pandemic, has now reached out to over 20,000 people, said a Mukti official. The groups are spread across eight blocks — Kakdwip, Patharpratima, Mathurapur I and II, Joynagar I and II, Basanti and Canning. Mukti is funding the first phase of small businesses started by many women — raising chickens, organic farming and making a variety of products from incense sticks to pickle and papad. A woman each from at least 4,000 families has been getting 10 chicks every month for the past four months. Starting the fifth, a woman has to return one adult chicken every month. One chick grows into a chicken of around 2.5kg in four months. The price of one adult chicken is equal to 10 chicks. “The wholesale price of country chicken is around Rs 160 per kilo. If a woman sells 10 adult birds (each around 2.5kg), she earns Rs 4,000 every month. Raising free-range chickens does not need investments associated with farming of broilers like cages and regular feed,” said Raghunath Bairagi, one of the Mukti volunteers overseeing the project. The NGO tries to train women in things they are not entirely unfamiliar with. “For someone who used to be an agricultural labourer, organic farming is a natural progression. We give the members assistance — from production to market sale,” said Mahamaya Bhowmick, 36, the president of a committee of 10 women in the Patharpratima block. There are 25 such committees, each with 10 members and mentoring close to 1,000 women in their area. The NGO started with involving women in the distribution of ration and other relief materials in the wake of the twin blows of Covid-19 and Amphan. Help and donations had come in from various quarters, including the German consulate in Calcutta. The distribution camps were helmed by local women, who were also recipients of the relief. “This gave the women a sense of ownership and empowerment. There was not a single allegation of any wrongdoing,” said Halder. As for earning a livelihood, not every woman has started doing something but many have realised that the fightback has to start somewhere. “We cannot sit back and watch, weak and hungry,” said Bhowmick, who lives in Dakshin Kashinagar village in Patharpratima, over 110km from the heart of Calcutta. Tens of thousands of houses in the Sunderbans were damaged, many of them grounded, by Amphan. The invasion of saltwater has rendered swathes of farmlands infertile. Bhowmick’s home had its roof blown away. A stationery shop run by his husband was also damaged. Both are now repaired, with money earned by Bhowmick. She has been supplying incense sticks to retailers and wholesalers for over two years now and makes around Rs 5,000 a month. Close to a million people in the delta were said to have been displaced or affected by Cyclone Alia in 2009. A lot many of them were trafficked to other cities and forced into prostitution. The women of Mukti are desperate to prevent a rerun. The 250 representatives — 10 members each of 25 such groups — are being provided with smartphones by the NGO. They are also being tutored on how traffickers look for vulnerable girls, what are the “baits” and how a simple message or missed call can lead to grave danger. Each woman is then spreading the word by holding informal chat sessions with other women in her neighbourhood. They are also keeping an eye on teenage girls. Many families have landed in abject poverty because of the pandemic. An offer of a job is irresistible for many young women. Many parents are considering getting their minor daughters married to men who do not demand dowry. Traffickers are always on the lurk for such vulnerable girls. “In many cases, a trusted neighbour or relative turns out to be a trafficker. We are telling these things to the women as well. Caution is the best defence,” said Manasi Halder, the leader of another committee in Raidighi in the Mathurapur II block. Halder, the founder of Mukti, said women were the worst sufferers of any economic crisis. “In the aftermath of Aila, there was a huge spike in trafficking cases. We are determined not to let the same thing happen again,” he said. “Economic empowerment is the key to combat the threat of trafficking. We are trying to do that. But our real test will start when the train services resume,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
