31-10-2020||Calcutta||Interaction tweak for pre-primary admissions||A progress report or a declaration by parents on a child’s basic knowledge and rescheduling interactions with parents — schools are changing their way of interaction with the child and his/her parents for pre-primary admissions. Don Bosco Park Circus, where parents can apply when the child is four years and six months old have sought “a progress report of the child from the school currently he/she is studying in”. If home-tutored, parents have to give a declaration on the child’s basic knowledge in mathematics (numerical) and English (language), according to the kindergarten admission notice. “At the time of application, we have asked parents for a statement from the playschool the child attended. If children are home-tutored parents should give a declaration on the basic knowledge of letters and numbers the child has,” Father Bikash Mondal, the school principal, said. “We cannot meet parents or children; so, we have made parents responsible for what they say. We receive numerous applications for a limited number of seats; so, this will be the first level of screening, followed by lottery.” Several schools have been interacting with children and their parents online for pre-primary admissions. Traditional schools which did not reschedule the time allotted to parents in the past are now doing so. “At times there are Net connectivity problems and parents are unable to attend the interaction; so, we are allotting them another time,” Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House, said. “But we are giving them this option provided they tried to log in or were in the waiting room but could not attend because of Net connectivity problems. Online interaction has its set of challenges for schools when it comes to assessing the behaviour of parents or children, the head of a school said. It would be an easy affair if the interaction were to happen in school, the head said. A child is close to the screen during an online interaction and often it seems someone beyond the screen is prompting him/her, a teacher said. “That cannot happen when the interaction is in school.” “We get an idea about parental relationships when they are in front of us,” Loreto House principal Gomes said. Calcutta Girls’ High School has decided to call parents to school for an interaction but teachers will interact with children online. “For a fair decision I will have to interact and meet parents in person,” Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’, said. “Often, it is the conversation with parents that gives us an insight into their nature. There can be parents with a humble background but they are very sincere about their children… we will be able to gauge that when we meet them.” Some schools like Sri Sri Academy believe the challenge in an online interaction is the time allotted for the interaction. “Usually, we would finish in a week; now, that has stretched to a month. In school we would meet parents in a group of 10. When the interaction is online we are not comfortable doing that… so, we are meeting parents individually,” Suvina Shunglu, the principal, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Upcoming tyre artwork in park in Esplanade ||A tyre park will soon be inaugurated at Esplanade opposite the tram control room and it will house artwork made from scrap and defective tyres. The West Bengal Transport Corporation has decided to convert dumped tyres into art installations using bright paint and innovative design. “There will be a small cafe, too,” Rajinvir Singh Kapoor, the managing director of the corporation, said. “Visitors can take a ride on the tram library that runs between Shyambazar and Esplanade after visiting the park.” Some of the discarded tyres will be cut into various sizes and made into art installations; some will be converted into small chairs or flower pots and placed at various corners of the park Every year close to 800 tyres are discarded and dumped at various bus depots across Calcutta. A team of in-house experts will work on them, a transport department official said. “The idea is to convert an otherwise unkempt plot into something that is worth watching… where one can pause for a quick bite and a cup of coffee.” The plot around the tram control room opposite KC Das in the Esplanade area will be covered for the installations to be placed, along with green plants and swings for children. “We will inaugurate the park shortly after new lawn grass is planted and all the artwork installed,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Alipore hospital technician held for OT theft||A senior operation theatre technician of a private hospital in Alipore was arrested on the charge of stealing instruments, consumables and medicines from the operation theatre on Thursday afternoon. Atanu Shree, who has been attached with the hospital for more than 10 years, was found with illegal possession of consumables like cotton, scissors, gauge and medicines meant for use at the operation theatre, police said. Alipore police station started a theft case after receiving a complaint from the person in charge of the hospital’s security. Hospital guards apparently caught Shree trying to carry the goods out of the hospital through the main gate, the police said. The accused employee was handed over to officers of the police station where he was arrested and charged with theft. The fact that some medical consumables and various equipment had often been reported missing from the operation theatre had prompted guards to keep a watch on all employees attached with the operation theatre, the police quoted hospital officials as saying. The medicines, consumables and equipment seized from Shree are worth Rs 45,951, hospital officials have told the police. Officers of Alipore police station Cops have collected CCTV footage from the hospital as supportive evidence to justify the charge against him, the police said. Investigations have shown this was not the first instance of theft at the hospital, the police said. “We are still to ascertain what used to be done with all the medical equipment and consumables stolen from the operation theatre,” an officer of Alipore police station said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||In doldrums, Dr Graham’s Homes, Kalimpong works on revival||Dr Graham’s Homes, a one-of-its-kind school in the country which has left its imprint across the globe, is tottering but a new administrative set-up has decided to start afresh the revival journey with its first meeting on November 2. The school, which was set up by Reverend Dr John Anderson Graham in Kalimpong in 1900, mainly for “neglected” Anglo-Indian children, now has 1,499 students, including 387 boarders. The school, however, has a staff strength of 362, including 74 teachers. Sources said the school annually generated revenues of Rs 10.4 crore, of which almost Rs 8 crore was spent on paying salaries. “To be honest, we are always left into borrowing revenues of the next financial year,” said Wg.Cdr (retd) Prafulla Rao, vice-president, board of management. Recently, the teachers suspended online classes for five weeks demanding implementation of the sixth pay commission. The sources said if the pay commission was to be implemented, the salary expenditure would jump up to Rs 15.5 crore annually. The management, however, agrees that the teaching unit is the only wing that is generating revenue. Dr Graham’s Homes follows a unique model. Spread over 100 acres, the institution also runs a farm for dairy (which used to be sold in various places, including Calcutta) and poultry, bakery, clothing department and a hospital. The students stay in groups of 30 to 35 in cottages. There are 12 cottages for boys and seven for girls. “Overall, there are 54 main structures (including museum, gyms and chapel) and one can imagine the maintenance and renovation costs,” said Rao. There is a general consensus among stakeholders that apart from the teaching unit, other wings like dairy, bakery and clothing department are not boosting the revenues. Overhead costs because of increase in salaries and allied reasons turned dairy and bakery into loss making units. Senior teachers say the pay commission recommendation has come up after 13 years and the management should have had an insight into the financial challenge so that the most profitable unit of the institution is in a proper condition. “The non-teaching staff also demanded a Puja bonus but an assurance was given to them (to pay hardship allowance). But no such promise was given to the teachers on the new pay scale,” said a senior teacher. The teachers are willing to accept a written assurance that their arrears would be paid once the institution became financially strong. Following the developments revolving around the teachers and non-teaching staff, a new 20-member board of management was formed with Michael Shane Calvert, who represents the Anglo-Indian community in the Bengal Assembly, as its president just a month ago. The new board has for the first time formed a 15-member school management committee for a more “participatory” approach. “The committee members will hold their first meeting on November 2,” said Calvert. The board president admitted that their first concerns would be “how to better manage the finances, which are in the doldrums.” “Then, we need to see how better to generate revenues, better manage resources and the excess staff. The school must survive and will survive,” Calvert told The Telegraph over the phone from Calcutta.The institution’s challenges aggravated after the 104-day Gorkhaland agitation in 2017. “We lost about 200 to 250 students who didn’t join the following academic session,” admitted Neil Monteiro, principal, Dr Graham’s Homes. Then, tuition fees to the tune of Rs 2 crore are yet to be realised because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our classrooms are spread out, we don’t accommodate more than 35 students in a class. Yet, we have enough infrastructure to accommodate 1,900 students, including 800 boarders,” said Monterio. Despite its huge infrastructure, Calvert said the management couldn’t crassly “commercialise” the school and it needed to uphold the “ethos of the institution.” The school still sponsors children from underprivileged communities through its international committees, specially the one in the UK. There are such committees, many formed by ex-students, in Australia, New Zealand, Ireland and Japan, among other countries. As an off-the-cuff suggestion, Calvert said the management might probably look into converting the hospital into a nursing training school. “We can also further strengthen our international committees,” said Calvert. Other suggestions put forward by board members were consolidating the idea of hostel, instead of cottages, for better management and cost reduction and also opening up unused areas to tourism. “One major area where investment is needed is infrastructure. The structures, which are more than a century old, need to be repaired,” said an official of Dr Graham’s Homes. Enrolling more students is the easy way out but given the Covid pandemic and mushrooming of educational institutions in most cities, fingers are kept crossed on this option.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Man assaulted for protesting public drinking dead||A 62-year-old man who was beaten up on the night of Sashthi (October 22) after he protested drinking in public by some of his neighbours in Garfa died on Thursday, five days after he was discharged from hospital. His family has alleged that the man died because of the assault on Sashthi and have pressed the charge of murder. But the police are awaiting the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of the death before slapping the murder charge. Kanai Naskar, a resident of Garfa Mondal Para, and some of his family members had protested after seeing a group of neighbours drinking in the open on the night of October 22. The police said Naskar was punched, kicked and beaten up with bamboo sticks, leaving him injured in his left chest, left forearm, nose and legs. His family members — including son Choton Naskar, Akash Bahadur, Subrata, Babua and Abhijit — were also allegedly attacked. Naskar was first taken to Baghajatin State General Hospital, from where he was shifted to SSKM Hospital. The police said Naskar was discharged from SSKM Hospital the next day after preliminary treatment. Based on a complaint filed by Naskar’s son, Garfa police had started a case of attempt to murder, wilfully causing grievous hurt with sharp weapons and wrongful restraint against nine persons named in the FIR. Three of them were arrested. Naskar was found unconscious in his room on Thursday and that triggered panic among his family members. He was rushed to SSKM Hospital, only to be told that he had passed away. “They killed my husband. His only fault was that he had tried to stop criminal activity in the neighbourhood. His killers should be charged with murder,” said Manorama Naskar, the wife of the deceased. Senior officers said they were awaiting the post-mortem report before amending the charges. “Three persons have been arrested in connection with the case. We are looking for others as well. Once the post-mortem report comes, we will be able to ascertain whether the death was caused by the wounds inflicted on him on Sashthi or any other ailment,” said an officer of Garfa police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Outgoing councillor asks people to keep off firecrackers this Diwali||An outgoing Calcutta Municipal Corporation councillor has in a Facebook post requested people to not burst firecrackers this Diwali, citing the threat posed by “poisonous gas” to Covid-19 patients in home isolation. “Corona patients… have respiratory problems…. Let all of us pledge that we and our family members will not burst crackers this Diwali because of the Covid-19 pandemic…. The poisonous gas will be deadly for Covid-19 patients in home quarantine,” reads the Thursday post by Goutam Halder, the outgoing councillor of Ward 4, a north Calcutta pocket near the Tallah water tank that has over 40,000 voters. “You should request people in your neighbourhood to desist from bursting crackers this year…. That will set a great example,” says the post, which has been welcomed by netizens and shared 29 times as of Friday evening. Halder, a first-time councillor, has reasserted what doctors and public health experts have been saying — the Covid-19 pandemic has made it all the more necessary to prevent a spurt in air pollution during Diwali. But not many of his colleagues have been so forthcoming. Many public health experts felt leaders across the political divide could have done better by asking people not to step out during Durga Puja. Halder did not mince words. “In every neighbourhood, there must be several people who have tested positive and are in home isolation. Many of them are senior citizens with pre-existing medical conditions. I think bursting firecrackers this Kali Puja and Diwali will be extremely selfish,” he told Metro over the phone. Halder said he would visit households in his ward with leaflets and speak to residents to discourage them from bursting firecrackers. A series of billboards is being set up with the same message, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||No fee for convocation at Jadavpur University this year||Jadavpur University is not taking the convocation fee of Rs 500 each from the graduating students as the university will not hold on-campus convocation this year because of the Covid pandemic, an official said. About 4,000 students have graduated this year — undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD put together. The convocation fee is collected to distribute gowns among the recipients and for the laminated degree certificate given to each. “Since the convocation will not be held on campus and the students don’t have to be present in person to receive the certificates, we have decided not to take any convocation fee,” JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das told Metro. At JU, the convocation is traditionally held at the open-air theatre on December 24. The need for maintaining physical distance and other health concerns because of the Covid-19 outbreak have forced the university not to hold the convocation in the usual way. “Besides, the health experts are apprehending that the virus could become more virulent during winter. We cannot risk any physical assembly on the campus in winter,” said an official. Regular classes are being held on the digital platforms as the campus has remained closed since March. A university official said since the convocation will either be held virtually or not be held at all, they have decided not to charge the convocation fee. The university will either courier the degree certificates to the residential addresses of the recipients or upload the certificates for the recipients to download them later. The university could also ask the students to come to the campus and collect the certificates in a staggered way. “We are exploring whether the convocation could be held virtually like the way IIT Guwahati and IIT Kanpur did. We are also keeping track of what Presidency University had done early this year,” another official said. Presidency this year had issued digital degree certificates that were collected online in February. The university had scrapped the convocation amid the buzz that the College Street institution was reluctant to hold the ceremony to spare itself the trouble of inviting the chancellor — governor Jagdeep Dhankhar — to the programme. The governor around that time had faced students’ protests on several campuses, mostly because of his comments in support of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens. At Jadavpur University, as the court or the executive council could not meet because of the pandemic, no names have been decided for the DLitt and DSc recipients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Vox pop: Why some of us are without face covers?||Gautam Ghosh, a 52-year-old pharmacist from Salkia in Howrah (in pink), egged his opponent Chanchal Biswas (in green) under the Gariahat flyover to play his next chess move while puffing on a cigarette, the strings of his mask dangling from the pocket of his trousers. Both players, who were sitting inches from each other, did not have masks on. Many players on other tables did not have masks on either. “We are regulars here for the past many years and spend hours here playing against each other. Neither me nor my partner is down with Covid-19. So we don’t wear masks here,” said Ghosh. Most hawkers peddling their wares from shops on the pavements in Hatibagan did not have masks on. Many had the masks on their chin or wore them in a way that their noses stuck out. Prashanto Paul, who sells dress materials and bed sheets from one such stall, did not have a face cover on. Asked, Paul said he was thirsty. “Dada ektu jol khai tarpor mask er kotha bhebe dekhbo. Ei pathiyechi antey (Let me drink water first, then I will think about wearing a mask. I have just asked someone to fetch me a bottle of water).” Prodded further, Paul brought out a piece of cloth from under one of the bedsheets and said he wears it around his face while dealing with customers. Nitai Bagh, a rickshaw-puller in Salt Lake, was puffing a bidi with his mask hanging around his neck. Bagh insisted that he always covered his face while ferrying passengers and said that although it feels suffocating, he rarely takes it off. When asked why his mask was around his neck, Bagh pointed at his bidi. “I can’t smoke with a mask on. I have taken it off for a bit and will wear it once I am done. There are no passengers,” said Bagh. Shyamoli Ghosh, 38, a homemaker from Hatibagan, who had come to get her idols polished and to buy clothes for Goddess Lakshmi, had a mask hanging around her chin. “I live nearby and will go straight home. I have lowered it as I need to give directions,” Ghosh said. Medical representatives clustered outside a hospital in Salt Lake and very few had masks on. Most had masks dangling from their ears or chins and one even had it strapped on top of his head. Arindam Chakraborty, 35 (in green shirt), who was chatting with the others, said they had to wear masks nearly throughout the day as they had to visit multiple hospitals, nursing homes and doctor’s chambers. “The few minutes outside the hospitals are the only respite we get. Wearing a mask throughout the day is very suffocating and it makes it extremely difficult to speak or get heard while wearing one. Since we wear it at all other times, we allow ourselves a break when we sit and chat,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Puzzle: How to make people wear masks?||How to make people wear masks? The state government and public health experts involved in Covid-19 management in Bengal has no answer yet to the question. A large number of people without masks in public places is one of the biggest causes for concern for the government and public health experts, who said they did not have a solution to it. On Thursday, members of the global advisory board on Covid management, set up by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, held a meeting on the problem but no solution came out, said some of those who took part in the online discussion. Some experts said the problem was prevalent around the globe. “Some of the experts who took part in the meeting said the problem of people not wearing masks was faced by administrations in cities like New York and Paris. There, too, experts have not found any solution,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, the convenor of the global advisory board and a public health expert. “We need an innovative solution to the problem. But it is not yet clear how to make everyone wear masks. It’s a behavioural science issue,” said Chowdhury. A state government official said there were several campaigns to increase awareness among people about wearing masks in Bengal. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee also regularly appeals to people to wear masks as part of safety measures against Covid. “Such campaigns didn’t have any desirable effect as we see many people on roads and in markets and shopping malls without masks,” said the official. He said it was not possible to take legal steps against people for not wearing masks. “Threats of fine also don't work,” he said. Another official said a campaign to provide masks to people for free had not worked. “It’s often seen that people given masks are keeping them in their pockets or handbags,” the official said. At hospitals, too, many people, patients and relatives arrive without wearing proper masks. At Peerless Hospital, officials said they sell 15 masks on an average daily to patients and their relatives who come wearing improper masks or without wearing one. “Many people come wrapping a handkerchief around their mouth. Others come with a loose mask that hangs from their chins. Wearing those are meaningless. We insist they buy a surgical mask and then enter the hospital. Many of them don't understand that it’s for their own safety,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. But the problem is not unique to Calcutta or Bengal. A doctor from Calcutta working at a hospital in New York and treating Covid patients said there, too, people in some neighbourhoods were not wearing masks. “I have seen people in many neighbourhoods in Brooklyn going out without wearing masks. The administration has not been able to enforce any law to make wearing masks compulsory,” said Abhishek Chakraborti, a postgraduate trainee at New York’s Brookdale Hospital Medical Center. The problem is similar in other parts of the world, too, members of the global advisory board discussed on Thursday. The World Health Organisation has advised wearing masks as an effective protection against Covid-19. “If COVID-19 is spreading in your community, stay safe by taking some simple precautions, such as physical distancing, wearing a mask, keeping rooms well ventilated, avoiding crowds, cleaning your hands, and coughing into a bent elbow or tissue…. Make wearing a mask a normal part of being around other people,” the WHO has said. However, with many people paying no heed to such advice, the state’s Covid management team is grappling for solutions. “We are thinking of involving local clubs and puja committees in campaigns for wearing masks. But we have to see how effective this would be,” said Chowdhury. According to a public health expert, there is a sense of denial among a section of people about Covid. “Many people are aware of the fact that most of those who get infected are having mild or no symptoms. So, there is a general carelessness among many people,” the expert said. Till October 30, 6,784 Covid-19 patients died in Bengal. On Friday, 59 have died, according to the state health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Lakshmi immersion only in designated ponds||Idols of Goddess Lakshmi will have to be immersed in designated ponds in Lake Town, Dum Dum, New Town, and Behala, the police commissionerates of Calcutta and Bidhannagar have been instructed. In a communique to the commissionerates on Friday, Bhabani Bhawan, the Bengal police headquarters, asked officers to strictly monitor that immersions were carried out in the designated ponds. The state pollution control board has identified two ponds, Debi ghat in Lake Town and Pond No. 4 in Dum Dum Park, for immersion of Lakshmi idols in accordance with the National Mission for Clean Ganga guidelines. Both these ponds, along with Upsana ghat in New Town, earmarked by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority, is in the Bidhannagar commissionerate’s jurisdiction. The one in Behala, earmarked by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, is in the city police’s jurisdiction. A joint team of officers from the commissionerates and officials from the state pollution control board will oversee the immersion before water samples are collected to test water quality after immersion. The police have been told about the ponds, Rajesh Kumar, member secretary of the state pollution control board, said. “The board has created facilities to help organisers with the immersions.” Most home Lakshmi idols will be immersed on Saturday. Some puja committees have told the police that idols would be immersed on Sunday. “We want all Lakshmi idols, including those from homes in these parts of the city, to be immersed in the designated ponds. This is the first time we are trying this out and we want to see how it works,” Kalyan Rudra, chairman of the state pollution control board, said. The designated ponds have been fitted with synthetic linings to arrest pollutants that get dissolved in the water, the police said. The pollution control board immersion action followed a meeting chaired by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on October 17 where the importance of following the NMCG guidelines had been stressed in the presence of Rudra and Rajesh Kumar. The NMCG, which had issued the guidelines in 2018, recently reiterated that they be followed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
