02-12-2021||Lucknow||Ushering in Xmas cheer with cake mixing revelry||We are still a few weeks away from Christmas but the resumption of annual cake mixing ceremonies in physical format has surely kick-started the Yuletide celebrations in the city. After a hiatus of two years intoxicating aroma of rich tradition is back where dry fruits, candied fruit and festive spirits together is mixed to get a perfect dough preparation before baking it into cakes, breads and puddings. With Covid protocols in place and fully vaccinated guests, a number of live cake-mixing ceremonies are being witnessed at different city hotels, bakeries and lounges. An opportunity to make the patrons happy and create a Christmas buzz, these cake mixing ceremonies happen across the globe and Lucknow too is witnessing the same trend from last few years. “It’s a tradition and opportunity for us to engage some prominent customers, influencers and bloggers to spread the festive spirit. We engaged selected guests for a brunch and ensured that everyone is fully vaccinated. In the run-up to Christmas, we are planning multiple events including preparing city’s biggest ginger bread house where these cakes will be up for sale,” says Neeraj Kataria CEO Sky Glass Brewing Co. Similar ceremony at Ramada Lucknow located at city outskirts saw people driving down the venue to attend the mixing festivity. “Cake mixing has become a significant ritual and is considered as an occasion that one looks forward to. Guests and colleagues get together to mix the ingredients of delicious Christmas cakes. An array of nuts and spices were poured into a huge mixing tray. The mixing became all the more fun when endless bottles of liquors, fruit juices and syrup was added to the blend. Our Chef Avinash Kumar prepared an array of dishes for the patrons,” says hotel’s executive assistant manager Amitesh Singh. A city bakery chose to make the occasion special by engaging children. “At our different bakeries we called children, with everyone following safety protocols, to be the part of mixing ceremony. Last year, we kept it a very low-key but this time we also organized painting contests for the kids along with the mixing ceremony. We also hosted special children from Dhristhi Samajik Sansthan for the do and it was a very fulfilling experience to make them a part of the mixing ceremony,” says Vikas Malik of Danbro by Mr Brown. After this ritual, hotels and restaurants are gearing up for other Christmas related festivities. “We did the cake-mixing with 40 regular guests and hotel staff. Now, on December 16 we will have Christmas tree lighting to kick-start festivities and selling of cakes that we have mixed during the ceremony. We have planned a gala dinner, carol sing and other events, says Naveen Tanwar, food and beverage manager at Hilton Garden Inn. So, the stage is set in the city for the Christmas festivities!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ushering-in-xmas-cheer-with-cake-mixing-revelry-101638469783445.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Govt left people to die during Covid lockdown: Akhilesh||KANPUR: On the second day of his Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra in Bundelkhand, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav focused on the issues related to farmers and said they would not face any shortage of fertilisers or DAP when his party formed the government in Uttar Pradesh. Accusing the BJP of misleading the people, he said the tricks of the ruling party would not work as change was inevitable. Akhilesh was addressing a rally in Ginnaut Bagh ground of Lalitpur. SP allies Om Prakash Rajbhar and RS Kushwaha shared the dais with the former chief minister at the rally. Akhilesh said the SP would do the best to alleviate the problems the people were facing in Bundelkhand. There had been massive damage to the region due to drought in the past, he said, adding that the party workers distributed food packets to people during the lockdown and Lohia Awas (houses) were given when the SP was in power. “You have seen the horror of four-and-a –half years’ misrule in Uttar Pradesh; the people have never been through the kind of pain that they feel now,” he said. During the first wave of the pandemic, the situation was worse than that during the partition of the country, he said. “Who can forget the pictures when a lockdown was imposed and our labourer brothers had to come from other places,” Yadav said. “The BJP government put up barricades and did not allow them to enter the state,” he alleged. “The government left people like orphans to die. Labourer brothers put their lives at risk and had to walk hundreds of kilometres to reach their home on foot,” the former CM added. The migrants were kept in cow shelters, he said, adding had the SP government been in place, none of the workers would have had to walk and they would have been sent to their native places in vehicles. He said the farmers were compelled to stand in queue for the DAP. “People in Lalitpur will stand in queue to vote to oust this government,” he said, adding, “The farmers are facing huge problems. We will make sure that the farmers harvest two crops in Bundelkhand.” He said the ruling party always flayed him about pariwarvaad (nepotism). Only those having families could understand the pain of others, he said. He took a dig at the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, asking the people if he deserved the title of Yogi. A Yogi, he said was someone who understood the pain of others as his own. He said the Yogi government was meting out injustice in the name of caste and religion. Famers and youths were dejected while traders had been destroyed under the BJP government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/govt-left-people-to-die-during-covid-lockdown-akhilesh-101638469722391.html
02-12-2021||Pune||71-year-old man from Pune duped of ₹50 lakh in online ayurvedic oil trade||A 71-year-old man from Pune was duped of ₹50 lakh by a caller who claimed to be from an ayurvedic oil company and promised lucrative returns on investment in the trade, said police on Thursday.The man received the call in the first half of 2020 from one of the accused and two transactions worth ₹25 lakh were made, according to the complainant. The 71-year-old is a retired official of the Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited (IPCL) and had paid the money through online transactions.“The callers claimed to be a company based from north east India and told the complainant that the ayurvedic oil was in huge demand in the USA. The caller told him that he will receive the oil and he will have to send it to the USA to receive money. Later on they told him that the oil had been sent ca and that the buyers will send the money in his account directly. Few weeks later they called him to tell him that the buyers had sent the money but the payment was stuck and he needed to pay more to get it released. That is when he lodged a complaint,” said Police inspector (crime) Mangesh Jagtap of Vimantal police station.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act has been registered at Vimantal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/71yearold-man-from-pune-duped-of-rs-50-lakh-in-online-ayurvedic-oil-trade-101638469542197.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Two behind string of car thefts in Delhi arrested, search on for aides||The Delhi Police on Thursday said they arrested a 41-year-old car mechanic and a 32-year-old scrap dealer for allegedly running a gang involved in stealing cars, dismantling them, and selling their parts in grey markets in Mayapuri and Sunder Nagri.The gang told police that they mostly stole Baleno and Brezza SUVs because their spare parts are in high demand in scrap markets. After stealing the cars, they would park them near government hospitals or private parking slots for a few days to ensure police were not tracking them. Once confirmed that police were not after them, the men would take the stolen vehicles to their rented godowns and dismantle them. They would then sell the spare parts in scrap markets, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.DCP Sathiyasundaram said that to curb car thefts in the trans-Yamuna region, the anti-auto theft squad (AATS) of Shahdara district was tasked to launch a crackdown on vehicle thieves and receivers of the stolen vehicles and their spare parts. The team collected information about one such gang and arrested two of its members from the Geeta Colony area on November 30.“We caught Amarjeet Singh and Fahimuddin (who goes by his first name) with a stolen Honda City car. Their associate, Irfan, managed to flee,” said the DCP.During interrogation, police said, Singh said he is a car mechanic but got involved in stealing cars and receiving stolen vehicles. Singh rented a godown in Baprola in the outer district, where he dismantled stolen cars. The police raided the godown and recovered parts of various cars. Singh had stored them to sell to potential clients in the Mayapuri scrap market.“Fahimuddin revealed that he worked as a scrap dealer in Sundar Nagri and was also involved in stealing cars with his associate Hakimullah. Both the arrested persons mostly stole Brezza and Baleno SUVs because they were experts in stealing and dismantling them. Also, the spare parts of these two cars are in high demand,” added DCP Sathiyasundaram.Police said that Singh was previously involved in two cases of car theft and was released from jail in August this year. The arrested duo has confessed to stealing over 50 cars along with their associates, who are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-behind-string-of-car-thefts-in-delhi-arrested-search-on-for-aides-101638469302018.html
02-12-2021||Pune||BJP has a new HQ in Pune; 4.5k sq feet office located near PMC||After the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) inaugurated its new office, located near Dengle bridge, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) too has shifted its headquarters from Jungli Maharaj road to near the PMC office, before the municipal elections. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis will inaugurate the party’s city office on Friday.Jagdish Mulik, BJP city unit president said, “The BJP now has a new address in the city. Spread over 4,500 sq feet, our new office is located close to the Pune Municipal Corporation, our new office has all the modern amenities. Since the time of Jansangh, BJP’s office has been near Jogeshwari temple, but considering traffic, parking and the party’s growth, a bigger space was needed. In 2017, the party started its office on JM road in Hotel Sanman, but now it has been shifted near Pune Municipal Corporation.”Now the BJP, NCP, Congress, Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Nav Nirman Sena all have their offices in the same premise. State unit president Chandrakant Patil, MP Girish Bapat, Kirit Somaiya and all the MLAs and office bearers from PMC will attend the inauguration on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-has-a-new-hq-in-pune-4-5k-sq-feet-office-located-near-pmc-101638469121789.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||8 children trafficked for labour rescued in Ludhiana||A team of Bachpan Bachao Andolan, a movement campaigning for the rights of children, along with the Ludhiana child protection department and railway protection force, rescued from the railway station eight children who were being trafficked from other states to Punjab to work in factories. A member of the Bachpan Bachao Andolan team, Yadwinder, said they had received information about some children being trafficked to Punjab from Bihar in Karmabhoomi Express. “The kids were sitting in different coaches. A complaint was made to the district child protection office and railway protection force was also informed about the same,” he added. When the train arrived at platform 2 of the city railway station, the teams checked five coaches of the train and rescued as many as eight children, Yadwinder said. He said that of these rescued children, four belong to Bihar while the remaining ones are from West Bengal. A complaint regarding the same has been lodged at the government railway police station and the children will be sent to the child care institute after producing them before the child welfare committee (CWC).He added that the children will be counselled. We are also trying to identify the human trafficking gang, he added. The rescued children are aged between 10 and 17. The committee would also try to ascertain how the traffickers trapped them and where they were planning to take them, officials familiar with the rescue operation said. It may be noted here that the district child protection department along with Bachpan Bachao Andolan and Childline had on July 8 too rescued three children from Ludhiana railway station. Among the three, two were rescued from the same train following a tip off. The children were being sent to Ludhiana to work as labourers.On June 29, 12 such children were rescued during an operation conducted by the same organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-children-trafficked-for-labour-rescued-in-ludhiana-101638468762016.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Reduction in excise costs state ₹1,700 crore; MVA in dilemma over reducing VAT on fuel||While the Maharashtra government is under tremendous pressure for the reduction of the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, the state is also in a fix over the losses it incurred due to the Central government’s decision of reducing central taxes last month. After the Central government reduced its taxes on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 ahead of Diwali on November 3, the state government’s VAT, which is levied on an ad Valorem (according to value) basis automatically reduced by ₹1.19 and ₹2.41 a litre on petrol and diesel respectively. This has led to the estimated losses to the exchequer by around ₹1,700 crore between November 2021 and March 2022. Losing business to neighbouring states The state government’s estimated revenue from the VAT from petrol and diesel in FY 2021-22 is ₹28,000 crore. The annual sale of diesel in Maharashtra is 1.15 lakh kilolitre, while petrol sale is 50,000 kilolitre. Besides the setoff losses because of the reduction in the central taxes, the state has been losing its business to the neighbouring states due to the huge difference in the price of fuel. According to the rough estimates, the business loss is around 10%. “The major loss is in the diesel sales. For the neighbouring states like Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Goa the diesel is cheaper by ₹4.81, ₹3.27, ₹9.13 and ₹6.87 a litre, respectively. The heavy vehicle fleets have been refuelling from the bordering districts to save money. The difference is too huge after the respective Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led states reduced their taxes after the Central government’s decision, resulting in the huge loss of business,” said an official from the finance department. Uday Lodh of Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers Association said, “The petrol dealers in the districts sharing borders with other states with cheaper diesel have been badly hit. Their business has dropped by up to 90% as the difference is as high as ₹8 a litre. The state government should immediately think about reducing its VAT, to give a level playing field.” State may take a call on VAT by Feb The state government is under tremendous pressure for the reduction in its VAT on the lines of the reduction in the taxes by the Centre and other states. The VAT levied in Maharashtra on diesel is 24% in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Amravati and Aurangabad and 21% in the rest of the state, with an additional cess of ₹3 a litre. The VAT on petrol in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Aurangabad and Amravati 26% and 25% in the rest of the state with the additional cess of ₹10.12 per litre. The VAT and the cess in Maharashtra is one of the highest in the country. With the tremendous pressure from all fronts, including motorists, transporters, petrol-diesel dealers for the reduction in the VAT, the state government is expected to make the decision ahead of the local body elections slated to be held in February. Shambhuraj Desai, minister of state for finance, said, “The reduction in Centre’s tax by ₹5 and ₹10 on petrol and diesel was after increasing the rate multifold. Other states have indeed reduced their VAT and it has resulted in a loss to our business in the bordering areas. We are studying the potential burden if the VAT is reduced. It is a policy decision, which will be taken after due deliberation and by bringing the proposal before the cabinet.”A Nationalist Congress Party minister requesting anonymity, said, “Reduction in VAT on diesel by ₹1 leads to the losses of ₹800 crore and ₹7,000 crore if ₹1 is reduced on petrol. By reducing just ₹1 to ₹2 will not give us any political mileage. However, the reduction by the Centre was huge. Besides the consequential reduction of ₹2.41 on diesel after the November 3 decision by the Centre, we will have to reduce the tax at least by ₹2.50- ₹3. But it will be done at the huge cost of more than ₹3,000 crore.” 
02-12-2021||Pune||196 fresh Covid-19 cases, 1 death in Pune district||As per authorities, Pune district reported 196 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and one death in the last 24 hours. This death was reported from Pune rural. No deaths were reported from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 523,433 Covid-19 cases and 9,218 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 269,957 cases so far and a total of 3,512 deaths due to Covid-19. Pune rural has reported 368,006 total cases and 6,979 deaths. In the Pune district, there are a total of 1,161,396 lakh Covid-19 cases. Out of this, 1,139,467 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 20,059 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 1,870 active cases in Pune district. As per the state Health department, 952 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,485,290 in the State. The recovery rate in the state is 97.71%.Across Maharashtra, 796 new Covid-19 cases were diagnosed on Thursday and 24 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.Tracking the virusPune district figures COVID-19 cases: 1,161,396Recovered Patients: 1,139,467Deaths: 20,059Active cases: 1,870New cases: 196New death: 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/196-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death-in-pune-district-101638468346552.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Twenty-eight samples from Maharashtra sent for genome sequencing||Maharashtra government tested 861 international passengers until December 2, with three testing positive, according to data released by the state health department. Twenty-eight samples have been sent for genome sequencing, including the three found positive on Thursday. Their reports are awaited. Meanwhile, the state recorded 796 fresh infections pushing the cumulative Covid-19 cases to 6,637,221 on Thursday. The tally of active cases further reduced to 7,209 as 952 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. It also saw 24 casualties on Thursday and the number of fatalities stood at 141,049. Raigad reported the highest toll with twelve deaths. A health department release said, “Until today (Thursday) morning, 861 international passengers have been tested with RT-PCR and 3 of them have been found positive. Samples of all three patients have been sent for genomic sequencing. Additionally, field surveillance of all international passengers who arrived since November 1 is underway. A total of 28 samples from both airport and field surveillance have been sent for genomic sequencing. Out of these, 12 are sent to NIV, Pune and 16 to Kasturba Hospital laboratory (in Mumbai). Of the 28, 25 are international travellers and three are their close contacts.” The state has managed to diminish the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic even after lifting most of the curbs as no spike was recorded in the state after the festive season that lasted almost two months. But the situation has changed since the outbreak of the Omicron variant which is being called as a super mutant owing to its transmissibility. On Thursday, the state health department said that there is not enough clarity on its severity, and more information is expected to be released in the next two weeks. It has also urged the people to follow Covid-appropriate behavior and inform the state health authorities if they have international travel history from the last month and are not fully vaccinated. “On November 26, the World Health Organisation (WHO) named the Covid-19 virus variant detected in South Africa and some other countries Omicron. It has also classified the Omicron variant as a ‘Variant of Concern’. Experts have expressed possibilities that owing to the genetic modification in the virus, it may possess some specific characteristics. While the transmissibility of infection seems to have increased because of this new variant, there is still not enough clarity on whether or not it will cause a severe disease and whether it will evade the immunity. More information is expected in the next two weeks’ time or so,” stated the release. “Genetic changes or mutation in viruses is a natural phenomenon and people should not panic. The state health department appeals to the citizens that they should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, inform the state health department authorities if they have had an international travel history in the last month and those who have not taken Covid-19 vaccine or have had only one dose should complete their vaccination at the earliest,” it added. With 220 cases, Mumbai again reported the highest number of cases in the entire state and its tally reached a total of 763,206 cases till date. It also recorded one fatality taking the toll to 16,341. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 108,329 samples and had a positivity rate of 0.73%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 10.1%, according to the data issued by the state health department. The state also vaccinated 938,930 doses on Thursday and has administered a total 116,209,817 doses till date, according to the data available on CoWin portal. 
02-12-2021||Pune||Preparedness for Omicron variant: Of the 65 oxygen plants planned in Pune, only 37 are operational||Even as the government had promised to expedite the procedure to make all the proposed Oxygen plants operational within three months ending September, the story is far from over. The administration had planned to install 65 oxygen plants in Pune district, of which only 37 are operational and 28 are in pipeline. The installation of the plants acquired renewed urgency after the second Covid-19 wave this summer triggered a shortage of life-saving medical oxygen. Before the pandemic, the district did not have a single oxygen plant. The 37 operational plants have a production capacity of about 21,550 liters per minute and 20 oxygen tanks that can store more than 300 kilo-liters of oxygenEarlier in August, when the second wave was on the verge of decline, the administration had planned to set up 38 oxygen plants and make it operational by September end, but the administration promised to install more plants considering the rise in cases. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, in a virtual meeting on Monday along with multiple stakeholders said that the district is fully prepared with enough stock of drugs and also enough supply of oxygen. “Although we are fully prepared for a third wave, the sheer transmission rate of the Omicron variant as is being discussed among the health experts can be challenging for us. If the transmission is about 500-600 times, then it can be a challenge to deal with the patients if the hospitalisation rate rises. Along with Pune, we also utilised this time to prepare the health infrastructure of the neighbouring districts like Sangli, Satara, Solapur and Kolhapur so that the eventual load on the hospitals in Pune is also reduced.” As of November 26, there are about six more plants proposed in Pune city with a capacity of 6,766 liters per minute (LPM), four plants in the PCMC area with 3,590 LPM and 18 plants for rural areas with 6,301 LPM. Along with this, more storage tanks for liquid medical oxygen are also being built, three in Pune city with a capacity of 43 kilo-liters, one in PCMC with 20 KL’s and two in Pune rural with 12 KL’s A nightmare on repeatCovid-19 exposed the world to India’s medical oxygen problem, yet only 37 oxygen plants are operationalCurrent status of oxygen plants in the district Details No. of plantsTotal plants 65 Functional plants 37 Proposed plants 28 Area Operational/capacity* Proposed/capacity PMC 12/9500 6/6766 PCMC 3/2460 4/3590 Pune rural 22/9589 18/6301 *production capacity in liters per minute Liquid Oxygen tanks Details No. of tanksTotal water tanks 26 Functional water tanks 20 Proposed water tanks 6 Area Operational/capacity** Proposed/capacity PMC 9/130 3/43 PCMC 6/131 1/20 Pune rural 5/72 2//12 **storage capacity in kilo liters In addition to this, private hospitals have a storage capacity of 211 metric ton liquid medical oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/preparedness-for-omicron-variant-of-the-65-oxygen-plants-planned-in-pune-only-37-are-operational-101638467802005.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||UP govt’s fresh Covid guidelines lay stress on screening of travellers, isolation of symptomatic persons||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued fresh Covid-19 guidelines for travellers amid the emergence of the new coronavirus variant Omicron, putting special emphasis on screening of travellers as well as isolation of symptomatic ones among them and treatment facilities in the districts that have an airport — domestic or international.The state home department issued the guidelines on Wednesday. They were circulated to the authorities concerned across the state on Thursday. The order issued by additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi also warns the officers concerned: “If Covid infection spreads in any district due to travellers, then the officers concerned for the district will be held accountable.”The guidelines have asked for thermal scanning of all incoming travellers at airports, railway stations, and bus stations and isolating those who show any Covid symptoms.The order by the home department also asks the district magistrates and police commissioners of Lucknow and Varanasi (that have international airports) to tour the airports and ensure systems are in place there for compulsory thermal scanning of all those who arrive. If anyone arriving from the “at risk” countries shows Covid symptoms that person must be isolated at a separate facility and contact tracing should be done.In the order, the additional chief secretary (home) also said that all such districts that have airports must have one Covid hospital as a separate “isolation facility for international travellers”.He also asked the district magistrates of Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad to coordinate with the Delhi government to track any international traveller coming to these districts and follow the screening, safety and treatment protocols set for such travellers.The guidelines asked all districts to follow Covid screening protocols at all railways stations and bus stations (with special emphasis on such bus stations that get international travellers). All districts should promote Covid appropriate behaviour, the guidelines have reiterated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-s-fresh-covid-guidelines-lay-stress-on-screening-of-travellers-isolation-of-symptomatic-persons-101638467323083.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||5 more international passengers test positive||Five more Covid-19 cases, including two senior citizens, have been detected by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) among passengers with international travel history, and their samples have now been sent for genome sequencing to determine if they are positive for the Omicron variant. This takes the total number of suspected cases of Omicron in Mumbai to 10, as four other international passengers had tested positive on Wednesday, and one contact of a Covid positive passenger had also tested positive on Wednesday. In a statement on Thursday, BMC said samples of all patients have been sent for genome sequencing, and the patients have been shifted to hospitals. Contact tracing of travellers is going on. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the civic public health department said, “The results of genome sequencing are expected to come either by Sunday or Monday.” Among the five passengers who tested positive on Thursday, is a 66-year-old male who arrived from London on November 17, a 69-year-old male who arrived from Portugal on November 25, a 34-year-old male who arrived from London on November 13, 45-year-old male who also arrived from London on December 2, and a 38-year-old male who arrived from Germany on December 2. In addition to the above, on Wednesday, BMC had reported four cases, including a 21-year-old male who arrived from London on November 10, a 47-year-old male who arrived from Mauritius on November 25, a 39-year-old male who arrived from South Africa on November 25, and a 25-year-old male who arrived from London on December 1 (Wednesday), who was detected positive in a rapid antigen test. In addition to these, BMC’s contact tracing efforts had on Wednesday itself revealed that a 36-year-old woman, high-risk contact of a traveller from South Africa, was also found positive on Wednesday. She has been shifted to SevenHills Hospital. Meanwhile, on Thursday, BMC also informed airport authorities of updated guidelines for domestic passengers coming to Mumbai from other states, based on the updated order of the Government of Maharashtra on December 2. Now domestic passengers coming to Maharashtra can either show a fully vaccinated certificate or need to carry a negative RT-PCR report, within 72 hours of travel for boarding a flight to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-more-international-passengers-test-positive-101638467321836.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Previous regime stopped SC/ST scholarship, we resumed it: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the previous Samajwadi Party regime had stopped scholarship of scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) students in 2016 but his government resumed it after assuming office in Uttar Pradesh. Yogi Adityanath virtually distributed ₹ 458.66 crore scholarship to 12,17,631 (1.21 million) students at an event organised at his official residence in Lucknow. Speaking after the event, the chief minister said: “When the BJP came to power (in March 2017), it came to know that the previous government (Samajwadi Party) had stopped scholarship of SC/ST students in 2016. Our government resumed it.”“One can imagine the mentality of such governments that work with a political grudge,” Yogi Adityanath added. Yogi Adityanath virtually distributes ₹ 458.66 crore scholarship to 12,17,631 (1.21 million) students at an event organised at his official residence in Lucknow The chief minister issued instructions to complete the admission process in all educational institutions by December 30.Yogi gave the assurance that scholarship to the remaining students will be transferred in their bank accounts by January 26 next. The government was also planning to distribute smart phones and tablets to students pursuing graduation and post-graduation courses, engineering, ITI, para-medical, polytechnic and other professional courses, he added. The chief minister also mentioned the Mukhyamantri Abhyuday Yojana, a free coaching scheme for poor but meritorious students. Adityanath had inaugurated the Abhyudaya scheme on February 15 this year. He instructed officials to start Abhyuday coaching in all 75 districts across the state. At present, this coaching facility is being run in 18 districts. “During the coronavirus phase, we made sure that students from coaching institutes in Kota (Rajasthan) reach their homes safely. It was then that the government had decided to make coaching institutes available for students in their districts itself,” the chief minister said. He also distributed scholarship to five students who were physically present at the event.The chief minister virtually interacted with students of Moradabad, Firozabad, Unnao and Prayagraj and asked how they were utilising their scholarship amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/previous-regime-stopped-sc-st-scholarship-we-resumed-it-yogi-101638467261871.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||UP minister backs Maurya’s Mathura remark as Dy CM asks Opposition to clear its stand||Senior Uttar Pradesh (UP) minister Suresh Khanna on Thursday backed deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s controversial tweet about a grand Krishna temple at the Hindu holy city of Mathura being part of the Hindutva brigade’s unfinished agenda. “What’s wrong with this? Ayodhya, Kashi and Mathura are among our holiest places and which Hindu won’t seek a grand temple there,” the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) veteran asked. “Talking about building a grand temple at his (Krishna’s) birthplace cannot be wrong,” Khanna said. Khanna, who has been elected lawmaker from Shahjahanpur for eight consecutive terms, is the senior most cabinet minister of the Yogi Adityanath government in UP. His backing of Maurya’s tweet is being viewed as the ruling party’s endorsement of the deputy CM’s stand on the Mathura temple issue. Maurya on Thursday asked the opposition parties to clear their stand on the Mathura temple issue. “So far, the opposition parties have said various things without actually touching upon the central issue. I would like all the opposition parties, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav ji in particular, who is claiming these days that he is a Krishna devotee, if they support the call for a grand temple at the Lord’s birthplace,” Maurya said. Meanwhile, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati hit out at Maurya, saying his tweet was aimed at the UP elections. “This is their last desperate bid and people should remain aware of this Hindu-Muslim politics of theirs,” Mayawati tweeted. In November, on a visit to Mathura-Vrindavan, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said that plans were afoot to ensure that like Ayodhya, Mathura too was developed into a global pilgrimage centre. “All the facilities, development happening in Ayodhya would happen in Mathura too,” he had said. Samajwadi Party and Congress leaders said they felt that the statement on Mathura was made to polarise the atmosphere in order to offset the party’s likely losses due to the farmers’ agitation in west UP. “It is all so clear. We all are Hindus too and BJP surely doesn’t have a copyright on gods as they make it appear. Hinduism stands for inclusiveness and it is a lesson these ruling party politicians, who fear losing UP, need to learn. In fact, the people of this state will make them realise that such tactics won’t work,” said Samajwadi Party leader IP Singh. 
02-12-2021||Delhi||Minor among two held for firing at dentist in south Delhi’s Kalkaji last week||A 22-year-old man was arrested while his juvenile friend was apprehended for allegedly attempting to kill a dentist at his clinic in south Delhi’s Kalkaji last week, police said on Thursday. The doctor survived the attack as he had shielded himself with a register when the man, who had earlier worked at his clinic, fired a bullet at him.The bullet got stuck in the register and saved the dentist’s life, the police said.Senior police officers said that the arrested man, Naveen Singh, was angry with the dentist because of a financial dispute and because he was allegedly in a relationship with his sister. Singh’s two sisters also worked at the clinic.“Some months ago, a heated argument took place between Singh and the doctor over the two issues. Singh felt humiliated after finding out about the dentist’s relationship with his sister. He pledged to take revenge from him and planned it with the 17-year-old boy,” said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey. On November 27, the dentist was at his clinic when Singh and his juvenile friend arrived on a motorcycle. The teenager remained on the bike while Singh barged into the clinic wearing a helmet and went straight into the doctor’s chamber. He pulled out a firearm and fired a shot. As the dentist immediately shielded himself with a register, the bullet got stuck into it and saved his life. Singh tried to reload the gun but it malfunctioned. Then he ran out of the clinic and fled on the motorcycle with his associate, said DCP Pandey.The police registered a case of attempt to murder and began an investigation.  After several raids, the police caught Singh from Sonia Vihar on Wednesday. His interrogation led to the apprehension of the teenager and recovery of the gun as well as the motorcycle used in the crime, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minor-among-two-held-for-firing-at-dentist-in-south-delhi-s-kalkaji-last-week-101638467201737.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Institutional quarantine, RT-PCR only for passengers from SA, Botswana & Zimbabwe||Mumbai: The Maharashtra government on Thursday issued revised guidelines for air passengers coming into the state, making it mandatory for passengers coming from South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe to undergo RT-PCR testing on arrival and a seven-day institutional quarantine to contain the spread of Omicron variant of Covid-19. The fresh order, which was issued after the Centre asked the state health department to “align” its order with the guidelines of the union ministry of health, also removed the rule that mandated negative RT-PCR test reports for domestic fliers coming into Maharashtra from other states. Instead, passengers will either have to be fully vaccinated or carry an RT-PCR negative report conducted within 72 hours prior to boarding.While keeping the Centre’s guidelines as “minimum restriction”, the state’s latest order created a category called ‘high-risk countries’ - South Africa, Botswana, and Zimbabwe. However, fliers coming from countries that are designated as ‘at-risk’ by the Centre, European countries including the United Kingdom, Brazil, Bangladesh, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel, will have to follow guidelines issued by the Centre, senior government officials said. These include a self-paid Covid-19 test on arrival, seven-day home quarantine, if negative, and a re-test on the eighth day.The order issued by chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty said that the list of ‘high-risk countries’ is a dynamic one and will be updated as and when required by the state government. The order said that all passengers from ‘high-risk’ countries shall have to undergo RT-PCR Test immediately on arrival at the respective international airport and shall undergo mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine. Another RT-PCR test will be conducted on the seventh day. If any of the tests is found to be positive, then the passenger shall be shifted to a hospital. In case the result is negative, then the passenger will have to undergo a further seven days of home quarantine. International passengers will also have to fill out a form declaring details of the countries visited in the last 15 days. Any incorrect information furnished by the passenger will lead to action under sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the order said.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid task force, said that the move to make institutional quarantine mandatory for three nations has been done as it is suspected that community transmission has started in these African nations. “If they are inbound from countries where there is community transmission of Omicron, they need complete supervision like institutional quarantine. The government of India had adopted home quarantine with close supervision. The institutional quarantine will be done only in Maharashtra for three countries,” he said.The State government rolled back its earlier rule mandating a negative RT-PCR test 48 hours before arrival from other states into Maharashtra. On Wednesday, the Centre wrote to the health department saying the state’s order was in “divergence” with the guidelines of the health ministry. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said that the state altered it to make the rules uniform for all fliers. “The guidelines issued by the State and the Centre earlier had a few differences. But we have decided to sort that out,” he said.
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Mamata Banerjee may ride Akhilesh’s vijay rath, seek support for him as next Uttar Pradesh CM||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Mamata Banerjee may ride Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav’s “vijay rath” to drum up support for him as the next chief minister of the state, said people in the SP who are privy to the matter.According to the party’s plan, three women leaders — Mamata Banerjee, SP MP and film personality Jaya Bachchan, and former Kannauj MP and Akhilesh’s wife Dimple Yadav — will join Akhilesh’s Vijay Yatra together.The SP will announce the date at “an appropriate time,” said those aware of the developments in the party. This yatra (on a motorised rath) will be in Lucknow.If Mamata Banerjee campaigns for Akhilesh in Lucknow this time, it will be the second time she is seeking support for him in elections. In November 2016, towards the end of Akhilesh’s first term as the UP chief minister, Mamata Banerjee had addressed a public meeting in support of Akhilesh and against the Union government’s demonetisation decision. Mamata Banerjee had held the meeting at the 1090 crossing in Lucknow within weeks of the demonetisation announcement.Akhilesh and Mamata Banerjee have shared a bonhomie since the SP leader became the UP chief minister for the first time in 2012. Both the parties have been supporting each other since then. This is Banerjee’s third successive term as the West Bengal chief minister. The SP had supported the TMC in both the 2016 and the 2021 West Bengal assembly polls.Also Read | Akhilesh Yadav extends support to Mamata Banerjee ahead of Bengal polls“In the 2021 polls, our party MP Jaya Bachchan and the party’s national vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda had substantially campaigned for the TMC and our party had not contested the polls in the eastern state,” said a senior SP leader.Kiranmoy Nanda, the SP’s national vice-president, reportedly was instrumental in Mamata’s TMC-organised event taking place in Lucknow in 2016 and also the forthcoming one. Nanda hails from West Bengal and had been a former minister there.Akhilesh had launched his Vijay Yatra as part of the 2022 UP assembly election campaign on October 13 from Kanpur (to Hamirpur). Thereafter, he embarked on yatras in Hardoi, from Gorakhpur to Kushinagar, Ghazipur to Lucknow, and has just finished Banda-Mahoba-Lalitpur leg.
02-12-2021||Pune||No hike in fees for 1st, 2nd semester of SPPU, affiliated colleges||PUNE: In a major respite for first- and second- semester students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges, the varsity has decided not to increase any fees for examinations and other related fees for this academic year. The fees will remain the same as in the academic year 2020-21. Students of some colleges faced issues of being charged high examination fees and several students and student unions complained about the same, even to the vice-chancellor, after which the decision was taken.A circular issued on December 1 by Mahesh Kakade, head of the examination and evaluation department of SPPU, stated, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many students and their parents had to face a financial crisis. Considering this, the university’s student welfare board decided not to increase examination fees for the first- and second- semester in the academic year 2021-22. The fees will be taken as earlier in the academic years 2019-20 and 2020-21. All colleges and institutions have been instructed accordingly and will follow through while taking exam fees.”Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of Students Helping Hand Organisation, said, “We had repeatedly complained about the examination fees issue during the pandemic as students were charged heavy fees despite the exams being held online. In some colleges, results were not given till the students paid up the fees. It is good that the university has not hiked the fees for this academic year and we welcome the decision.”Another student Rahul Mandhare said, “It is good that fees have not been increased but some concession should be given to students as well and they should be able to pay the fees in installments. Students and their families are somehow managing to become stable financially after lifting of the lockdown and other restrictions. This will take another year to settle down so if the fees are payable in installments, it will be beneficial for students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-hike-in-fees-for-1st-2nd-semester-of-sppu-affiliated-colleges-101638466902407.html
02-12-2021||Pune||December rain kills 150 sheep; grape, paddy crops likely to be hit||PUNE December rain is likely to have affected the grape and paddy crops in Western Maharashtra. At least 150 sheep died in the Purandar taluka of Pune district due to the heavy rain on Wednesday. Prashant Utage , animal husbandry officer said, “There are reports that 152 sheep passed away. The panchanama is on and chances are this number may increase. This happened mainly in Vanpuri, Supe, Walhe Tekwadi, Parinche and other villages in Purandar taluka.” Grape farmer Vilas Gangude from Nashik district said, “I planned for an early crop. I planned to start sending grapes to the market three-four days ago, but the rains damaged the rest of my crop. It is tough to say what the losses will be as the meteorology department has forecast rain for few more days.” Rajendra Pawar, president of the Maharashtra Draksh Bagayatdar Sangh, said, “Only the vineyards where cutting happened early are likely to get damaged, but it is tough to say what the exact position will be right now.” Strawberry farmer Satish Bhilare from Panchgani said, “Strawberries which were fully grown got damaged, but if the weather does not improve, then there are chances of more damage.” Sadashiv Nangade, a paddy farmer from Bhor taluka in Pune district said, “We cut the paddy and kept it in the open to dry. Due to the rain, there are chances that the rice would turn black and this would affect the market value.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/december-rain-kills-150-sheep-grape-paddy-crops-likely-to-be-hit-101638466422483.html
02-12-2021||Pune||Little difference between max and min temps in Pune; skies to clear by Sat||PUNE As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum on Thursday in Pune was 20.6 degrees Celsius, 9.3 degrees cooler than the forecast normal. The night temperature was 15.5 degrees Celsius, 2.9 degrees warmer than the forecast normal. On Wednesday, December 1, the difference between the maximum and minimum temperatures was 2.1 degrees Celsius resulting in a weather system that also saw rainfall. Weather conditions in Pune are likely to improve from December 3 onwards, IMD forecasted. Speaking about the significant drop in day temperature, Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that due to the rainfall during the day, the temperature dropped.“During winters, the day temperature increases due to sunlight. However, because of cloudy weather and rainfall, the day temperature has seen a drop. This type of weather may continue till December 3. Haze and fog may continue till Friday. The weather will improve after that. Rainfall activity has reduced from Thursday afternoon,” said Kashyapi.From December 4, the sky will remain clear and dry weather will prevail.Kashyapi added that the night temperature in the city is likely to reduce in the next few days.The well-marked low-pressure area lies over the Southeast Bay of Bengal with the associated cyclonic circulation extending upto mid-tropospheric levels. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over southeast and adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal by December 3 morning.However this system will not affect the weather in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/little-difference-between-max-and-min-temps-in-pune-skies-to-clear-by-sat-101638466241776.html
02-12-2021||Pune||Low visibility delays 44 flights at Pune airport on Wednesday||PUNE Low visibility due to an intense fog caused delays to several flights at Pune’s Lohegaon international airport on Wednesday and Thursday. However, the intensity of the fog reduced by Thursday afternoon and flight schedules were back on time. Due to the low visibility 44 flights got delayed on Wednesday. Flights to Delhi, Bhubaneswar, Nagpur, Goa, Hyderabad, Belagavi got affected. Arrivals and departures both faced delays. On Thursday 67 flights were scheduled from Pune airport till midnight. The Lohegaon international airport, that resumed 24×7 operations on December 1, was inconvenienced by bad weather on day one, heavy rainfall leaving passengers arriving having to contend with high autorickshaw fares and the non-availability of taxis. “The visibility level improved at Lohegaon on Thursday so most flights were on time. On Wednesday there was a visibility issue. Still we tried our best to keep things on track,” said an official from the airport, requesting anonymity. “It (visibility issue) does not happen so often in Pune like it happens in the northern parts of the country. There is a need for a dedicated civil airport as air traffic is increasing. Once it is up, we can have system in place which can help flights land even in low visibility,” said aviation analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar, former station in-charge for Air India in Pune. Flyers unhappy Even though 24x7 operations resumed at the airport - people continued to wait in long queues for security checks. “Airport officials should now space airlines in a better way to manage the crowds. Currently, majority of flyers get restless as they have to stand for long hours to check-in,” said Sujata Mali, a passenger who lives in Karvenagar. “Every day, during peak hours, cab companies claim higher rates,” said Ashish Pawar, who flies to Delhi once a week on business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/low-visibility-delays-44-flights-at-pune-airport-on-wednesday-101638465582001.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Court cancels proclamation order against Param Bir Singh in extortion case||Mumbai: A Metropolitan Magistrate Court on Thursday cancelled its proclamation offender order against Param Bir Singh in an extortion case registered against him in suburban Goregaon.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate S B Bhajipale had on November 17 issued the proclamation order declaring Singh as an absconder. However, after Singh appeared before the court last week, his lawyer moved an application seeking cancellation of the proclamation order. His counsel, advocate Rajendra Mokashi, had informed the court that Singh had appeared before all the investigating agencies and was fully co-operating with the investigators. In support of his claim Mokashi had even submitted a letter from the investigating officers that the senior IPS officer had co-operated with them and was ready to appear before them whenever required in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-cancels-proclamation-order-against-param-bir-singh-in-extortion-case-101638465283040.html
02-12-2021||Pune||After record rainfall on Wed, Pune may see clearer skies by Saturday||PUNE: Several areas of Pune were inundated due to heavy showers till early morning Thursday, making it a record rainfall for the city in December. During daytime however on Thursday, only traces of rain were reported even as temperature was below normal and most parts were engulfed by fog in the morning.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune, said that rainfall activity has reduced since Thursday afternoon with climate expected to normalise by Saturday. “Cloudy weather is likely to continue till Friday. Fog and cooler winds are likely to continue on Friday as well. Thereafter, the weather conditions will be normal as before,” said Kashyapi.Earlier, Shivajinagar reported 75.4mm rainfall between 8am on December 1 and 8am on December 2, breaking the all-time record for rainfall in 24hours in December. According to IMD, Pashan received 83.4mm rainfall, Lohegaon 86.2mm and Chinchwad 103mm, leading to waterlogging and tree branches falling on the streets at some places. Back in December 1967, Pune city had reported a monthly rainfall of 71.9mm in December however the rainfall in the last 24 hours has broken that record as well.Weather department officials noted that rainfall in December is unusual, making the city look and feel like a hill station.Fire brigade officials noted minor incidents of tree fall in areas such as Bibwewadi, Hadapsar, Pashan, Kothrud, Warje, Dhankawadi and Shivajinagar. There was also a minor water leakage incident at Parvati.Besides Pune, other parts of western and northern Maharashtra, too, received heavy rain, damaging horticulture produce such as grapes, strawberry and pomegranate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-record-rainfall-on-wed-pune-may-see-clearer-skies-by-saturday-101638465281781.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: New ₹37 cr modern academic building to come up at MNNIT||State’s lone NIT—Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Allahabad— will soon get a brand new modern academic building embellished with all the latest amenities soon. The building would be constructed at a cost of ₹37 crores. The Union Ministry of Education has sanctioned the budget for the building to the institute, informed MNNIT director, Prof Rajeev Tripathi. He said that the institute has in turn now entrusted the construction responsibility to Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the central agency which has earlier too taken up vital construction work on its campus. This three-floor building (ground floor + two floors) will be built near the existing library of the institute. Besides a library, toilets and power backup, the building will have high-tech conference rooms and labs with state-of-the-art equipment, Tripathi said. As soon as the building is completed, some departments, such as humanities and social sciences, mathematics, and electronics and communication engineering, could move into it, and others facing space crunch could be given space on vacated sites, said Tripathi. It may be noted that in 2019, the Central government had directed the implementation of a 10 per cent economically weaker section (EWS) quota in educational institutions. Under this, 25 per cent of seats were increased in institutions including at MNNIT. The new building is being constructed to alleviate the shortage of space and resources caused by the gradual increase of seats in the institute under the EWS quota. After increasing the seats, the need to increase the infrastructure was being intensely felt. With the increase in the number of students, it had become imperative to increase the infrastructure too accordingly, the director explained. Prof Tripathi said that a detailed proposal was prepared and sent to the union ministry of education for approval and sanction of the requisite funds. Now the funds worth ₹37 crores have been sanctioned for it and the institute has accordingly entrusted the task of construction of this new building to CPWD which would soon kick-start the construction on the selected site in the campus. It has already started the soil testing works he said. CAPTION: MNNIT-Allahabad campus in Prayagraj. HT File Photo 
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Cancer institute augments bed capacity to 220, other facilities to be ready soon||Minister of Finance, Medical Education and Parliamentary Affairs Suresh Khanna inspected the construction work of Kalyan Singh super-speciality cancer institute (KSSSCI) on Thursday. The minister had earlier visited the institute on November 2.Professor Radha Krishna Dhiman, the director of the KSSSCI, and Professor Anupam Verma, the chief medical superintendent (CMS), were also present during rounds of the hospital.Prof Dhiman updated the minister about the progress made on the civil and electrical work in the main operation theatre (OT) complex, wherein the first floor includes eight operating theatres, 12 pre-operative and 16 post-operative beds. He said the remaining floors, including outpatient services, pathology, and other facilities, will be handed over by December 31, 2021.Professor Dhiman said, “The main hospital building is ready for possession which can admit 220 patients in the wards. We expect to admit around 220 patients in the hospital from next year.”The construction work of the main building (G+9) for the wards for admitting patients is in progress, and the concerned agency has assured the handover date of May 31, 2022. Similarly, the administrative building will be completed by January 31, 2022. The institute is simultaneously working on recruiting more faculty members, technicians, nurses and other staff along with equipment procurement so that additional patient care services can be added to the institute.Presently more than 100 patients come to OPD of KSSSCI daily but there are only 40 beds on which patients can be admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cancer-institute-augments-bed-capacity-to-220-other-facilities-to-be-ready-soon-101638464446555.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||IMS-BHU docs remove metal piece from lungs of youth||A team of surgeons led by prof Siddharth Lakhotia of department of cardio thoracic and vascular surgery in Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University (IMS-BHU) has successfully removed a piece of metal stuck inside the lungs of a youth. Prof Lakhotia said the 18-year-old patient had suffered the grave injury while bursting cracker from a country made equipment in Mathmahamadpur village in Mau district of UP on Diwali.“While bursting the cracker a metallic piece of the equipment backfired and went inside the patient’s chest badly injuring his right lung. He developed severe pain and became breathless. His kin rushed him to a hospital in Mau from where he was referred to Sir Sundar Lal Hospital, IMS-BHU,” said prof Lakhotia.Prof Lakhotia said the patient underwent operation at IMS-BHU on November 14.“Severity of the injury in his upper part of right lung resulted in huge loss of blood in his right pleural cavity. He was lucky that his heart was not injured. The surgery lasted for around three hours. After removal of the metallic piece, the lung was repaired and the bleeding points were controlled. The patient is now fine and discharged from hospital on Thursday,” he said.The team of surgeons included Dr Narendra Nath Das and anaesthetist prof SK Mathur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/imsbhu-docs-remove-metal-piece-from-lungs-of-youth-101638463843390.html
02-12-2021||Bangalore||All contacts of India’s 1st Omicron patient test negative, not so for 2nd patient||BENGALURU: India’s first cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus were reported in Karnataka on Thursday. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, a 66-year-old male and a 46-year-old male tested positive for the variant in Bengaluru.“Two cases of Omicron have been found positive: a 66-year-old male, and a 46-year-old male. We got the results very late last night,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary at the union ministry of health and family welfare, told reporters. “All primary and secondary contacts have been identified and are under isolation.”While Agarwal refused to divulge any more details about the two positive cases, Gaurav Gupta, commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said one of the patients is a South African national who arrived in Bengaluru on November 20 and the second patient is a health care worker in Bengaluru.The confirmation came after genome sequencing results came from a laboratory under the INSACOG when the samples were sent by the Karnataka government for verification.The World Health Organization (WHO) has labelled Omicron a Virus of Concern last Friday, and the UN health body suggested that preliminary evidence found an increased risk of re-infection with this variant, as compared to other variants of concern.Gupta told HT that India’s Omicron patient number one is a South African who landed in Bengaluru on November 20. “The patient is 66-year-old. His samples were collected on November 20 at the (Kempegowda) international airport on the day of his arrival. He had come from South Africa via Dubai. He came to India with an RT-PCR negative test report, but tested positive in the city,” said Gupta.A report from BBMP said that after the Covid test, he checked into a hotel in the city. After he tested positive, a doctor from the Urban Primary Health Care Centre visited him for a physical triage and found him to be asymptomatic. He was asked to isolate himself at the hotel. “On November 22, his test samples were collected and sent for genomic sequencing via BBMP,” said the report.It further added that the patient took a self-examination on November 23 and was tested negative. On getting this negative report at 12.34am on November 27, he left for Dubai from where he had come to the country.Karnataka’s minister for health and family welfare, Dr K Sudhakar said that India’s patient number one had 24 primary contacts and 240 secondary contacts. “The samples were collected from these contacts on November 22 and 23. All of them have tested negative. Even though they have tested negative, we are constantly monitoring their health,” said the minister.Unlike the first patient who arrived from South Africa, where the variant was first detected, patient number two was a resident of Bengaluru without any travel history.BBMP’s report said: “On November 21, he developed fever and body ache. He underwent an RT-PCR test on November 22 around 10am and by 4pm, he was declared Covid positive. Since he had a low CT value (which indicates a high viral load), his sample was sent for genomic sequencing,” said the report.The patient was in home isolation between November 22 to 24. On November 25, he was shifted to a hospital and was discharged on November 27, said the report.“He (patient number 2) had 13 primary contacts and 205 secondary contacts. Out of which, three primary contacts and two secondary contacts have tested positive for Covid. They are currently at a government hospital, and they are not showing any severe symptoms. We have sent their samples for genome sequencing,” said the health minister.It remains unclear how patient number two, who doesn’t have a travel history or contact with patient number one contracted the new variant which wasn’t detected in India before. “No comments,” said BBMP commissioner Gupta, when asked about the source of the new variant in the second patient.Following the detection of the new variant, the Karnataka government has asked the officials concerned to increase testing and tracking at various airports in Karnataka. The government on Tuesday issued directions to test all international passengers arriving in the state.BBMP commissioner Gupta said while the guidelines for the general public such as avoiding crowds and wearing masks continue, BBMP will increase the number of samples sent for genome sequencing.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is in New Delhi to meet union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to seek permission to administer the third dose of vaccine to frontline workers in the state, is expected to return to Bengaluru on Friday. Officials at CM’s office said that a high-level meeting will be held on his arrival to discuss further steps to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/all-contacts-of-india-s-1st-omicron-patient-test-negative-not-so-for-2nd-patient-101638463601346.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Police begin verifying identities of visitors, tenants in Sangam vicinity ahead of Magh Mela-2022||Ahead of the upcoming Magh Mela-2022, the police teams have started a verification drive of persons living in the Sangam area including, Parade Ground, near ghats and nearby slums in a bid to ensure security during the fair. Daraganj police are also verifying details of the tenants who have shifted to the area recently to identify any suspicious person who may cause trouble during the annual religious fair. It is worth mentioning that during Kumbh-2019, a satellite phone was found to be in use in the Mela area but despite all efforts, the phone and its user could not be traced. Moreover, there have been incidents of thefts from vehicles and even at ghats during the main bathing days. Some pick-pockets and snatchers have also been arrested during the Magh and Kumbh fairs in the past. There are some large slums at Parade Ground and Daraganj area which are close to Sangam and other ghats. During Mela, many gangs of thieves, including women, take shelter at Parade Ground and nearby slums and commit thefts. They leave the place after the fair is over to avoid the police. Now in a bid to identify such gangs and suspicious persons, police teams have launched a rigorous drive at Parade Ground and Sangam area on the instructions of senior police officials. Police teams are verifying documents of those living in the Sangam area and nearby slums and are checking if any suspicious persons have come there recently. The police are also taking the help of locals and informers to identify suspects. Moreover, a list of those involved in thefts and other crimes at Sangam in the past is also being compiled. Police officials said they would keep a strict eye on the suspects and take appropriate actions if necessary. On Thursday SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi visited the Sangam area and inspected the ongoing works. He issued necessary instructions to the concerned officials. SSP said that amid the ongoing preparation for Magh Mela, patrolling has been increased in the Sangam area and adjoining areas. A search has been launched for suspicious persons who may cause trouble during the annual fair, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/police-begin-verifying-identities-of-visitors-tenants-in-sangam-vicinity-ahead-of-magh-mela2022-101638463364310.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Leopard enters school in Aligarh, injures student||An adult male leopard entered into a classroom at Chaudhary Nihal Singh Inter College in Aligarh on Wednesday morning and injured a student. Lakhiraj Singh, 15, a student of class 10, spotted the big cat near staircases while he was going to his classroom. He tried to run away but the leopard attacked him. Hearing his screams, others rushed to the spot following which the big cat left the boy and hid inside a classroom, said a member of forest department team that along with a team of NGO Wildlife SOS rescued the big cat. The rescue operation lasted for 4 hours and the big cat was later released in Shivalika forest division in Saharanpur on Thursday. Aditi Sharma, conservator of forests (Aligarh), said, “The leopard probably sneaked into the college in the night and was first sighted near the staircase. On being informed, our team rushed to the location and immediately evacuated the students and staff and cordoned off the area with safety nets. Wildlife SOS assisted us in the safe rescue and release of the leopard.” The injured child was taken to hospital for treatment and was stable, she said. The official further said, as the leopard was confined to the first floor, the team called for a bucket truck that is often used for repairing street lights to facilitate the team. They spotted the big cat hiding behind a chair inside an empty classroom. Wildlife SOS veterinary doctor Dr Rahul Prasad tranquilized the leopard through a window. Dr Prasad said, “Such rescue operations are highly sensitive and need careful planning in order to ensure the safety of the animal as well as of the people. The leopard kept running between classrooms which made the task challenging.” Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO Wildlife SOS, said, “We are very grateful to the forest department for making this rescue a success. Such incidents are a direct result of loss of forest cover and encroachment leading to depletion of natural prey base and habitat, which in turn forces wild animals to venture into human settlements in search of food and shelter. This often leads to human-animal conflicts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/leopard-enters-school-in-aligarh-injures-student-101638463242254.html
02-12-2021||Other||Botched eye surgeries: Oppn turns heat, minister promises action||PATNA The issue of botched cataract surgeries at a private hospital in Muzaffarpur, which has led to loss of eyesight for 15 people so far, found its echo in Bihar legislature on Thursday, with opposition members raising the matter in both legislative assembly and council. In the legislative council, Congress member Prem Chandra Mishra moved an adjournment motion, saying it was a criminal offence on the part of the doctors.  The eye hospital had held a cataract camp on November 22 in which many people from nearby areas were operated upon. At least 25 people who had undergone cataract operations there complained of pain in their eyes and contacted the hospital, after which the eyes of almost 15 people were extracted.Later in the day, the entire opposition led by former deputy chief minister Rabri Devi held a protest holding placards. “We demand adequate compensation to victims and action against the culprit,” she said. Mishra demanded to job for at least one member of the affected families. A few leaders also demanded the resignation of health minister. In the assembly, the issue was also raised by Congress leader Ajit Sharma, who alleged that the health system in Bihar has collapsed. “After the Muzaffarpur incident, the government has remained a mute spectator. Chief minister Nitish Kumar should take action. The government should arrange better treatment in Delhi or wherever possible for those whose eyes have been damaged and compensation should be given to the affected families. Strict action should be taken against the culprits,” said Sharma.He also demanded the resignation of health minister Mangal Pandey. “The government is definitely not taking any cognizance of the incident. Affected people should get government help, including financial compensation and action should be taken against guilty doctors,” said Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Bhai Birendra. Meanwhile, health minister Mangal Pandey told HT said a four-member team has been sent to Muzaffarpur to probe the matter. “This will be in addition to the four-member team probing the matter at district level,” said Pandey.The health minister said the team would be collecting the swab samples, instruments used, the fluid used for surgery, the condition of hospital and other details. “We are expecting a report in next 72 hours and action will be taken on the basis of report,” he said. 
02-12-2021||Patna||DIG facing graft charge suspended||Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Shafi-Ul-Haque, who was facing corruption charges, has been suspended for extorting money from his juniors, according to a notification issued by the home department Wednesday night.The action was taken based on a report submitted by the economic offence unit (EoU) , which was probing the case, in the last week of November . Haque was posted as Munger’s DIG when allegations of corruption were levelled against him by junior officers last year. Departmental proceedings against him started on November 3 this year. The matter came to light when one of his junior officers recorded his verbal orders demanding money using name of a state minister. The minister later provided the audio clip to chief minister Nitish Kumar who ordered an inquiry, said officials familiar with the matter.On the basis of several complaints, the EoU conducted an investigation and found the charges to be true. Haque was transferred to the police headquarters in Patna on June 19, 2021. He was waiting for a posting till the suspension order was not issued. The home department has directed him to report before IG Patna during his suspension.A person familiar with the matter said that an additional superintendent of police (ASP) in Munger had alleged that a person claiming to be close to Haque approached him and demanded a bribe while promising to help him in a departmental inquiry initiated by the state police headquarters for his alleged failure to file a charge sheet against two accused in the case of recovery of 22 AK-47 rifles smuggled from the Central Ordnance Depot (COD) in Jabalpur in September 2018.The ASP also provided an audio clip to back his claim. Two days before his transfer, Haque had recommended departmental proceedings against the ASP for his alleged failure to file a charge sheet in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/dig-facing-graft-charge-suspended-101638463063218.html
02-12-2021||Patna||MLAs fume after cop halts minister’s car in assembly for ‘VIP passage’||The Bihar assembly on Thursday witnessed uproarious scenes when labour resources minister Jibesh Kumar lamented how he felt “humiliated” when his car was stopped by security personnel to make way for cars of Patna’s district magistrate and police chief inside the premises of the legislative building. The minister stood up during the question hour and narrated how his car was stopped today inside the legislative assembly premises and a traffic constable asked him “to wait till the cars of DM and SP passed through”. The minister sought immediate action against the erring officials. “When my car was stopped, I thought the CM’s convoy or Speaker’s car is passing by. But the security personnel stopped my car for making way for car of DM and SSP. This is an insult of public representatives. I seek your (Speaker’s) protection and immediate action against officials who stopped my car. Is the government supreme or is it that the DM and SSP above the minister? This has to be decided,” Kumar said, sounding visibly agitated. Opposition legislators immediately started shouting and rushed to the well of the house, demanding action against officials for stopping the minister’s car. Senior legislators of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and the Left, Lalit Kumar Yadav, Ajeet Sharma and Mehboob Alam, respectively, said the incident only reflected how prestige and dignity of legislators was being undermined by the bureaucracy. Sources said the minister’s car was apparently stopped because the CM’s convoy had just entered the legislative assembly with senior officials and police officials, including Patna’s SSP. A traffic constable on duty told reporters that he had only followed orders because the CM’s convoy was passing and he had acted as per protocol by stopping the minister’s car. Amid the protests, parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said the matter was serious and would be looked into even as Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha adjourned the house for 15 minutes, asking the agitated members to attend a meeting with him at his chamber. Another meeting of business advisory committee was held after pre-lunch session wherein leaders of major parties were present. Patna’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Upendra Sharma was also called during the meeting in the pre-lunch session, sources said. In the evening, the Speaker held a meeting with senior police and administrative officials on the matter, sources said. Additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad said it seemed unlikely that minister car could have been deliberately stopped. “There must have been some issues related to CM’s convoy. But we are looking into the whole matter,” he said. Director general of police S K Sinnghal said they are probing the matter from all angles and CCTV footages would be scanned. Meanwhile, a strongly worded statement was issued in protest by Sanjay Jaiswal, who heads the state unit of BJP, to which Jibesh Kumar Mishra belongs. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had only recently stressed the need for officials to be courteous towards elected representatives,” said Jaiswal, who is a Lok Sabha member. “While this is a convention followed across the country, in Bihar some bureaucrats seem to betray a sort of regal arrogance. The Speaker must take cognisance and act,” he said. 
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Fighter aircraft tyre stolen from trailer amid traffic jam||LUCKNOW In a bizarre incident, one of the five tyres of a fighter jet plane being ferried on a trailer from the Bakshi Ka Talab (BKT) Air Force Station here to Jodhpur was stolen when the vehicle was passing through Shaheed Path under Ashiana police station limits five days ago. An FIR against unidentified people had been registered under Section 379 (for theft) of the IPC and further investigation was on, said police on Thursday.A special team had been deployed to investigate into the case as it related to the nation’s security and there could be some anti-national motives behind it, they said.The FIR was lodged on Wednesday on the complaint of trailer driver Hem Singh Rawat of Ajmer (Rajasthan). Rawat stated that he was transporting five tyres of a fighter jet and travelling from BKT Air Force Station to Jodhpur when one of them was stolen on Shaheed Path on Saturday (November 27), said Dheeraj Shukla, inspector in-charge of Ashiana police station. The complainant mentioned the tyre was stolen when his vehicle was stuck in a traffic jam. According to another police official, the driver said two SUV-borne men stole the tyre when the trailer was in the jam. The driver immediately called up the police emergency response centre to inform about the incident and later lodged a complaint. Defence personnel swung into action when the driver reached Jodhpur with only four tyres and informed them about the entire incident, he added.The official said footages of CCTVs from all possible locations around Shaheed Path were retrieved. Ashish Moghe, PRO of Bakshi Ka Talab Air Force Station, said he was not aware about the incident and would find out if any such thing happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fighter-aircraft-tyre-stolen-from-trailer-amid-traffic-jam-101638462761304.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Opposition cannot be limited to UPA; need broader front with collective leadership, says NCP||A day after Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that there is no united progressive alliance (UPA) left, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) national spokesperson Nawab Malik on Thursday said that things will not change if Opposition parties limit themselves to UPA. There is a need for a broader front with collective leadership to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre. Several parties are not part of UPA but have significant strength and thus need to be brought on this platform. He also pointed out the drawbacks of UPA by saying that there were several issues in the country, on which, UPA allies could have met to discuss and formalise a strategy, but that did not happen.The NCP stand is seen as an advice to its ally in Maharashtra. NCP chief Sharad Pawar has been publicly expressing his view that all Opposition parties should be brought together to provide an alternative to the ruling BJP-led NDA at the Centre.“Things will not go ahead by limiting UPA. Several parties are not part of it but have around 150 seats (out of 543 seats in Lok Sabha) and thus need to be brought on a platform to make a broader front with collective leadership. There were several issues in the country on which UPA allies could have met (to formalise a strategy) but that did not happen. Certainly, there were drawbacks,” Malik told reporters in Pune.On Wednesday, Mamata Banerjee met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar at the latter’s residence in Mumbai. After the meeting, she said that there was no UPA left in the country and made a pitch for unifying Opposition parties. “What is UPA? There is no UPA,” Banerjee told reporters after the meeting. On Tuesday, Banerjee met leaders of the Shiv Sena, the biggest constituent of Maharashtra’s ruling alliance that also comprises the NCP and Congress.“Considering today’s situation and the ongoing fascism, a strong alternative force is required in the country against it. No one can do it alone. We all need a strong alternative and if someone is not ready to fight, then what can be done,” Banerjee had said without naming Congress.On Thursday, Malik said that Banerjee told them there is unrest in the country against the PM Narendra Modi led government at the Centre and there is a need to bring all the opposition parties together. “Pawar saheb clearly said we will make all the efforts. No opposition can be strengthened without Congress. We want to bring all the parties be it Mamata didi (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Samajwadi Party (SP), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and parties from southern states on a platform. We want to make a front along with Congress, which will have a collective leadership,” he said.Referring to Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, a ruling coalition, comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, the NCP minister said that Pawar is the real Chanakya who brought Congress and Shiv Sena together to ally.“Pawar is a real Chanakya who defeated the one who was calling himself Chanakya. No one would have dreamt that Shiv Sena and Congress could come together. Similarly, Pawar saheb will bring such parties together that no one would have imagined. Our front cannot be made by removing any particular party (Congress). We want to include all the parties and Pawar saheb is working in that direction,” he said.Congress leader and state minister Ashok Chavan said all such issues can be discussed and resolved on the forum of UPA. He said that they agree that all anti-BJP parties should come together but what is wrong if they all come under the UPA fold.“Since all issues pertaining to UPA, the matter should be discussed at the highest level with UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi. It is a proper forum under which all such issues should be discussed, everybody can express their individual opinions and the UPA chairperson is also competent enough to take a call on the suggestions,” Chavan said.“No doubt all anti-BJP parties should come together but what is wrong if they come into the UPA fold. What is the point in forming a front without Congress when you want to take on BJP, especially when Congress played a dominant role against it (BJP),” he argued.He also said that the parties named by the NCP for a broader front can clear their stand on their own and why NCP is making statements on their behalf.
02-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC proposal: 24 SUVs for ₹2.83 crore||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to shell out ₹2.83 crore to acquire 24 Sports Utility Vehicles (SUV) for each of the 24 assistant municipal commissioners (Ward Officers) in charge of the 24 administrative wards in Mumbai.According to the standing committee agenda of December 3 the civic administration wants to replace the existing vehicles with new ones citing frequent breakdowns and overuse. The proposal states that BMC will buy 24 models of the Mahindra Scorpio (BS-VI) at a price of ₹11.34 lakh each. In the agenda it is also mentioned that the vehicles that are going to be replaced are also Scorpio but the variants are different.The BMC has said that it will procure the new vehicles from the Government E Marketplace (GEM Portal) at a discounted price of 15-20% from present-day market rate, and the overall cost including taxes and transportation would come to ₹2.83 cr.The existing vehicles were brought 8-10 years agoA senior BMC official associated with the Solid Waste Management (SWM) department in charge for the maintenance of vehicles owned by the BMC said that owing to the rules of the Bombay High Court (HC), the BMC needs to replace its existing fleet of vehicles after every eight years.“To keep a check on the carbon emission there is a rule of replacing these vehicles after every eight years. We are following these orders,” the official who did not wish to be quoted, said.The official added that a technical committee will conduct a structural audit of the existing to assess whether they could be used for other departmental purposes.“The SUV vehicles are robust and will not breakdown easily especially during the monsoon season,” the official said. These vehicles are mainly used by the ward officers for their official field visits, inspection visits and day-to-day commute.Earlier this year, the BMC had spent ₹1.6 years for acquiring five electronic vehicles on lease for eight years. “The five e-cars are in operation and one of it is presently being used by the Mayor and some officials of Joint Municipal Commissioner rank,” the official said.The official said that as there not enough charging points in the city, the civic body will acquire the SUVs.“At a time when the civic body is cutting budget for slum development, school repairs and garden maintenance it is planning to buy new cars. The BMC has already spent crores in battling Covid and the proposal should be ascertained before giving it a go-ahead,” Vinod Mishra, group leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who is also a member of the standing committee.The proposal will be tabled for approval in the civic standing committee on Friday. If passed, the vehicles will be delivered to the BMC within 90 days after official order is placed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-proposal-24-suvs-for-2-83-crore-101638462461268.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Dumping of garbage in Diva will stop by Jan 2022, claims Thane Municipal Corporation||In a major relief to the Thane residents, the Thane Municipal Corporation has now claimed that the dumping of garbage in Diva will stop by January 2022.Civic commissioner, Dr. Vipin Sharma, signed an agreement for the land in Bhandarli on Thursday in the presence of Thane Mayor, Naresh Mhaske, and the plot will be used for scientific treatment of waste. The announcement, which came ahead of the civic general polls slated for next year, might benefit the ruling party that had earlier lost seats in Diva owing to the unresolved issue of dumping the waste of the entire Thane in Diva.The corporation has claimed that the scientific processing of waste can start at Bhandarli by January next year.For almost a decade, all the waste generated in Thane, Mumbra and Kalwa was dumped on four dumping spots in Diva. The residents, however, had to bear foul stench and other health issues due to the mounting of garbage in their vicinity. The dumping was also near to the creek, leading to destruction of mangroves.Sharma said, “The plot in Diva is around 10 acres and we will complete setting up a scientific waste treatment plant here in two weeks. We have also completed all the formalities needed to get permission to set up the plant and hope that the approvals will also come in two to three weeks. We have also shown the plot to Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to seek its permission. We plan to start the project by January next year.”The Daighar waste-to-energy project, wherein electricity will be generated out of the waste, will also gain momentum in the next six months. After the Daighar plant is operational, the collection centre at CP Tank in Wagle Estate will be closed, Sharma added.TMC will have to spend a total of ₹2.40Cr on the plot that includes rent and operational cost.Mhaske said, “Thane city, though, is clean. However, we lost points in the Swachh Survey due to unscientific dumping of waste. Diva residents have had to bear the brunt of entire Thane city’s waste since 2008. This decision is a major relief to these residents and we hope that there is no opposition to the said plot.”The unresolved issue of dumping in Diva was used by political parties in most elections to garner votes. However, time and again, the residents merely got assurance rather than relief. Rohidas Munde, Thane city executive member, BJP, said, “The decision came with merely three months left for the elections and looks merely like a poll gimmick. In the last elections the Sena had promised Diva residents that they would close the dumping in Diva in three months when they came into power. It has been five years and people are still suffering. It was in their tenure itself when permission to dump the entire city’s waste on Diva was given, which affected the health of the Diva residents. People are hearing this announcement for the last many elections and will trust only when the dumping actually stops.”
02-12-2021||Kolkata||Businessman murdered in Bengal along with kin; suspect at large||A 50-year-old businessman, his father, wife and son were all beaten to death in the Singur area of Bengal’s Hooghly district on Thursday morning, police said. The businessman, Dinesh Patel, owned a wood saw mill in the rural Nandabazar area of Singur. The principal suspect, who was seen leaving the spot by eyewitnesses, is a relative of the family, police said. He was identified as Yogesh Dhawan, a cousin of Dinesh Patel. “Dhawan came from Gujarat about a month ago to work at the mill,” said a police officer. Patel’s body and that of his wife, Anusuya, 46, were found in one of the rooms inside the factory premises where the family used to live. Both bore multiple injuries apparently inflicted by an iron rod. Patel’s father, Bhabji, and son, Bhavik, were found in the adjacent room. They died at the state-run SSKM Hospital in Kolkata shortly after they were rushed to the state capital, police said. “Raids are being conducted to nab the suspect. It appears that some dispute over property led to the crime,” an officer from the Singur rural police station said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/businessman-murdered-in-bengal-along-with-kin-suspect-at-large-101638461981285.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Congress MLA Chandrakant Jadhav passes away||Congress legislator Chandrakant Jadhav, who represented the Kolhapur (North) constituency in the state legislative Assembly, passed away on Thursday morning. He was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Hyderabad. Jadhav’s demise will necessitate a by-election in his constituency. This will be the third such bypoll during the tenure of the incumbent state Assembly. Earlier, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had snatched the Pandharpur-Mangalwedha seat after the death of Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Bharat Bhalke, while last month, Jitesh Antapurkar of the Congress held on to the Deglur-Biloli seat that had been won by his late father, Raosaheb, in 2019. Jadhav, 58, an entrepreneur, had joined the Congress on the eve of the state Assembly elections and inflicted a shocking defeat on the Shiv Sena’s two-term MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar from the Assembly segment, which had a strong saffron presence. He was associated with the BJP earlier. Last year, Jadhav had been diagnosed with Covid-19 twice and was suffering from complications. Referred to as Anna, Jadhav had links with the various sports clubs and wrestling clubs in the district. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Nana Patole, are among those who have condoled Jadhav’s demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-mla-chandrakant-jadhav-passes-away-101638461860652.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai girl wins cycling gold at National meet||For 15-year-old Snehal Mali, fitness and sports are something that she had been seeing since her childhood at her home with her father being a policeman.Even as she had always been cycling, first with her elder brother’s cycle and then her own, she started taking it as a sport only after she joined a cycling club in Kharghar around two years ago.She won a gold medal at the National-level Cycling Championship held by the Cycling Federation of India in Kurukshetra, Haryana. The competition was held from November 25 to 28 this year.“In Class 6, I got a mountain bike, then in class 7, I got my road bike. The first ever competition I participated in was in class 8. I got selected from Taluka-level competition, then in district and then in the State level,” she said.In the 26th State-level championship, she had won bronze. Last year, during the 25th year of the championship as well, she had won silver in the state. And, she went on to win bronze at the Nationals.Her father, police inspector Shatrughn Mali, who is currently heading the unit three of Navi Mumbai Crime Branch, said, “It was a team effort of the whole family. We all have been waking up at 5.30am. While her mother took care of her diet, I took her to the practice. She made us proud by achieving this honour. Due to Covid, the international competition is on hold and hence she might miss out on the chance to go abroad for the competition.” Mali himself was a judo champion and has been a National-level competitor too.Currently in Class 10, Snehal is also preparing for her Boards along with her daily practice of cycling. From Tuesday to Saturday, she cycles around 40km-50 km in the morning while on Sundays, she cycles 90km-100km. Mondays are the rest days for her.“Along with my family, my biggest support has been my coach, Rajendra Soni, who has guided my workout, diet and cycling as well,” Snehal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-girl-wins-cycling-gold-at-national-meet-101638460668621.html
02-12-2021||Bangalore||5 contacts of Omicron-infected person test Covid-19 positive; samples sent for genome sequencing||After two people in Karnataka were found to be infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus, five contacts of one of the patients have now tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples have been forwarded for genome sequencing to determine if they have been infected with the new strain, Omicron, Bengaluru's civic body informed on Thursday.“Three primary contacts and two secondary contacts of the 46-year-old male tested positive between November 22 and November 25. All are isolated,” news agency ANI quoted Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) as saying.Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said that all the five are fully vaccinated against the Covid-19, and have been admitted to a government hospital.“Out of his (doctor's) primary & secondary contact, 5 people tested positive for Covid-19. So a total of 6 people have been isolated, admitted to government hospitals. None of them showed any serious symptoms. All these people are fully vaccinated,” ANI quoted him as saying.Also read | Omicron variant: At least 375 cases, now in 30 countries. Here's a listAccording to a statement issued by the BBMP, one of the two patients found infected with the Omicron variant is a 66-year-old male while the other is a 46-year-old male. The former had returned from South Africa, via Dubai, and was fully vaccinated."There were 24 primary contacts of the 66-year-old male. All are asymptomatic, tested and reported negative for the Covid," the Bengaluru municipal corporation said."As many as 13 primary contacts and 205 secondary contacts of the 46-year-old male were tested. Out of which, three primary contacts and two secondary contacts were tested positive between November 22 and 25. All are isolated. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing, results are awaited," it said.Also read | Don’t delay getting fully vaccinated: Centre after Omicron cases found in IndiaThe new Covid-19 variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 25. As per the WHO, the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 this year. The world health body has classified Omicron as a 'variant of concern'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/5-contacts-of-omicron-infected-person-test-covid-19-positive-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101638459612628.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Three arrested for murdering 33-year-old man in Kalwa||Using a tailor’s label on the shirt of the deceased, the Kalwa police identified a murder victim and traced his alleged murderers within 12 hours of the body being found.According to the Kalwa police, the body was spotted floating on the Kalwa creek and reported to the Thane Police control room at around 11.40am on Wednesday. A team reached the spot and pulled it out of the water, after which it was taken to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa.Based on the external injuries visible on the body and the fact that its hands were tied with rope, the police registered a case of murder against unknown persons.“The deceased was wearing a shirt that bore a tailor’s label on its inside. The label had the tailor’s name as well as his cell phone number. We contacted the tailor and sent a team led by sub-inspector Mahesh Kawle to his shop in Govandi,” DCP (Zone I), Avinash Ambure, said.Kawle and his team then fanned out in the locality and started inquiries. With the help of some local residents, they also circulated the picture of the deceased in the residents’ WhatsApp groups. Within hours, we were able to identify the deceased as Sheikh Mohammed Asif (33).”Using Asif’s cellular movements, his last contacted numbers and local grapevine, the police picked up Nizamuddin Sheikh (44).“Sheikh’s sister had borrowed ₹10,000 from Asif, which she had returned. However, Asif was demanding interest and harassing her a lot for it to the point of visiting her house frequently and threatening to harm her. Sheikh, along with two others, call Asif to meet him on Wednesday, supposedly to collect the interest, but instead murdered him and disposed of his body,” an officer said.Sheikh and his two accomplices, Mirza Nawab (30) and Mohammed Irfan Khan (32), were arrested on Thursday and charged with murder and destruction of evidence under the Indian Penal Code. They will be produced in court on Friday, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-arrested-for-murdering-33-year-old-man-in-kalwa-101638459761013.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Motor Vehicles Act amended: Now pay more fines for traffic violations||The Maharashtra government on Thursday amended the Motor Vehicle Act (MVA) and increased compounding fines for different traffic offences across the state.In an increase of fines under various sections of the MV Amendment Act 2019, the state has issued a notification that has come into effect from December 1.Fine for travelling without a helmet on a two-wheeler has increased from ₹500 to ₹500 for the first time and ₹1,500 for the second and subsequent times. Fines for talking on the mobile phone while driving has been increased from ₹200 to ₹500.“The increase in fines will discourage people from committing traffic offences and will drive safely, improving the road safety of the driver and the pedestrians as well,” said a senior transport department official.Further, compounding fines in many sections of the MV Act have not been hiked, however, they have been altered. Fine for dangerous (reckless) driving was ₹1,000, while it has now been revised to ₹1,000 for two-wheeler and ₹2,000 for other vehicles. Similarly, the fine for a fancy number plate (different display of numbers than prescribed) was ₹1,000, while the revised penalty is ₹500 for the first time and ₹1500 for subsequent instances.Transport commissioner Avinash Dhakane did not respond to HT’s calls or messages.There were mixed reactions from motorists. Akanksha Sharma, a Parel resident, said, “Traffic offences are violated in south Mumbai blatantly. With an increase in fines, people will think twice before committing an offence. Safety on the city roads will increase.” Faisal Khan, a Bandra resident, said, “Increase in fines for the second time, especially, for those without helmets will only increase instances of bribes. The fines for the second-time violation should have been ₹800 and not ₹1,500.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/motor-vehicles-act-amended-now-pay-more-fines-for-traffic-violations-101638459161056.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||3 Kashmiri students held for sedition approach Allahabad HC for bail||PRAYAGRAJ The three Kashmiri students of an engineering college in Agra, who were arrested on sedition charges in October for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans following Pakistan’s victory in the T20 cricket World Cup match against India, have directly approached the Allahabad high court seeking their release on bail. They said that the lawyers’ association in Agra had refused to represent them. The trio - Arsheed Yusuf, Inayat Altaf Sheikh and Showkat Ahmed Ganai – was arrested on October 27, 2021 by Agra police.Generally, the bail application is moved before the district court first, and in case of its rejection, the same is challenged before the high court with a request to release the applicant on bail. Significantly, along with bail plea, the students also moved an application seeking transfer of their case from Agra to Mathura on the plea that “the entire bar association of Agra is not ready to appear on behalf of the applicants before the court.”They were booked under Sections 124 A (sedition), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 505 (1)(B) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 66-F of the Information Technology Act for allegedly sending WhatsApp messages “against the country” after the match.Seeking transfer of the case, an application filed by them took the plea that “if the case of the applicants is not transferred to Mathura district court, the accused/applicants cannot contest their case and also cannot take proper legal assistance, and in the absence of that, they would remain behind bars for an unlimited period.”In their petition, it was claimed that the students were getting life threats if they tried to contact any member of the Agra Bar Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/3-kashmiri-students-held-for-sedition-approach-allahabad-hc-for-bail-101638458980965.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 91mm rainfall, wettest day in December||Mumbai: The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Santacruz observatory recorded 91 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours at 8:30 am Thursday, marking the city’s highest-ever single-day rainfall during December. Mumbai’s previous record stood at 53.8 mm of rain in 24 hours, on December 6, 2017, due to the passage of Cyclone Ockhi, close to the city coast. The mean monthly rainfall for December (i.e. the average from 1981 to 2010) stands at just 1.6mm. The ongoing unseasonal rains are due to a cyclonic circulation over the southeast and the east-central Arabian Sea, along with a persisting trough running through Gujarat’s Kutch region at mean sea level (MSL), which are bringing moisture-laden winds over the city.Rains in December are rare for Mumbai but do occur with much less intensity. On December 11, 2020, the city recorded 0.7mm of rain due to a similar cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea. On December 5, 2019, due to similar meteorological conditions, the city had received 1.2mm of rain. An official with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai informed, “A prolonged spell of rain like we are seeing is extremely unlikely in December. In terms of the synoptic features, we know what is causing it, but we will have to wait much longer to see if there is any change in rainfall trends. It is also unlikely for such rains to happen again this month,” said an official with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.These rains, which will continue with reduced intensity on December 3, resulted in a steep dip in temperature. At both Santacruz and Colaba, the minimum temperature on Thursday was recorded at 18.5 degrees Celsius (down from 23.8 degrees Celsius and 24.5 degrees Celsius respectively the day prior). This is a degree below normal for Santacruz and four degrees below normal for Colaba. Mumbai’s lowest ever December minimum, recorded in 1949, stands at 10.6 degrees Celsius.On Wednesday, the city had recorded its second-coldest December day in over a decade, with the daytime maximum dipping to 24.8 degrees Celsius. This was followed by a pleasant 26.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday. Temperatures will remain low for at least another day, with the maximum expected to hover around 26 degrees Celsius and minimum at around 20 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD’s forecast, Mumbai will continue to see ‘light rains’ on December 3, though their intensity will keep decreasing and overcast skies will give way to ‘partly cloudy’ conditions from December 4 to December 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-91mm-rainfall-wettest-day-in-december-101638457720947.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron threat: Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation tracing international travellers||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has found 214 international travellers, out of which 26 have returned from high-risk countries as notified by the government.The call centre of the NMMC is calling and tracking all these travellers.“Our call centres and Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) heads have been provided by the list of all the travellers who are being tracked on a daily basis. On the eighth day of the arrival, they will undergo RT-PCR test,” medical health officer, Dr Pramod Patil, said.After reaching the airport, as per the protocol, the travellers undergo testing there and the list is sent to the respective corporations.“We keep a track of their health by making daily calls and ensure that they are in quarantine for 14 days as per the rule. They are asked if they are facing any kind of symptoms and by default, on the eighth day, they would be tested. Since none have completed seven days, the testing is not yet done,” assistant municipal commissioner, Sanjay Kakade, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-threat-navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-tracing-international-travellers-101638457061479.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Mother fakes 3-month-old kidnap, arrested for killing child||Two days after a Kalachowkie resident claimed that her three-month-old daughter was stolen by an unidentified hawker from her house, the Mumbai Police crime branch on Thursday, arrested the 32-year-old mother for allegedly killing the child. According to police, the accused woman, Sapana Bajrang Magdum, has an eight-year-old daughter and desperately wanted her second child to be a baby boy. The woman added that said she was being mentally harassed by her family members and had acted out of desperation. The woman had, however, reported a concocted story to the local police. On Tuesday, the woman had informed the police that on Tuesday afternoon a hawker aged between 30 and 35 years of age approached her at her residence, to sell a plastic bucket in exchange for old clothes. She had claimed that when she proceeded to her room, the hawker followed her and pressed a chloroform-laced cloth on her mouth, making her unconscious. She added that the hawker then picked up the baby girl, who was sleeping at the time and fled from the house. She had said that after she gained consciousness, she called her husband and thereafter approached Kalachowki police station to report the incident. The police had registered a kidnapping case and formed several teams to search the woman hawker and trace the missing girl child. The crime branch had also started a parallel probe in the incident. “When we enquired with the woman about the incident, we sensed a foul play. A skilful interrogation of the woman revealed that she had dropped the girl child in a water tank, in their house,” said deputy commissioner of police Prakash Jadhav of the crime branch. Jadhav said the woman also informed them that she was being mentally harassed by her family members for failing to deliver a male child, and she committed the act out of desperation. He added that the woman has been handed over to Kalachowkie police for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mother-fakes-3-month-old-kidnap-arrested-for-killing-child-101638456822919.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||2 arrested for killing friend in Bhiwandi||Two persons were arrested for killing their friend by inserting a compression pressure pipe used for filling air in vehicle tyres in his anal cavity for fun and releasing the air pressure, in Bhiwandi, Thane.The deceased’s intestines blew up due to the pressure and he was admitted to a hospital. He succumbed and the two were held for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The three were labourers and friends working in a mill.The deceased, identified as Abdul Mansuri, 32, was working in a silk mill loom factory in Bhiwandi city. His friends, Munna Kumar and Bittu Kumar, both around 30 years old, were in the factory on November 26 at around 8pm. All of them were having fun and while they were teasing Mansuri, two of them held him and blew him by inserting a pipe from the air compression pressure machine into his private part.Nizampura police officials said, “Mansuri fell unconscious on the ground as his intestines were blown and damaged due to air pressure. The accused didn’t know about the repercussions of the act. The deceased died on December 1 while undergoing treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-arrested-for-killing-friend-in-bhiwandi-101638456280878.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Environmentalists claim mangroves being destroyed at Karanja jetty in Uran||Environmentalists and local fisher folks have claimed that a vast stretch of mangroves is being allegedly destroyed at Karanja jetty in Uran across Mumbai harbour and the land is being reclaimed.In September too, the region was involved in a controversy over the destruction of stretches of mangroves and dumping the bundles of the chopped plants mid-sea.In their latest complaint to the Chief Minister and the High Court-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee, NatConnect Foundation and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan said the sea plants in at least five acres have been uprooted.“The mangrove destruction is absolutely not acceptable because it violates the Environmental Clearance,” said NatConnect Foundation director, BN Kumar.Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Pratishtan, alleged that the destruction has robbed the fishing community off their livelihood as the coast was a breeding ground for a variety of fish and crabs.The activists sent photographic evidence of the destruction to the government.Following the complaint in September, Uran tehsildar ordered an inspection of the site following which an FIR has been registered. On the one hand, the breeding grounds of fish are being destroyed while on the other, the creek water channels are being shut for fishing, said Dilip Koli of the traditional fishing community, Paaramparik Machhimaar Bachao Kruti Samiti. “Our constitutionally-guaranteed right to practice our trade is being denied to us,” he lamented.When contacted, Uran tehsildar Bhausaheb Andhare, said, “I had inspected the area last time with concerned officials and also the complainants. A police complaint was lodged and a person has been identified against whom an FIR has been registered.”On the latest allegation he said, “We are not aware of any such development. We will check if there is something to it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/environmentalists-claim-mangroves-being-destroyed-at-karanja-jetty-in-uran-101638455320797.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC forms teams in 24 wards to levy ₹10,000 fine on Covid-19 guidelines violators||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has formed 24 teams, one for each administrative ward, to monitor the violations of the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state in the backdrop of outbreak of Omicron variant. Establishments that are found to be in violation of these guidelines will be fined ₹10,000, while individuals will be fined ₹500, based on a state government notification issued last week. The order issued on November 27 stated that all shops, establishments, malls, and spaces of gathering “where a member of public has a right to come and get services” can only admit persons who have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. The guidelines also mandated Covid appropriate behaviour, including being masked and maintaining social distance.BMC officials said that the civic body will start levying fines on December 6 (Monday) once it has carried out sensitisation and awareness among establishments about the guidelines.Under the National Disaster Management Act, the civic body has the authority to close down the establishment if it is found to be in frequent violation of the guidelines. However, the notification did not confirm how many violations could be considered “frequent”.“We have formed a team of officers from several departments at ward level. We are going and checking private offices, malls, theatres etc. Till now, we have not come across any violation as such in order to levy a ₹10,000 fine,” Sandhya Nandekar, Assistant Municipal Commissioner of the BMC said. Officials from the license, solid waste management and shop and establishment departments of the wards will be part of these teams. Currently, clean up marshals of the BMC are authorised to levy a ₹200 fine for those found to be unmasked in public places. “For now, we have formed teams who will do awareness and sensitisation drive across establishments to ensure there is compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. We will start issuing fines starting next week,” a BMC ward official from south Mumbai said. Since April 2020, over ₹78 crore has been collected from nearly 38 lakh citizens for not wearing a mask in public places in Mumbai. The state government in a notification on Saturday made it mandatory for people to be fully vaccinated to access public places and public transport. It also said it will monitor crowding at weddings and open spaces to prevent super-spreader events. At present, theatres are only allowed to operate at 50% capacity. Up to 100 people or 50% (whichever is lesser) are permitted for weddings taking place in closed spaces while up to 200 persons or 50% (whichever is lesser) are permitted in weddings conducted in open spaces like lawns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-forms-teams-in-24-wards-to-levy-10-000-fine-on-covid-19-guidelines-violators-101638454240712.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Father, brother booked for abetting farmer’s suicide||A 35-year-old farmer committed suicide by consuming poison after he was allegedly thrashed by his father and younger brother in Rauwal village of Sidhwan Bet on Wednesday, police said. A first information report has been registered on the basis of statement given by the wife of the victim.In her statement, the woman mentioned that she had gone to her parents’ house in Akhara village about 15 days ago. She said her husband was supposed to come to meet her, but he did not. She called him to ask why did not he show up on which her husband claimed his father and younger brother were not allowing him to leave. He said they had also snatched keys of his car and when he objected, they thrashed him as well, the woman told the police. She alleged that after that incident, her husband ended his life by consuming poison. She has accused her father-in-law and brother-in-law of harassing her husband. ASI Naseeb Chand, who is investigating the case, said that the FIR under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC has been registered against the duo at the Sidhwan Bet police station.A hunt is on to nab the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-father-brother-booked-for-abetting-farmer-s-suicide-101638452380527.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Farmers, APMC traders worry about damage to fruits due to unseasonal rains||The unseasonal rains in different parts of Maharashtra over the last few days have given a cause for concern to the farmers and traders of APMC about the damage to crops of seasonal fruits.This can also lead to degradation in quality or increase in prices. Even the much-loved Alphonso mangoes, which are in the pre-flowering stage, might be delayed this year. Fruits like grapes, anjeer and strawberry would also bear the brunt of the unseasonal rains with the flowering crops and the crops in the pre-flowering stage completely destroyed.Gulab Neharkar, grapes farmer and supplier for the last 35 years, has not seen any losses like the ones he is facing since the last three years. “The unseasonal rains have been an issue since the last three years. Since last year, Covid has also added to our woes. In the last two days, all the crops that were in the flowering and pre-flowering stages have been completely damaged. The crops have been infected with diseases like downy mildew and powdery mildew due to which we are spraying on the crops all day and night to save them. This has led to the rise in the expenses of the manufacturing of grapes. The cost of labour, and fungicides-pesticides have gone up due to the higher usage. Many farmers are planning to abandon the work of farming and sell off their lands due to the unpredictable climate,” Neharkar from Junnar in Pune, said.Director of fruits market in APMC, Sanjay Pansare, said that similar to the grapes even strawberry, anjeer and mangoes have suffered. “Grapes come mainly from Nashik, Pune, Sangli and Solapur, and wherever there has been rain, the crops have suffered. The fruits that are coming now are of lower quality due to this. The price has not increased but the quality has decreased. The mangoes that would have otherwise started coming in by February 15 will now come only after February. A farmer who would have got 90 days to sell the produce will now get only 60 days in the market,” Pansare said.Currently, one kilogram of grapes cost ₹100- ₹125 and 400g of anjeer and strawberry cost ₹150 in the wholesale market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farmers-apmc-traders-worry-about-damage-to-fruits-due-to-unseasonal-rains-101638452085995.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||UPTET paper leak: Another printing firm in Delhi under STF scanner||LUCKNOW A few more people, including the owner and employees of another printing firm of New Delhi, were under the scanner of the Special Task Force (STF) in connection with the UP Teachers’ Eligibility Test-2021 (UPTET) question paper leak case, said police on Thursday.Officials said Delhi-based printing firm’s director Rai Anoop Prasad, who managed to procure a work order worth ₹13 crore for printing over 22 lakh question papers, had sub let the work to another printing press. Prasad and secretary of Exam Regulatory Authority (ERA), UP, Sanjay Kumar Upadhyay, had already been arrested in the matter and now the STF was verifying the role of the second printing press, where the question papers were actually printed, they added. A senior STF official said the involvement of people associated with the second printing press was suspected in selling some sets of question papers to different solvers’ groups in return of money.He said the ERA secretary had given the printing job to Prasad’s RSM Finserv Ltd firm in violation of security norms laid for this purpose. As per the norms, the questions papers should be published at least 1000 km away from the examination centres and employees should not be aware about the language in which papers are printed. The official said the work was given to Prasad’s firm barely 40 km from Gautam Buddh Nagar, where many examination centres were set up. Investigation revealed that the ERA secretary and Prasad were familiar with each other since the former’s posting in Gautam Buddh Nagar. It also came to fore that Upadhyay and Prasad met in a hotel just three days before the work order was released on November 26. The investigators had retrieved phone call details of both the accused as incriminating evidence about their links, said the STF official.So far, 38 people had been arrested in connection with the paper leak case while the involvement of at least 10 others surfaced in the matter. The UP STF had arrested 33 people while five others were arrested by the local police unit in Basti district.The state government had cancelled the UPTET-2021 on Sunday (November 28) after the paper leak came to fore following the arrests and recovery of question papers from some of them hours before the exam on Saturday night (November 27). A total of 19,99,418 examinees were supposed to write the UPTET scheduled in two shifts at 2,736 centers across 75 districts of UP on Sunday, but the exam was cancelled after the paper leak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet-paper-leak-another-printing-firm-in-delhi-under-stf-scanner-101638451300465.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Women claim to feel unsafe while travelling in suburban trains in Navi Mumbai||Twenty eight-year-old Kanika Surve, who works at a beauty salon at Vashi, returns to her home in Kharghar late in the night by local trains. She complains that the women compartment in the train do not have guards most of the time, leading to her feeling insecure.“Very rarely can I see an unarmed guard in the compartment, but I have never come across anyone patrolling on the platforms in the past four years. Also, the outer side of Kharghar station is not well lit. It’s very scary to wait for buses and autos after alighting from the trains at that hour,” she said.According to an estimate made by the Railways, around eight lakh women travel by train in the satellite city daily.A large number of women commuters from Navi Mumbai who travel on harbour and trans-harbour lines during the odd hours say that they do not feel safe inside the trains as well as on the platforms because of insufficient security, anti-social elements outside the stations or lack of safety walls at some stations.Nerul is one of the prominent railway stations in Navi Mumbai that sees over 60,000 footfalls in a day. The station premises have a liquor shop (licensed) on its West side. The commuters allege that some people drink liquor outside that shop and lie down near the platforms. “On several occasions, I have seen drunkards lying near the platforms and outside the station. The police should take stern action against such people,” said Jyothika P, a 31-year-old resident of Ulwe.At Juinagar and Sanpada stations, the commuters often come across commercial sex workers in the evenings. They keep loitering near the premises and lure the commuters with obscene gestures. Shenal Mane, a 25-year-old resident of Sanpada, said, “These sex workers may not be a threat to the safety of the woman commuters, but the men who go to them are.”The absence of compound walls has been yet another issue at several stations including Vashi. The Vashi station has two underpasses. However, people can also illegally enter the platforms from the sides due to the lack of such walls. “The criminals know these loopholes and, thus, can easily run away through those routes after snatching a chain, mobile phone or a bag from the commuters. This station also does not have lights at several places,” said Upasana Sharma, a 35-year-old resident of Vashi.On the trans-harbour line (which connects Navi Mumbai with Thane), the fatka gangs are a cause for serious concern. These criminals normally keep waiting along the railway tracks at isolated spots. Whenever a train crosses those spots, they hit the commuters (who travel standing at the doors) with long sticks or give fatka. The commuters’ wallets or mobile phones then fall off their hands and they collect them easily. Even as the number of such cases has decreased, these gangs are still active in some places. So far this year, the Vashi GRP has busted one fatka gang between Ghansoli and Rabale station.In the first 11 months this year, the Vashi GRP registered a total of 167 FIRs and one of them was of sexual assault on a woman. The Panvel GRP registered 286 FIRs in the corresponding period and two cases were of sexual assaults.Vishnu Kesarkar, senior inspector of Vashi GRP, said, “This week, we have received 175 home guards and have increased patrolling in the trains as well as on the platforms. We are aware of the issue of the drunkards at Nerul station and have registered multiple FIRs against those people so far. Recently, we also arrested a few people who were illegally selling liquor outside Nerul station at night and seized liquor worth ₹25,000 from them. We also inform the city police if we get to know about the existence of anti-social elements outside our jurisdiction.”Some criminals loot the commuters in the long-distance trains that pass through Panvel station and hence the GRP has to take extra efforts to ensure the safety of those commuters. Sambhaji Khatare, senior inspector of Panvel GRP, said, “Every morning, we dispatch one team to Vasai station and another team to Roha station. There, they board the trains coming towards Panvel and check every compartment so that no one can loot the commuters.” Bhakti Dave, president of Panvel Pravasi Sangh, said, “In an empty compartment, a woman commuter normally hesitates to approach a male police official. Several women don’t even board the ladies’ compartments at night because they cannot see any other woman but a male police official there. Therefore, GRP should provide more women police officials in the trains.”CIDCO is responsible for the maintenance of the station premises and their lighting systems. A CIDCO official said, “We keep conducting surveys at the railway stations and whenever we find the need of a compound wall or a new lighting system, we take the requisite measures immediately.”
02-12-2021||Kolkata||Chemicals stored in 3 drums blew up Bengal fireworks factory, killed three: Police||Explosions that killed three people inside a fireworks factory at Mohanpur village in the Nodakhali area of Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district on Wednesday morning was caused by powdered chemicals stored in three drums, forensic experts who visited the spot on Thursday told the police. “The villagers claimed that they heard not one but three explosions in quick succession before the house went up in flames. Investigations suggest that the chemicals were stored in quite large quantity in three drums kept next to each other,” said a district police officer who did not want to be named as the matter is under investigation. The factory was running inside a residential building in a densely populated area. The village is located around 45 km to the south of Kolkata. The owner of the house, Ashim Mondal, died along with a woman, Kakali Mridha, who was Mondal’s relative, and Atithi Haldar, one of Mondal’s employees and the second male victim. A district police officer said that although Mondal died, a case of culpable homicide has been registered. Mondal’s wife and son were not present in the house during the early morning explosion. The police are looking for them. “Laboratory tests can ascertain whether the chemicals were common ones used in making fireworks or something more powerful. The latter seems unlikely so far as the walls of the house are intact. Only a part of the roof in a room blew away, suggesting that the direction of the blast was vertical. Chemicals used by criminals for making bombs would have caused more severe damage around the epicentre of the blast,” said a second police officer. The victims were mutilated and charred, said officers involved in the investigation. Their bodies were hurled at least 15 metres away. A dish antenna installed on the roof was found more than 100 metres away. Glass windows in the neighbouring buildings were shattered but no one suffered any injury. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has mounted pressure on the Trinamool Congress since Nodakhali is part of the Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha constituency represented by TMC national general secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. The BJP also pointed out that similar explosions took place at fireworks factories in South 24 Parganas district in the past. Three people died at Mograhat in 2018. Leader of the opposition in the Bengal legislative assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, and BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar have demanded a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Majumdar has also written to Union home minister Amit Shah. The local TMC legislator, Mohan Chandra Naskar, visited the spot. “The administration has initiated an inquiry to find out if the factory was running without licence,” Naskar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/chemicals-stored-in-3-drums-blew-up-bengal-fireworks-factory-killed-three-police-101638449920675.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police transfers: Naresh Kumar is ADGP law and order||ChandigarhThe Punjab government on Thursday transferred 11 police officers. According to the orders, Naresh Kumar has been posted as the new ADGP law and order. Balwinder Singh has been posted as the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Khanna, in place of Gursharandeep Singh.SK Ashtana has been posted as the head of Bureau of Investigation (BoI) while Kuldeep Kumar has been transferred as ADGP internal vigilance cell, the transfer orders said.Varinder Kumar, who was the director Bureau of Investigation, has been posted as ADGP (provisioning) Punjab, whereas Ram Singh has now been posted s ADGP, technical services.B Chandra Shekhar has now been posted as ADGP human rights replacing Ashtana. He will continue to hold the charge of ADGP, special task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-transfers-naresh-kumar-is-adgp-law-and-order-101638448840784.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Court cancels order notifying Param Bir Singh as proclaimed offender||MUMBAI: A Mumbai judge on Thursday cancelled the proclamation declaring senior Maharashtra police officer Param Bir Singh, 59, a proclaimed offender in connection with an extortion case after the former Mumbai police commissioner, who was missing for months, surfaced last week and appeared before the Mumbai crime branch to join the investigation.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Sudhir Bhajipale cancelled the proclamation on Thursday, two days after a non-bailable warrant (NBW) issued to ensure his presence in court was also cancelled.Judge Sudhir Bhajipale issued orders proclaiming Singh and two co-accused, Vinay Ramnarayan Singh, 46, and Riyaz Bhati, 56, as proclaimed offenders on November 17 following an application by the Mumbai crime branch which is investigating the extortion case.Apart from Param Bir Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and civilians Sumeet Singh and Alpesh Patel are also named as accused in the case that was registered on a complaint by hotelier Bimal Agarwal, who alleged that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against Boho Restaurant and BCB Bar, owned by him. After taking over investigations, the crime branch arrested Vaze, Sumeet Singh and Alpesh Patel. Proclamations were issued against the 59-year-old IPS officer and two others as they were untraceable.Param Bir Singh, who emerged from hiding last week in Chandigarh and has since then joined investigations, told the Mumbai court that he was co-operating with investigating agencies.Incidentally, a similar proclamation issued by the judge against Param Bir Singh’s co-accused Vinay Ramnarayan Singh was set aside by the Bombay high court on Wedneday on the ground that the form in which the proclamation was published was not proper. Vinay Singh’s lawyer Aniket Nikam argued that under section 82 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) a person against whom a proclamation has to be issued, should be asked to appear in “not less than 30 days” but the proclamation issued by the magistrate’s court said “within 30 days” which was not as per the stipulations of section 82.The court accepted the argument and held that the form, in which, the proclamation was published was not proper and hence set it aside. Special public prosecutor advocate Shekhar Jagtap for the state sought a stay on the operation of the order but was rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-cancels-order-notifying-param-bir-singh-as-proclaimed-offender-101638446680434.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray signs order suspending ex-Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday signed the order on suspension of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Officials in the state home department said while a former order is expected soon, the action is being taken under All India Service Rules following recommendation by a panel led by senior IAS officer and acting chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty.The 1988-batch IPS officer was removed from the post of Mumbai police chief on March 17 following the bomb scare case at Antilia. He was then made the general commander of Maharashtra state home guard after he levelled corruption allegations against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh.On November 29, a report in Hindustan Times stated that the Maharashtra government has accepted the report of the Debashish Chakraborty committee on the departmental inquiry against Param Bir Singh. The committee found Singh responsible for dereliction of duty in the Antilia bomb scare case.In October, Chakraborty submitted a report holding Singh responsible for violating the All India Civil Services Rules. According to the committee, there were serious lapses in the handling of the Antilia case. The then Mumbai police commissioner was also accused of shielding officers such as Sachin Waze.Singh, who was recently declared an 'offender' by the local magistrate's court, arrived in Mumbai in November and joined the police investigation in an alleged extortion case registered against him.Singh has been granted interim protection against arrest until December 6 by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-signs-order-suspending-ex-mumbai-police-chief-param-bir-singh-101638444774587.html
02-12-2021||Ranchi||Rupa Tirkey case: Special court orders FIR against 3 cops, JMM leader||A special court has ordered the Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) police station to register an FIR against three police officers including officer in-charge of the same police station Radhika Raman Minz, Ranchi city SP Saurav, DSP PK Mishra besides JMM leader Pankaj Mishra, in connection with the Rupa Tirkey death case.The order of the special court has come on a complaint filed by Padmavati Orain, Rupa Tirkey’s mother. Tirkey was a former Sahebganj Mahila police station officer and was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her official residence in May this year. “The court has directed the SC/ST police to register the FIR under section 156 (3) of the CrPC. The order has been passed on the basis of an audio clip, which had turned viral in connection with the case. Now that the court has ordered for an FIR in the case, we will also file a writ petition demanding that the case be investigated by a senior officer as a city SP rank officer is also facing charges,” lawyer Rajiv Kumar said Tirkey was found hanging at her official residence in Sahebganj on May 3, 2021. The incident led to protests by social organisations even as Tirkey’s father had expressed lack of confidence in the Sahebganj police investigation that had declared it a case of suicide. A colleague of Rupa Tirkey was arrested by the local police for abetment to suicide. He is currently in jail. A petition was also filed in the Jharkhand High Court, which ordered a CBI probe into the case. The CBI has registered a case and investigation is underway. According to the complaint filed on September 23, 2021 with the special court, Tirkey’s mother had approached the ST/SC police station in Ranchi on September 11 for registration of FIR against the DSP and Pankaj Mishra in this connection but was turned away. “The officer in charge received the complaint, but did not act on it and did not file an FIR. The family had also approached City SP Saurav, but he too did not act. We have all the related records. Subsequently, Padmavati had lodged a court complaint against the four people,” said Rajiv Kumar. Radhika Raman Minz said on Thursday they were yet to receive a copy of the court order. “Once we get the order copy, we will see what we have to do. We have several legal options to move forward. We will take adequate action in consultation with our senior officials,” Minz said on Thursday. On why he did not act on the complaint he received on September 11, Minz said he was waiting for directions from his superiors in the case. “The complaint was against a senior police officer. So I could not have acted immediately without proper investigation and direction from seniors. Now that we hear from journalists that the court has directed us to file an FIR which also involves me and senior officers, we will act in consultation with my superiors,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/rupa-tirkey-case-special-court-orders-fir-against-3-cops-jmm-leader-101638444802807.html
02-12-2021||Pune||Taste of life: The sweet-sour story of Poona’s Seville orange marmalade||“In India, they have the naranj and the various fruits of the orange species. The orange grows in Bajour and Sewad, where it is both plenty and good…It is sweet-smelling, delicate, and fresh, and used for making marmalade. It is not, however, to be compared with the oranges of Khorassan…Another fruit resembling the naranj is the taranj. The inhabitants of Bajour call it baling. On this account marmalades of the peel of this fruit are called murabba-baling. The Hindostanis call the taranj the bajouri. It is of two species. One is insipid and sweet, but its peel is used for marmalade…” wrote Emperor Babur, who never liked the fruits in India, in his memoir. “Naranj” was most likely a variety of orange resembling the famous Seville orange. English and Scotch marmalades were usually made from “bitter” varieties of oranges from Spain, grown principally in the vicinity of Seville. The “sour”, “bitter”, “bigarade”, or “Seville” orange, in spite of its many names, was considered of minor importance in Europe. It was used for making tincture of orange peel, which was mixed with nauseous medicines, to disguise their revolting taste. From its skin, the orange candied peel was made. It was also used for flavouring the Curacoa liqueur. It was exported to Great Britain and other European countries for the manufacture of marmalade. The fruit was found to be high in both acid and pectin and no difficulty was experienced in obtaining a firm jelly-like marmalade from it. Marmalade then was considered the “king of British breakfast”. When the British settled in India, among the foods they missed from their land was marmalade. They believed that the varieties of orange native to India did not make a good marmalade. Some native varieties like “laroo”, grown in Poona, were so disliked by the Europeans that the local markets in Poona Cantonment stopped stocking them. Hence although India had many fine varieties of citrus, and many different climates and soils to grow them in, Bombay imported oranges and lemons from Europe, Africa, and Arabia. From the early 19th century, the British initiated agrarian reforms in India which would enable them to collect more land revenues and feed their troops, officials, and their families. The reforms included the introduction of certain varieties of fruits and vegetables liked by the British. In Gujranwala, Colonel Clarke introduced the Malta blood orange between 1852-56. The same was brought to Lucknow, Lahore, and Poona a few years later. Poona by then had a variety called “mosambi”, which evidently meant Mozambique, and might have originally come from that coast of Africa. The “penidodan” of Ceylon; The “bandir” or “chine”, and “Spanish” oranges of Thanjavur; the “mosambi” of Poona; the Malta and “paenbagh” oranges of Lucknow; The Suez, and blood-oranges of Jaunpore – all were of the Malta or Portugal sweet orange type. The so-called sweet oranges were distinctly divisible into two types, one, the Malta or Portugal orange – the Citrus aurantium sinense of Gallesio, and its varieties; and the other, the “santara orange of India”, the Citrus aurantium sinense of Rumphius and its derivatives. Another source of confusion came from calling the Seville orange “bitter”. It was simply sour. It was the rind that was bitter-sour and aromatic. Since many varieties of the Malta orange in the English, and hence Poona, markets had their skin so adherent to the pulp that it was next to impossible to remove it without cutting it with a knife, the preferred choice for making marmalade was the Seville orange, which was already grown in India. But the British did not trust the variety (or the ones closely resembling it) mentioned by Babur and hence reintroduced it to India. Two hundred saplings were brought to Poona in the early 1880s. The Seville orange began to be grown in most parts of India and Ceylon by the end of the 19th century. The British could now make the marmalade they liked. But there was little demand for it initially. The British still did not believe that Seville oranges grown in Poona, and elsewhere, made fine marmalade. Hence many tons of tinned marmalade continued to be imported annually from England. Treacher and Co. in Bombay and Poona sold Keiller’s Dundee marmalade. The brand was “pronounced to be the finest of all the preserves made from bitter oranges”. 1 lb. tin cost 6 annas. In 1915, a marmalade-making factory was established in the Poona Cantonment area to limit the import of marmalade. This factory was shut down in a couple of years due to reasons unknown. It was the First World War that made British women in India start using Seville oranges grown locally. Poona was touted as the biggest supplier of this variety. The “orangemaking” season then began in April. “Housewives” were told that the “best oranges went the farthest”. They were asked to use loaf sugar to make marmalade. “The Bombay Chronicle” printed the same recipe for marmalade every year – “To every dozen oranges allow two sweet ones. First, wash and dry the fruit, then cut into quarters, remove the pips, and cut into fine strips. Put into a deep pan, with two pints of water to each pound of fruit. Cover and let it remain for 24 hours. Put the pips in a basin, cover with boiling water, and leave until the next day; then strain, and add the liquid to the shredded oranges. Now weigh both water and fruit, and to every pound add 5/4 lb. of loaf sugar. Put all in the preserving pan with the juice of three lemons, and boil for one hour. Put into jars and tie down. This is a very inexpensive recipe and one which is generally liked by children on account of its having less peel and more jelly than most recipes. A perfect marmalade should be sparkling, transparent, and attractive in colour, and should have a strong flavour of the original fruit. It should not be sticky or syrupy and when cut with a knife it should have a sharp edge and a clear cut surface.” Another recipe for marmalade called for combining apple juice rich in pectin and acid with thinly sliced firm peaches or figs or with other firm fruits. The juice and sliced fruit could be mixed with sugar and concentrated to the jellying point. Electroplated jars for marmalade were marketed by Treacher & Co. These jars were “handsomely chased or engraved, or in glass-mounted in electro-plate”. They were imported from Belgium and Denmark, and the price ranged from ₹12 to 35. In the early 1930s, Ceylon Agricultural Board started endorsing the various advantages of grapefruit. They were first made available in the markets of Bombay and Poona. The fruit soon became popular as a breakfast delicacy. Some Europeans in Poona started using it for making fresh-fruit drinks and also for marmalade. During the Second World War, the import of marmalade stopped temporarily. Marmalade too lost its prominence. With that, Seville oranges, primarily grown in Poona, faded into oblivion. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-the-sweet-sour-story-of-poona-s-seville-orange-marmalade-101638444142678.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron scare: Kalyan Dombivli civic body to trace 76 travellers who returned from high-risk countries in Nov||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has received a list of 76 travellers who came to the twin cities of Kalyan-Dombivli in November from high-risk countries like South Africa.“On Wednesday evening, from the state government, we received the list of 76 travellers who returned from countries that are hit by the Omicron variant of Coronavirus. We have forwarded the list to our health posts who will further take the necessary steps,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The health posts’ staff will be tracing, tracking and testing these 76 returnees and checking their history of Covid tests and vaccination.“Once traced, we will conduct RT-PCR tests of those travellers who have symptoms or have not completed 14 days after returning. Their close contacts will be tested too,” said Panpatil. Meanwhile, all the RT-PCR and antigen tests conducted at the residential building of the 32-year-old Dombivli-based South Africa returnee who tested positive to Covid, are negative, claimed Panpatil.“We conducted 23 RT-PCR and 14 antigen tests at his building and all are negative. His nine family members and relatives are also negative,” added Panpatil.The genome sequencing results of the 32-year-old returnee are still awaited. The 50-year-old man from Dombivli who was in the same flight as the 32-year-old engineer who tested positive for Covid, tested negative to Covid, confirmed the KDMC on Thursday. “All four including his three family members have tested negative to Covid,” said Panpatil.The KDMC, on Thursday, urged to those who have returned to Kalyan Dombivli from high risk countries in last 10 days to inform the civic body about their return.“Considering the threat of Omicron variant of Coronavirus, we have asked such returnees to get in touch with the civic body. As per the government guidelines, it is very necessary to do RT-PCR of such returnees and even if they test negative, they will be in home isolation for seven days. A repeat test shall be conducted on the eighth day and again if the report is negative, that individual is supposed to keep a watch on health condition for the next seven days,” said an official of health department KDMC.Meanwhile, if the returnee tests positive, then that person will be sent to institutional quarantine by KDMC and the sample of the patient will be sent for genome sequencing.The civic body has urged the returnees to get the RT-PCR done at civic testing centres. It also urged the housing societies to keep a watch on such returnees and inform the civic body without fail. 
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body extends amnesty scheme deadline for property tax defaulters to Jan 31||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has extended the amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters till January 31, 2022 after it expired on November 30. The amnesty scheme is to waive 75% of the fine imposed on late payment to encourage people to pay taxes.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “Property tax is the prime source of revenue for NMMC. We received requests from various quarters for the extension of the amnesty period. Thus, this decision was taken. As per the scheme, defaulters will have to pay just the due amount plus 25% of the delay payment charges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-extends-amnesty-scheme-deadline-for-property-tax-defaulters-to-jan-31-101638442348464.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC proposes institutional quarantine for flyers from 6 ‘ultra risk’ countries, not all||MUMBAI: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has proposed mandatory institutional quarantine of seven days for passengers arriving in Mumbai from, or with travel history to either of the six ‘ultra risk’ countries — South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, Lesotho, Zimbabwe and Eswatini.In a letter to the Mahrashtra government on Thursday, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal proposed that the city follow the protocols prescribed by the Government of India for passengers from other ‘at risk’ countries. This requires passengers to be tested for Covid-19 on arrival and those found negative, required to be in home quarantine for a week.Several countries have already barred passengers from the six countries, proposed to be classified by BMC as ‘ultra risk’, over concerns about the new Omicron variant of Covid-19. There has been no word from the state government on its decision on the BMC proposal, and no order has been issued yet that classifies the six countries as ‘ultra risk’.Also Read: How dangerous is the Covid-19 Omicron variant?The Maharashtra government’s existing order mandates institutional quarantine of seven days for passengers from all ‘at risk’ countries — Europe including UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, Israel. This provision will be effective from 11.59pm tonight. The Union health ministry has asked the state to amend this provision and bring it in line with central guidelines.In his letter, Iqbal Singh Chahal suggested that airlines should de-board passengers from ‘ultra risk’ countries on priority, and the airport should have separate counters for verification and checking for them.BMC’s proposal also requires mandatory institutional quarantine for seven days for passengers with travel history to the six countries within the last 15 days. Any passengers who show symptoms should also be sent to mandatory institutional quarantine for seven days.Also Read: Omicron renews the need to focus on India-Africa tiesThe letter further proposes that RT-PCR tests should be conducted on the day of arrival, and again after completing seven days of institutional quarantine. If tested negative, they have to go through compulsory home quarantine for seven more days. If tested positive, they will be sent to Seven Hills hospital or a dedicated private hospital.The central government in its order dated November 30, said international passengers from ‘at-risk’ countries have to get tested at the airport on arrival, and cannot leave the premises or take a connecting flight until their test results arrive. If tested negative, these passengers have to be home quarantined for a period of seven days. They then have to retest on the 8th day of arrival in India, and if tested negative, have to self-monitor their health for seven days. If found positive in the test on the first or 8th day, these passengers will be taken to an isolation facility.The BMC letter also proposed that domestic passengers arriving from another state to Mumbai have to be double vaccinated, or should carry a negative RTPCR report conducted within 72 hours of travel. An order issued on November 30 said a negative RT-PCR test 48 hours prior to entering Maharashtra was mandatory for domestic travellers. But health minister Rajesh Tope told HT on Wednesday that this requirement was being deferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-proposes-institutional-quarantine-for-flyers-from-6-ultra-risk-countries-not-all-101638441742727.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Of courtesy, currency, and cultural churnings||The most hilarious part of dining out with friends and family is the enthusiasm of the celebrants to foot the bill. Many a hand stretches out to quickly seize the piece of paper. The baffled bearer is forever a bemused spectator to this ‘comedy of bill grabbers’. At times it amounts to a virtual duel between guests before one crowns himself as the host and the others exhibit a shattering disappointment. Closely in tow is the genteel ‘pehle aap, pehle aap’ (PAPA) courtesy that food rituals entail. It starts right at the crockery/cutlery corner in case of buffet layouts. At sit down meals, platters and dishes are endlessly passed around the table with all hesitant to make the first dig into the delicacies. A single puffed up chappati could ride the merry-go-round of politeness forever and ever, delaying the breaking of bread at home get-togethers. One can always extend this exuberance to the ‘shagun scheme’ in our culture. Be it a newborn, a newlywed or a first-time visitor, the shagun envelope mysteriously pops up at the departure gates. And then the ‘no-no’, ‘not-again’, ‘next-time maybe’ refusals start, which all concerned know, are meant to fall on deaf ears. Though far from what French philosopher Georges Bataille, refers to as ‘unconditional giving’ to community, akin to the bounty of the sun, celebrations not too long back were a joint venture. ‘Neonda’ (donations to marriage festivities) were the mainstay of weddings. It has now metamorphosed into the inverse; the fancy shagun envelope, or ‘the cheque’ as a friend calls it, has a lot to do with the social standing of the host. The courtesy is mostly loaded with expectation and an understated ‘return it’ policy. It rests on the tenuous terrain of ego. The longer the delay in reciprocity, the more the resentment brews. Perhaps, the most generous of kings may have struggled to make gifting a one-way traffic. Happily, the millennials have reinvented the culture of courtesy with a fair amount of common sense. Digital apps, such as ‘Splitwise’, help youngsters staying, travelling or organising events together to split expenses without too much fuss. By keeping a track of, who owes who, how much, it helps in settling expenses squarely, saving time, effort and emotion. At times, one spots a waiter collecting a bunch of cards from youngsters dining on adjacent tables for equal splitting of the bill. More often you catch them just scanning with their mobile phones to electronically pay their ‘American share’. The youth have no time for ado. Hence, the ‘going Dutch’ dining etiquette now popular as TTMM (tu tera mein mera) has sorted and simplified payment issues. In times of flux, the PAPA versus TTMM debate is a bit complex to be easily decided. As of now, we are in a hybrid mode, enjoying the best of both worlds. For some reason, the hilarious Stephan Leacock’s story, The Lost Dollar, is circling in my head. The honest narrator is visibly disturbed when his friend, Todd, forgets all about the dollar he borrowed from him to pay for a taxi ride. A single dollar is enough to cause comic misery in the relationship. The universal appeal of the story says a lot about men and money matters! manindersidhu7@gmail.com The writer is professor of English, Government College for Girls, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/of-courtesy-currency-and-cultural-churnings-101638440902602.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Not Channi, it's changi govt: Punjab CM presents report card of first 50 days||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Channi on Thursday presented a report card of his government’s performance in the first 50 days. Channi said as many as 50 pro-people decisions were taken by the ruling Congress government since he took over as the chief minister and all of them were implemented.Channi became the chief minister of the poll-bound north Indian state following a bitter exit of Amarinder Singh due to a power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sindhu“People say it's a Channi government, I say it's a changi (good) government,” the chief minister added.He said 68 lakh of 72 lakh consumers in Punjab were given electricity at a reduced price of ₹3 per unit from November 1 for up to 7 kilowatt load.Speaking about cheaper power from non-renewable sources, he said prices have been brought down to ₹2.34 per unit from Rs. 17.91 per unit during the previous government, led by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).Hitting out at Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal, Channi said comparisons cannot be drawn between him and the Delhi chief minister as the latter is an outsider.“How can he compare himself with me? I am a true Punjabi, he's an outsider. He can't compete with me in understanding Punjab, its requirements, culture and ethos,” Channi said.He further said the Punjab government will pay the bills for free power supply for rural water works. In cities too, water supply bills will be borne by the government. Punjab is set to see Assembly elections early next year.(With inputs from Punjab bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/not-channi-it-s-changi-govt-punjab-cm-presents-report-card-of-first-50-days-101638440302604.html
02-12-2021||Bhopal||Officer who busted gang involved in supplying marijuana via Amazon transferred||Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Manoj Kumar Singh, who last month busted a gang that was allegedly involved in supplying marijuana via Amazon in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind, is among 13 officers transferred late on Wednesday.Singh has been transferred to police headquarters while Shailendra Chauhan will replace him as Bhind Police Superintendent, according to the transfer list of the state home department.The transfer came after Singh took action in a case of theft of fertilisers allegedly involving farmers belonging to state minister Arvind Singh Bhadoria’s village. Bhadoria criticised the police action.Also Read: Two arrested in Delhi with marijuana worth ₹50 lakhSagar Police superintendent Atul Singh was also transferred days after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan pulled him for the demolition of a former village head’s house. The Brahmin community held a panchayat against the state government after the demolition. Atul Singh, who later went on a long leave, has been shifted to police headquarters. Tarun Nayak will replace him as the Sagar Police superintendent.The house was demolished after a man from Other Backward Class was allegedly killed by four people including the former village head. It was allegedly constructed on government land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/officer-who-busted-gang-involved-in-supplying-marijuana-via-amazon-transferred-101638436702299.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 76 returnees from high-risk countries to be traced, tracked, tested||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) in Maharashtra has received a list of 76 persons who returned to the city last month from countries such as South Africa and Nigeria that have reported multiple cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19.Health officials have been tasked with tracing, tracking and testing all of them, and also looking at their history of Covid-19 tests and vaccination. “On Wednesday evening, we received a list of 76 travellers from the state government who returned to Kalyan-Dombivli from countries that are hit by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. We have forwarded the list to our health posts, who will take necessary steps,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, the KDMC’s epidemic officer. Also Read: 4 more international travellers test Covid positive at Delhi airport: Officials“Once these returnees are traced, RT-PCR tests will be done on them and their close contacts by our health staff,” said Panpatil. In another development, RT-PCR and antigen tests done at the residential building of a 32-year-old Dombivli-based returnee from South Africa who had tested Covid positive, have all turned out to be negative, Panpatil said. “We conducted 23 RT-PCR and 14 antigen tests at the building, and all are negative. His nine family members and relatives are also negative,” said Panpatil. Genome-sequencing results of the returnee from South Africa is awaited. Health officials are also waiting for the RT-PCR test report of a 50-year-old Dombivili resident who had flown with the infected returnee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-76-returnees-from-high-risk-countries-to-be-traced-tracked-tested-101638434781995.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||National Pollution Control Day: Delhiites’ plea for public transport, plantation drives||Sore throat, watery eyes and breathing difficulties have become common to those living in the National Capital, especially in the months of November and December. With each passing year, the situation is reportedly getting worse. There were 11 severe days in Delhi this year, and still the AQI level is constantly rising to possibly break all previous records. Recently, the AQI level crossed 400 this year, which is alarmingly high.“Although there are smog towers in place, but it’s not really having much of an impact,” says Rohit Singh, a food blogger who lives in Connaught Place, adding, “The smog tower we have close by, yet the pollution in CP is a lot There is a lot of rush, so the smog tower isn’t able to make much difference. Due to Covid, we have to compulsorily wear masks now, and it has helped me a lot this year. Otherwise usually I don’t stay put in Delhi during this time of the year, that is after Diwali, as the air pollution is dangerously high. Even otherwise whenever I’m in Delhi, I usually get sore throat and watery eyes.” Problems are mostly known. And it’s in quest of solution that some citizens have taken it upon themselves to pitch in as much as they can, to resolve this perennial concern. Ruchika Sethi, an environmentalist who runs a collective Citizens for Clean Air, says, “We call our volunteers pollution cops and solution heroes. We note and report waste burning. We spread awareness through the collective that we have which has resident volunteers of 60 plus RWAs as well as medical practitioners, social sector and environment experts, early adopters of eco sustainable lifestyles, members from the scientist community also. Members take initiatives to showcase if solutions are implementable. We have a campaign called 3B Ka Funda and Use Resuables which showcases what an individual can do to minimise all kinds of disposable waste. We have written to a popular coffee shop chain after which they introduced bringing in your own mug to get a discount. We have green protocols in place as well.”Many such efforts are in place, yet the AQI level has increased to the extent that according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the AQI level this year has broken the record of 10 dangerous air days in November 2016! The AQI was recorded at 999 in 2016. Sachin Panwar, air quality monitoring scientist, says, “Indian AQI has now been capped at 500. This 999 was maximum pm 2.5 reported because of limitation of sensors.” The government authorities have resumed stressing on the need for people to walk down rather than driving private vehicles, but the unpleasant pollution levels don’t always allow this. Manishika Pawaia, a final year student of Delhi University’s Jesus and Mary College, who is also the head of Green Society, stresses all hands need to be at the deck, to ensure that the situation becomes better. “To reverse or at the very least stop the progress of deterioration, we, at Green Society, JMC, believe that action is the need of hour. We encourage our members to walk or use public transportations and have conducted multiple plantation drives,” she says.Dr Neeraj Chawla, a city-based ENT specialist, says that there are ways to safeguard yourself against pollution when outdoors. “Wearing surgical masks during walking in place of double layered cloth masks or N95 is a safe way to protect oneself from the pollutants in the air, and also manage the breathing in a safe way.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Twitter and Facebook||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/national-pollution-control-day-denizens-plea-for-public-transport-plantation-drives-101638428722759.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray discharged from hospital after surgery||MUMBAI:  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who underwent cervical spine surgery on November 12, was discharged from a Mumbai hospital on Thursday.Thackeray had been suffering from neck and backache for weeks before he underwent the surgery and a procedure for clotting in his spine, which delayed his discharge. “He has been undergoing physiotherapy sessions after his surgery. The sessions, which are crucial for the recovery, are expected to go on for a few more weeks. He will take a few more weeks to resume office physically but continues holding online meetings and clearing important files... He has decided to stay at Varsha (his official residence)...keeping official work and medical check-ups in mind,” said an official from the Chief Minister’s Office.Thackeray chaired two cabinet meetings and those related to the emergence of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 online from his hospital bed. He did not hand over the charge to the deputy chief minister or any other senior minister.
02-12-2021||Patna||Bihar’s draft Bill proposes night shifts for women employees, prompts calls for review||A clause in Bihar’s draft Occupational Safety, Health, and Working Conditions Bill proposes night shifts for women employees and has prompted calls for a review of the provision.The state’s labour resources department has proposed in the draft that women employees can work night shifts in factories and firms and that the employers will have to take written consent in this regard and ensure safety and security. The draft has been posted on the department website for feedback.All India Progressive Women’s Association national general secretary Mina Tiwari said measures for women empowerment should be planned as per the situation in the state. She said the draft proposes the written consent for night shifts but added what if employers do not follow this.“...no woman will be able to refuse the orders of the boss for fear of losing her job.” Tiwari said this proposal may be used to exploit women. “It should be dropped...” Tiwari said night shifts might also affect the family lives of women. “Many of them may have to face resentment in the families due to night shifts. More and more women are now working and families are coping with the new lifestyle. But night shifts might not be acceptable.”Tiwari said women have been doing night shifts in some essential services but it is not acceptable in many other sectors.Sumita Shahi, an entrepreneur, said working women are expected to handle all the household chores also. “Is it possible for a woman to work night shifts and sleep during day time? Who will take care of children and other family members? These are some major points which need to be considered before making any law.”Labour resources minister Jibesh Kumar was unavailable for comments.
02-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality worsens yet again, enters ‘severe’ zone||Delhi’s air quality worsened on Thursday to “severe” from the previous day’s “very poor” category even as the city was expected to get light rain or drizzle and record a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) was 416 at 7am. The average 24-hour AQI was 370 on Wednesday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. Patna had the second-worst air quality on Thursday morning with an AQI of 294 at 7am and Chennai the best among 10 cities (AQI of 71 at 7am). The Union earth science ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said that Delhi’s AQI was in the “very poor” category on Thursday.“The AQI today indicates ‘very poor’ air quality. Today (Thursday) and tomorrow (Friday) winds are likely to be calm reducing ventilation leading to a deterioration of air quality but within the same category. From December 3 (Friday) onwards winds are expected to increase dispersing pollutants but AQI is likely to remain in the very poor category. Low mixing layer height is preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants.”The maximum temperature in the city was likely to be 22 degrees Celsius, one degree less than Wednesday. The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 11.5 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal, and the maximum 23, two degrees below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-worsens-yet-again-enters-severe-zone-101638418881101.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Cow, its calf die after being turned away amid hospital strike at GADVASU||For Gurdev Singh, a dairy farmer from Shah Abu Bokkar village, Zira, seeking medical assistance at the Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) proved costly as both his cow and calf died after being allegedly denied treatment.Gurdev Singh said they decided to take the HF Cow to the premier veterinary university following complications during labour.“But to our utter shock, when we reached the veterinary hospital, we were told that the emergency services were closed and no help would be offered. I urged the staff but to no avail. Finally, someone standing there told me to rush the animal to the veterinary clinic of the animal husbandry department,” said Gurdev Singh.Singh revealed that by the time they reached the said clinic, the calf had already died. “The staff at the clinic, led by Dr Kirandeep Kaur, tried their best to save the cattle, but failed,” he added.He lamented the loss of a beloved companion and a major source of income, saying, “I had spent over ₹5,000 on ferrying the cow to the hospital. Nowadays, buying a healthy cow or a buffalo is not easy. It costs between ₹1 lakh to ₹3 lakh.” Ashwani Kumar, president of the GADVASU Teachers Association later revealed that they had to close the OPD and emergency services for one day to join an ongoing protest.“We are pained at the inconvenience and hardship being faced by people. We share a special bond with the dairy farmers from across the state, we do not want to lose that trust. But our demands are genuine and the state government is deliberately creating issues with our salary scales,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-cow-its-calf-die-after-being-turned-away-amid-hospital-strike-at-gadvasu-101638395177641.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Close shave for labourer as fire breaks out in cardboard factory||A major fire broke out at a cardboard factory on Daba Road, opposite Arora Palace, on Tuesday night. It took firefighters around six hours to douse the flames. It was a close shave for a worker, who was on the ground floor of the unit, as the fire broke out on the first floor of the building, and he was able to exit the building in time. Four fire tenders were dispatched for the firefighting operation. Factory owner Sushil Goyal, who was at his house at the time of the incident, said it is suspected that the fire broke out around half-an-hour before neighbours sounded the alert at around 8.45pm. “The worker who was downstairs was unaware of the blaze that had started on the first floor of the building. Neighbours spotted the flames, and called the fire brigade.”Goyal, who suspects a loss of ₹10-12 lakh, says, “It was fortunate that no casualties were reported.” Panic gripped neighbouring units after the blaze broke out, as the factory stands on a congested street, and a large number of people gathered at the spot. The reason for the fire is yet to be determined.Leading fireman, Vijay, said, “Our fire tenders had to be refilled over 25 times to douse the flames. The operation continued till around 3am on Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-close-shave-for-labourer-as-fire-breaks-out-in-cardboard-factory-101638394817925.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||GLADA estate project hits roadblock: HC orders status quo on nature of property in Daad village||The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority’s project to build an affordable housing estate in Daad village has hit a roadblock with the Punjab and Haryana high court ordering a status quo on the nature of said property, in response to a petition.The petitioner, Sukhwinder Singh of Gill village, had alleged that a few persons, who were trying to grab his land, had entered into an agreement with the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) by submitting fake ownership documents. Sukhwinder Singh said that one-fourth of the land where the ‘GLADA Estate’ is to come up belongs to him, and another one-fourth is owned by his paternal uncle. “The land belonged to my maternal uncle and was transferred to me through his will. However, a few people who enjoy the patronage of politicians are trying to grab the land. They have entered into an agreement with GLADA, while the authorities are not paying heed to the matter.”“ We had also filed a petition in the local court (Case 9295/2019) around two years ago, and the matter is sub-judice. However, the authorities have still established roads and water tanks in the area. Since we failed to get a stay order from the local court, we moved the high court, and now a status quo has been ordered,” said Sukhwinder Singh.In its order dated November 22, the court has issued a notice of motion to GLADA officials for January 31, when the court will weigh in on the matter.It is learnt that a large number of plots have already been auctioned and allotted by the authorities. GLADA chief administrator Rishipal Singh said he had not seen the court orders yet, and could not comment on the issue without going through the files.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/glada-estate-project-hits-roadblock-hc-orders-status-quo-on-nature-of-property-in-daad-village-101638394577580.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Covid victims’ kin can apply for ₹50K ex gratia in Ludhiana||Ludhiana The families of those who succumbed to the novel coronavirus will be provided ₹50,000 ex gratia, and can apply for the same at the office of the sub-divisional magistrate concerned, officials said on Wednesday. Additional deputy commissioner (urban development) Sandeep Kumar said the application form can be downloaded from the official website of the Ludhiana administration (https://ludhiana.nic.in), and then submitted at the sub-divisional magistrate’s office with supporting documents, including a death certificate certifying the cause of death, identity proof of the claimant, proof of relationship between the deceased and claimant, a lab report certifying that the deceased had tested positive for Covid, death summary by the hospital (in case the death occurred in hospital), death certificate in the original and legal-heir certificate.Kumar said that the deaths that had taken place due to poisoning, suicide, homicide, and accidents will not be considered Covid deaths, even if the disease is an accompanying condition.“Once all these documents are submitted, the kin will receive ex-gratia compensation in their bank accounts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-covid-victims-kin-can-apply-for-50k-ex-gratia-in-ludhiana-101638394037553.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||As Punjab-Delhi politicos spar over infra, govt smart school in Ludhiana gets approval for pool||As the face-off between the Congress and AAP governments in Punjab and Delhi over the state of education, and educational institutions comes to a head, Ludhiana East MLA Sanjay Talwar kicked off construction of a swimming pool at an upcoming Government Senior Secondary Smart School behind Vardhman Mills on Chandigarh Road.It will cost ₹1 crore to build the 40ft by 80ft swimming pool, which is expected be ready by March. The smart school in question is being built on three-acre Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) land and the project in its entirety will approximately cost ₹15 crore. Enumerating the features of the smart school, Talwar said, “Apart from the pool, the smart school will also have solar panels, smart classrooms with projectors, and a national flag.” “Our aim is not to just provide quality education, but also provide sports infrastructure to students and encourage extracurricular activities. This will be the first school in the state with a swimming pool and it will be a model school. The cost of the project, including the price of land allotted for school, comes to around ₹200 crore,” said Talwar. The Congress MLA said, “Four more government schools are being established in different parts of the constituency for providing quality and affordable education to students as per government policies.”The inauguration ceremony was attended by students of Government Senior Secondary School, Indrapuri, and area councillor Vanit Bhatia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-punjab-delhi-politicos-spar-over-infra-govt-smart-school-in-ludhiana-gets-approval-for-pool-101638393618915.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Home guard killed in accidental firing from own firearm||Ludhiana: A 50-year-old home guard was killed after he accidentally discharged his weapon while cleaning it at Hambran Chowki on Wednesday.The victim, Gurmeet Singh, of Bassian village, accidentally shot himself in the stomach. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. Ladhowal station house officer Satwant Singh said the victim had accidentally pulled the trigger. His body was handed over to his family after postmortem. Gurmeet Singh is survived by his wife and two daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/home-guard-killed-in-accidental-firing-from-own-firearm-101638393257867.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Traveller’s stop, without the travellers||“As well as Indian staples, you’ll find everything, from banana pancakes to pizzas, Mexican wraps and Israeli falafel… all of which can taste remarkably similar to the Indian staples. Come here for low prices and the travellers’ hubbub rather than gourmet dining” - this is the Lonely Planet India (2013 edition) introduction to Paharganj. Delhi’s hotel district used to teem with foreign travellers, with almost each of them armed with a copy of Lonely Planet (LP). Indeed, the corner bookshelf in any self-respecting Paharganj café stocked at least a couple of these much thumbed LPs.And then the coronavirus arrived early last year. As the new variant Omicron spreads worldwide, Paharganj’s backpackers are no more than a dream remembered. But one place here embodies the spirit of that bygone time of international wanderlust. Jackson Books is still stocked with hundreds of used (and new) LPs.A tiny makeshift alcove by the roadside, the store has an extensive collection of novels in several European languages. But it is the LPs that stand out with their distinctive blue spines. Stacked across the shop’s many shelves, the paperback guidebooks are in many languages, and on many countries - more than 200 destinations, says bookseller Deepak Kumar Dilani. Flipping through the used editions is like travelling with their previous owners. Tips are highlighted, recommendations are underlined. A page in the richly annotated Lonely Planet Guatemala is scrawled with blue hearts.In the BC (before Covid) era, the bookstore sold three to four LPs daily to foreign travellers, but only three managed to move out since the pandemic began. The third left the shelves just this afternoon - it was LP India. “The buyer was an Indian… she said she was interested in travelling.”Founded in 1996, the shop itself has become a lonely planet. Many of Paharganj’s other used bookstores shut down long before the pandemic, but a determined Jackson is staying on despite the odds. “Foreigners were my prime customers,” notes Mr Dilani. The accents of those foreigners - he points out amusedly - played a vital role in corrupting the bookstore’s original name, from Jai Kishen (owner’s late father) to Jackson.While posing for a portrait with his vast collection of travel books, Mr Dilani is puzzled that Lonely Planet India has never listed his bookstore on its Paharganj page.He now takes out from the attic upstairs a fat copy of the equally prestigious Rough Guide to India, and turns to page 117 (he remembers the page number by heart). It says, “Jackson: Paharganj’s best address for secondhand books.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-traveller-s-stop-without-the-travellers-101638393001934.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Paving roads must to cut air pollution in NCR: Parl panel||Efforts to mitigate pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR) will not yield desired results without paving unpaved streets, a parliamentary standing committee chaired by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh has flagged.In a report on ‘Air Pollution in Delhi and NCR,’ tabled in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, the parliamentary standing committee on science and technology, environment, forests and climate change noted that the Union environment ministry should focus on paving unpaved roads, monitoring and furnishing actions by all NCR states on paving roads and also furnish a response from the civil aviation ministry on sharing funds to control air pollution in the region.Also Read | Local pollution sources at fault as stubble fire season wraps upThe committee recommended to the Centre that the railways and civil aviation ministries could help fund air pollution control in the region, to which the environment ministry responded that: “Since Indian Railway is already taking a number of steps toward sustainable development, it may not be feasible for it to spare funds for the above subject.”“The recommendations/observations of the Committee seem to have not been given due importance and weightage. This casual and insincere attitude of the ministry is totally unwarranted and uncalled for. The committee, therefore, desires that the ministry furnish a consolidated reply to recommendations or observations,” on the issue of unpaved roads and generating funds from civil aviation and railways, the report said.Also Read | Capital turns dust bowl as AQI worsensThe committee also flagged the allegedly weak enforcement of a statutory ban on stubble burning by state governments (Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh) “coupled with laxity towards the sensitivity and gravity of the matter has also adversely affected the ongoing efforts to tackle the issue of air pollution in Delhi and NCR.”The Committee also recommended a scientific study to assess the environmental impact of crop burning on Delhi and NCR and the methodology to mitigate it in a time-bound manner, the report said. In response to this, MoEFCC has submitted that a study has been awarded to National Environmental Engineering Research Institute to monitor the impact of farm fires||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/paving-roads-must-to-cut-air-pollution-in-ncr-parl-panel-101638391744571.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Voice sample of man accused of hurting religious sentiments sent for forensic test||The voice sample of Vasu Syal, a close aide of Anil Arora, who is wanted for hurting religious sentiments of the Sikh community, were sent to a forensic lab on Wednesday. Syal, who hails from Zira, Ferozepur, is one of the prime accused in the case, and had been arrested on November 13. Additional deputy commissioner of police Jagatpreet Singh said that due permission had been sought from the court.It has been 50 days since Anil Arora, a self-styled radical leader , has been on the run after his incendiary remarks, which were made on October 20, drew the ire of the Sikh community.  “So far, eight people have been arrested in the case and ₹10 lakh and a car have been seized. Separate teams have been formed to nab the key accused,” the ADCP said. Arora and his accomplices have been booked under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-voice-sample-of-man-accused-of-hurting-religious-sentiments-sent-for-forensic-test-101638391997244.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Bike-borne man hit by speeding tractor, dies||A 32-year-old bike-borne man was crushed under a speeding tractor near Ayali Chowk on Wednesday, while the pillion rider was seriously injured. The victim, Harpreet Singh, and his companion, Mandeep Singh of Singhpura village, were on their way to Ayali from Dasmesh Nagar when the speeding tractor rammed into their scooter. The tractor driver fled the scene, while passersby rushed the two youngsters to Mahal Hospital where Harpreet Singh succumbed to his injuries. On the complaint of Mandeep Singh, a case has been registered against the unidentified tractor driver at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) police station. As per data released by the National Crime Records Bureau 388 road mishaps were reported in 2020. While 281 people were killed in these road mishaps, 183 people suffered severe injuries.The Ludhiana police’s traffic wing has identified 91 accident-prone spots in the city, of which 10 have been classified as black spots for being the most vulnerable to mishaps.In Ludhiana, 58% accidents were reported from internal roads. Of the total 388 road mishaps, 225 were reported on internal roads, in which 153 people lost their lives and 106 people were injured.As many as 128 mishaps were reported on national highways with 95 deaths and 60 injuries, while 35 accidents took place on state highways with 33 casualties and 17 injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bike-borne-man-hit-by-speeding-tractor-dies-101638391637125.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Local pollution sources at fault as stubble fire season wraps up||With farm fires falling to negligible levels in Haryana and Punjab, Delhi’s hazardous pollution levels were largely due to local emissions, showed data collated by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s (IITM) decision support system.According to their recordings, since November 30, the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution came down to zero, a level it is likely to stay at for the next five days, establishing the end of the stubble fire season this year.Also Read | Delhi: Pilot project to identify local pollution sourcesOn Thursday, vehicular emissions contributed to nearly 20% of the city’s PM 2.5 levels (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres), while industrial emissions from Delhi and peripheral areas contributed to over 11% of the Capital’s pollution levels, the data showed. “Farm fire season is over. Its contribution to Delhi’s air has been nearly zero for the past few days. The predominant contributors to Delhi’s pollution currently are its own local sources and some emissions from the National Capital Region,” said a senior IITM scientist, requesting anonymity.Environmental experts also stressed on the need to control local pollution sources.Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) said, “We are observing high PM2.5 levels during the morning and evening hours, when winds are typically calmer. While the government is taking measures to reduce emissions from trucks and construction sites, authorities should explore restrictions on private vehicles. Private offices should consider working from home.”She added, “Data from previous years suggests that the months of December and January experience poor to very poor air quality conditions. Therefore, it is critical to take all possible measures to reduce emissions and the exposure of vulnerable populations like children and elderly during these months.”
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Forces alert to foil sinister designs of enemy: BSF||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday said that security forces were alert to foil sinister designs of the enemy on the Indo-Pak borders. On the 57th raising day of the BSF, Inspector General of Jammu frontier DK Boora motivated the troops to continue achieving newer heights and thwart enemy attempts to disturb peace and tranquillity. Boora paid rich tributes to the bravehearts of the BSF who laid down their lives for the nation. Talking to mediapersons, DIG DS Sindhu said, “Though drone activities by the adversary is a new challenge, the security forces are ready to foil all the sinister designs.” Sindhu said that the forces have put anti-drone measures in place and they were working strictly in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Centre. JK LG orders relief for Tulail fire victimsExpressing deep anguish over the fire incident at Kilshay of Tulail in Gurez, wherein several houses were destroyed, J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha directed the Bandipora administration to conduct an on-the-spot assessment and provide immediate relief to the affected families. The authorities have supplied blankets, sustenance kits and immediate cash assistance of 15,000 each to 10 families. A relief of ₹1.1 lakh to each affected family whose residential structure has been completely damaged will be released on Thursday under SDRF norms. BSP holds protest against retrieval of govt land in Kathua Farmers led by the BSP protested against the administration in Kathua for issuing them notices to retrieve the government land under their possession. Raising slogans against the government and the BJP, the protesters marched towards the deputy commissioner’s office and staged a peaceful demonstration. “We were living on these lands before 1947 and our families are dependent upon farming on these small holdings. The administration has served us notices and they have put up boards and wires,” said Mohan Lal, an elderly. The protesters demanded that the government should not retrieve the land on which their families were solely dependent. Later, the protesters dispersed peacefully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forces-alert-to-foil-sinister-designs-of-enemy-bsf-101638390797258.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protest after getting information of Dushyant’s visit to Jind village||Farmers on Wednesday set up a morcha outside Daroli Kalan village in Jind after they got news of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s arrival.The farmers cut trees and parked a road-roller in the middle of the road to stop entry of Chautala who was expected to attend a marriage function.Till the filing of this copy, Dushyant had not reach there. Since last one year when farmers’ started the agitation against Centre’s three farm laws, Chautala had failed to hold a single programme in his constituency, Uchana Kalan.Earlier in the day, Chautala had visited Rohtak and Jind where he had directed the party workers to ensure maximum presence in ‘Jan Sarokar Diwas’ rally to be held in Jhajjar on December 9.Farmers laid siege outside the village in the morning, prepared food at the protest site and didn’t leave the venue till late night.However, police officials and district administration authorities made futile attempts to pacify the farmers. The farmers said they voted for Dushyant but he deceived them which led to strong resentment among the farming community.BKU Jind district president Azad Palwan said they have sealed Daroli Khera village at all entry points to stop entry of Chautala.“We are seeking cancellation of FIRs registered on around 50,000 farmers in different police station across Haryana, a legal guarantee on MSP, and compensation to family members of those died during ongoing protest,” said Palwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-after-getting-information-of-dushyant-s-visit-to-jind-village-101638390737364.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder a liability for Punjab, people will teach him, BJP a lesson: minister Warring||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Wednesday said that former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh was liability for the state and that people will teach both him and the BJP a lifetime lesson in the upcoming assembly polls.Interacting with party workers and the general public during the first session of the ‘Khuli charcha Warring de naal’ in Patiala, the minister accused Amarinder of a “criminal collusion with the Badals to ruin the state”.The public interaction programme is the first of the ministers’ series planned by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) ahead of the 2022 polls.“Precious four-and-a-half years were lost due to the then CM Amarinder’s illegal pact with Parkash Singh Badal and his son Sukhbir,” Warring claimed. Lambasting the Badals for allegedly looting Punjab by spearheading different mafias, he said that he was not afraid of anyone, especially when it came to taking on those who played with the state’s future by eating up its resources through tax evasions. “The Badals first murdered the soul of Punjab’s agriculture and then shamelessly started claiming to be their saviour,” he said. Reposing faith in what he termed as “pathbreaking policy initiatives” of the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government, Warring said that people of Punjab had seen what could be achieved with true political intent and they have made their minds to re-elect the Congress in 2022 with a thumping majority. Slamming Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Warring said the Aam Aadmi Party leader’s “shocking double standards” on the farmers’ issues have exposed him. “Punjabis will never forgive Kejriwal for backstabbing our farmers by passing one of these three black laws in the Delhi assembly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-a-liability-for-punjab-people-will-teach-him-bjp-a-lesson-minister-warring-101638390677345.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Capital turns dust bowl as AQI worsens||Cloudy skies and a lack of sunlight in the national capital trapped pollutants, making Delhi seem like a dust bowl on Wednesday, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.At 4pm on Wednesday, Delhi’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 370, considered ‘very poor’, up significantly from Tuesday’s 328, also in the same range according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings. Cloudy skies and a lack of sunlight in the national capital trapped pollutants, making Delhi seem like a dust bowl on Wednesday, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.At 4pm on Wednesday, Delhi’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 370, considered ‘very poor’, up significantly from Tuesday’s 328, also in the same range according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings.|#+|“The cloudy skies did not allow sunlight to penetrate and reach the ground. This gave an impression of haze and it looked like the pollution levels have spiked exponentially. While there was an increase in pollution levels because of low wind speeds, the AQI remained in the very poor zone,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research centre.IMD forecasters explained that the overcast skies in Delhi and neighbouring areas was the impact of a western disturbance, which is likely to cause light, isolated showers in parts of the Capital on Thursday.The western disturbance will also lead to an increase in wind speeds from Thursday, which could improve the pollution in the city marginally.“The winds will be easterly, blowing at a speed of 4-10kmph on Thursday and Friday. This will lead to a marginal improvement in the air quality but the AQI will continue to remain in the very poor range,” Soni said.Delhi also saw temperatures climb marginally on the back of a western disturbance.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, was 23 degrees Celsius—two below normal, and the minimum temperature was 11.5 degrees Celsius, two above normal.This came even as the central weather office predicted that temperatures in the city are likely to fall from Thursday, even as it sees a largely normal winter, with few deviations in temperature.Wednesday’s dip came a day after the end of the worst November on record in terms of average AQI, with the number hitting 376, worse than 2016, when this touched 374.The national capital also recorded the maximum of 11 days in November when the index rose above 400, which is considered severe by the pollution watchdog, as it affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with prior illnesses. All days except two saw AQI values exceeding 300, which means residents had no respite from the toxic blanket that smothered the capital all November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-turns-dust-bowl-as-aqi-worsens-101638390327374.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will continue protest till six demands are met: Farm leaders||The Haryana and Punjab farmers’ unions held separate meetings at Singhu border on Wednesday. The farm leaders said they will continue their protest till their six demands are met.Haryana farm leader Mandeep Singh Nathwan said they will call off their agitation after the Union government accepts their six demands including a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP), amendment in the Electricity Act, compensation to deceased farmers’ families and job to their next of kin, revocation of FIRs registered during the agitation, and strict action against Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra.“The government should also revoke the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 and the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property Act. The Union government should ensure that the committee formed by it gives a legal guarantee on the MSP,” he added.However, the Punjab leaders said they will continue their agitation till their demands are met but can change the way of the agitation.BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, who did not take part in the meetings, said the government should announce to cancel all FIRs registered against farmers and compensate the victims’ families.“After these demands are met, we will decide our next course of action,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-continue-protest-till-six-demands-are-met-farm-leaders-101638390498211.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sikhs facing many challenges, need to unite on principles: New SGPC chief to Panthic bodies||Newly elected Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami on Wednesday said that the Sikh community was facing challenges from all directions and it was the need of the hour for all Sikh organisations to unite on matters concerning Panthic principles even as their political goals were different. Talking to some mediapersons on his first day in office after being elected as the gurdwara body chief, Dhami said the co-operation of every Sikh organisation and devotees in India and abroad will be sought in the SGPC’s endeavours. “It is the time for dialogue and priority would be given to connect the Sikh youth with their heritage. The SGPC is a religious body representing the Sikh community with an illustrious history of 101 years,” he added. He said the presidents during the early days of the SGPC still remain the guiding forces for Sikhs. “I will strive to serve the shrine body in the light of its golden history and traditions. “The priorities of the present time are different as compared to the past but it is necessary to keep in mind the community’s expectations,” said Dhami. Since its inception, the SGPC has strived for proper management of gurdwaras and betterment of the Sikh faith besides playing a vital role in social service, he said, adding, “We will continue to work in all these areas in the future as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikhs-facing-many-challenges-need-to-unite-on-principles-new-sgpc-chief-to-panthic-bodies-101638390440377.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar court allows ED to record statement of jailed immigration fraud accused||A local court has allowed the Enforcement Directorate to record the statement of Prithvi Singh Rajput, one of accused in an immigration fraud busted by the Jalandhar police in October this year, in a bank fraud case registered in Jaipur. The application was moved by ED’s Jaipur office through their special public prosecutor, Lokesh Narang, seeking permission to record the statement of Rajput, who is lodged in Kapurthala jail for the immigration fraud case registered at Nav Baradari station in Jalandhar. While disposing of the matter, the court of judicial magistrate Joshica Sood also directed the Kapurthala central jail superintendent to make necessary arrangements. Rajput was arrested in October for allegedly cheating the complainant of a huge amount of money on the pretext of getting him a student visa. In its application, the ED had mentioned that the proceeds of the crime appeared to have been used by the accused for acquisition of various movable and immovable assets, an offence under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalandhar-court-allows-ed-to-record-statement-of-jailed-immigration-fraud-accused-101638390316951.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gita Mahotsav to give a new identity to Kurukshetra: CM Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced that the International Gita Mahotsav 2021 will be celebrated in Kurukshetra and thousands of people will attend the religious event, both online and offline.Khattar, who visited Kurukshetra on Wednesday, said many programmes will be organised at 75 religious places in the 48 kos ‘parikrama’ of Kurukshetra from December 2 to 19.The CM said Gita Mahotsav has given a new identity to Kurukshetra. He said Gita Mahotsav is now being celebrated internationally and the most recent one included scholars from 27-28 nations. The high commissioners of six nations were present during the previous events.Khattar said 30 more religious places have been identified in the 48 kos ‘parikrama’ of Kurukshetra and now the total number of religious places has increased to 164.The CM announced that ₹205 crore will be spent on the Mahabharata theme park being set up at Jyotisar, Kurukshetra. He said efforts are being made to develop religious places in Kurukshetra and the Centre has also extended its support to develop religious spots here.He said about ₹97 crore were spent by the Centre on development works in Kurukshetra under Phase One of the Krishna Circuit.A registered International Gita Mahotsav committee will be formed to organise the mahotsav in future with the help of the Kurukshetra Development Board and the local administration in a big way like the Kumbh Mela.He said special trains are to ply from Mathura and Haridwar to Kurukshetra to ferry devotees and visitors of International Gita Mahotsav 2021.However, the decision to organise Gita Mahotsav 2021 by allowing huge gatherings has raised concerns following threat of the Omicron variant of Covid-19.The state government has withdrawn its orders of full functioning of schools for students as well as teachers and the existing system of calling 50% students to school will continue until further orders.But organisers of the Gita Mahotsav said religious activities and Saras craft mela have attracted huge crowds in the past and there is a strong possibility that lakhs of people could attend these activities.On a question about concerns being raised by the Kurukshetra residents amid Covid fears, the CM said Covid protocols will be strictly followed, and thermal screening and vaccination will be done as per requirement at the entrances of the venue.Khattar said steps are being taken considering the present Covid situation and the guidelines issued by the government, and most programmes are also being organised online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gita-mahotsav-to-give-a-new-identity-to-kurukshetra-cm-khattar-101638390258308.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||J&K people unable to understand what they gained from scrapping of Article 370: Omar||Vice-president of the National Conference and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah on Wednesday fired fresh salvos at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said, “It came through the back door, formed a coalition government, pulled it down and then ruined the state before dissecting it into two parts.” Omar was addressing a public rally in Bhaderwah of Doda district. “We could not win the assembly elections in 2014. The biggest reason for our defeat was we weakened each other and the BJP took advantage of our weakness,” he said. Omar said the people till date were unable to understand what they gained from the revocation of Article 370. In 2014 assembly elections, the PDP had won 28 seats, the BJP 25, the NC 15 and the Congress 12. On February 27, 2015, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sealed the alliance between the PDP and the BJP to form a coalition government However, on June 19, 2018, the three-year old coalition government collapsed after the BJP pulled out of the alliance. Omar also expressed concern over worsening security scenario in the UT post-abrogation of Article 370. “Thank God you don’t have Kashmir-like situation here. Today, militancy is back in areas which were freed from it before 2014. No one feels secure now,” he said at the rally. “No one can say that they are coming from Pakistan or elsewhere. They are not coming from Pakistan. Unfortunately, several among them are Kashmiri youths, who have picked up guns over various reasons,” he added. Omar also regretted the ‘poor’ electricity scenario in Doda region and mocked at the central ministers’ recent visit to promote tourism. “The central minister, who had come here, must have brought generator and electricity with him. Tourists need electricity and warm rooms,” he said.
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bring bill to safeguard jobs, lands of J&K people: Azad to Centre||Senior Congress leader and former Rajya Sabha member Ghulam Nabi Azad on Wednesday asked the central government for inclusion of exclusive rights to jobs and land for the people of Jammu and Kashmir in the bill on statehood that it intends to bring in the Parliament. Addressing a public rally in Poonch, Azad said, “The government has agreed to hold elections and restore of statehood as well. So, it means they have promised these two, but I have added a little more to these promises. Till the time the Supreme Court decides on Article 370, we want the government to guarantee exclusive right to jobs and land to the locals in the statehood bill, which it intends to bring in the parliament.”Azad said it takes years in courts to decide cases and in such a scenario, it would be too late for the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “By the time Supreme Court adjudicates on Article 370, we may lose all our jobs and lands to the outsiders. Therefore, we cannot wait. If you (BJP government) are bringing a bill on statehood, then incorporate these two key issues in it,” he added. “We don’t have to do anything with Article 35-A, but include these two key issues to the statehood bill,” he said. Azad again criticised the BJP for ‘arbitrarily’ revoking the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and downgrading the historic state into two union territories. “Only J&K constituent assembly had the right to decide on it,” he said. “We have been saying all along that the method was wrong. J&K’s constituent assembly had the right to take a call on it. To remove it, add something to it or dilute it, the prerogative vested with the J&K assembly,” he added. The former MP also took a swipe at vice-president of the National Conference, Omar Abdullah, who had claimed that Azad and the Congress have given up on the restoration of Article 370. “I have said it repeatedly in the Parliament, but the matter is subjudice before the apex court. And therefore, if anyone says that we have not talked about Article 370, he is wrong. In the Parliament, I was the only one who talked about it in the past three years. No one else raised the issue,” he said. “But I think when the matter is in the Supreme Court, talking about it to appease the people would be unfair,” he added. Omar on Monday had slammed Azad for giving up the fight for restoration of Article 370. While Omar and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti these days are vociferously raking up the revocation of Article 370 to strike an emotional chord with the people in their rallies, Azad has also started addressing gatherings frequently in Jammu and Kashmir. The political parties anticipate assembly polls in June next year following the completion of delimitation exercise in March. 
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra University to award Rajib Goyal Prize to four young scientists||The Kurukshetra University has named four young scientists in country for the Rajib Goyal Prize.As per a statement issued by the university, four scientists, Dr Rajneesh Mishra of IIT Indore (applied sciences), Dr KM Sureshan of IISER Thiruvananthapuram (chemical sciences), Dr Rajeev Varshney of ICRISAT Hyderabad (life sciences), and Dr Suman Chakraborty of IIT Kharagpur (physical sciences), have been selected for the honour for outstanding work in their respective fields.These names were announced by Kurukshetra University vice-chancellor and chairman of the organising committee of the Rajib Goyal Prize, Prof Som Nath Sachdeva.“Goyal Prize was instituted in 1992 by Ram S Goyal, an NRI settled in the US, and so far over 100 eminent scientists have been honoured by the prizes,” said Prof Sanjiv Arora, convener of the organising committee.Highlighting the contributions of these young scientists aged below 45 years, the donor’s nominee and co-chairman of the organising committee, Prof SP Singh said Dr Rajneesh Mishra has opened up new avenues for tuning the optoelectronic behaviour of materials for various biomedical applications, while Dr Sureshan has made great contributions in areas of organic and material chemistry for wider industrial applications.Similarly, Dr Rajeev Varshney has done pioneering work in genome sequencing which resulted in the development of a drought-tolerant variety of PUSA chickpea in India; and Suman Chakraborty’s work in the area of microfluidics, nanofluidics and hydrophobic surfaces has found wide applications in many medical devices, added Dr Singh.The award ceremony will soon be organised at the Kurukshetra University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kurukshetra-university-to-award-rajib-goyal-prize-to-four-young-scientists-101638389838434.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||No decision taken on removal of Patiala mayor yet: Punjab govt to high court||The Punjab government on Wednesday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it has not yet taken a decision on the removal of Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu. The government submitted in the court that the municipal corporation’s proposal is pending with it. Defence lawyer Arjun Atma Ram said the government also told the court that Bittu was still discharging his duties as mayor.The high court deferred the hearing on Bittu’s petition for Monday. The petition demands that the record pertaining to the proceedings of no-confidence motion against him be summoned and the MC’s communication to the government about the resolution on his removal be quashed. Besides, the state government be restrained from acting on the civic body’s communication, it was pleaded. The floor test against Bittu took place on November 25 in which 36 of the 62 members (mostly councillors) voted against him. “The 36 voters (of the 61 present) do not form two-third majority in terms of the mandate of section 39 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act,” the petitioner has contended.The resolution passed without 2/3 majority against Bittu was sent to the state government for approval with a further decision that during this period he will be treated as “deemed suspended, the petition says.On November 25, Bittu failed to prove majority in a high-voltage floor test in the presence of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra. Bittu faced a revolt from fellow councillors over his proximity with Amarinder.On Tuesday, Bittu attended the mayoral office and even locked horns with senior deputy mayor who was given the charge of acting mayor after the November 25 floor test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-decision-taken-on-removal-of-patiala-mayor-yet-punjab-govt-to-high-court-101638389836954.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Suspected militants open fire on traffic cop in Srinagar||Suspected militants on Wednesday night shot at a traffic cop in the Old City area of Srinagar, J&K Police said. The cop was attacked while regulating traffic, they added. The policeman has been identified as Mohammad Abdullah, whose condition was termed stable by doctors treating him. A police spokesperson said that militants fired upon and injured a traffic policeman who was busy in regulating traffic at Rajouri Kadal in Srinagar. “He (cop) has been shifted to hospital. The area has been cordoned off,” he added. So far, no militant group has claimed responsibility of the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suspected-militants-open-fire-on-traffic-cop-in-srinagar-101638389777133.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Manish Sisodia visits govt schools in Punjab CM Channi’s constituency, claims deplorable conditions||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday visited government schools in Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s assembly constituency Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district and raised questions over the “poor infrastructure” in the educational institutions.At Makrauna Kalan village of the constituency, Sisodia visited the local government primary school where the Aam Aadmi Party leader Sisodia met a teacher working on a salary ₹6,000. The teacher told him that the school did not even have drinking water facility for the students and the staff had to bring drinking water from the nearby gurdwara. The swings installed for children were found in a dilapidated condition. Sisodia said if the Punjab government calls the state number 1 in education system in such a situation, then it is messing up the future of students.Earlier, he visited the government primary school at Chakalan village, which had cobwebs grown and garbage strewn around. The toilets and furniture were in a rundown condition. Pargat Singh hits backLater, Punjab education minister Pargat Singh slammed Sisodia and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, saying the Delhi education model was “a bubble of water”. He accused the two of peddling “open lies” about their education system. “If you have such a wonderful system, then why there are 760 posts of principals and 479 of vice-principals lying vacant in Delhi schools besides the shortage of 41 per cent non-teaching staff. What is Sisodia trying to hide by not providing the list of schools?” he asked. The comparison of a border state like Punjab with the national capital is completely wrong, he said. “Punjab is an agrarian state whereas Delhi is a municipal city. Imparting quality education in the border areas has always been a challenge,” he added.Kejriwal slams ChanniDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal wrote on his Twitter handle, “The condition of schools in Punjab is very bad. Channi sahib says that the schools in Punjab are the best. This means they have no intention of fixing the schools. These leaders have deliberately kept the government schools in a bad condition for 70 years. Now that won’t happen. Channi sahib, we will give a wonderful education like Delhi to the children of Punjab (sic).”
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana sounds alarm over fake birth, death certificates||The Haryana health department has alerted the Registrar General of India (RGI) a number of times about hackers generating fake birth and death certificates by breaking into the RGI’s centralised Civil Registration System (CRS) portal, according to the Right to Information (RTI) Act stamped documents.Between June 9 and October 14 this year, Haryana’s chief registrar (births and deaths) has shot off at least seven letters to the RGI seeking action on the “issue of national importance” while cautioning that if the illegality is not stopped immediately, the data “may lose its legal importance”.Miffed with the RGI office for not taking firm action and stopping “misuse of the portal despite repeated requests”, Haryana has listed details on how the security of the CRS portal has been breached, stating “thousands of fake birth and death certificates have been generated fraudulently” in state.“Despite repeated requests and showing information about illegal use of the CRS portal, no action has been taken at your end and misuse of the portal is yet to be controlled. The fake registration cases are still being informed to this office,” reads an October 13 letter of the Haryana health department marked to the RGI.Haryana health officials said they are trying their best to check fake registration of events on the portal at their end.In one of the recent letters to the RGI, which comes under the Union ministry of home affairs, the Haryana health department said they are unable to keep check on creation of fake registrar and sub-registrar on the portal as they don’t have control or access to the database.The state health authorities stated that despite earlier communications regarding “misuse of the CRS portal by hacking it”, at least 243 births were registered illegally in Panipat’s ESI Hospital and primary health centre using bogus user identification in October.The RGI officials in Delhi dealing with this hot-button issue remained inaccessible despite being contacted repeatedly in the past few days via their office telephones and mobile phones.V Shrinivasan, joint director (IT), with whom Haryana had directly taken up the issue in the beginning, said he was in a meeting and assured that he will call back. Later, he didn’t take phone calls or respond to text messages.The RGI’s office directed HT to contact Sandhya Singh, deputy registrar general, stating she is handling the issue in question.Her staff, quoting her, said she was in a meeting and will be available later. When contacted again, she was said to be unavailable. Next day, Sandhya Singh, in a text message said she is on leave till December 10.“The RGI staff have been in denial and are not addressing the matter which has a direct bearing on national security,” an official dealing with the issue said, adding that other states have also alerted the RGI office about fake births and deaths being registered in their states.HOW THE ISSUE WAS UNEARTHEDAs per information gathered under the RTI Act, initially, registrars and district registrars (births and deaths) of Palwal, Panchkula, Panipat, Nuh and Bhiwani had sounded the state health authorities and the local police about cases of fake birth and death registrations in their districts.Following this, additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora wrote to the then Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava to take immediate action on this issue of “national importance”.Police sources say FIRs were lodged in some districts and one FIR was registered in Jhajjar on November 30.Sources say what further set the alarm bells ringing was detection of vague emails during a review of the CRS portal and some unidentified people outside state even handed over such certificates to a health department official who was acting as a decoy customer.These fake email ids were used to log into the CRS portal as registrar, sub-registrar or data entry operator. The users of such bogus email ids manipulated the database of the CRS portal and generated fake birth and death certificates. Seven set of email ids’ details were shared with the RGI office, as per official records.Yet another alarming piece of information that the Haryana deputy director (monitoring and evaluation) has shared with the RGI office is the CRS portal showing 10 birth and death registration centres in Panchkula which are actually fake.Surprisingly, even after the RGI office deleted these registration centres from the database, a birth certificate was issued from the Institute of District and Child Care, Panchkula, a fake centre.“It seems that some outsiders have good control over the CRS website... it is beyond the understanding of this office as to how births got registered in a fake institution even after it was deleted from the database. It is a matter of serious concern. It is important to find the black sheep among the staff,” Haryana said, while again taking up the issue.
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal BJP goes for image makeover after bypoll defeat||The outcome of the recently concluded bypolls for three assembly and one parliamentary segment in Himachal Pradesh, wherein the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suffered a crushing defeat, has forced the saffron party to make urgent amends to improve its image ahead of the general assembly elections due next year. After the party’s brainstorming session to assess the factors for electoral losses, the Himachal Pradesh cabinet that met for the second time after the bypolls results decided to take a series of steps to ensure speedy development works in the constituencies. The BJP was drubbed by the Congress in Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segments as well as in Mandi. The cabinet that met under chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday deliberated on ways to improve the governance. Delay in the execution of projects was leading to resentment among the public, while the opposition Congress had been repeatedly targeting the government over lack of development in the state. The poor condition of roads, mainly in the rural roads, was one of the main issues in the byelections, besides inflation and unemployment. The ministers in the cabinet meeting that lasted for nearly seven hours, besides giving approval to scores of decisions and welfare projects, held an informal discussion on improving the prospects of the party. Each minister will be assigned two assembly constituencies, it was decided. The legislators will coordinate with ministers to accelerate the development works in their respective constituencies. There are 11 ministers in the Jai Ram cabinet. The chief minister will look after five assembly segments of Mandi and five others will be assigned to senior-most minister Mahender Singh Thakur. Traditionally, the ruling party holds an edge in byelections. However, the BJP’s troubles from its crushing defeat have been compounded by the fact that its vote share declined drastically. In Fatehpur, the BJP’s vote share increased marginally from 30% in 2017 to 32% in the byelection, while that of the Congress went up from 32% to 42%. In Jubbal-Kotkhai, 52% votes went to the Congress kitty, while rebel Chetan Bragta managed to secure 41% votes, leaving the BJP’s share shrinking to mere 4%. In the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency, the Congress’ vote share rose from 27% in the 2019 parliamentary elections to nearly 49% in the recent bypoll. The BJP’s vote share has declined from 69.7% in 2019 to about 48% this time. The BJP’s state executive had in its meeting last month identified poor implementation of development projects on the ground as one of the factors due to which the party cadres were complacent, ultimately resulting in the party’s loss. It was also held that due to overconfidence, the BJP failed to counter the issues of inflation and unemployment which the Congress had made its main poll plank.
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Visa issues keep Pakistan traders away from Punjab International Trade Expo||The five-day Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX), starting here on Thursday, will once again see no Pakistani traders and exhibitors, amid tense ties between India and Pakistan, despite strenuous efforts by the organisers and Punjab government.Being held since 2005, the expo is organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) and hosted by the Punjab government, with an aim to strengthen industrial relations with nations within and beyond Asia.Given a miss last year amid the Covid-19 pandemic, this year, it’s scheduled from December 2 to 6.“Efforts were made from both sides of the border to get Pakistani traders here. But the visas could not be arranged,” said RS Sachdeva, chair, Punjab state chapter, PHDCCI.Traders from other countries like Egypt, Turkey and Thailand will participate in the expo, with special emphasis on tourism, which is also this year’s theme, he said, adding that PITEX will be inaugurated by deputy chief minister OP Soni and state industries and commerce minister Gurkirat Singh will be the special guest.Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said PITEX will provide a new dimension to the holy city and its vicinity in terms of trade and commerce.Safety protocols in place“We have ensured all safety arrangements, especially in the wake of emergence of another Covid-19 variant in South Africa. We have mobile testing vans at our disposal and Covid-appropriate behaviour will be encouraged throughout the event,” the DC added.The official also appealed to locals to participate enthusiastically in the event, while taking special care of the safety protocols.Apart from international and national participation, including traders from Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand, the expo will also see presence of various departments of Punjab government, including Markfed, tourism department, Punjab Agro Industry Corporation, Punjab State Cooperative Milk Federation, PEDA, Amritsar Development Authority, Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation, Punjab Cooperative Bank, PUNSUP, Punjab State Warehousing Corporation and Mandi Board.A number of central government departments, such as ministry of MSME, Khadi and Village Industries Commission, NSIC and National Jute Board will also be participating.Karan Gilhotra, co-chair, Punjab state chapter, PHDCCI, said the event will also lay focus on rural entrepreneurship and farm tourism.Naveen Seth, assistant secretary general, PHDCCI, said 400 stalls had been set up, while taking care of safety and surveillance. “The expo has seen tremendous growth over the years, with steady rise in traders and visitors’ participation. This year, over 3,50,000 visitors are expected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/visa-issues-keep-pakistan-traders-away-from-punjab-international-trade-expo-101638389417046.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||HP gets in-principle approval for infra development project worth ₹2,095 crore||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said that they have got in-principle approval of the ₹2095-crore Asian Development Bank Infrastructure Development Project. He said out of this, 90% would be supported by Centre whereas 10% would be the state’s share. The project is aimed at giving a fresh impetus to tourism in the state through creation of new destinations, improving existing destinations besides ensuring maintenance and preservation of heritage, said the chief minister. He said that the project also envisages development of ecotourism by ensuring development of lesser-known places to lower burden on already crowded tourist destinations. Jai Ram said the project would be implemented in two tranches. Meanwhile, addressing the 37th foundation day of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry in Nauni virtually, Jai Ram said the higher education institutions like UHF help in developing latest knowledge and technology which benefit the farmers.Jai Ram asked the university to prepare trained human resources to find latest technologies from new research and spread this knowledge to the farmers, so that they can increase their income and living standards. He said more than 80 projects funded by various institutions were currently underway in the university and in the last one year, the varsity has succeeded in getting 18 new projects worth ₹7.45 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-gets-in-principle-approval-for-infra-development-project-worth-2-095-crore-101638389298472.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Moga deputy mayor’s nephew shot at by Bishnoi gang members, one nabbed||The nephew of Congress leader and Moga deputy mayor Ashok Dhamija had a narrow escape when two members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang shot at him in the city on Wednesday afternoon, police said.One of the assailants was arrested. The incident took place in the local scrap market where the Dhamija family runs shops. Sources said the assailants had come to execute Jatinder Kumar Dhamija, brother of the deputy mayor, on the direction of Canada-based gangster Goldy Brar, who is the main accused in the murder of Youth Congress leader Gurlal Singh Pehalwan. “But they tried to kill Pratham Dhamija as they mistook him for his uncle Jatinder as the two have a similar appearance. Pratham escaped as the assailant’s pistol got jammed and he could fire only one bullet that hit the victim in the foot. Pratham’s father Sunil Dhamija was also injured as one of the attackers hit him in the head with the butt of the pistol while trying to escape,” a police official said. The suspects fled after the locals started gathering at the spot, he added. Gurlal was killed in Faridkot by members of the Bishnoi gang on the direction of Goldy Brar in February this year. The arrested assailant is a resident of Sonepat in Haryana and active member of Lawrence Bishnoi gang, an official said. The police did not disclose his name. He suffered a head injury and is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital. Pratham Dhamija was also receiving treatment at the civil hospital. The official added, “The motive of the attack is yet to be ascertained as the nabbed accused is not fit to give his statement.” Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surinderjit Singh Mand said, “We are investigating the case. As of now, we cannot share anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-deputy-mayor-s-nephew-shot-at-by-bishnoi-gang-members-one-nabbed-101638389297123.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn approves draft construction and demolition waste policy||Soon, construction material, such as slabs and kerb stones, will be available at much cheaper rates from the state-run Construction and Demolition (C&D) waste recycling plants in Chandigarh. Under the draft Chandigarh Construction and Demolition Waste Management Policy, 2021, which was approved by the Chandigarh administration on Wednesday, generators of C&D waste ((known locally as malba) will be allowed to take processed material costing 50% of the processing charges for free. The products available at subsidised rates include washed sand, filling sand/silt, crushed aggregates (10, 20 and 40 mm), and PCC products made of recycled aggregates (paver blocks, kerbs, channels, tiles, etc).“After taking the election commission’s consent, the administration will be putting the draft policy in public domain for comments and suggestions for 21 days,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal.Processing chargesUnder the policy, it will be mandatory for all generators of C&D waste — public or private, from a dwelling unit or a shop to an industrial unit or government department — to shift the malba to the processing plant.While reconstructing a residential or commercial property, people will have to pay C&D waste processing charges of ₹170 per square metre of the total covered area of all floors to be demolished. For a new construction, charges will be ₹20 per square metre of the total proposed covered area of all floors to be constructed at the time of building plan approval. Charges will be increased by 10% annually (on base rate) every April 1.Waste generators for whom the building plan approval is not required or who have got it approved before the policy’s notification will be liable to pay a processing fee of ₹220 per metric ton along with GST. This fee will also be increased by 10% annually.Penalty for dumping wasteAccording to the draft policy, dumping of C&D waste at public or non-designated places will invite a heavy penalty. Transporters/generators will be challaned at the rate of ₹5,500 per vehicle for dumping unprocessed waste illegally. The penalty will be increased by ₹500 annually. The authority to issue the challan will rest with the subdivional engineer/junior engineer of the road wing and enforcement inspectors of the municipal corporation. In case of any dispute, the MC commissioner or any official authorised by him/her may settle the issue.
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali cancer hospital: First phase to open by month end||The first phase of Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, which is coming at Medicity in Mohali’s New Chandigarh (Mullanpur), will become operational by the end of this month. It was back on December 30, 2013, when then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh laid the foundation stone of this 300-bed state-of-the-art cancer institute. A Government of India initiative, it will be a tertiary care centre for cancer, promoting prevention, cure, rehabilitation and palliation for the region’s population.Tejveer Singh, principal secretary, investment promotion, Punjab, who visited the site on Tuesday, said: “The work is going on at full pace, and we are hopeful of making the first phase operational by the end of this month.” The second phase will become operational by April next year, he said.In the first phase, the hospital will start radiotherapy, radiology, CT scan, MRI, ultrasound, X-ray, mammography, medical oncology, chemotherapy, day-care ward, pathology and lab facilities and minor operation theatre, besides initiating OPD services such as surgical oncology, medical oncology, radiation oncology, palliative care and preventive oncology.Dr Rakesh Kapoor, director, Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, said: “We are giving final touches and are hopeful of starting the facility by the end of this month. It is an ambitious project of the Government of India. The 300-bed state-of-the-art hospital will act as a tertiary care centre for the entire northern region, comprising Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.” ₹684-crore facility spread over 50 acresThe Union department of atomic energy has spent ₹684 crore on setting up the hospital, on the lines of the Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai. Its built-up area is 40,545 square metres, for which 50 acres of land was provided for free by the Punjab Government.Tata Memorial Centre has been undertaking cancer management in Punjab and has already set up Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital in Sangrur.The hospital will be fully IT-based with electronic medical records facility. It will also be interlinked with all the Tata Memorial Centres located across the country. This will help patients of this region get online super-speciality consultation for managing various types of cancer ailments under the disease management groups. Besides residential hostels for doctors and nurses and residential accommodation for faculty, the hospital also offers stay facilities for cancer patients in a specially-built dharamshala.Medicity, which comprises sites for multi-speciality and super-speciality hospitals, medical research institutes and housing facilities for doctors and other staff, in New Chandigarh, is spread over 250 acres in the immediate vicinity of PGIMER, Chandigarh.
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC election: Five councillors, spouses of 4 on BJP first list||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday announced its first list of 23 candidates for the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections scheduled on December 24. In the present MC General House, elected five years ago, the BJP enjoys a majority with 20 seats out of the total 26. After the fresh delimitation, the MC comprises 35 wards. In the list announced late at night, there are five sitting councillors and another four who are spouses of sitting councillors. The 14 others are mainly the party’s office-bearers or their relatives.The announcement came after the list was approved by the central leadership. Earlier, on Monday, BJP state president Arun Sood, MC election in-charge and national general secretary Vinod Tawde and former state president Sanjay Tandon had met the national leadership in Delhi.The existing councillors who have been retained include Dalip Sharma (Ward 3), current mayor Ravi Kant Sharma (Ward 17), nominated councillor Sachin Kumar Lahotiya (Ward 24), Bharat Kumar (Ward 31), and Kanwarjeet Singh Rana (Ward 33).Wives of three councillors, whose wards were reserved for women candidates, have also been given tickets. They include Vinod Aggarwal’s wife Savita Gupta (Ward 4), Ani Dubey’s wife Vimla Dubey (Ward 9), and Jagtar Singh Dhillon’s wife Saravjit Kaur Dhillon (Ward 6). Meanwhile, councillor Chanderwati Shukla’s husband Gopal Shukla ‘Pappu’ has been nominated from Ward 15.  “The prime consideration for selection was their devotion to the party and ‘stainless steel’ image. Office-bearers at all levels were consulted and surveys were also conducted to finalise the names. After all the recommendations, the names of the candidates were announced with the approval of the national party high command,” said Arun Sood.Suspense over 3 ex-mayorsMost on the list are either from Sood’s or Tandon’s camps. With the party withholding the names of candidates for the remaining 12 wards, suspense prevails over the fate of former mayors Raj Bala Malik, Rajesh Kalia and Davesh Moudgil. Moudgil is a close aide of former MP Satya Pal Jain.Uncertainty also prevails over the name of senior deputy mayor Mahesinder Singh Sidhu, considered close to MP Kirron Kher. In the list of 23, there are seven women candidates and four under the age of 40. The list also contains people from corporate sector, business community and social sector.By selecting senior office-bearers of different wings, such as Uttarakhand cell, SC morcha, mahila morcha, traders’ cell, medical cell, colony cell and media cell, the party has attempted to strike a balance between different sections of voters. First nomination filedMeanwhile, on Wednesday, Akhilesh Saxena, 32, filed nomination as an independent candidate from Ward No. 3. A street food vendor from Bapu Dham Colony, he is the first candidate to file nominations this year.So far, the Aam Aadmi Party has announced a list of 26 candidates while the Shiromani Akali Dal (in alliance with Bahujan Samaj Party) has announced 13 nominees. The other main contender, Congress, is yet to come out with any names.
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid in Chandigarh: South Africa returnee, wife have mild symptoms||The South Africa returnee, his wife and domestic help, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, are showing only mild symptoms, the UT health department said on Wednesday. “The foreign returnee has developed only mild symptoms like fever and cough and does not have severe infection. His wife and domestic help also have the same symptoms. Their health is continuously being monitored by doctors at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and required treatment is being given to them,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh. Meanwhile, the UT administration declared a part of Sector 36, where the family resides, as a containment zone. The authorities said regular screening and monitoring will be done and frequent sanitisation of the area will be carried out. Residents have been advised to follow social distancing norms, wear masks and take care of hand hygiene.The health department has also sent their samples for genome sequencing to the central laboratory in New Delhi to check if they are infected with the new Omicron variant, she said.Omicron (B.1.1.529), a new variant of concern, is believed to have originated in South Africa and has attracted worldwide attention.Though there is no case of Omicron in the country so far, medical experts from other countries have described its symptoms as “extremely mild”.Covid in tricity: 17 more test positiveMeanwhile, 17 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Wednesday. Chandigarh and Mohali reported six cases each while five people were found infected in Panchkula. On Tuesday, the tricity’s case tally stood at 13.However, no Covid-related death was reported on Wednesday. Last month, four people had succumbed to the virus. All were residents of Mohali district.The tricity’s active caseload has climbed to 134, with 66 patients in Chandigarh, 42 in Mohali and 26 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,471 positive cases, of which 64,585 have been cured while 820 patients have died. In Mohali, the tally has climbed to 68,954. Among them, 67,840 patients have recovered and 1,072 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,837 includes 30,432 recoveries and 379 casualties. Covid in Panchkula: Care centres to reopenIn view of a spike in Covid-19 cases, the Panchkula health department has requested the administration to reopen the Covid care centre and quarantine facilities, which were closed after the second wave receded.The issue came up during a meeting between deputy commissioner (DC) Mahavir Kaushik and members of the Covid-19 monitoring committee to check the arrangements in place for a possible third wave.In November, Panchkula’s caseload nearly doubled to 63 from 35 cases reported in October. It was the highest number of cases in the past five months.It was decided that a Covid care centre will be established again at the civil hospital to look after the new patients while a quarantine facility will come up in Sector 9 with a capacity to isolate at least 50 persons.Dr Mukta Kumar, chief medical officer, said: “The situation is quite unpredictable. We have to closely monitor the situation for a little longer to make any observation. However, we are making all arrangements.”In view of the Haryana government’s recent order, the DC said a prior permission will be needed if a gathering of over 500 people is taking place in open areas.Insisting on use of masks, he directed the police department and municipal corporation to create awareness and ensure strict compliance, especially at crowded areas. He also gave directions to increase sampling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-in-chandigarh-south-africa-returnee-wife-have-mild-symptoms-101638389181611.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Ward 25 has a stinking neighbourhood||Foul smell from the landfill at Dadumajra gives the residents of Ward No. 25 a tough time, especially when it rains. The careless attitude of door-to-door garbage collectors, especially when it comes to lifting the domestic waste from upper floor, and poor sanitation in general is also adding to their woes. The ward comprises Sectors 37 and 38, which are situated in the landfill’s close vicinity. “One of the major issues, which we have been facing for years, is the dumping ground at Dadumajra. There is a mountain of garbage, because of which residents of neighbouring sectors have to suffer a lot,” says Major DP Singh, chief adviser to resident welfare association, Sector 38-A and B. Major Singh says that the stench becomes unbearable during the rainy season, or when the landfill catches fire, which happens quite often. It is also leading to major health issues, he says. The residents also complain of irregular garbage collection, especially from second and third floors. “The sanitation workers collect money from all three floors separately, but they don’t go to every floor to collect waste. I understand that it gets difficult for a worker to climb so many stairs, but they can be considerate in some cases, such as elderly people or working professionals who are not at home,” says Major Singh. Poor sanitation, in general, is also a major irritant. Shashi Sharma, a trader who lives in Sector 37, says: “Cleanliness is the least priority of MC officials. In the market area, garbage can be seen spilling out of the bins, leading to foul smell and unhygienic conditions.” Sharma also complains of irregular water supply, a sentiment echoed by Nirmal Singh, a resident of Sector 38D. “Four years ago, we were promised 24-hour fresh water supply, but things haven’t improved. Forget about 24-hour supply, we don’t even get water on top floors during summers,” says Singh. Singh also complains of uneven cycle tracks and pedestrian paths. “Challans are issued if someone parks a vehicle on a cycle track, but are these tracks worth cycling? The tracks are uneven, and at times, garbage is dumped on them,” says the resident. BJP councillor Arun Sood, who represents the area, says: “The problem of dumping ground arose due to poor decisions of the previous Congress government. We are trying our best to sort it out. By next year, garbage processing plant will become operational and the problem will be resolved.” Regarding door-to-door collectors, he says: “The MoU states that they have to collect garbage from every floor. Still, they are being reluctant and are creating issues. Whenever we get complaints, we make sure the sanitary inspector is informed and waste is collected from each floor.” According to Sood, estimates for repairing cycle tracks have also been passed and the work will begin soon. KNOW YOUR WARDLocalities: Sector 37 and Sector 38 General Ward Voters: 21,000 Key issues Dadumajra landfill in vicinity raising stink, leading to health issues Poor garbage collection and sanitation Uneven cycle tracks and pedestrian paths Local voices Foul smell from the dumping ground is a major issue. Every councillor makes promises to resolve it, but no one has done anything so far. Major DP Singh, RWA chief adviser, Sector 38 People throw garbage outside the park, which is very annoying. Another issue is that of speeding vehicles on internal roads. VK Bhardwaj, a retired government employee, Sector 38A The officials issue challans without checking whether the dry and wet garbage is mixed by residents from the first floor or second floor. Satish Seth, a retired government employee, Sector 38D Cleanliness is the least priority of officials. In Sector-37 market, garbage is always spilling out of bins, leading to foul smell and unhygienic conditions. Shashi Sharma, a shopkeeper, Sector 37 
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Alleged illegal detention: Give notice to youth before arrest, HC directs Chandigarh Police||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Chandigarh Police to give a seven-day prior notice in case they found any grave evidence against a local youth in any non-bailable offence and intend to take him into custody.Nitin, 23, a resident of Sector 29, went missing on November 24 and surfaced on November 26, hours after the HC took up a plea of his family members alleging illegal detention by police. The family also alleged torture and frame-up in a robbery case. The family alleged that Nitin was picked up in connection to an armed loot that took place near the mango orchards in Sector 28 on November 18. The person who executed this robbery is suspected to have fired on a police team on November 23, leaving a home guard volunteer injured.The youth appeared before the HC on November 30, following which his family’s plea seeking his release was disposed of. The court said that for any further grievance about illegal detention, Nitin can make a representation before the director general of police, who upon inquiry would pass a speaking order within four weeks. Meanwhile, if police want to arrest him in any case, he would be served a prior seven-day notice, the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alleged-illegal-detention-give-notice-to-youth-before-arrest-hc-to-chandigarh-police-101638389178678.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Maximum temperature plunges by five degrees in Chandigarh||With a western disturbance active in the region, the day temperature dropped by over five notches amid cloudy weather in Chandigarh on Wednesday. The city logged a maximum temperature of 19.8°C, down from 24.9°C recorded on Tuesday. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), cloudy weather is likely to continue on Thursday and Friday as well and light rain can be expected from Sunday onwards.At 19.8°C, the maximum temperature was also five degrees below normal. With chances of snow in the adjoining hilly areas, the mercury could drop even further in a few days, said the weatherman.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature went up from 9.9°C to 11.3°C , three notches above normal, owing to the cloudy weather at night. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 23-25°C while minimum temperature will stay around 12°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/maximum-temperature-plunges-by-five-degrees-in-chandigarh-101638389177390.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||HP Police awarded with ‘President’s Colour’, 8th in country to achieve feat||The ‘President’s Colour Award’ ceremony was organised by Himachal Pradesh Police on The Ridge here on Wednesday wherein state governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar was the chief guest , accompanied by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur as a special guest. The governor honoured the state police with the ‘President’s Colour Award’, which was received by HP director general of police Sanjay Kundu. The governor said HP’s was the eighth state police of the country to get this distinction. “It is a special achievement and this proves the state police rank high in the service of humanity along with performance, professionalism, integrity, protection of human rights and other parameters,” Arlekar said.He added that this feat has also been given to the state police for the contribution of their personnel, who have worked tirelessly over the years to make it reliable, professional, honest and people friendly. Chief minister Jai Ram said this award was the ‘highest point in the professional life of any uniformed force’. DGP Kundu said that the ‘President’s Colour’ was not only an award but also a responsibility, which the Himachal Pradesh Police have to fulfil with more integrity, efficiency and discipline. He added that every jawan of the HP Police should take a pledge to maintain security and peace in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-police-awarded-with-president-s-colour-8th-in-country-to-achieve-feat-101638389056974.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi has surrendered to whims of his party MLAs: SAD on appointment of Jalalpur’s son||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday slammed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for appointing controversial MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur’s son Gagandep Singh as director (administration) of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). In a press release, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said the CM had surrendered to the whims and fancies of his ministers and Congress MLAs and was making one appointment after another at their behest without any regard for the future of the state. “In fact, Channi seems to have forgotten his own government’s slogan of ‘Ghar Ghar Naukari’ and haves changed it to ‘kewal Congress ghar naukari’. Within days of taking over as CM, Channi had appointed home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa’s son-in-law Tarun Vir Singh Lehal as additional advocate general bypassing the procedure and using the “exceptional circumstances” in the appointment clause,” said Majithia. Majithia said that Jalalpur’s name had earlier surfaced in an attack on a mining officer and an illegal distillery that was unearthed in Ghanaur last year. “Also, Congress leader Amrik Singh Dhillon’s grandson Karanvir Singh was appointed director (administration) of Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL),” he said, adding that all such appointments will be scrapped once the Sad comes to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-has-surrendered-to-whims-of-his-party-mlas-sad-on-appointment-of-jalalpur-s-son-101638388878544.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims one life, infects 234 more in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir reported 234 fresh Covid infections and one death on Wednesday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 118 were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 116 infections. There was a big spike in Jammu, but the only fatality reported in UT was reported from Kashmir. Kashmir reported highest 623 cases in Srinagar, followed by 28 cases in northern district of Baramulla. In Jammu’s Reasi, 88 cases were detected, raising concern among authorities. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 569 followed by Baramulla and Jammu districts with 326 and 112 such cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 171 with active cases reaching 1,687. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 59,134 vaccine doses were administered on Wednesday. The total number of people who have recovered reached 3,30,922, prompting the recovery rate to mount to 98.4%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have climbed up to 3,37,086, while the death toll stands at 4,477. The officials said that 51,825 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,151 fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 867 deaths. HP govt urges pregnant women, lactating mothers to get jabUrging the pregnant women and lactating mothers to get vaccinated, a government spokesperson on Wednesday said that as per studies, such women are more likely to become severely ill with Covid and may require hospitalisation, ICU care, oxygen support and could be at increased risk for adverse pregnancy outcomes. He said that Covid infection in pregnant women may result in preterm birth, seizures, emergency caesarean section and many other complications which can be fatal. He said that vaccines are safe for the pregnant women. “It is recommended that all women should get vaccinated, including those who are planning to start a family,” said the spokesperson, adding that there is no current evidence that suggests the vaccines interfere with fertility. He added that the antibodies produced after vaccination help in protecting the babies of breastfeeding mothers from Covid infection. 74 test positive in Himachal Meanwhile, Himachal Pradesh recorded 74 fresh Covid cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 2,27,269 while death toll reached 3,832 after one patient succumbed to the infection.The highest of 30 cases were reported from Kangra, 12 from Una, 10 from Shimla, eight from Hamirpur, five from Chamba, four each from Mandi and Solan and one from Bilaspur. The active cases climbed up to 864 while the recoveries reached 2,22,556 after 43 people recuperated. In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is still the worst hit among all 12 districts logging 51,939 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 31,919 cases and Shimla with 27,909 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-one-life-infects-234-more-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101638388877401.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Panic as two shops collapse||Two shops located on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway near Baltana in Zirakpur collapsed due to digging of a hotel’s basement on an adjoining plot on Wednesday. No one was injured, though panic spread in the area. One of the shop owners, Anil Suri, who sells tiles, said his goods got buried under the debris. The other shop is owned by an Ambala resident. Police and municipal council officials rushed to the spot and took stock of the situation.Zirakpur municipal council’s executive officer Girish Verma said the incident will be thoroughly investigated, and action will be taken accordingly. However, the contractor said the work for hotel construction was going on as per the approved plan.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSMohali MC gets ₹5-cr arrears from PSPCL The Mohali municipal corporation on Wednesday got its second instalment of ₹5-crore arrears from the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said the PSPCL had defaulted on excise duty to the tune of ₹30 crore besides electricity bills. He said the amount was released after the intervention of former health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. 40-year-old man hangs himself in ManimajraA 40-year-old hung himself at his home in Manimajra on Wednesday evening. Police said the man ran a furniture shop in Manimajra and was suffering from depression and had been getting treatment for the past three years. No suicide note was recovered. The deceased is survived by his wife and two children. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Chandimandir man held with illicit liquorThe police on Tuesday arrested a man, identified as Arjun of Chandimandir for illegally carrying four boxes containing 48 bottles of liquor. Police stopped a vehicle on suspicion while patrolling in Raipur Rani. Upon checking, they recovered the boxes, but the man failed to produce a valid liquor licence.Pune Open: Chandigarh golfer takes leadAbhijit Singh Chadha of Chandigarh negotiated the rainy conditions well to seize the early initiative at the ₹40 lakh Pune Open Golf Championship 2021 being played at the Poona Club Golf Course on Wednesday. Chadha’s fiery seven-under 63 gave him the clubhouse lead on a day that witnessed rain from the start of play till the end. Gurugram-based rookie Kartik Sharma and Delhi’s Wasim Khan were tied second with scores of four-under 66.Body found in parkAn unidentified body of a man was found at Rajendra Park in Sector 1 on Wednesday morning. Police said the deceased, who was between the age of 25 to 30, had no signs of injury on his body. A motorcycle was found in the parking which police say belongs to him. They added that it is likely that he died of a drug overdose. The body has been kept at the mortuary of Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and postmortem will be conducted to ascertain the cause of death. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure at the Sector 3 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-panic-as-two-shops-collapse-101638388524701.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Petrol price to drop ₹8.6 from today after tax cut||The Delhi government on Wednesday reduced value added tax (VAT) on petrol, bringing down the price of the fuel in the city by ₹8.56 per litre, a move chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said will bring relief from inflation to the people of the national capital.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government slashed VAT on petrol from 30% to 19.40%. While the price of diesel in Delhi was already lower than other cities in the national capital region (NCR), Wednesday’s decision made petrol also cheaper than in Noida and Gurugram.
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Shooter Sarabjot sets eyes on Asiad after winning nationals in 10m air pistol||Until about six years ago, Sarabjot Singh had no little knowledge about shooting as a professional sport. A football enthusiast initially, he spent time representing his school’s team at national-level tournaments and honing his dribbling skills at school grounds in Ambala. A chance meeting with a family member at a shooting tournament, however, made him fall in love with the sport. Singh, who hails from a family of farmers from Dheen village, Ambala, picked up shooting in 2016 after his father Jatinder Singh enrolled him with the AR Shooting Academy in Central Phoenix Club, under coach Abhishek Rana. Results began to flow almost immediately and he has already combined a few good results in his young career. The 20-year-old recently lifted his biggest title by winning the 10m air pistol competition at the National Shooting Champions, held at the Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range, New Delhi.“I had worked really hard in the last one year or so on mental preparation and going for milestones. I have been winning so many medals in the sub-junior and junior nationals since 2017. Becoming a National champion has definitely done a lot to raise my confidence levels,” Singh said, shortly after his triumph. The youngster trailed teammate Shiva Narwal by 0.5 points going into the final two shots of the 24-shot final. He, however, eked out a victory after striking a 10 and 10.5 against Narwal’s 10.1 and 9.3.‘Confidence was the key’Singh, who had clinched two gold medals in the 10-metre air pistol mixed-doubles and team event at the Junior Shooting World Championship earlier this year, said he had come into the event feeling confident about his prospects.“I gained a lot of confidence when I won twin gold medals during the Junior Shooting World Championship in the team events at Peru. Shooting alongside India’s seasoned shooters helped. I want to do well in individual events too and win medals. Once that keeps happening, I would be able to do well in mega-events. I am focused on competing in the Asian Games next year and getting a podium finish,” Singh said.A former shooter, Rana, has been training Singh for six years. He helped Singh set up training equipment at his place during the pandemic.“It was really difficult for Sarabjot to stay away from shooting as he had done well in 2019 winning medals internationally at sub-junior and junior level. And then he had Senior World Championship in New Delhi to compete at, he tested positive for Covid-19 in March. So, he missed playing in that,” Rana said. Eyes set on meeting idol BindraThe next thing on Singh’s checklist, after winning the Nationals, is to arrange a meeting with his idol Abhinav Bindra, who lives in Zirakpur. “Meeting him would be so memorable. I really want to know from him how he managed to keep his calm and prepared ahead of events like the Commonwealth Games, Asian Games and the Olympics. And get an insight into his champion mindset,” Singh said.Singh, a student of DAV College, Sector 10, Chandigarh, also has his eyes set on doing well at the Asian Games and feels that any guidance could come in handy on the big stage. “I am keeping an eye on the Asian Games. I hope I can meet him when I visit Chandigarh next and take some tips,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shooter-sarabjot-sets-eyes-on-asiad-after-winning-nationals-in-10m-air-pistol-101638388157063.html
02-12-2021||Pune||Maj Gen Sanjeev Dogra assumes charge as deputy commandant and chief instructor at NDA||Pune: Major General Sanjeev Dogra has assumed the appointment of Deputy Commandant and Chief Instructor of National Defence Academy (NDA) on December 1 from Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan. The general officer is an alumnus of National Defence Academy (70th Course), Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, India and College of Defence Management, Secunderabad. On completion of his training at the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun he was commissioned into the 16th Battalion of the JAT Regiment in June 1987. He has done various staff and instructional appointments to include instructor at Indian Military Training team, Bhutan, Battalion Commander at Officers Training Academy, Chennai, Directing Staff at College of Defence Management, Secunderabad and Deputy Commandant and Chief Instructor at Infantry School, Mhow. His command tenures include Command of a Rashtriya Rifles Battalion, Brigade Commander of an Infantry Brigade in the Western Theatre, Commandant, War Gaming and Development Centre and General Officer Commanding of a Mountain Division along the Line of Control. Major General Dogra has a rich combat experience having served in counter insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir and has served in almost all terrains, including super high altitude area of Siachen Glacier and high altitude region of Kargil. His important staff assignments include Brigade Major of a mountain brigade and Brigadier Quartermaster at Officers Training Academy, Gaya. He was deputy commandant and chief instructor at Infantry School, Mhow, before assuming the appointment of deputy commandant and chief instructor at NDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maj-gen-sanjeev-dogra-assumes-charge-as-deputy-commandant-and-chief-instructor-at-nda-101638388037237.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police book bizman for duping customer of ₹1.69 crore||The Dhakoli police on Wednesday booked a businessman for allegedly duping a buyer of ₹1.69 crore.The accused has been identified as Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Dhakoli, who is the proprietor of Sai Enterprises.Vivek Babbar, in his complaint filed with the Mohali SSP on March 18, stated that he paid Neeraj ₹1.69 crore in instalments for a machine. But, the accused neither gave him the machine, nor returned his money, even after the stipulated time had elapsed. He later stopped picking up his calls as well, the complainant alleged.SP (city) investigated the matter, following which a cheating case was registered against the accused on the directions of the SSP. Neeraj is yet to be arrested.Man duped of ₹98,800 over oxygen concentratorsA man was duped of ₹98,000 by a supplier he met online over the purchase of 10 oxygen concentrators.The complaint, Konark Bhardwaj, is the director of Astin Analytics in Industrial Area Phase 1. He stated that he had got in touch with a “Waheguru Medical Store” through an online group named “Government E-Marketplace”. Bhardwaj tried to purchase 10 oxygen concentrators from them and after he made two payments of ₹50,000 and ₹48,800, he found that the bank account was of a person in Bhopal and not a medical store.A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. The cyber cell of the of the police is investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-book-bizman-for-duping-customer-of-1-69-crore-101638387918674.html
02-12-2021||Pune||Fergusson College professor conferred ‘Order of merit of Federal Republic of Germany’||PUNE: Professor Savita Kelkar, head of the German language department and first woman-life member of the Deccan Education Society, was awarded the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany in the presence of the consul general of the Federal Republic of Germany, Jürgen Morhard, and other trustees of the Deccan Education Society.Receiving the award, Kelkar said, “I am honoured to be bestowed this merit and never expected this. I have always had a passion for the language and culture, and am happy to be a bridge between the two countriesOne of the major languages of the world, German is one of the most widely spoken and taught foreign languages. “The language has been influential in the fields of philosophy, theology, science, technology and commerce, and it is the second most commonly used scientific language,” said Kelkar.A recipient of several ‘best teacher’ awards including ‘corporation’s best teacher’, ‘Shri Saraswati Puruskar’ and the ‘state-level best teacher’, Kelkar, said, “German lessons in India began for the first time in Pune and are connected to the history of Bombay university as all colleges in Pune were affiliated to Bombay university till 1949. When the presidency of Bombay university proposed modernising university courses in 1908, the senate established a committee. Sir Raghunath Paranjpe, a member of this committee, proposed studying German with a degree (B.A.) on April 21, 1911 and the committee included German as one of the minor subjects. The senate agreed and German became a minor for all university exams from matriculation to B.A.”Tracing the history of the German language in India, Kelkar said that after completing his Ph.D. in Sanskrit and Comparative Linguistics at Leipzig university, professor Pandurang D Gune returned to India in 1913 and a year later in 1914, began German lessons in addition to Sanskrit lessons for an eighth-grade group at the New English school of Deccan Education Society. When professor Krishnaji Keshav Joshi returned from Germany in January 1915, he took over teaching German at the New English school from professor Gune, and also began the regular B.A. course at Fergusson college. The Bombay university’s first B.A. exam in German was held in 1918 which Pune’s Dattatreya Bapurao Davalbhakta passed with flying colours.Sir Raghunath Paranjpe was a great supporter of German lessons in Pune. In 1924, Fergusson college began a Master’s degree course in German and till the end of World War II, Fergusson college in Pune was the only centre for further studies in German in India. Ganesh Rahunath Kokil was the first student to receive a M.A. in German.While professor D. D. Karve introduced German courses for science students at Bombay university, these courses were hugely successful and went on till 1947 after which German classes were abolished at some of the colleges. At S. P. college however, German lessons were first started in the science department and later transferred to the arts department. Professor R. N. Chapekar meticulously built the German department of S.P. college and German classes began in 1939.Kelkar said, “Since 1954, German has also been taught as a minor subject for B.A. German major was taught at Fergusson college. In 1974, the German language department celebrated the completion of 60 years of the German language in Pune and in 2014, it celebrated the completion of 100 years of German in Pune,” Kelkar said.Conferring the honour on Kelkar, Jurgen Morhard said, “It is only bestowed for special achievements in life in certain sectors; namely politics, social work or anthropology. We have given this award to Kelkar because she has gone beyond teaching. She has a lot of energy and has set up things like 3/4 exchange programmes between Germany and Fergusson college. She was also part of the jury for the German drama competition. She was instrumental in creating a curriculum for the German language in Pune. She is the chairperson of the German Teachers’ Association. She also helped spread awareness about the cultural aspects of Germany within her excellent network.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fergusson-college-professor-conferred-order-of-merit-of-federal-republic-of-germany-101638387917344.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s ₹1,091-cr rural development fund missing in Centre’s cost sheet for kharif season||In the provisional cost sheet for the paddy procurement received by the Punjab food and civil supplies department from the Centre on Wednesday, there is no mention of rural development fund (RDF), a key accrual charged by the state on foodgrain procurement. This is the third consecutive procurement season when the cost sheet has arrived after the procurement got over. The current kharif season got over on November 30. The paddy procurement this year began on October 3, preponed from October 11 fixed earlier by the Centre at state government’s request as paddy arrivals had started. “In the absence of RDF receipt, we are at a loss of ₹1,091 crore. It’s an important source of income for our state,” said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, addressing mediapersons in Chandigarh on Wednesday. He said it was a successfully completed season, which had many challenges. Ashu said the state government will take up the RDF matter with the Centre. In the previous two seasons, the RDF was released only after the Centre sought a clarification from the state on its usage. “We have categorically conveyed to the government of India that the revenue hence generated is used on development works in rural Punjab, and they accepted it. We do not know why it has been stopped again,” said a department officer on condition of anonymity. The Centre has also asked Punjab to amend the Rural Development Fund Act, a state law governing its usage, with more focus on rural development. However, Punjab has also been using the RDF on works other than development in the rural areas. It was used to fund the ‘sangat darshan’ programmes during the tenure of Parkash Singh Badal as chief minister, and more recently for farm debt waiver scheme by the Capt Amarinder Singh government. For many years, the RDF has been kept out of the state’s planned budget and is used to raise funds from the banks. Mandi board records show future accruals of RDF were pledged from time to time to raise liquidity for state’s populist schemes. The cost sheet includes labour and transportation charges, arhtiyas’ commission, interest on the MSP and cost of gunny bags. It has also allowed 3% mandi fee on total cost of paddy purchased. Against a total of 188.26 lakh tonne paddy that arrived this season, 187.23 lakh tonne has been procured by state’s procurement agencies and 97,000 tonnes by private traders. According to Ashu, ₹36,257 crores have already been transferred to bank accounts of over 8.2 lakh farmers as crop payments. 
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Omicron scare:Punjab puts hospitals on alert, told to scale up facilities||Amid the Omicron coronavirus scare, the Punjab health department has put hospitals in the state on high alert. The department has been asked to scale up Covid-related infrastructure to tackle the possible third wave. In a state-level meeting, the health department has decided to add additional 3,500 level-2 beds, 142 ICU beds with ventilators and 1,215 paediatric beds across the state. To activate their isolation centresWith the dip in Covid-19 cases, a number of government and private hospitals in Punjab had shut down their Covid isolation centres and reverted all the beds reserved for such patients to the parent departments. But now, the state has directed all hospitals to activate their isolation centres and put Covid beds on standby. At present, the state has around 9,000 level-2 beds and 1,344 ICU beds with ventilator, but with 13% bed occupancy at Covid facilities, more than half of these are being used for non-Covid patients.Buffer stock of essential medicines Punjab will also make arrangements of buffer stock of eight essential drugs for the treatment of Covid patients admitted in hospitals, including—enoxaparin, methyl predinisolone, dexamethasone, remdesivir, tocilzumab, liposomal amphotericin, posaconazole and intravenous immunoglobulin. These medicines have played a key role in the treatment of Covid and post-infection complications. Some of these medicines, including remdesivir, tocilzumab, liposomal amphotericin, were unavailable during the peak of the second wave due to their high demand. The B.1.1.529 Covid variant or Omicron, first detected in South Africa last week, was designated by the World Health Organisation as a “variant of concern”, the health body’s top category for worrying coronavirus variants. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state Covid-19 nodal officer said: “We have asked the government and private hospitals to start reserving beds for Covid patients, which they had been using for other facilities. At present, only 13% of the Covid beds are occupied in Punjab. Looking at the possibility of another surge, we have decided to increase 3,500 L2 beds and 142 ventilator beds for severe the patients,” he said. To add more paediatric beds“Medical experts had predicted that the third wave will affect children and keeping in view of this possibility, 1,215 paediatric beds will also be added in the already exiting paediatric wards. Also, we have placed orders for the purchase of eight essential drugs, as per the guidelines from the Union government. We are stocking medicines for around one month so that no shortage can be faced in case of emergency,” he added. To speed up testing, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, has sought permission from the state government to start the process to set up two genome sequencing labs at the government medical hospitals in Faridkot and Amritsar. Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, BFUHS, said there is only one genome sequencing lab at the Patiala Government Medical Hospital, so they have asked the state government to grant them permission to set up two more labs in the state with the latest equipment. “After getting a nod from the state government, we will start the process to get due permission from competent authority to purchase equipment. At present, samples are being sent to other states which delay the detection process. As this variant is said to be transmissible, it is important to detect it as fast as possible. We are already setting up 5,000 more beds in the state and also purchased equipment to set up 20 more Covid testing labs across Punjab. The labs will be functional by January,” he added. “So far, delta variant is dominating in Punjab and we are yet to receive the genome sequencing reports of the sample that have been sent in November. No suspected case of Omicron has been reported in the state but as per guidelines, we will now send more samples of international travellers for genome sequencing, said Dr Bhaskar. Following the reports of Omicron in some parts of the world, the state government has already ordered 40,000 daily tests also directed the health department officials to make concrete arrangements regarding the arrival of travellers to Punjab from South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.
02-12-2021||Pune||Scrap dealer killed in Pune over practical joke, 2 arrested||The Pune police have arrested two persons for killing a 25-year-old man in Pune’s peth area late on Tuesday night. The deceased man has been identified as Aman Ashok Yadav, a resident of Parvati Darshan, Pune. He was found with several injuries in the jurisdiction of Faraskhana police station. Yadav worked as a scrap collector and dealer in Pune, said officials. The two arrested have been identified as Sagar Suresh Singh (26) and Chetan Sunil Pawar (18) both residents of Ganesh peth. Yadav and the two men had gotten into an argument around a month and a half ago over a practical joke. Yadav’s body was sent to Sassoon General Hospital for post-mortem according to the police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Faraskhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/scrap-dealer-killed-in-pune-over-practical-joke-2-arrested-101638387616727.html
02-12-2021||Pune||PMC to start Classes 11, 12 in Urdu medium at Bopodi||PUNE: While the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is already running a school up to Class 10 at Bopodi, the civic body has now given its nod to start a junior college for Urdu medium students there. The PMC runs schools in various mediums including English, Marathi, Kannada and Urdu among others. Although the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) is the dominant party in the PMC, it had approved running an Urdu medium school at Bopodi.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Already, the women and child development committee and the municipal administration has put forward the proposal for Classes 11 and 12 for Urdu medium schools for approval. The standing committee has approved the proposal and sent it to the general body. After the general body meeting, the PMC will require the state government’s approval to run the junior college.”“There is demand for an Urdu medium junior college at Bopodi. It will help curb the students’ dropout percentage,” Rasne said.Local BJP members Prakash Dhore and Maruti Tupe had put forward the proposal for starting an Urdu medium junior college at Bopodi as there is a sizeable number of students. The junior college will be run by a private organisation.After getting the state government’s approval, the PMC will float an expression of interest and invite a social organisation to run Classes 11 and 12 in Urdu medium.The PMC is known for its tradition of running schools in various languages. For instance, the corporation started Kannada medium schools a few decades ago as there was a sizeable Kannada population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-start-classes-11-12-in-urdu-medium-at-bopodi-101638387570676.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales row: PU Teachers’ Association suspends academic activities||On a call given by the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO), the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) on Wednesday asked teachers to suspend all academic activities, including the conduct of examinations, to press for the implementation of the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) seventh pay scale by the state government.The PUTA also wrote a letter to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar informing him about the strike. The letter stated, “All the academic activities including conduct of end semester examinations will be boycotted from December 1 onwards until the demands of implementation of the revised UGC pay scales and withdrawal of decision on delinking of their scales are announced by the Punjab Government.”The PFUCTO had earlier made a similar announcement, stating that teachers across five universities, 48 colleges and 145 aided colleges will go on an indefinite strike from December 1.The latest developments come a day after hundreds of protesters held a rally in Chandigarh, courting arrest, in support of the demands. Mritunjay Kumar, president of the PUTA, said, “On the call of PFUCTO/PUTA, teachers are now suspending their online classes and all other academic activities. We believe that the Punjab government will take immediate steps to fulfil the demand of teachers at the earliest.”Teachers at the GGDSD College, Chandigarh, also came out in support of the protesters, holding a dharna at their campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugc-pay-scales-row-pu-teachers-association-suspends-academic-activities-101638387568825.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Not responsible for cancellation of bus permits: Raja Warring to HC||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, who has launched a crackdown against private buses in the state, told the Punjab and Haryana high court that he was not responsible for cancellation of bus permits.“Orders have neither been passed by me nor does the answering respondent (Warring) have any authority vested in him by law to pass such orders,” the minister responded to a plea filed by firms of SAD leader Hardeep Singh Dhillon against cancellation of permits and impounding of buses.The minister said the allegations of political vendetta are wrong as the firms were tax defaulters. “The plea has been filed with an ulterior motive to malign the reputation of the minister and should not be considered. The answering respondent is not responsible for passing of the impugned orders, whatsoever passed in compliance of the Punjab Transport Scheme, 2018,” he told the court.On the other hand, the transport department says the firms’ plea said 86 permits were issued to it for 76 routes, but it concealed the fact that out of these, 42 permits on 36 routes have already expired and not renewed. As many as 113 buses are being plied against 87 permits illegally by playing fraud with state’s exchequer. Even as the permits had expired, the petitioners continued plying their buses. Hence, the cancelation order was passed as per 2018 scheme, the department said.As of discriminatory action of the state authorities, the department says till November 18, as many as 375 buses have been impounded and 151 challaned. “The petitioners act is a depiction of the transport mafia, whereby they are running buses illegally flouting the law of land and even having audacity to seek relief before the court,” the department said, demanding dismissal of the plea.On November 22, the high court had put the minister and others on notice on a plea from firms of SAD leader Hardeep Singh Dhillon. The plea of New Deep Bus Service and New Deep Motors, both owned by Dhillon alleged that 24 buses were impounded on different dates in October. After a meeting with the transport authorities, the petitioners offered to pay the entire amount in four instalments and paid the first after transport authorities agreed for this arrangement.But instead of releasing the buses, six were re-impounded and later on in some cases, permits were cancelled on November 12, the plea said.In the case of buses owned by the Badal family, the government told court that the firms only deposited the tax upon cancellation of permits. Action was taken as per the 2018 scheme and as per the law, they cannot challenge the action of cancelling permits and only remedy available with them was compensation. The response also says in the case of six permits, they got expired and were not renewed.On November 23, the high court had ordered the release of 32 buses of Badal’s firm forthwith and directed the Punjab transport department to permit them to ply provisionally on designated routes. The plea was filed by Orbit Aviation Private Limited, a firm owned by the Badal family, in which decision to cancel the permits was challenged. It had claimed that on October 11, the transport department had permitted to make the payment of the government dues of ₹77.15 lakh in four monthly instalments of ₹19.28 lakh. The first instalment was paid but a week later, permission to pay in instalments was revoked and it was told to pay entire amount. But on November 12, the permits of the petitioner were cancelled. The court had allowed plying of buses provisionally observing that the order to allow payments in instalments was withdrawn without even issuing any notice to the petitioner. 
02-12-2021||Pune||SC approves ₹47.51 lakh for footwear, scarves and bags for Swacch workers in Pune||PUNE The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Wednesday, approved Rs47.51 lakh for footwear, scarves and bags for Swacch workers involved with door-to-door garbage collection. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “It was a demand to provide footwear and other necessary personal equipment for Swacch employees who are working with the PMC for garbage management. Standing committee approved their demands.” Pune is the fifth cleanest city with a population of over a million. Despite this high ranking, waste collectors do not have proper facilities. Waste pickers, during a recent agitation in front of the PMC, blamed the officers for taking the awards and neglecting facilities for employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sc-approves-rs-47-51-lakh-for-footwear-scarves-and-bags-for-swacch-workers-in-pune-101638387441750.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU: Covid norms go for a toss as Student Centre reopens||The iconic Student Centre of Panjab University (PU), which had been closed since the pandemic broke out in March last year, finally reopened on Wednesday.The step was taken by the varsity to take a step back towards normalcy. However, visitors were seen flouting Covid-19 protocols, with a lot of them not wearing masks and or maintaining physical distancing. Mukul Chauhan, a student at the department of community education and disability studies, said, “Seeing Stu-C reopen after such a long time is a sight for sore eyes. It is good that things are normalising, but precautions should be kept in view of the present situation.”PU’s Student Centre is considered the heart of social activities of the varsity’s students. Its building houses an old Coffee House, recreation room, offices of the students’ council and dean students’ welfare and a couple of eateries. The varsity has allowed canteens in departments to reopen as well. “It is good to see campus life getting back to normal. Now, the varsity should also reopen departments for all students immediately,” said Amandeep of PSU-LalkaarA former senator of PU, who wished not to be named, said, “The varsity has reopened the Student Centre and canteens, but is yet to reopen for all students. No physical classes are being held either.” PU registrar Vikram Nayyar said, “We have issued directions to all the departments/offices and visitors to ensure strict compliance to Covid-19 protocols.”PU also issued an advisory to all heads of departments and offices to ensure strict compliance to Covid norms amid rising fear over the Omicron variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pucovid-norms-go-for-a-toss-as-student-centre-reopens-101638387321783.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Govt to roll out free solar power to 5,500 poor households in Bathinda||Nearly 5,500 economically underprivileged households in Bathinda city are set to get free solar power generation infrastructure under a novel initiative of the Punjab government.In the first-of-a-kind project, the Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA), state’s nodal agency for promotion and development of renewable energy programmes, the beneficiaries will be relieved from paying electricity bills.In the first phase, about 5,500 households would be equipped with the infrastructure and an equal number is expected to be benefited in the next stage of project execution. The state government would spend around ₹60 crore on the pilot project of an off-grid solar system. It would include solar panels, battery, charge controller, grid box, inverter and mounting structure.PEDA additional director Jaspal Singh said the work to install solar panels is expected to start within a week as all formalities have been completed. It will be a maiden initiative to bring people closer to renewable energy resources, he said.“Panels store enough sunlight during the day and use the excess power generated in the night or during a power outage. It will further reduce the load on power transmission,” said a district official familiar with the project.The ambitious project was pushed by the finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal for his constituency.In the run up to the local body elections in February this year, Manpreet had announced the pilot for the benefit of the underprivileged.In-charge of Manpreet’s political office in Bathinda Jaijeet Singh Johal, who is overseeing the implementation of the project, said the households with poor financial backgrounds who do not enjoy free power supply by the state, would be given a priority. The work of installation of solar panels will start from Friday, said an official from the finance minister’s office. “The finance minister has directed PEDA to ensure installation of 100 units every week. Beneficiaries will also include tenants on the basis of house-to-house assessment in a transparent manner,” said Johal.Officials said the off-grid solar systems work independently of the power grid but have batteries that can store solar power generated by the system. The off-grid system does not allow a subscriber to sell excess power to the utility but it can be used by the household.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-to-roll-out-free-solar-power-to-5-500-poor-households-in-bathinda-101638387318117.html
02-12-2021||Pune||December forecast for Pune: Warmer nights, cooler days||PUNE December this year will have cooler days with below normal day temperatures, and warmer nights with above-normal minimum temperatures for parts of Maharashtra, including Pune, said the weather department on Wednesday.However, the winter this year may not be very harsh despite the La Nina conditions strengthening to moderate till February. On Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued its seasonal outlook for winter and rainfall forecast for December 2021. For Maharashtra, many parts will receive below normal rainfall in December. DS Pai, head of IMD Pune’s Climate Research and Services said that cloudy weather is likely in December in Pune. “This will result in solar radiation isolation making the days relatively cooler. But nights will be slightly warmer than normal,” said Pai. As per the seasonal outlook, at present the Sea Surface Temperatures (SSTs) and the atmospheric conditions over the equatorial Pacific Ocean indicate weak La Niña conditions. “The latest forecast from Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecasting System (MMCFS) and other global models suggest that La Niña conditions are likely to strengthen to peak to moderate conditions during the upcoming winter season (that is till February). In addition to El Nino- Southern Oscillation (ENSO) conditions over the Pacific, other factors such as the Indian Ocean SSTs also influence the Indian climate,” said IMD officials. However, the La Nina conditions may not affect winter by much, said weather scientists. In a recent tweet by the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) stated that for the second consecutive year, LaNiña has developed and will impact rainfall and temperatures across the globe. Despite the cooling influence of LaNiña, many parts of the world are expected to be warmer than average because of climate change, per new WMO Update. A similar trend may be seen over the Indian subcontinent as well, said weather department officials||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/december-forecast-for-pune-warmer-nights-cooler-days-101638387316779.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Protesting sanitation workers throw garbage outside MC office||With the local sanitation workers’ strike entering the third day, protesters locked the main gates of the Zirakpur municipal council office and threw garbage on its premises on Wednesday.Sanitation workers, who have been protesting under the banner of the Municipal Council Employees Sweepers Union (ETCU), did not allow officials to enter the office from the main gate, forcing them to take a longer route.The protesters have been pressing for the state government to do away with a controversial clause, under which contractual employees can only be regularised after producing a domicile of the Punjab state.The workers pointed out that most of the employees working for the Zirakpur municipal council hailed from Panchkula, Haryana.They blamed the council’s executive officer for not filing a proper report to the state government regarding the employees, before restating their willingness to continue the strike indefinitely.The corporation’ executive officer Girish Verma, meanwhile, said the council has already approved the resolution to confirm the employees at its House meeting. “A notification has been sent out to the local bodies department, and now it is for the government to take the final decision,” he said.And as the strike entered its third day, a clear impact could be seen on the city streets. Piles of garbage could be found lying around unattended in various localities as well as in front of the Sehaj Safai Kendras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpurprotesting-sanitation-workers-throw-garbage-outside-mc-office-101638387196974.html
02-12-2021||Pune||December downpour gives Pune rainfall in every month of 2021||PUNE The streets of Pune resembled a hill station on Wednesday as the city was enveloped in fog and experienced rainfall throughout the day, making it an exceptional year for Pune, as it has received rainfall in all 12 months of 2021, starting from January. As per the weather department, December rains are unusual for Pune. On Wednesday, Shivajinagar reported 16 mm of rainfall till 5:30 pm and had increased to 33.8 mm till 8:30 pm.On Wednesday, maximum temperature during the day was 19.4 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 17.3 degrees Celsius. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that this year Pune city has received rainfall every month with some extreme and intense rainfall events. Pune city received its fourth-highest 24-hour December rainfall on Wednesday, since 1996. It is very likely that the monthly rainfall for December will be the highest so far, as rains will continue for the next few days, said IMD officials. Due to continuous showers, many parts of the city reported waterlogging which caused traffic congestion throughout the day. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that the ghat regions may receive isolated heavy rainfall. “Gusty rainfall is likely in the city. On Wednesday there was a five to six degrees Celsius drop in maximum temperature. During the day the cooler vibe sustained. Areas of the city may experience shallow fog early in the morning which may restrict visibility, partially. From afternoon of December 2 the weather is likely to improve,” said Kashyapi. Post-monsoon cyclone coming?A low pressure area lies over the central parts of the Andaman sea. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal by December 2. “It is likely to intensify into a Cyclonic Storm over central parts of the Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours. Subsequently, it is likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Andhra Pradesh– Odisha coasts around December 4 morning. This will be the first post monsoon cyclone this year,” said IMD officials. Along with this , a cyclonic circulation lies over Southeast and adjoining eastcentral Arabian sea and a trough in lower levels runs from this cyclonic circulation to Kutch which is resulting in rainfall in parts of Maharashtra. “Konkan and Goa and central Maharashtra received isolated heavy rainfall in 24 hours. From December 2, the rainfall activity in the state is likely to reduce,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/december-downpour-gives-pune-rainfall-in-every-month-of-2021-101638387137962.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet decisions: Govt approves scholarship scheme for college students||The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved the implementation of the “Chief Minister Scholarship Scheme” for higher education. The scheme will help bright students from financially poor backgrounds, particularly those belonging to the general category, besides boosting the gross enrolment ratio in higher education, according to a government statement. The scheme would put an annual financial burden of ₹36.05 crore on the state exchequer, said an official spokesperson. The scholarships will be applicable only to government college students and the scholarship amount shall correspond to the concession in terms of percentage of fee charged by universities. Students scoring above 60% but below 70% marks will be given a concession equivalent to 70% of the university fee, the government spokesperson said. Likewise, students scoring between 70% and 80% and between 80% and 90% marks will be given a concession of 80% and 90% in fee, respectively. Students with above 90% marks will avail free education, the spokesperson said. The scheme cannot be availed fully in tandem with any other scholarship. However, in cases where students receive a scholarship from any other scheme of the state or central government but the concession under the new scheme is higher, only the difference amount between the two scholarships will be paid, the spokesperson said.Exempts 1.5 lakh cases from Form ‘C’ assessmentThe cabinet also decided to exempt about 1.5 lakh cases from assessment related to of ‘C’ form between 2014-15 and 2017-18. Resultantly, about 8,500 such cases would now be assessed under this category every year. This trader-friendly decision would cost ₹200 crore on the state exchequer, according to the spokesperson. To further boost trade and economic activity in the state, the cabinet also gave approval to exempt the traders from making payment of 70% of the excess demand and now they would be only required to deposit 30% of the surplus demand. The spokesperson said the decision would cost the state exchequer ₹940 crore. Subsequently, traders will now be required to deposit the said amount i.e. 20% of the 30% portion of the additional demand by March 31, 2022 and the remaining 80% by March 31, 2023. Notably, the state government has taken these decisions to facilitate traders in the wake of the Covid pandemic. Though it has been nearly four-and-a-half years since the end of the VAT regime, there was still a heavy burden of VAT assessment on the traders coupled with difficulties in providing C-forms etc. to them. OTS for settlement of dues of PSIDC, PFS, PAIC okayed The cabinet approved a one time settlement (OTS) policy-2021 for Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (PSIDC), Punjab Financial Corporation (PFC) and Punjab Agro Industries Corporation (PAIC) for settlement of dues. The move is aimed at rehabilitation and revival of the industries in the state by offering a unique opportunity to entrepreneurs of promoted and loanee companies, the spokesperson said. This policy will help to resolve long pending litigation and settlement between the corporations and the private investors besides creating a more business friendly environment in the state. The cabinet also approved upgrade of of Gharuan (SAS Nagar), Rajasansi (Amritsar) and Dorangla (Gurdaspur) as sub-tehsils. Gharuan would be upgraded as sub-tehsil comprising of one kanugo circle, 11 patwar circles and 36 villages, Dorangla will consist of two kanugo circles, 16 patwar circles and 94 villages where as Rajasansi would include three kanugo circles, 18 patwar circles and 44 villages. The cabinet also gave ex post facto approval for providing financial assistance of ₹50 lakh each already paid by the Punjab government to the families/legal heirs of the four farmers and one journalist who died in Lakhimpur Khiri (Uttar Pradesh) violence on October 2, from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-decisions-govt-approves-scholarship-scheme-for-college-students-101638387136706.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 4 protesting teachers climb on top of mobile tower||Four members of the Elementary Teacher Training-Teacher Eligibility Test (ETT-TET) Qualified Unemployed Teachers Union, including two women, climbed atop a mobile tower near the residence of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Kharar on Wednesday .The teachers, Nishant Singh, Gurvinder Singh, Harpreet Kaur and Ranjana, climbed the tower at around 6am and heavy police force was deployed at the spot. At around 4pm, they came down after Kharar deputy superintendent of police Gurcharan Singh assured them of a meeting with the authorities concerned.The teachers have been protesting for the past five months, demanding fulfilment of their demands including recruitment of one lakh ETT-TET qualified teachers and relaxation of age limit.President of the union, Deepak Kamboj, said, “In 2016, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and member of Parliament Preneet Kaur assured us that our demands will be fulfilled. However, even four years after Congress came to power in the state, we are still being ignored.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali4-protesting-teachers-climb-on-top-of-mobile-tower-101638387077226.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU to again conduct semester exams online||Panjab University (PU) will conduct the upcoming semester examinations in online mode. This is the fourth time since the pandemic broke out that the semester exams will be held online.The decision has been taken based on the recommendation of a varsity panel, which was constituted to decide on the mode of examination. “The university authorities have allowed the conduct of the upcoming odd semester examinations online and detailed instructions will be shared with the students soon,” said controller of examinations Jagat Bhushan.Last month, PU had stated that they are planning to hold the semester exams in offline mode this time. But, various student bodies opposed the move and held a number of protests at the varsity campus to press for online exams. They had also submitted various representations with the varsity.The last three times that the exams were held online, there was no proctoring, and the varsity had received criticism over the sanctity of these online exams.The practical exams for undergraduate courses will be conducted from December 17 to 21 and for postgraduate courses from December 20 to 24. The theory exams of undergraduate courses will start from December 22 and for PG courses from December 27.The students however, have welcomed the move. Sandeep of Students For Society (SFS), said, “Our demand for online examination has been accepted after many protests by student organisations. Now the varsity authorities must reopen campus for all students immediately. Online classes are no substitute for offline classes and interaction between students and teachers.”PU may use proctoring this timeMeanwhile, the varsity is also planning the use of online proctoring during the upcoming exams. Although nothing has been finalised so far, a varsity panel has already been constituted to deliberate on the matter and the tendering process currently on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-to-again-conduct-semester-exams-online-101638386965110.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 40 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Wednesday reported 40 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,03,320, according to a medical bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality, the death toll reached 16,605, it said. The state’s positivity rate was recorded at 0.16%. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 331, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, maximum 10 were reported from Hoshiarpur and seven each in Jalandhar and Pathankot. With 22 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,384, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-40-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101638386837065.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Nursery admissions to begin on December 7||Admissions to entry-level classes in Chandigarh’s private and government schools will begin on December 7 for the 2022-2023 academic session .All schools have been asked to put up all relevant information on their website by December 6 including number of available seats, documents required and fee structure. The admission process will continue till December 18 and the forms will be available for free on the websites of the respective school till then.Seats will be up for grabs at 115 government, seven government-aided and 79 recognised private schools in the city.The list of eligible candidates will be displayed by January 14 and the final along with the waiting list will be displayed by February 1. The selected children will have to deposit the fee by February 11.Senior officials of the UT education department have asked schools to conduct admissions in hybrid mode to ensure that Covid-19 protocol is followed and overcrowding can be prevented. Till now, no orders have been issued regarding fee relaxation for the next session, as had been done in the past two years in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-nursery-admissions-to-begin-on-december-7-101638386720723.html
02-12-2021||Pune||Omicron scare causes a surge in Covid vaccine numbers in Pune||PUNE The Omicron variant of the Covid-19 virus, believed to be highly transmissive, has got people rushing to the vaccination centres. Post Diwali, despite vaccines being abundantly available, there were limited numbers at centres as the fear of the infection had eased. However, with the new variant and the resultant restrictions coming in to place, demand for vaccines has gone up. In the past two days alone, on November 29 and 30, Pune city saw 78,000 Covid-19 vaccines administered. Dr Surykant Deokar, PMC’s immunisation officer said, “In the past two days the rush at vaccination centres has gone up to almost double of what we were seeing last week. Prior to this, despite efforts taken by the administration and running the centres 24x7, the turnout was very low and we had even started to assign staff from vaccination centres to non-Covid-19 duties at hospitals nearby. However, in the past two days, the demand for vaccines, both first and second doses, has gone up.” On November 29, 12,895 first doses and 26,022 second doses were administered, while on November 30, 14,247 were given first doses and 25,681 were given a second shot of the vaccine. Prior to that, only 67,000 vaccines were given on four days between November 25-28. As of November 30, a total of 3.31 million first doses have been given and 2.29 million people are fully vaccinated . A total of 5.55 million doses have been given. Along with Pune, vaccination moved up in other parts of the state as well as many were seen driving to inoculation centres in view of fresh threat cause by Omicron variant of Covid. The vaccination in the Maharashtra saw a drastic rise as on Tuesday with about 1.15 million doses administered which was one of the highest single day doses in the month of November for the state and on Wednesday 0.847 million doses were given. Earlier on Sunday, State witnessed 0.31 million doses administered, which was highest on any Sunday in the past two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/omicron-scare-causes-a-surge-in-covid-vaccine-numbers-in-pune-101638386662572.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||BSF recovers four packets of heroin along border in Amritsar||The Border Security Force (BSF) recovered four packets of heroin, weighing around 3.6kg, in the Ajnala sub-division of Amritsar. The contraband, according to a BSF release, was dropped by a Pakistani drone into the Indian territory. A BSF spokesperson said troops of 183 battalion heard humming sound of a suspected flying object coming from Pakistan side during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. “The troopers retaliated with fire in the direction of the buzzing sound to thwart the suspected smuggling attempt. Further, the troops heard the returning sound of the suspected flying object toward Pakistan side,” he said.“The area was cordoned and police was informed. During search of the area, a black colour bag with a ring attached with thread sling to hold the bag was found in a field. Four packets of contraband suspected to be heroin were recovered from the bag,” he added. The seizure comes on the occasion of the BSF raising day. The BSF has recovered 409kg of heroin along the Pakistan border in Punjab this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-recovers-four-packets-of-heroin-along-border-in-amritsar-101638386596612.html
02-12-2021||Pune||State clarifies rules for flyers after Centre redflags Maharashtra’s 4 new Covid guidelines||PUNE: The Maharashtra government, on Wednesday, clarified that its rules related to RT-PCR tests and quarantines for flyers are only limited to those arriving from high-risk countries and not for domestic air travellers. The clarification, seen as climb down by Maharashtra from its earlier position that mandated RT-PCR tests, as well as seven-day quarantine for domestic flyers, came hours after the Centre wrote a letter to state government. Speaking in Jalna, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The state has drafted its guidelines as per Centre’s notification. A fully-vaccinated local domestic passenger who has taken both doses of vaccine can travel without RT-PCR. However, those coming to India from high-risk countries and taing connecting flights to travel within Maharashtra will have to undergo a quarantine period and also conduct an RTPCR test.” Earlier in the day, Union ministry of health and family welfare told the Maharashtra government to scrap additional conditions imposed by the state for international and domestic passengers and align the state’s guidelines to the ones issued by the central government, people aware of the matter said.The Centre’s missive came hours after Maharashtra, in a late evening order on Tuesday, mandated Covid-19 testing for all international travellers at the Mumbai airport irrespective of their country of origin, 14-day home quarantine for all international passengers despite testing negative on arrival and for passengers taking connecting flights to first clear a Covid-19 test.Besides, Tuesday’s order issued by Maharashtra chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty also required domestic passengers to get themselves tested within 48 hours of flying to Maharashtra. Lohegaon to follow centre’s guidelinesAfter Tope’s clarification, an official from Lohegaon airport in Pune said, guidelines issued earlier by centre will be followed. “As of now we will continue with what guidelines centre government has given and flyers coming to Pune from other states will not be checked for RT-PCR negative report if they are fully vaccinated and completed the mandatory 14 days duration after vaccination. It is informed to us over the phone. For the next two days we will continue accordingly the way the central government has passed the order,” said the official at Lohegaon international airport. These four conditions highlighted in its letter by Centre were more stringent than the guidelines notified by the Union health ministry for international travellers a few hours before Maharashtra issued its own version, leading to some confusion and outrage among flyers who called them “unjust”.In a letter to Maharashtra additional chief secretary Pradeep Vyas, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told the state government to align its guidelines to the ones issued by the Centre on these four points. HT reviewed the copy of the letter. “This (Maharashtra government’s order) is in divergence with the SoPs (Standard operating procedure) and Guidelines issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India. I would, therefore, urge you to align the orders issued by the state with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. Of India, so that uniform implementation of the guidelines may be ensured across all States/UTs,” Rajesh Bhushan said. Bhushan also asked Maharashtra to give “wide publicity” to the modified orders, once they are issued “to obviate any inconvenience to travellers”.Flyers not happyMany reacted sharply to state guidelines saying they are unjust. Pune resident Ajit Thakhalkar, who is currently in Jammu and Kashmir and is scheduled to fly back to the city on December 3, said the Maharashtra government’s new rules have created problems for him.Thakhalkar said he was in a remote area of Jammu and Kashmir which did not have a Covid-19 testing facility. “How am I supposed to get the test done before coming to Pune,” he asked, saying his only option at the moment was to try getting a test done at Srinagar airport but wondered when the report would come in. He planned to fly to Delhi and take a connecting flight to Pune.Another passenger who was scheduled to travel from Jaipur to Pune on Wednesday said the government should have given them 4-5 days notice before coming up with such a rule. “Such sudden changes in travel requirements create panic,” he said, pointing that it will take him at least a day to get the report.Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture president Sudhir Mehta said they were in favour of reasonable restrictions but “reintroduction of RT-PCR Covid tests for domestic travel as done in Maharashtra serves little purpose for those already vaccinated.This needs a review, he said, wondering why it was safe for a passenger flying from Nagpur to Pune, but not from Delhi.As per the Centre’s guidelines, international passengers arriving from At-Risk countries were asked to remain under home quarantine for seven days and get tested again on the eighth day. While travellers coming from countries other than the flagged countries were allowed to leave the airport and were asked to “self-monitor” their health for 14 days from the arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-clarifies-rules-for-flyers-after-centre-redflags-maharashtra-s-4-new-covid-guidelines-101638386538815.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||One kg RDX recovered in Gurdaspur||Police on Wednesday said they have recovered 1kg of RDX at the instance of one Sukhwinder Singh, who was arrested two days ago after having a tip-off in Dinanagar town. The arrested accused is a resident of Amritsar.A senior police official, who is aware of the development, said Sukhwinder was arrested and a pistol was recovered from his possession in Dinanagar two days ago. “During his questioning, we have recovered 1kg of RDX from Dinanagar on Wednesday. We have also identified a few more accomplices of the arrested accused and our raids are on to nab them,” he said.Sources said the arrested man was part of a module with a foreign connection. However, the Gurdaspur police are keeping mum on the issue. The above quoted officer said their thorough investigation into the case was still on and more recoveries are expected in the coming days. Gurdaspur senior superintendent of police Nanak Singh said that Sukhwinder (29) is a resident of village Kakkar falling under Lopoke police station in Amritsar district. He said further investigation was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-kg-rdx-recovered-in-gurdaspur-101638386417111.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Prominent Sikh face Sirsa gives BJP a shot in the arm in poll-bound Punjab||In a first major political ambush by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on its former ally Shiromani Akali Dal, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa, considered right-hand man of SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, joined the saffron fold in Delhi on Wednesday. Sirsa also quit the gurdwara body post. Though Sirsa’s closeness with the BJP rank and file in the national capital was well known, but making a prominent Sikh face join the BJP is being seen as a signal that the saffron party will contest the 2022 Punjab assembly polls aggressively. However, Sirsa doesn’t have a political base in Punjab as such, but he was always a part of party’s think tank with strong links with young Akali leaders. He had also served as the political adviser to Sukhbir Badal when he was deputy chief minister in 2016-17. Sirsa was elevated to the core group of the party a couple of years back. Along with Sirsa, SAD’s student wing Student Organisation of India (SOI) former chief Parminder Brar also joined the BJP. He had recently switched sides to the Congress party. The SAD in the last few months had managed to rope in a few prominent BJP leaders into its fold, including former minister Anil Joshi. “It’s a tit-for-tat,” said a senior BJP leader while requesting anonymity. “It’s just a trailer. Many more big surprises are coming. Senior leaders from across parties are eager to join the BJP to bring Punjab back on track,” BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said. According to a party functionary at the national capital, the BJP’s strategy for the Punjab polls is to tap the disgruntled leaders from the Congress and Akali Dal to claim ground in areas where until now it has only played the second fiddle. Notably, BJP’s electoral strategy for Punjab after SAD parted ways with it had faced a severe setback with the farmers’ agitation that virtually made it impossible for the party leaders to come out of their houses. According to a senior party functionary, the BJP is already in talks with some Punjabi actors who were active in the farmer agitation. Senior BJP leaders claim that Sirsa’s joining the BJP has set the tone for others to follow suit. “So far, there was reluctance to join the BJP. Now, that a prominent Sikh face has already joined the party, many more will follow. It’s a big edge for the party in the perception game,” said a former minister and core group member of the party. Amarinder to meet Nadda on SaturdayThe BJP is already in talks with former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who is scheduled to meet BJP president JP Nadda in New Delhi on Saturday. Both the leaders, insiders say, are likely to discuss seat sharing as Amarinder has already announced to join hands with the BJP after forming his own party, Punjab Lok Congress. 
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||NHAI suffers toll loss of ₹2,731 crore due to farmers’ protest||State-owned National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) suffered a revenue loss of ₹2,731.32 due to the farmers’ protests in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, Parliament was informed on Wednesday.Replying to a written question in the Rajya Sabha, road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari said the protest started affecting toll collection from October 2020.He said initially, the toll plazas in Punjab were made non-operational by agitating farmers in October 2020.“It eventually spread to neighbouring states of entire Haryana and parts of Rajasthan. Overall 60 to 65 NH toll plazas were affected due to farmer agitation resulting in loss of toll collection of ₹2,731 crore,” the minister said.Gadkari said MoRTH and NHAI have made continuous efforts to operationalise the affected toll plazas through active communication with state administration, help of toll collecting agency etc.Replying to a separate question, Gadkari said the ministry has set a target of construction of 12,000 km of national highways during the financial year 2021-22, under various projects, out of which some are targeted to be completed in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nhai-suffers-toll-loss-of-rs-2-731-crore-due-to-farmers-protest-101638386116705.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Channi, Sidhu, Jakhar meet Rahul Gandhi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and senior leader Sunil Jakhar met with former party president Rahul Gandhi at his Delhi residence on Wednesday. They are learnt to have discussed several issues, including those related to the party and its strategy for the Punjab assembly polls scheduled early next year. According to party sources, Gandhi also discussed the formation of election-related committees for Punjab with the state leaders. Jakhar, who was the president of the Punjab unit of the Congress before Sidhu, could also be accommodated as the chairman of one of the poll-related committees of the party, the sources said. Jakhar first met with Gandhi and later, Channi and Sidhu visited him, they added. Sidhu has been questioning the Congress government in Punjab over issues of ensuring justice in the 2015 sacrilege and post-sacrilege police firing incidents in Faridkot. A few days back, he had even threatened to fast unto death if a special task force report on drug menace was not made public. The Punjab Congress chief also questioned his party’s government for not moving the apex court against the “blanket bail” given to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini by the high court. Last month, Sidhu had even taken a dig at his predecessor Jakhar, saying he never raised the issue, inviting a sarcastic reply on Twitter from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-channi-sidhu-jakhar-meet-rahul-gandhi-101638385996691.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||UP puts its decision to sell bio-diesel directly to consumers on hold||Uttar Pradesh has put on hold its two-week old decision that sought to permit direct sale of biodegradable fuel in the state after obtaining a licence for the same. The decision was taken after the state government officials sensed that the Central government may ban retail sale of biodiesel by manufacturers directly to consumers very soon. The decision that was taken in mid-November after a high-level meeting chaired by chief secretary Rajenda Kumar Tiwari on October 2, however, did not come in the public domain and was made inoperative. “We have decided to wait and watch the Centre’s next move on the biodiesel before we go ahead with our decision,” a government official dealing with the issue said adding “We have been told that the Centre might soon issue an order banning the direct sale of biodiesel to transporters and other consumers.” The UP government on November 15 issued a circular putting in place a regulatory mechanism for issuing licence for production, storage and direct sale of bio-diesel in the state. As per the circular issued by the department of food and civil supplies following the chief secretary’s directives, the department of alternative energy resources was entrusted with the task of issuing permission/licence for the production/storage and sale of bio-diesel in the state. The department of food and civil supplies, as per the same circular, was made responsible to act against producers/sellers who were found blending biodiesel into diesel above the fixed proportion or found selling adulterated bio-diesel. Director UPNEDA and special secretary, alternative energy resources, Bhawani Singh Khangaraut said that the action on the circular issued by the department of food and civil supplies had been suspended because it lacked clarity. “We, on November 30, wrote a letter to them, seeking clarification or some points before our department can start giving licences for retail sale of bio-diesel in the state,” he said. “As of now, no additional permission or licence is required to be obtained for production and storage of bio-diesel in UP though no retail sale of biodiesel direct to consumers is permitted in the state,” he clarified. Prior to the Central government’s notification issued on April 30, 2019, the producers could sell biodiesel only to oil companies as per the formula fixed by the government and they were not allowed to sell it directly to any organization like railways or any other transporter or individual. “After the Centre’s notification of April 30, 2019 many states permitted direct sale of biodiesel but UP was yet to give any such permission though some people must be selling biodiesel illegally direct to transporters and individuals,” Khangraut said. People in the know of things said that the Centre was considering banning the retail sale of biodiesel in the country due to increasing number of complaints about unscrupulous elements selling adulterated biodiesel harming automobile’s engines on the one hand and causing revenue loss to the government exchequer. Only recently the Punjab Petroleum Dealers Association urged the Punjab government to act against the sellers of ‘fake’ biodiesel in the state. The association complained that a lot of low-grade oil was being sold in the market as ‘bio-diesel’ adversely affecting traders, government exchequer as well as vehicles’ engines. “Reports of sale of biodiesel missed with palmolive and other substances damaging hundreds of automobile engines also were received from Tamil Nadu recently,” an official here said suggesting that UP must be cautious while allowing retail sale of the biodiesel in the state. 
02-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Applications for occupancy certificate come down in November||htreporters@hindustantimes.comThe department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Wednesday said that the number of applicants seeking an occupancy certificate (OC) for their properties has gone down considerably after it started a drive against building plan violations on November 10 this year.The department said that on an average they received 150 applications for an OC in a month, but the number of applications in November came down to half. An occupancy certificate is obtained by property owners to get power, water and other basic amenities. It signifies that a house is fit for living. “We carried out an analysis of the past three months and found that in September the number of applications was 160 and 155 in October, but in November the number came down to only 80. The applications went down particularly after November 10, when the cancellation of OCs started,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement). DTCP officials also said that this was the first time the number of OC applications in a month has dipped so low. They said that it was possible that many contractors, who primarily build floors, delayed the applications to escape scrutiny while expecting the drive against building plan violations would slow down in the coming weeks. “The action against building plan violations after obtaining OC will continue. No one will be allowed to make illegal additions to their existing structures,” said Asish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-applications-for-occupancy-certificate-come-down-in-november-101638385877617.html
02-12-2021||Noida||CBSE Class 12 students appear for Term 1 exams in board’s new pattern||Class 12 students of the Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) gave their first term-1 board exams on Wednesday according to the new pattern introduced by the board. According to CBSE guidelines, the 90-minute Term 1 examination will have objective type questions while Term 2 examinations, scheduled to take place in March-April next year, may have subjective or objective type questions, and will be decided as per the pandemic situation prevailing in the country at the time.The first term of Class 10 board exams began on November 30 and will go on till December 11 for major subjects. The exam for Class 12 major subjects is underway and will go on till December 22. “Today, Sociology term-1 examination for Class 12 students was conducted at our centre. These examinations are not like any other that we’ve seen so far, but this is the best that CBSE could have done in the given circumstances. Fewer candidates per room; shorter exam duration; only multiple choice questions; larger number of invigilators; same day evaluation; strict adherence to Covid protocols are the highlights of the first term CBSE board exams,” said Dr. Bhavana Kulshrestha, principal of Amity International School, Sector-1, Vasundhara in Ghaziabad. She added that the new exam pattern needed bolstered technological preparations in terms of enhanced internet connectivity in addition to more number of printers and photocopiers. Exams for minor subjects for classes 10 and 12 were held between November 16 and 29, which gave schools enough time to prepare itself for holding the exams for major subjects, said Kamini Bhasin, principal of DPS Noida. “We did not face any issues while conducting minor exams. We are yet to see how major exams go as there will be more children who will be taking these exams. We are fully prepared to conduct the exams,” said Bhasin.Renu Singh, principal of Amity International School, Noida said, “We have given sufficient practice to our students to fill in the OMR sheet by conducting pre-boards and mock board exams. We didn’t face any issues during the conduct of the minor exams. However, printing and distribution of paper posed a challenge for the major paper, since we have a huge number of students”. Teachers said students so far are happy giving the exams in a new pattern. “Students are happy as question papers are balanced. In the new pattern, the students need to be well versed with the concepts as they can either have a right or a wrong answer. Earlier, marks were given even for attempting a question or steps of a solution but this time, that is not the case,” said Dr Jyoti Gupta, director of DPS Sahibabad, Ghaziabad.Aditi Basu Roy, principal of Grads International School, Greater Noida and president of the Gautam Budh Nagar chapter of the All India Principals’ Association said the current pattern of exams are less stressful for students. “Students do not have to cram and write two-three page-answers for a question to get marks now. Moreover, students do not have the pressure of failing, passing or getting a compartment this time because final results will be declared after term-2 exams, so they have a chance to improve themselves,” said Roy. Parents further believe that the objective-type questions will help students get ready for competitive exams as well. “After students pass Class 12, they have to appear for competitive exams for higher studies and in India, most of such exams are objective type. With the new pattern, students will get to practice solving such questions,” said Manoj Kataria, founder of Gautam Budh Nagar Parents’ Welfare Society (GPWS). According to an official from the CBSE’s regional office in Noida, there are 16,000 Class 12 students in Gautam Budh Nagar and around 18,000 students in Ghaziabad. 
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||A conspiracy and a new low: SAD on DSGMC chief Manjinder Sirsa’s switch to BJP||Visibly rattled, Akali leadership went into a huddle immediately after former DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa switched to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal held a virtual meeting with senior party leaders to discuss the scenario post Sirsa’s resignation as DSGMC president. Reacting to the development, the Akali Dal described Sirsa’s crossover as an “attempt by the enemies of the Khalsa Panth to achieve through conspiracies what they cannot achieve with the will of the Sikh community”. “Khalsa Panth is too big, individuals come and go. The Panth is forever,” said a statement from the party headquarters here. According to SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema, the BJP has stooped to a new low in politics by poaching Sirsa after implicating him in false cases. “Sirsa has been fighting issues related to the Sikhs. Our party feels sad that he succumbed to the pressure,” Cheema said. With 2022 Punjab polls round the corner and SAD making desperate efforts to rise from the dungeons, especially when it ranked number three in the seat tally in 2017 polls below the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Sirsa was seen as a tangible face to pep-up party’s poll prospects. Before the switchover by Sirsa, the party even discussed having his name in the electoral rolls in Punjab, insiders say. He was a member of the party’s top decision-making body and close to party chief Sukhbir Badal and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal. One of the suave Akali leaders, 49-year-old Sirsa, who moved to Delhi from Sirsa in Haryana, scaled the political ladder at a fast pace. Sirsa is currently one of the four BJP MLAs in 66-member Delhi assembly, representing Rajouri Garden constituency with a considerable number of Sikh voters.Sirsa became president of DSGMC ousting Manjit Singh GK in March 2019. In the DSGMC polls held in August this year, Sirsa, who led SAD’s campaign, lost to ex-DSGMC president Harvinder Singh Sarna, but the party got the majority by winning 27 of the 46 seats. Sirsa is facing at least five cases for alleged bungling of the DSGMC accounts. Despite cases against him, Sirsa has been vociferously raising Sikh issues. He even supported farmers’ agitation and recently went to Mumbai to lodge a complaint against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut when she wrote a post on social media platform, Instagram, that was construed as anti-Sikhs. “I have resigned not out of any grudge. I want to resolve Sikhs’ issues and do not want them to be on a confrontation path always. The BJP wants to connect with the Sikhs and I will play a role,” Sirsa said on his joining the saffron party. He said he has sacrificed the post of DSGMC president to which he was nominated even after he lost the election. “I want to get reservation for Sikhs in Jammu and Kashmir, resolve Gurdwara Gyan Godri issue, protection of Shillong Sikhs’ rights, representation for Sikligars in Madhya Pradesh and a Sikh university in Delhi. The BJP has recognised my work and my joining shows that they have given importance to Sikhs,” he added, clarifying that he didn’t speak to “Sukhbir Ji” before joining the BJP.
02-12-2021||Delhi||Central Vista: ‘Nothing will happen’ to Waqf Board properties, govt to Delhi HC||The union government on Wednesday verbally assured the Delhi high court that “nothing will happen” to the heritage properties of the Waqf Board due to the ongoing construction of Central Vista nearby.Noting that it is a “very long plan”, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told justice Sanjeev Sachdeva that the redevelopment is yet to reach the properties in question.“Kindly have it after three weeks. Nothing is happening to these properties. My learned friend (petitioner) can rest assured. We are before your lordship. It is a very long plan and we have not reached anywhere near it,” Mehta told the court.The court was hearing a plea by the Delhi Waqf Board for the preservation and protection of its heritage properties that are likely to be impacted by the project.The court granted time to the Union government and adjourned the matter for January 20.Appearing for the Waqf Board, senior advocate Sanjoy Ghose urged the court to record the SG’s statement, but the court turned down his request observing that it has “full faith” in the SG.In its petition, filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, the Delhi Waqf Board has sought the preservation and protection of six of its properties in the area where the redevelopment work is ongoing. The properties include Masjid Zabta Ganj at Mansingh Road, Jama Masjid at Red Cross Road, Masjid Sunehri Bagh Road Near Udyog Bhawan, Mazar Sunehri Bagh Road behind Moti Lal Nehru Marg, Masjid Krishi Bhawan inside Krishi Bhawan Compound and Masjid Vice President at the official residence of the Vice President of India.Claiming that the six properties “have a distinction attached to them”, the petition has stated that neither the British government nor the government of India ever created any hindrance in the observance of religious practices at these properties which were always preserved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/central-vista-nothing-will-happen-to-waqf-board-properties-govt-to-delhi-hc-101638385756720.html
02-12-2021||Gurugram||Omicron: Gurugram hospitals asked to give bed details in 48 hours||In the wake of rising concerns over Omicron, the new Covid variant, the district health department on Wednesday asked private and government hospitals to update details of bed availability within 48 hours, as part of preparations to tackle any spread of the pandemic, officials said. The department also asked the private hospitals to send it a list of guest houses where their international patients stay so that they can be tracked. “Serious efforts are being made by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection so that the situation does not become uncontrollable and better health facilities can be provided to the people. Our main focus is on international travellers from the 12-high risk countries and we are following all guidelines for testing and quarantine issued by the Centre. Such travellers will be tested for Covid-19 on arrival, and they will be kept under quarantine for 14 days,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO) of Gurugram, after a meeting with the representatives of various hospitals on Wednesday.The officials said that the high-risk countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival, including Covid-19 testing, are the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Israel. According to the health department, separate testing camps have been set up for international travellers outside the Civil Hospital, the only government hospital that is treating Covid patients in the district, and several private hospitals across the district, as many foreign nationals visit Gurugram every week for medical treatment.According to data from the district health department, there are around 85 private hospitals in the district. The CMO further said that in the coming days, a meeting will also be held with the big hotel operators and multi-national companies in the district to make them aware about the compliance of the prescribed guidelines. Yadav has appealed to the food vendors that while hiring any person in their organisations, they should ensure that the person has taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccine. He also asked the private hospitals to ensure that all their staff are fully vaccinated. During the meeting, the CMO directed the private hospitals to paste a citizen charter at their premises giving information on citizens’ rights, grievance redressal, testing rate, Covid treatment and referral mechanism, among others.On Wednesday, 3,575 Covid tests were conducted in Gurugram, the officials said, adding that the district has been conducting 3,000-3,500 daily tests for the past one month. Meanwhile, the district on Wednesday reported 11 fresh Covid-19 cases while eight people recovered from the infection, according to the state government data. There are 67 active cases in the district, of which 63 are in home isolation and four are hospitalised, the officials said. So far, the district has reported a total of 181,709 Covid-19 cases, including 925 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/omicron-gurugram-hospitals-asked-to-give-bed-details-in-48-hours-101638385638013.html
02-12-2021||Noida||World AIDS Day: ART helps 50 of 63 HIV+ women have healthy babies||In what could be termed as a testimony to success of the anti retroviral therapy (ART) and care given to HIV positive persons, of the 63 HIV positive women in Noida — all diagnosed in the past 12 years since 2010 — 50 now have babies that are HIV negative. Treatment of another 11 babies is still ongoing and they may turn HIV negative soon, doctors said on Wednesday, on the occasion of World AIDS Day. Two babies, however, continue to remain positive, they said. The Gautam Budh Nagar health department on Wednesday released data with regards to the treatment of HIV/AIDS in the district, and said it held counselling and awareness sessions at four educational institutions on the day. “With increased counselling, especially among specific target groups (such as addicts, sex workers) we have been able to test and identify more patients with HIV. in about 98% cases of infants born to HIV positive mothers, successful treatment has been possible,” said Dr Sirish Jain, district tuberculosis officer, and nodal officer for HIV/AIDS control.He said over the course of one and a half years (18 months), multiple courses of medication are given to the newborns along with several other treatment protocols. The pregnant women are also given anti retroviral medicines from the third month of pregnancy. “Until a few years ago, it was very difficult to prevent the newborn from having HIV, if the mother is positive. But newer medications have changed all that. There is a special safe delivery kit for such mothers. A newborn is given the first dose of medicine within half an hour of being born. Another medicine is given after 45 days. Meanwhile, the mother remains under lifelong treatment,” Dr Jain said.Testing as well as counselling for HIV patients has been gradually increasing in district till 2020, when Covid-19 hit and resources were diverted for its containment and treatment. In the past two years, fewer HIV positive cases have been identified as a result of this diversion, doctors said. While 129 person were diagnosed with HIV in the district in 2017, the number increased to 161 in 2018 and 203 in 2019. But it reduced to 91 2020 and 88 in 2021. In the past seven years since 2015, more than two lakh people have been tested and counselled and 868 people have been found to be HIV positive, health officials said.“In the past four years, we have increased our focused counselling among the susceptible population and received a positive response. People are very open to treatment options once they learn that they can help control the spread, especially among children. We also have an integrated disease control lab in the district, which has helped us increase testing,” said Dr Jain.There are four ICDC (Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre) labs in Noida — at the district hospital, the community health centres in Bhangel and Dadri, and GIMS in Greater Noida — where HIV testing is done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/world-aids-day-art-helps-50-of-63-hiv-women-have-healthy-babies-101638385636724.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Two held for stabbing man to death in west Delhi||A 26-year-old man was assaulted and stabbed to death by two men, allegedly due to personal enmity, in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar on Tuesday night, said police. Police added they arrested the suspects and booked for murder and destruction of evidence, as a knife they allegedly used in the crime was missing, police said.The dead man and his killers are from different communities and lived in the same neighbourhood. After the murder came to light, tension gripped the neighbourhood and some people tried to give it a communal colour. Police, however, clarified that there was no issue of communal disharmony in the area because of the murder. Senior police officers were monitoring the situation, they said.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said that on Tuesday night, the Rajouri Garden police station received a call regarding a medico-legal case (MLC) from Guru Govind Singh Hospital. The hospital said the patient had been stabbed. The police sent a team to the hospital where they learnt that the patient, identified as Dablu Singh, was referred to Safdarjung Hospital since his condition was critical.“Safdarjung Hospital informed us regarding Singh’s death. We learnt that Singh was stabbed in the neck by some locals due to personal enmity,” said DCP Goel, refusing to elaborate on the “enmity” between Singh and his attackers.Police said that a case was registered and two suspects were apprehended following raids. The two were identified as Farhan alias Ladla, 20, and his friend Shahalam alias Chhana, 24, both residents of TC Camp in Raghubir Nagar.A preliminary investigation into the case revealed that Singh was friends with the sister of one of the arrested men. The woman’s brother was against that friendship and had warned Singh to stay away from her. The two had an altercation over the issue previously as well and had threatened each other, the police said.On Tuesday night, the two men stopped Singh in a lane in their neighbourhood and assaulted him. One of them stabbed him in the neck before fleeing the crime scene. Singh himself reached the hospital in an auto-rickshaw. However, his condition deteriorated and he was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries, said a police officer, who did not want to be identified.“We are probing if Singh’s murder has anything to do with his friendship with the woman from the other community. The other possibilities are also being looked into,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-stabbing-man-to-death-in-west-delhi-101638385576458.html
02-12-2021||Pune||Close contact of Covid infected traveller who returned from Nigeria tests positive for virus||PUNE One of the close contacts of a Covid-19 infected traveller who returned from Nigeria tested positive for the infection in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation area. Apart from three samples of infected people, the PCMC has now sent13 more samples of contacts of the infected for genome sequencing. These samples had tested negative for Covid-19. All the samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), said the officials. A total of three travellers who returned to Pune district had tested positive for Covid-19. A returnee from Zambia, among the high-risk countries with regards to the newly confirmed Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 variant, has been tested positive for the Covid19 infection in Pune city and his samples have been sent for genome sequencing by the civic body. Two travellers who arrived from Nigeria, were found infected with Covid-19 in Pimpri Chinchwad area. On Tuesday one of the contacts of these two travellers tested positive for the infection. Dr Laxman Gophane, medical officer of PCMC said the two travellers and one of their close contacts have tested positive for Covid-19 and all three are currently undergoing treatment at New Jijamata Hospital. “The two travellers tested positive on November 29 and their one close contact tested positive on November 30. Their condition is stable and all three are asymptomatic,” he said. “Till now we have tracked down 14 contacts of these travellers. We had taken samples of all these close contacts. One tested positive for Covid and the samples of the remaining 13 have tested negative for Covid19. However, we have sent a total of 16 samples, including these 13, for genome sequencing to NIV,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/close-contact-of-covid-infected-traveller-who-returned-from-nigeria-tests-positive-for-virus-101638385519072.html
02-12-2021||Other||BJP, Cong top leaders in West UP today: Shah, Yogi to hold rally in Saharanpur, Priyanka in Moradabad||Union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Yogi Adityanath would lay the foundation stone of a university named after Shakumbhari Devi in Punwarka district of Saharanpur on Thursday. The two leaders are also scheduled to address a public rally in Saharanpur. Many ministers and leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are camping here for preparations of the rally. The BJP had recently given Shah the responsibility of western UP. “The BJP nearly won all the constituencies of west UP in the 2017 assembly elections. But, due to the ongoing farmers’ movement, the situation has changed now. To cut losses, BJP is now banking more on new social equations of non-Jat and non-Yadav OBCs and that is why Amit Shah and other BJP leaders are visiting this region to push this new equation,” said Janata Dal (United) general secretary KC Tyagi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also expected in Meerut later this month to lay the foundation stone of state’s first sports university at Salawa in Sardhana area. BJP leaders said the Prime Minister is also expected to lay down the foundation stone of the proposed ‘Ganga Expressway’ between Meerut and Prayagraj and inaugurate the Meerut-Delhi Expressway. While Shah would be in Saharanpur, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi too is scheduled to address a party rally in Moradabad on Thursday. Imran Pratapgarhi, who heads the party’s minority cell and hails from Moradabad has been working hard to ensure that Priyanka’s rally is a success, Congress leaders said. Priyanka Gandhi had earlier organised ‘samvaad’ with her party’s frontal organisations from 14 districts of Meerut, Aligarh and Agra divisions in Bulandshahar. Priyanka had sought feedback from them and then directed them to work hard for party’s success. A similar ‘samvaad’ with party members of Saharanpur, Moradabad and Bareilly divisions and which was scheduled for Moradabad was cancelled as Priyanka Gandhi fell ill, party leaders said. In her absence, Uttar Pradesh (UP) Congress president Ajay Kumar’ Lallu’ and party leader from Haryana Deepender Singh Hooda had interacted with partymen and collected feedback from them. Jolted by the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 but revived by the ongoing farmers’ movement in western UP, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) too is looking to strengthen itself in its home ground. Party leader Jayant Chaudhary who had addressed several ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ in past one year, to revive his support base has been organising series of ‘Parivartan Sandesh Yatras’. Before the UP elections, the RLD and Samajwadi Party (SP) have inked a pre-poll pact and both Jayant and SP president Akhilesh Yadav are to jointly address a Parivartan Sandesh Yatra in Meerut on December 7. Earlier, Akhilesh Yadav had addressed a few public meetings in the region in which he received overwhelming response from people, party leaders said. Bahujan Samaj Party leader Satish Chandra Mishra too had participated in few meetings organised to associate Brahmins with the party and to seek their support in the elections. Political analyst Jamshed Zaidi said farmers’ movement has made a dent in the support base of BJP in western UP. “The party is now projecting itself as one that is concerned for the development of the region and hence laying foundation stones of few projects and inaugurating few others to counter the impact of farmers’ movement,” he said. Zaidi said Jayant was still struggling to revive his party’s traditional vote base in his home ground though his alliance with SP has strengthened him politically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-cong-top-leaders-in-west-up-today-shah-yogi-to-hold-rally-in-saharanpur-priyanka-in-moradabad-101638385516569.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Trade, market groups share inputs on Delhi govt’s business portal||The Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi (DDCD), the Delhi government’s think tank, on Wednesday organised a meeting with representatives of market and trade bodies across the Capital to seek their partnership and inputs to formulate the “Dilli Bazaar” web portal.Recently announced by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the Dilli Bazaar will be the national Capital’s e-marketplace where shop-owners can set up a virtual store to sell their products online across the globe. Over 40 trade/market association representatives from areas such as Chandni Chowk, Bhagirath Palace, Sadar Bazar, Khari Baoli, Naya Bazar, Mori Gate, Chawri Bazar, Connaught Place, Lajpat Nagar, Karol Bagh, Sarojini Nagar, Khan Market, Rajouri Garden, Kamla Nagar, Palika Bazar, Rohini, Pitampura, Laxmi Nagar, Krishna Nagar, and Gandhi Nagar discussed the role of market bodies in setting up the upcoming portal and ways to coordinate with Delhi government for the purpose.Chairing the meeting with trade/market association representatives, Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson, DDCD, said, “Delhi government, under the leadership of CM Arvind Kejriwal, has been working tirelessly to provide relief to businesses suffering from the impact of lockdown and the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year, the Delhi government set up “Rozgar Bazaar”, a simple job matching web platform on which over 1.4 million job seekers registered themselves and over 1 million jobs were advertised. Discussions with trade and industry associations led to the formulation of the concept of Dilli Bazaar.”“The quality of products and services in Delhi is praised all over India and globally, but many businesses suffer because they still lack an online presence and reach. During the lockdown, while physical retail stores suffered losses, e-commerce gained 150% in revenue and tier 2 and tier 3 cities also saw a huge surge in the demand for digital payments. Realising the support many sellers require to tap the online market to their advantage, CM Arvind Kejriwal announced that Dilli Bazaar, a path-breaking, the state-of-the-art e-marketplace will be built by the Delhi government where every trader, businessperson, professional, service provider, and shopkeeper of Delhi will be able to showcase and sell their products to anyone, anywhere in the world,” Shah said.The portal will support and strengthen both direct-to-consumer and business-to-business ventures. Shoppers will be able to go on virtual walkthroughs of Delhi’s markets and buy any product they like. The easy-to-use portal will help promote local businesses by providing them access to larger markets, Shah added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/trade-market-groups-share-inputs-on-delhi-govt-s-business-portal-101638385456565.html
02-12-2021||Noida||Noida police to probe assets of disbanded SWAT team members||The Gautam Budh Nagar police said on Wednesday it will launch an investigation into the assets of its SWAT team members, a day after the team was disbanded over allegations of taking a bribe from five suspects of a series of ATM thefts and allowing them to go scot-free three months ago.The alleged bribery came to the fore on Monday after the Ghaziabad police arrested the five men from Indirapuram. The suspects allegedly told the police that they had given ₹20 lakh and a car to the SWAT team to secure their release. Following an internal inquiry, SWAT team inspector Shahvez Khan and head constable Amrish Yadav were dismissed from service on Tuesday, while nine others of the team were recalled to the police lines, the Noida police said. The 11-member team was involved in conducting special operations and solving serious crimes until its disbandment. Joint police commissioner Love Kumar said on the directions of police commissioner Alok Singh, the assets of the SWAT team members will be investigated. “We will form another SWAT team with new members,” he said. DCP (crime) Abhishek, who conducted the preliminary inquiry into the bribery allegations, said, “Prima facie, my probe has found the involvement of two policemen — Shahvez Khan and Amrish Yadav. I submitted the inquiry report to my seniors. As it is a confidential report, I cannot disclose more details,” he said, refusing to reveal who else was involved in this racket. Late Tuesday night, police chief Alok Singh said, “SWAT team inspector Shahvez Khan and head constable Amrish Yadav have been dismissed from service for their involvement in the case. Based on the DCP crime’s report, I am convinced that they were involved in the case.” No police complaint has been filed in this regard as yet, said police on Wednesday. Shahvez Khan’s mobile number remained switched off and he could not be reached for comment. The Ghaziabad police and its cyber cell on Monday arrested five members of a gang of ATM hackers in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram. They were identified as Shanavaz Chaudhary, Mohammad Sageer, Mohammad Mehraj, Mohammad Umar and Zameer Seikh -- all in the age group of 25-30 years. The Ghaziabad police said Shanavaz and one of his accomplices, Kamal, have BCA degrees and the gang used to deploy softwares through pen drives to hack ATMs and withdraw cash.Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2), said five members of the gang were arrested and four others were on the run. He said the gang admitted to their involvement in hundreds of cases of ATM thefts, amounting to crores of rupees, in the past several years. During questioning, they told Ghaziabad police that they were nabbed by the Noida police three months ago and allowed to go in exchange for a bribe, an information they shared with their Noida counterparts, leading to the dismissals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-to-probe-assets-of-disbanded-swat-team-members-101638385398064.html
02-12-2021||Noida||Fourth round of air monitoring finds high levels of PM10, PM2.5 in Kaushambi||Teams from the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) conducted a special monitoring of air pollution at Kaushambi twice last month and found that the pollution levels have spiked sharply as compared to the previous round of monitoring conducted between October 6 and 9. Data from the recent rounds of monitoring shows that the PM10 levels have spiked to at least four times while the PM2.5 levels have spiked to 3.5 times the standard limit. In September, the UPPCB put in place special pollution monitoring machines in Kaushambi as the township experiences high levels of both noise and air pollution given that the ISBT at Anand Vihar, ISBT at Kaushambi, Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area and the Ghazipur landfill are in its vicinity. So far, it has conducted four rounds of special air monitoring in Kaushambi, the first of which was held between September 17 and 21 and the second from October 6 to 9. The first of the two recently concluded rounds of special air monitoring was held from November 15 to 17 while the second round was carried out between November 21 and 23. The air quality was monitored at three locations in the township-- near Kaushambi police post, near Meenakshi Hospital and near Panchmani Apartment. Data from the third round of air monitoring (November 15-17) shows that the average PM10 levels at the three locations ranged between 410.75 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) and 465.29 mpcm, at least four times higher than the standard limit of 100 mpcm. Likewise, the average PM2.5 levels at the three locations was in the range of 165.52 mpcm to 211.18 mpcm, way beyond the standard limit of 60 mpcm. During the fourth round of monitoring (November 21 to 23), the average PM10 levels ranged between 381.28 mpcm and 418.14 mpcm. The PM2.5 levels were, on average, in the range of 127.23 mpcm to 148.80, more than twice than standard limit. According to the UPPCB report, the two rounds of special monitoring were carried out in Kaushambi during clear weather conditions. “The PM10 and PM2.5 levels recorded during the last two rounds of special air monitoring in Kaushambi have shown a spike. The high levels of pollution can be attributed to the meteorological conditions prevailing this season , which has impacted the air quality in Delhi-NCR,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. “The air pollution here is very bad and it is deteriorating. It is so because the agencies have failed to efficiently discharge their duties. Moreover, as a result of the blockade of national highway 9 by farmers, there is a major volume of traffic, which is getting diverted through Kaushambi. So, the pollution levels are out of control and is a cause of concern for every resident here,” said V K Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartment Residents’ Welfare Association (Karwa). The township comprises 22 high-rises with an estimated population of about 20,000 living near Delhi’s Anand Vihar. During the second round of monitoring from October 6 to 9, the PM10 levels at the three locations ranged between 161.59 mpcm and 372.58 mpcm while the PM2.5 levels were in the range of 63.10 mpcm to 92.51 mpcm. Data from the first round of monitoring (September 17- 21) shows that the average PM10 levels at the three locations was in the range of 80 mpcm-145.36 mpcm. Officials said results of monitoring PM2.5 levels could not be ascertained properly for all the five days due to some technical issues. Data of PM 2.5 levels at the three locations for some days is available. The Karwa moved a petition with the National Green Tribunal in 2015 contending about the high levels of air pollution and their probable sources. Last year, the association also moved a petition before the Supreme Court, which has issued directions to authorities to come up with a comprehensive traffic management plan for the township. 
02-12-2021||Pune||PMPML to construct 6 mega charging stations for e-buses||To cater to the rising demand of electric buses, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) has decided to develop six e-depots for charging and maintenance of electric buses. These depots will cater to the 500 new e-buses that will soon join the PMPML’s fleet.In December 2020, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) along with PMPML announced the inclusion of 650 electric buses that will join its fleet in a phase-wise manner. Currently, PMPML has a fleet of 150 electric buses. The 650 e-buses need 80,000 units of electricity daily. Considering the addition of another 500 buses, these new depots are constructed to maintain them.“Currently, to monitor the existing 150 e-buses, PMPML has two e-depots - Bhekrainagar and Nigdi. While the six new e-depots will be developed at Wagholi, Baner, Pune railway station, Bhosari, Moshi and Charholi. The depots will have charging, repairing stations; maintenance workshops and parking space. These depots will only cater to e-buses,” said Dattatray Jhende, PMPML traffic manager. Out of the total 500 buses, 150 electronic buses will come under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles - II (FAME 2) project of the central government. These buses will be taken on a gross cost contract basis for 12 years. While the other 350 buses will be taken by both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad corporations on a similar gross cost contract basis. “The agency which has been given the contract for running these buses will look after its maintenance, driver and charging infrastructure. We will only provide our conductor and give the electricity, charging the payment to them,” added Jhende. Depot wise allocation of 500 e-buses at new e-depotsWagholi - 100Baner - 70Pune Railway station - 90Bhosari - 70Moshi - 70Charholi – 100||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-construct-6-mega-charging-stations-for-ebuses-101638385281562.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||After slums, BJP plans outreach for villages, unauthorised colonies in Delhi||After its 45-day-long outreach campaign in Delhi’s slum clusters, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Delhi unit is planning a similar campaign in rural villages and unauthorised colonies, considered the ruling Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) strongholds. The campaign, planned as part of the party’s preparations for the upcoming municipal elections, will start from mid-December, said Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta.Gupta said, “There are so many issues concerning villages, especially in rural areas, and unauthorised colonies, which the Delhi government has not resolved despite being in power for nearly seven years.”He said that the party plans to tell people about the failures of the AAP-led Delhi government and also about the various people-centric schemes introduced by the central government.“In rural areas, villagers are unable to get mutation done (a process to transfer property titles). While Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal says that he supports the farmers, his government doesn’t give any subsidy to farmers in Delhi for purchase of tractors, fertilisers, etc,” said Gupta.Gupta said that there are issues related to higher education, road and transport connectivity in the Capital’s rural areas. “There are not many colleges in rural areas. The road connectivity is really bad. What has the government done in the past few years?”The BJP also plans to hold meetings in unauthorised colonies, again an AAP stronghold, to highlight issues related to lack of development. Gupta said, “Unauthorised colonies are lying in a state of neglect and don’t have basic infrastructure. The government has all the money and still it is not able to do any work in these areas.”The party is also trying to make a dent in the AAP’s strong support base in assembly constituencies reserved for scheduled castes.The BJP, which is hoping for a fourth term in the municipal corporations, has started its poll preparations. The party recently concluded its slum outreach programme, which was attended by BJP president JP Nadda. Gupta said that the party has got a good response from slum clusters, which had voted in large numbers for the AAP in the assembly elections in 2020.Also Read | ‘Delighted’: Tamil author after BJP slum outreach posters feature his photoGupta said that the lakhs of people living in the city’s slum clusters, unauthorised colonies, and other areas, have been deprived of Central government schemes such as Ayushman Bharat because of the Delhi government. “It is important to tell people about the various schemes started by the Centre for poor people and how they have been deprived of it. We are in the process of preparing a detailed plan for the campaign and will start it after December 15,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-slums-bjp-plans-outreach-for-villages-unauthorised-colonies-in-delhi-101638385218314.html
02-12-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Gurugram fully vaccinates 89% of its eligible population||Nearly 89% of eligible population in Gurugram has been vaccinated with both doses against Covid-19, according to data from the district health department on Wednesday. In Gurugram, first-dose vaccination has crossed 100% as several people from other districts and a migrating population have also been vaccinated in the district, health officials said.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said, “It is a matter of pride for all of us that almost 90% eligible population has been fully vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district.” In Gurugram, 1,803,656 people are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination. Of which, 1,600,752 (88.75%) beneficiaries have been administered both doses of vaccine, shows the data. So far, the district has administered a total of over 3.86 million doses -- 2,262,523 first doses and 1,600,752 second doses.According to the officials, on Wednesday, 13,435 people were given the Covid-19 vaccine in the district, with 3,559 people administered first dose and 9,876 second dose.When asked about by when the district is targeting to achieve 100% vaccination, the CMO said, “We have not set any target as such, our focus is on continuous vaccination of all eligible people. To increase the pace of vaccination, 14 morning and four evening vaccination sessions have also been conducted in the past few days apart from vaccination at fixed sites.”On November 11, Gurugram had achieved the mark of 80% double-dose vaccination coverage, when the state government set a deadline of January 2022 to achieve 100% vaccination coverage to all districts.Meanwhile, the CMO directed the private hospitals in the district to conduct two mega vaccination drives in December so that the vaccination pace could be further increased. The officials said that the door-to-door vaccination campaign has also helped and will continue in December. Till now, 101,784 people have been vaccinated through the door-to-door campaign in the district which started in November. A new initiative was also started by the CMO from Wednesday where all the hospitals, labs, industries, malls and other institutions will be given special appreciation for getting 100% vaccination done of all their employees. The health department, with the help of district administration, is also planning to start a checking drive again against those who do not wear face masks, as special instructions have been received from the state government to prepare for any possible third wave especially in the wake of the new Omicron variant. “I appeal to the general public to wear face masks and follow all Covid-19 safety protocols seriously. People who are not wearing a face mask will be dealt with strictly. The district administration will now intensify the checking in public places,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-gurugram-fully-vaccinates-89-of-its-eligible-population-101638385217020.html
02-12-2021||Pune||Railway quarters at Pune’s Hadapsar station to be relocated||Considering that the narrow access road, small entry gate created inconvenience for passengers travelling from Hadapsar railway station, the Pune railway division will remove the railway quarters that is housed right in front of the station. The road will also be widened resulting in less traffic congestion.Talking about the issue the Pune divisional railway manager Renu Sharma said, “The development work of the Hadapsar railway station is currently underway. We are aware of the passengers’ issues, as a solution, we will remove the railway quarters in front of the main entrance gate. There are plans to start more train operations from here and for that good passenger amenities in and around the railway station are necessary,”The Hadapsar (Pune) to Hyderabad (train no. 07013) is scheduled for departure on every Sunday, Tuesday and Friday at 3.30 pm. While the same train returns to Hadapsar on Monday, Wednesday and Saturday. Passengers start arriving at 2.30 pm or even earlier as they have trouble locating the station which is located quite inside from the main Mundhwa road. The auto stand outside the station and the railway quarters makes it impossible for commuters to navigate.“I had gone to drop my sister who was set to board the Hyderabad train last week. We were afraid to miss the train as there was a lot of traffic congestion outside the railway station. The road is narrow, and hundreds of passengers come along with someone to drop them, then there are autos and other vehicles that add to the woes. If the railway quarters are removed then it will be beneficial for the passengers and more train operations can start from here,” said Amit Annal a passenger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/railway-quarters-at-pune-s-hadapsar-station-to-be-relocated-101638385158110.html
02-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to outsource operations of mechanical road sweepers||Ghaziabad: The city is set to get five new mechanical road-sweeping machines by next week, after which the Ghaziabad municipal corporation will outsource the operation of all the machines to an agency, which has expertise in handling the equipment. Civic officials said they already have six mechanical road sweepers and the addition of five more will take the tally to 11. “We have roped in a specialised agency for operation of road sweeping machines. Since it requires expertise to operate such machines and our manpower is not trained to handle such equipment and get the maximum output, we have selected an agency which will operate all the 11 mechanised road sweeping machines. These will be deployed fully to remove dust from major road stretches,” said municipal commissioner M S Tanwar. “We are regularly taking up water sprinkling, road sweeping and also using anti-smog guns to keep pollution levels minimum. Off late, the frequency of taking up such measures has also been increased,” he added. Environmentalists said dust on major roads is a big issue, which increases the PM10 levels, thereby aggravating pollution. “It has been observed this season that the air quality index has mostly ranged in ‘severe’ to ‘very poor’ category. The city has had ‘poor’ category of air on selected days. The road dust, combined with vehicular emission, is a major issue for spike in pollution levels in the city. At the ground level, agencies have failed to contain pollution. It is the meteorological conditions, which have helped improve the air quality and reduced pollution levels on selected days,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. The five mechanical road sweeping machines being procured will be from the corpus of ₹61.5 crore that has been provided to the city under the 15th Finance Commission. The funds are to be diverted and used in a dedicated manner for measures to improve air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-outsource-operations-of-mechanical-road-sweepers-101638384976647.html
02-12-2021||Other||Tikunia violence: Hearing on bail application of accused deferred till December 15||Lakhimpur Kheri: Hearing on bail application of Tikunia violence accused, Sumit Jaiswal, was deferred till December 15 by district and sessions judge Mukesh Mishra on Wednesday. District government counsel (criminal) Arvind Tripathi said that when the bail application of Sumit Jaiswal was put up before district and sessions judge on Wednesday, the prosecution urged the court to grant them 15 days time to complete the case diary. The prosecution told the court that the statement of some private persons and some government officials were yet to be recorded while some forensic reports were still awaited from forensic science laboratory, Tripathi said. The district government counsel added that considering the request by the prosecution, district and sessions judge fixed December 15 as the next date of hearing on Sumit Jaiswal’s bail application. Sumit Jaiswal is one of the 13 accused identified and arrested during the investigation of FIR number 219, which had been lodged with Tikunia Kotwali police station in connection with the killing of four farmers and a local journalist during the October 3 violence in Tikunia. MoS home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra alias Monu is main accused in the aforesaid FIR. UP government had formed a nine-member special investigation team headed by DIG Upendra Agrawal to probe the Tikunia violence case, besides forming a single-member judicial commission headed by retired Allahabad high court justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava to monitor the probe. However, while hearing a public interest litigation recently, the Supreme Court reconstituted the SIT probing the case, inducting three senior IPS officers of UP cadre but not hailing from UP into it. These were ADG (intelligence) SB Shiradkar, IG Padmaja Chauhan and DIG Preetinder Singh. The apex court also assigned former Punjab and Haryana high court judge Justice (retd.) Rakesh Kumar Jain to monitor the probe, following which UP government cancelled its October 6 notification of single-member judicial commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tikunia-violence-hearing-on-bail-application-of-accused-deferred-till-december-15-101638384917151.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Denied permission, ABHM calls off Dec 6 ‘jalabhishek’ prog at Eidgah in Mathura||The Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM) on Wednesday called off its proposed programme for the installation and ‘jalabhishek’ (offering of water as ritual) of lord Krishna’s idol at the Eidgah adjoining the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura on December 6.ABHM national president Rajyashree Chaudhri announced the ‘cancellation’ of the proposed event through a video message on social media, citing concerns raised by the Mathura district administration, sensitivity of the issue and safety of ABHM leaders.“We had announced to conduct the ‘jalabhishek’ at real the ‘janmasthan’(birth place), which is within the Eidgah premises adjoining the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura on December 6. However, a very concerned district administration denied us permission because of security reasons and sensitivity of the issue and thus we decided to call off the event,” stated Chaudhri on Wednesday.The district administration had warned against any such event at Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi or adjoining premises of Eidgah on December 6.On Tuesday, the Mathura administration also denied permission to the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Mukti Dal for organising a public meeting and ‘sankalp yatra’ on December 6 in view of apprehensions over threat to communal harmony and violation of Covid-19 protocols.District magistrate (Mathura) Navneet Singh Chahal and SSP (Mathura) Gaurav Grover had visited Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi and Shahi Eidgah last Saturday and informed that Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code was in force and no one would be allowed to disturb peace in the area.“We have come to know from social media about such plans on December 6. Neither anyone has sought permission for any such event at Shahi Eidgah nor has any such permission been given to any individual or organisation. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code are in force in the district,” the DM (Mathura) had said.“Stern action will be taken against any one violating law and order on December 6,” warned SSP D Gaurav Grover.ABHM activists in Agra had taken out ‘Amantran Yatra’ on motorcycles on Saturday, inviting volunteers for the proposed programme at Shahi Eidgah in Mathura on December 6.On November 16, ABHM president Rajyashree Chaudhri said during a press conference that the organization would perform ‘jalabhishek’ after installing the idol of Bal Gopal at the “real Krishna Janmasthan within the Eidgah” adjoining the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura on December 6.There is a dispute over the land on which the Eidgah and Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi are located side by side in Mathura. Various litigations are on in the civil courts of Mathura by Hindu organisations and individuals who allege that the Eidgah was built after demolition of a temple by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb at the site where Lord Krishna was born.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/denied-permission-abhm-calls-off-dec-6-jalabhishek-prog-at-eidgah-in-mathura-101638384856678.html
02-12-2021||Noida||After a day’s relief, AQI spikes to ‘very poor’ in Noida, Ghaziabad||For the next couple of days, the air quality in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad is not expected to improve much as the winds that brought a temporary reprieve on Tuesday, abated on Wednesday, pushing the air quality back to the “very poor” category on the air quality index (AQI) scale. On Tuesday, the AQI had improved to “poor” in all three cities after remaining in “ very poor” for a whole week. Weather and pollution experts said the expected western disturbance on December 5-6 could improve conditions if it triggers moderate or heavy rain. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s 4pm bulletin On Wednesday, the AQI in Ghaziabad was 387, Greater Noida 358 and Noida 360, all in the “very poor” category. “The wind speed decreased on Wednesday and it resulted in very slow dispersion of pollutants which again spiked the AQI. Further, the temperature has also come down resulting in deterioration of air quality. At the local level, the municipal corporation is likely to get five new mechanical road sweeping machines within a week to tackle dust on roads,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board.Ever since the festival of Diwali, the AQI of Ghaziabad and Noida has been oscillating between “severe” and “very poor”. A temporary relief was seen on November 22 and 23 when the three cities for the first time in November registered just a “poor” AQI. “Not much improvement is expected in the coming days. The western disturbance, expected on December 5-6, is likely to cause light drizzle in Delhi-NCR, but it will be patchy rain. If the rainfall is moderate to heavy, it will surely bring down the pollution in the region. The wind direction is changing to easterly and it is expected to be completely easterly by Thursday,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. A western disturbance is an area of “disturbed” or reduced air pressure that travels from the “western” to the eastern direction, and bring with it rain, fog or snow to the northern states. The forecast by the Union ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said the calm winds will continue to prevail till Thursday and will reduce ventilation, leading to deterioration in air quality. “From December 3 onwards, winds are expected to increase dispersing pollutants but AQI likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category. Low mixing layer height is preventing efficient dispersal of pollutants,” the forecast added. “The air quality is likely to remain in ”very poor” category. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from east of Delhi with wind speed up to 4-10 kmph; generally cloudy sky and possibility of light rain/thundershowers on December 2. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from north-west direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 8-12 kmph, partly cloudy and shallow fog on the morning on December 3,” the Safar forecast continued. 
02-12-2021||Pune||Health dept paper leak: One arrested from Aurangabad||The Pune police, on Wednesday, arrested a man from Aurangabad and remanded him to police custody in connection with health department recruitment examination paper leak case. The police have also received a second complaint related to the same issue at Deccan police station. The arrested man has been identified as Vijay Murhade (29) a resident of Aurangabad district. He is a native of Nandi village in Ambad taluka of Jalna, according to senior police inspector Dagdu Hake of Cyber police station. “We have brought him to Pune, and he has been remanded to police custody till December 6. We received a tip from a complainant who happened to see the paper on a messaging application. So, we backtracked the messages and the trail ended on Murhade. But that was only on the messaging application. The paper has leaked from somewhere in the system, between the ones who set the paper and the ones who conduct the examination. We are investigating how Murhade got his hands on the paper,” said PI Hake. Murhade is accused of having leaked papers of not only the health department recruitment but also banking exams, according to the police. He also has a history of a criminal case against him in Begumpura police station in Aurangabad for appearing as a dummy candidate in place of one of his relatives, according to the Pune police. “It does not look like the candidates have made the payment yet. They had quoted an amount between ₹5 lakh and ₹12 lakh for one candidate from primary information,” said PI Hake. The issue was raised by those appearing for examination as the paper that was meant to be distributed on October 31, had appeared on social media before the exam time. The state government has outsourced the conducting of the exams to Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/health-dept-paper-leak-one-arrested-from-aurangabad-101638384678068.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Respond to JNU student Sharjeel Imam’s bail plea: Delhi HC to police||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the police’s response on the bail plea of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam, currently in jail for allegedly giving an inflammatory speech and inciting violence during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA)-National Register of Citizens (NRC) protests in 2019.Also Read | Sharjeel Imam’s speech did not incite violence: HCJustice Rajnish Bhatnagar issued a notice to the city police on Imam’s plea, which challenged the October 22 order of the trial court rejecting his release.Imam on December 13, 2019, allegedly delivered a provocative speech, which, according to the police, resulted in riots two days later when a mob consisting of over 3,000 people attacked police personnel and torched several vehicles in the Jamia Nagar area in south Delhi.According to the prosecution, Imam’s speech allegedly instigated a community against the government by creating unfounded fear in their minds regarding CAA and NRC.Also Read | Anti-CAA speech: Allahabad HC grants bail to Sharjeel Imam in sedition caseThe police had also alleged that Imam delivered provocative speeches on December 13 and December 15 in 2019 and January 16, 2020, which resulted in riots at several places.Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde said that his client has been in jail since February 2020.Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad accepted the notice on behalf of the police and sought time to file a reply following which the court posted the matter for February 11.In his plea, Imam said that all the co-accused, arrested for allegedly causing the violence, were granted bail in the case while he was incarcerated for over 20 months.“Even after admitting that the evidence relied upon by the prosecution is ‘sketchy’ and all the co-accused... having been enlarged on bail, the applicant was not granted bail by the (trial) court,” the plea said, adding that Imam has not been named in the FIR and has no connection with the events.“Till date the prosecution has not been able to furnish the requisite sanction mandated under Section 196 CrPC to prosecute the applicant (Imam) for the offences punishable under Section 124A (sedition) of IPC in the present FIR,” the plea said.The trial court had denied him bail saying free speech cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony.Meanwhile, seeking bail in another case of sedition for his alleged inflammatory speeches, Imam told a city court that there was nothing in his speech that caused religious animosity.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat was hearing a case filed against Imam for the alleged speeches given by him at two universities in 2019, where he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India.During the proceedings, Imam’s counsel said, “From the impugned speech, there is nothing which per se causes any kind of religious animosity. We cannot lose sight of the context. What Sharjeel Imam says, in relation to CAA-NRC, is that in as much as it affects one community directly, what kind of support is to be elicited from the majority community.”The court reserved its order for December 7 after the conclusion of arguments from the parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/respond-to-jnu-student-sharjeel-imam-s-bail-plea-delhi-hc-to-police-101638384676597.html
02-12-2021||Noida||Health services affected in Gautam Budh Nagar as NHM staff remain on strike||Health services such as Covid-19 vaccination and testing were impacted in Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday as all contractual staff of the National Health Mission (NHM) remained on strike for the second day.NHM officials have been demanding better pay, improved transfer policy, and compensation for Covid-infected workers as promised before by the government a year ago. The NHM union had informed the Uttar Pradesh government that they would start the strike in phases between November 25 and 30, and completely boycott work after November 30 if their demands were not met. However, none of the demands have been fulfilled in the past year by the state government.“The contractual workers have spent more time in the field than any permanent employee. We have worked during holidays and some have worked through months without a single weekly off. We are only demanding equal pay as per individual qualification. Some of the demands were agreed upon by the state, but they never came through,” said Ravindra Rathi, district general secretary, NHM union.Other officials said that the compensation announced for workers who contracted Covid-19 while working has also not been given. “The health insurance and compensation announced earlier has not been given to anyone in the past two years. We were hoping for an increase in salary, but we have not even been given a salary equal to others in the same position. It is unfair considering the amount of selfless work the NHM employees have done since Covid-19 began,” said Dr Matloom, district president of the NHM union.Around 1,500 NHM staff comprise over 80% of the district health department’s manpower. They include around 1,100 Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers who are on the frontlines surveilling, contact tracing, testing, sampling, and managing Covid patients ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. There are about 100,000 NHM officials and 200,000 Asha workers across Uttar Pradesh.With contractual workers absent, only 24 centres could offer vaccination and sampling services on Wednesday. Government vaccination centres had already reduced from 95 on Monday to 45 on Tuesday, the first day of the strike.Also, as compared 16,704 Covid vaccine doses administered at government centres on Monday, just 9,710 doses were administered on Tuesday. The number of administered doses fell to 7,004 on Wednesday.Union workers said that the permanent employees’ union has also supported the strike. Union members also met Noida MLA Pankaj Singh on Wednesday and submitted their list of seven demands. Doctors in Noida also say that the demands are valid, given the support system of the large contractual workforce.“Most of the Covid-19 fieldwork was done by the Asha workers. The entire pandemic was fought with their help. It is only fair to address their grievances,” said a senior doctor from the health department, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/health-services-affected-in-gautam-budh-nagar-as-nhm-staff-remain-on-strike-101638384616686.html
02-12-2021||Other||Lucknow Municipal Corporation appoints two teachers to educate Jiamau Raen Basera inmates||Lucknow In a positive development, Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has appointed two teachers to impart knowledge to the homeless people living in the shelter home in Jiamau through short informative classes. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “Mostly people from lower income groups like rickshaw pullers, labourers and destitute women live here. Many of them are not aware of their rights, some of them are not even able to read and write perfectly. They don’t know where to get help in times of emergency. In order to educate them, I have directed two teachers to take short informative classes when these people come to reside in Raen Basera.” The teachers are expected to educate the inmates about the importance of living neat and clean to beat the pandemic, besides reading and writing their names and things like sign boards etc. These inmates would also be apprised about the various schemes of state government for poor people. They would be apprised about the government schemes like Ayushman Bharat card, Jan Dhan account, Ujjwala Yojana etc. NGO Ummeed will run the Raen Basera and conduct classes. Dwivedi said, “With a little knowledge, life of these people can change as it has the potential to transform their lifestyle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-municipal-corporation-appoints-two-teachers-to-educate-jiamau-raen-basera-inmates-101638384497703.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Woman alleges assault in Shalimar Bagh by supporters of AAP MLA||A 38-year-old woman and her daughter were injured after six people, including two women, allegedly assaulted them with sticks in northwest Delhi’s West Shalimar Bagh on November 19. CCTV camera footage of the alleged attack was circulated on social media on Wednesday, prompting the police to issue a statement in which they mentioned that the two women were arrestedlast week while investigators were looking for two men against whom they have started the process of issuing non-bailable warrants (NBWs). The remaining two suspects have got interim relief from a Delhi court last week that directed the police not to take any coercive action against them till further orders, the police said in their statement.The injured woman, in her complaint, alleged that the attackers were supporters of Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) legislator from Shalimar Bagh assembly constituency, Bandana Kumari. She also accused the alleged attackers of sexual harassment, assault and use of force to disrobe her and snatching.Kumari did not respond to requests seeking comment.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said that on November 19 around 10pm, the police received a call regarding an assault in the West Shalimar Bagh area. The victims – a 38-year-old woman and her daughter – were admitted to a private hospital.“The woman’s statement was recorded and she alleged that the six attackers (two women and four men) were supporters of AAP MLA Bandana Kumari. Accordingly, a case was registered and investigation started,” said DCP Rangnani.During the investigation, the DCP said, the footage of the CCTV cameras installed around the crime spot were analysed and four persons were seen assaulting the woman and her daughter. The two women attackers were identified and arrested.The injured woman said in her statement that she had returned from a nearby gurdwara with her daughter and a friend’s daughter in her car. The video clip circulated on social media shows a car being parked in a lane. As two girls get out of the car, two women arrive and start kicking and assaulting the older girl, who falls down. As the woman who was driving, rushes to rescue the girl, one of them women pounces on her and starts assaulting her.The video footage shows two men joining the women in attacking the driver. The two men assault the woman with sticks till she falls on the road. Thereafter, all the four attackers flee the crime scene. Two more persons are seen near the crime scene but they are not involved in the attack, the footage shows.The injured woman alleged that the attackers snatched her gold ring and her daughter’s phone during the assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwoman-alleges-assault-in-shalimar-bagh-by-supporters-of-aapmla-101638384496383.html
02-12-2021||Noida||Request placed for hiring new agency for development of Noida airport||The Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL)--the agency appointed by the Uttar Pradesh government to look after the development of Noida international airport at Jewar along Yamuna Expressway-- has asked the government to hire a new agency to oversee airport’s development. The move comes after the NIAL realised that it cannot carry out the technical job alone, said officials in the know of the matter. The NIAL has placed the request for a new agency a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the airport project, which is slated to become operational by September 29, 2024. Earlier, the NIAL had tried hiring an expert agency but it could not do so as not many eligible agencies had applied for the tender. “We have written to the state government so that they can get the necessary approval from the cabinet and hire the agency, which has expertise in overseeing such a mega project,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of the NIAL. In its board meeting on November 30 in Lucknow, the NIAL reviewed the airport’s ‘developmental plan’ submitted by the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited--the special purpose vehicle formed to develop and operate the airport project. “The NIAL is examining the technical details of the developmental plan before giving the green signal for the project. Once the developmental plan is approved, the YIAPL will start the construction on the passenger terminal, parking, runway and other facilities at the airport. We need an expert agency which can look after the work of the airport properly and make sure that the developmental plan, once approved, is followed in totality,” said Singh. The YIAPL has been carrying out the construction work of the boundary wall, levelling the field and also removing the structures coming in way of the project. 
02-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board to upgrade 20 sewage treatment plants in 15 months||Delhi water minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) will upgrade its 20 biogas plants and sewage treatment plants (STP) in 15 months. A review meeting on wastewater treatment held on Wednesday also decided the tariffs for supplying treated waste water for irrigational purposes to farmhouses and institutional facilities.A government official said that the 20 biogas plants under DJB have a capacity to handle around 400 million gallons per day (MGD), out of which only 240 MGD is currently functional. “Under the project, the biogas plants which treat sludge will also be upgraded to handle all types of solid waste, such as waste from STP, septage from septic tank, cow dung from dairies and municipal solid waste from mandis and nearby societies/colonies,” the official said.Jain said that though municipal waste handling comes under MCD, DJB will lead this initiative to clean waste in order to reduce the burden on existing landfills. Jain said that DJB will also introduce a new tariff to supply treated water from STPs to reduce the burden on groundwater resources. “An amount of ₹5,000 per acre per month would be charged from the beneficiaries apart from a one-time fixed cost of ₹10,000 per acre towards infrastructure charge,” he said. A government official claimed that a timeline of 12-15 months has been fixed to upgrade all STPs. “In the new method of upgradation, existing plants will be revived without additional civil work. Incentives will be provided for using energy-efficient equipment in these STPs,” the official stated.Jain said that the projects should be completed at least six months before the deadlines set for Clean Yamuna’ project. On November 18, 2021, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced a six-point action plan to clean the river Yamuna by February, 2025. Upgrade of STPs is a key parameter under this project. Delhi has the capacity to treat only about 600 MGD of sewage currently because of which a lot of sewage is left untreated and released directly into the Yamuna. Under the six-point programme, this capacity will be raised to 800-850 MGD.As per NGT direction to save groundwater aquifers, DJB is currently laying of pipelines to carry STP-treated water to consumers. Jain stated that a decision has been taken to supply treated water to farmhouses in the areas like Satbari, Sultanpur and Jaunapur, among others, which are currently extracting groundwater for horticultural needs. Large parts of the Delhi have seen a drop in the groundwater level by four metres or more, a decadal analysis carried out by Central Ground Water Board between 2005 and 2014 has shown. Recent analysis have shown that the groundwater level in Delhi is dropping at least 0.2 metres on average every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-to-upgrade-20-sewage-treatment-plants-in-15-months-101638384316535.html
02-12-2021||Gurugram||MCG launches campaign to make Gurugram plastic-free city||In a bid to improve its ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2022, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Wednesday started a special campaign to ensure the participation of citizens in making the city free from single-use plastic and polythene bags. The campaign titled ‘Carry Your Own Bag’ will be run till the annual cleanliness survey continues, MCG officials said.The officials said that citizens should always carry a cloth or jute bag while going to the market and ensure their participation in the campaign. The special campaign was launched by MCG additional commissioner Dr Vaishali Sharma and ward 34 councillor Rama Rathee at a shopping mall in DLF Phase 1, who called upon citizens, shopkeepers, and RWA representatives to ensure their participation in the initiative.“Waste management is the need of the hour and everyone needs to pay special attention to this. This city belongs to the citizens and it is important to have their participation. The MCG and the administration are working at their level, but people should also understand their responsibility under the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016. They should boycott plastic and polythene bags, and instead always carry cloth or jute bags to public places,” said Sharma.The ward 34 councillor highlighted that Indore gets the title of the cleanest city in the country every time in the Swachh Survekshan as the participation of the public there is very high. “If the residents of Gurugram also decide that they, along with the MCG, have to make the city clean, then Gurugram can also get the title of the cleanest city in the upcoming cleanliness survey. For this, everyone has to cooperate at their own level,” said Rathee.The MCG officials will periodically visit malls and markets across the city to spread awareness among the public about the harmful effects of plastic bags and encourage them to use cloth/jute bags, Sharma said.Since December last year, the MCG has turned its attention towards curbing the use of polythene and plastic bags. In December 2020, it launched the city’s first cloth bag bank in Sector 8, and last month also started a similar facility in South City 2.In February this year, the civic body announced that using plastic or polythene bags can lead to a penalty of ₹25,000. However, an MCG official requesting anonymity said that enforcement on the ban has largely been restricted to markets such as Vyapar Kendra, and sectors 4, 46, and 23 markets.In the Swachh Survekshan 2021, rankings of which were released last month, Gurugram secured a ranking of 24 which was its highest ever ranking since the survey commenced in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-launches-campaign-to-make-gurugram-plastic-free-city-101638384199019.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up civic officials over rising dengue cases||The Delhi high court on Wednesday took strong exception to the rising cases of dengue in the city, and said “policies are being made in a populous way” and elections are being fought only on freebies. The real issues, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said, are lost in the process. It pulled up the authorities, especially the civic bodies, for their alleged inefficiency in controlling the dengue menace and said there was no preparedness on their part to tackle the annual outbreak.“Today you have become so populous in your approach; that people will get offended and you won’t get votes. Everything is driven by that one consideration. Administrators are not administering properly. Policies are being made in a populous way. If only elections were fought and one is lost on these (vector borne diseases) issues — the real issues — we would have a different city. But it doesn’t work that way,” the court said.It further said there was a “complete paralysis in the administration” and “nobody is bothered or accountable” for the current situation with regards to dengue.“If it happens, it happens. It will come and go. People will die. We have such a large number of population…doesn’t matter. That’s the attitude,” an angry court said.It further said, “You have to have a vision. You know this is going to happen. You have to plan. You have to be prepared. The work of the administration is such. On the ground, the situation has doubled. How does the measure (taken by the civic bodies in controlling dengue) help because the (case) numbers have doubled. If the number doubles, then all of this is meaningless.”The court was hearing a plea by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) against the Delhi government’s decision to seek retrospective recovery of grants-in-aid from municipal bodies.The court appointed a Central government officer as amicus curiae to assist it in the issue of vector borne diseases, including dengue, malaria, and chikungunya, and sent the case before the chief justice which is hearing another suo motu petition on the mosquito infestation in Delhi.During the proceedings, when the civic body counsel said there was heavy rainfall in October, leading to a rise in dengue cases. To this, the court replied, “If the rainfall has increased, the manpower and machines must be increased. When you saw rain in October, it must have struck you? Why didn’t you take an expert view?”“Please understand that the number of people who have been caught with dengue and the number of fatalities this year is unprecedented. It is not like Covid-19, which is happening for the first time. How is it that despite having science and technology, and machines and manpower, this problem cannot be addressed? Since 2013, there have been orders passed by this court, yet it (dengue situation) is not under control,” the bench said.The bench questioned the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) about the drains left open in its area. “When are you going to cover your drains? It is so difficult to even go to that area as the stench is unbearable,” it said.“Either we put our hands up and say nothing can be done. What has to happen will happen and leave people to fend for themselves. But if anything has to be done, it has to be done in a proper manner,” the bench said.The civic body counsel submitted that several residents’ welfare associations (RWA) were not cooperating with the authorities when teams went there on fogging drives to control mosquito breeding. He urged the court to pass directions for restraining RWAs from stopping MCD officials and increase the fine amount, for mosquito breeding on premises, from ₹500 to ₹10,000, which will be a deterrent.Agreeing with the counsel, the court said people do not listen unless there is deterrence, but it was not the court’s job to increase the fine amount.“You would be failing in your duty if the numbers do not go down. We would be failing in our duty if we do not do anything,” it said.During the hearing, when senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, expressed reservations about appointment the Central government officer, who is an expert in this field, as amicus curiae, the bench said, “Why to politicise mosquito breeding?”.
02-12-2021||Delhi||Talks between Delhi’s north corporation, teachers not able to end deadlock over wages||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday engaged in political blame game over pending salaries even as a first round of talks between civic teachers in North Delhi Municipal Corporation schools and civic administration for ending their strike ended in a deadlock.Over 7,000 teachers of municipal schools stopped teaching online classes from Tuesday over the salary delay.Also Read | Delhi: Over 7,000 North MCD teachers stop online classes to protest salary delayKuldeep Singh Khatri, the president of Shikshak Nyay Manch – an umbrella body of teachers’ association of all municipal corporations – said that North MCD additional commissioner Sunil Bhadu and director (education) Ranjeet Singh had called the meeting on Wednesday, with the teachers’ representatives. “They were offering us one month’s salary, which was turned down unanimously. We are not ready to call off our strike, unless all the pending dues of the teachers are cleared within seven days. On December 8, the teachers will demonstrate outside the BJP state headquarters and on the next day, we’ll lock all the municipal schools,” he said.When contacted, Alok Verma, the chairman of the education committee in the North MCD, also said that the teachers were “given the best possible offer”. “What else can we do if the Delhi government does not release funds? I respect the feelings of the teachers, but they must not forget our resources. We are chalking out some plans that should ensure they get their salaries regularly from January,” he said.Echoing similar views, North MCD additional commissioner Sunil Bhadu said, “Our talks did not yield results. We are looking at what else can be done now.”Meanwhile, AAP leader Saurabh Bharadwaj on Wednesday said that the BJP-ruled municipal bodies are deliberately playing with the lives of their employees. “Did the North MCD ever try to get the legitimate funds of ₹488 per person in a year, which is being given to all municipal bodies from the Central government? Even the valuable properties of the MCDs are being sold at meagre prices. The BJP-ruled civic bodies are intentionally creating a situation where their teachers, doctors and other employees are forced to go on strike. These agitations give them the opportunity to put the blame on the AAP-ruled Delhi government, so that they can get more funds by hook and crook,” he said.Responding to Bharadwaj’s charge, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor accused the Delhi government of “playing with the sentiments of municipal employees”. “For the last seven years, the Delhi government has been withholding increased amounts of municipal funds, recommended by the third, fourth and fifth Delhi Finance Commission. As far as AAP leader’s statement that North MCD has sold properties and yet not paid salaries of employees is concerned, it’s totally misleading as all the municipal proposals to sell properties are still on paper. No possession has been handed over and no payments have come as yet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/talks-between-delhi-s-north-corporation-teachers-not-able-to-end-deadlock-over-wages-101638384138046.html
02-12-2021||Other||Mission Shakti in Prayagraj: Now, women can call Dial-112 for making complaints, their identities to be kept secret||PRAYAGRAJ: In a bid to strengthen women’s power line 1090 and broaden its outreach, it has now been integrated with Dial 112. It means women can also call Dial 112 for making their complaints which will be transferred to women power line for further action and early disposal. Besides, their secrecy will be maintained, according to senior police officials. Moreover, a mass campaign “Mobile Hath Me 1090 Sath Me” has also been launched under the third phase of Mission Shakti in Prayagraj. A team from Lucknow with a ‘mascot’ will approach women in the city and rural areas to make them aware about Women Power line and various plans to empower them under Mission Shakti. ADG, Prayagraj Zone, Prem Prakash inaugurated the campaign at Police Lines on Wednesday. Motivating the women cops at the programme, the ADG said that they had to act as brand ambassador of Mission Shakti among women in city and rural areas and make them aware about gender sensitization and other schemes for empowering women. “Women should be encouraged to approach women help desk at police stations or call women power line if they need help as it is often observed that they themselves hesitate to approach police or are discouraged by others not to take help of police on different pretexts. In such scenarios, harassers and stalkers are emboldened and continue harassing the women,” he added. SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi said, “1090 has given a platform to women for making their complaints and receiving their early and quality disposal as many of them are still reluctant to go to police stations. Under the third phase of Mission Shakti, not only the women in even remote areas are being approached but a strict eye is also being kept on persons with a record of harassing women.” According to the SSP, through 1090 till now 2.93 lakh complaints have been received among which 93 per cent have been disposed of. Strict secrecy is maintained in complaints received through 1090 and no information can be given to anyone even through RTI. Moreover, a woman is not required to go to police station after making complaint on women power line. While women can call in both 1090 and dial 112 for making complaints, men can only dial 112 for making complaints regarding crimes against women. After receiving a complaint, the stalkers and offenders are counselled not to repeat the crime. In second step, FFR is followed under which family, friends and relatives (FFR) of stalkers are called to counsell them. However, strict action is taken if the offender repeats the offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mission-shakti-in-prayagraj-now-women-can-call-dial-112-for-making-complaints-their-identities-to-be-kept-secret-101638384136716.html
02-12-2021||Delhi||Checks in place to ensure Central Vista work not causing pollution: Centre to SC||The Centre on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that the work on the new Parliament and the Central Vista “does not cause pollution” as measures have been taken to arrest the dust emissions from these projects.In an affidavit filed in the top court, which is monitoring air pollution levels due to dust and stubble burning in a petition filed by a minor Aditya Dubey, the Centre said, “As far as the Parliament building and Central Vista avenue site are concerned, it complies with construction and demolition (C&D) waste management rules and each and every condition which is put to ensure that it does not cause any pollution.”Also Read | Central Vista: ‘Nothing will happen’ to Waqf Board properties, govt to Delhi HCDelhi’s air quality index (AQI) climbed on Wednesday, with a 24-hour average recording of 370 at 4pm, and 386 at 8pm, both in the ‘very poor’ range, and up from 324 the previous day.The Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana will take up the petition along with the affidavit on Thursday.At the previous hearing earlier this week, the Court asked the government to take instructions on whether the Central Vista project or related construction work contributed to air pollution in the Capital. This fact was brought to the top court’s notice by senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for the petitioner. He asked how work on the Central Vista was on even as the Supreme Court reimposed a ban on all construction activities in Delhi and the National Capital Region from November 24, with the exception of permitting non-polluting activities such as plumbing work, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry.Also Read | Time for us to abandon symbols of the Raj: Bimal Patel on Central Vista projectThe affidavit filed by Ravi Kumar Verma, director, Central Vista, in the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs said, “So far as construction of new Parliament building and redevelopment of Central Vista avenue is concerned, the respondent (Centre) has taken all measures as contemplated under C&D waste management rules which includes measures like use of anti-smog gun, mist spray system, use of dust suppressant like magnesium chloride, use of conveyor belt to transfer construction material, keeping all construction material in wet condition, etc.”The Centre indicated that apart from the Central Vista and new Parliament projects, all other construction activities undertaken by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) in Delhi-NCR have been stopped.The Commission for Air Quality Management, the statutory body monitoring pollution from all sources in Capital, had on November 16 passed a slew of directions, including a ban on all construction activities. But as the air quality improved in Delhi, the ban was lifted by the commission on November 21.The top court was not impressed with ad hoc measures and directed the commission to carry out a detailed study by engaging expert agencies with domain knowledge in meteorological data and statistical modeling. The judges said, “The Commission must commission a scientific study of air quality based on available data of previous years bearing upon recorded levels of air pollution. The study must factor in seasonal variations and other relevant parameters.”The Court was of the view that once a scientific model is available, factoring wind velocity as well as natural and man-made phenomena, “the graded response plan can be modulated to provide for measures being taken in advance, based on anticipated changes in air quality without waiting for the air quality to deteriorate.” The commission was asked to carry out this exercise within a month and report compliance to the Court. In the meantime, the top court directed the Centre and states in NCR to take appropriate steps to deal with the deteriorating pollution situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/checks-in-place-to-ensure-central-vista-work-not-causing-pollution-centre-to-sc-101638384023893.html
02-12-2021||Other||Rashtriya Shilp Mela gets off to a colourful start in Prayagraj||The much-awaited and popular Rashtriya Shilp Mela began on a colourful note at the North Central Zone Cultural Centre (NCZCC), on Wednesday evening with the theme ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’. Earlier, artists dressed in colourful attire took out a procession on the road dancing and singing— a tradition that has been part of the fair’s past editions.Prayagraj divisional commissioner Sanjay Goel inaugurated the 12-day event at a function graced by NCZCC director Prof Suresh Sharma and many guests.The inaugural day saw Prayagraj artist Ankita Chaturvedi presenting a bhajan and Neha Singh from Unnao singing Aalha, songs of the battlefield and songs of bravery from a bygone era sung in Veer Ras. The evening witnessed many folk dances including a mesmerising Lebang Boomani dance (a harvest dance) by Panchali Dev Verma of Tripura, while Vijay Kumar Bandewar and group from Chhindwaa, MP, presented Shaila and Gaindi dance. Ram Sahai Pandey and group from Sagar, MP, presented Rai Nritya.The fair this time has 97 stalls offering handicraft products as well as famous traditional dishes of different states like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab, Bihar and UP attracting the visitors. Each evening from 5pm onwards cultural programmes will add to the event’s attraction with artists from Rajasthan, Odisha, Telangana, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura among other states presenting classical, semi-classical and folk songs, music and dances, Prof Sharma said.The fair will be open for visitors each day from 11am to 9pm and the entry fee is ₹10 per person, for which, a counter has been set up at gate number 3 of NCZCC, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rashtriya-shilp-mela-gets-off-to-a-colourful-start-in-prayagraj-101638384020912.html
02-12-2021||Noida||Noida: Homebuyers rejoice as registration of flats now to be done on carpet area||The Noida authority has issued an order mandating that the registry of flats will now be on the ‘carpet’ area, much to the relief of thousands of homebuyers who have long been demanding that the registry of a flat should not be determined by the ‘super area’--a factor that gives the scope to a developer to escalate the cost of an apartment. The new order has paved the way for apartment owners to pay less to a developer and also a lesser registration fee for a flat to the stamp department. Since 2016, when the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Rera) Act came into being, homebuyers intensified the demand for registry or sale of a flat on carpet area. Even before the Rera Act, homebuyers, citing the provisions of UP Apartment Act, used to demand that a flat’s rate be determined by the carpet area but the developers kept objecting to the demand. According to the provisions of the UP Rera that came into effect on May 1, 2016, the carpet area means the net usable floor area, excluding the area covered by external walls, service shafts, balconies, verandahs and open terraces. Buyers said the ‘super area’ refers to the common area that developers add to the actual size of the flat, thereby increasing the size of the unit to make more profit. “According to RERA, the developer should sell a unit on the basis of carpet area and not on the super area. The developer should make an agreement with a buyer based on the carpet area; if he does the registry of a flat on the super area, it is against the law. Be it agreement, sale or registry, if it is not determined by the carpet area, then it is illegal. Since Noida authority is a party in the sub-lease deed process, its circular (on registration of flats) will benefit customers. It was much needed to put an end to all confusions,” said Rajive Kumar, chairman of UPRera. “After a long battle, the Noida authority has finally issued an official order, sending a copy of the same to UP RERA, the stamp department and other agencies in this regard. We are delighted with this order as it will benefit scores of homebuyers, who are looking to buy an apartment or get a flat’s registry done. The move will bring down the overall cost for each flat by upto 28% ,” said Chakresh Jain, a homebuyer, who has been fighting for this demand for the last six years. Homebuyers had first raised this issue of developers charging more in the name of ‘super area’ of a flat before officials of the UP stamp and registration department in Noida on December 20, 2010. Subsequently, the administration had written to the Noida authority asking it to stop the sale of flats on ‘super area’ as it affects buyers. “From the model guidelines issued in 2018 by the UP Rera, it is clear that the sale/purchase or sub-lease deed should be executed on carpet area. In future, sale/purchase or sub-lease deed should be executed only on carpet area basis,” said Neha Sharma, additional CEO of the Noida authority. There are at least one lakh apartments, whose registry has to be executed in Gautam Budh Nagar. Developers also welcomed the move of the Noida authority. “The move will benefit homebuyers, who otherwise had to pay more in stamp duty at the time of registry. If the carpet area of a flat reduces, it will automatically bring down the cost of the flat, which in turn will benefit homebuyers,” said Subodh Goyal, secretary of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), a builders group. S S Pal, assistant inspector general of UP stamp and registration department in Noida, said, “We are ready to implement this order if the Noida authority has agreed on doing the registration of a flat based on the carpet area. Our duty is to execute registry on the basis of details provided by the Noida authority, buyer and the developer.” 
02-12-2021||Delhi||East MCD move to give financial assistance for composting, waste processing units||In a bid to encourage municipal waste segregation in colonies and societies, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has decided to provide financial assistance to subsidise the setting up of composting stations or waste processing units. EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand said that the civic body has taken the initiative to ensure segregation of waste at source, for which the corporation will either provide ₹25,000 to bulk waste generators in the residential category or 25% of the cost of the machine used for waste processing as a subsidy.“This will encourage bulk waste generators to adopt segregation of waste at the producer-level,” he added.According to the notice issued by the east corporation on Wednesday, bulk waste generators will have to undertake waste processing on their premises. “EDMC is offering 25% of project cost or ₹25,000, whichever is less. Interested residents can apply to avail the subsidy at the respective zonal office of the deputy commissioner in Shahadra South and Shahadra North,” the notice stated.A senior municipal official from the department of environment management services stated that municipal waste producers that generate over 100 kilograms of waste everyday are considered bulk waste producers.“Establishments such as hotels, eateries, restaurants, and farmhouses are part of the commercial bulk producer category, while co-operative groups housing societies, colonies, etc. are part of the residential bulk producer category. According to the Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, it is mandatory for bulk producers to segregate and process their waste,” the official said.Despite being mandatory, waste segregation rules have been very feebly enforced in Delhi, and ensuring waste segregation at the source remains an uphill task in Delhi.Another sanitation department official said that there are various waste processing and composting units available in the market that cost ₹50,000- ₹40 lakh. “At the society or residential colony level, a cheaper non-mechanical composting unit can be sufficient. Drum composter units cost ₹40,000- ₹50,000, and two drum composters can be sufficient for a small area. In many societies, such as Navjeevan Vihar and Defence Colony, residents have also made composting pits to treat wet waste,” the official said.BS Vohra, who heads the East Delhi RWA joint front, said that there is a large number of plotted colonies and RWAs in the trans-Yamuna area, but they have no common space where composting can be carried out. “While co-operative group housing societies have space for such units, open colonies have no such provision, and EDMC should consider providing corner spaces in parks or open areas for composting units to such interested RWAs,” he stated.Vohra said that RWAs don’t have any financial revenue source and a mechanism should be developed to procure good quality compost by government departments or horticulture departments to incentivise the process.Under Solid Waste Management Rules, households are to be fined ₹200 daily, bulk producers like marriage/party halls ₹10,000, and establishments like clubs, pubs, and cinema halls ₹5,000 if they do not hand over segregated waste. But fines are rarely imposed.In 2018, the north corporation had issued show-cause notices to several hundred bulk producers with a warning to impose hefty fines, but the process did not move forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/east-mcd-move-to-give-financial-assistance-for-composting-waste-processing-units-101638383656496.html
02-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram groups protest disruption of namaz||Civil society organisations, labour unions and left-wing groups on Wednesday held a protest against the demand of right-wing entities to stop the offering of namaz in designated public spaces that has led to the disruption of Friday prayers in the city over the past couple of months.The protesters staged a dharna on Wednesday at Civil Lines and also submitted a memorandum to the government demanding action against individuals and organisations disrupting Friday namaz in the city.Also Read | Namaz row in Gurugram: Police complaint against three Hindu group leadersSL Prajapati, secretary, Democracy Forum, a group of civil society organisations, said that they sat on a daylong dharna to protest against the activities of right-wing groups that were harassing members of the Muslim community offering prayers at designated public spaces peacefully.“We have asked the administration to take stringent action against these groups that are trying to polarise the city on communal lines. The administration and police should register cases against the antisocial elements who are harassing Muslims praying peacefully,” he said.The protesters, who staged a sit-in at the camp office of the divisional commissioner, Gurugram, said that there was a need to ensure that the Muslim community felt safe in the city and was able to offer prayers at the sites designated by the administration.Also Read | Gurugram: Muslims to approach court for relief in namaz controversyAltaf Ahmad, founder, Gurugram Nagrik Ekta Manch, said, “We have demanded that action be taken at the earliest against individuals against whom complaints have been submitted,” he said. Members of Muslim community on Tuesday submitted a complaint against three right-wing members who have been leading the protest against namaz on designated public land.Members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), a left-aligned trade union, also supported the dharna. “The right-wing groups want to create deep divisions in the society. The purpose is to divide the people and reap benefits but we won’t let it happen,” said Satbir Singh, vice-president, CITU.The other groups which participated in the dharna included Loktantrik Manch, Janwadi Mahila Samiti, Students Federation of India, and Sarv Karmchari Sangh, Haryana.Darpan Kumar Kamboj, tehsildar, Gurugram, who accepted the memorandum on behalf of the divisional commissioner said that the protesting groups had raised concern about problems being faced by members of the Muslim community in offering namaz and harassment by a few individuals. “The protesters were assured that an impartial probe will be conducted and none will be allowed to take the law in their hands,” he said.The BJP denied allegations that it was behind the protests against Friday namaz and said that they were being carried out by local residents. “The Constitution clearly says that religion is private to citizens, and its practice too. Adhering to law and order and constitutional guidelines always helps in maintaining peace and tranquillity. Some politically motivated people always try and pin the responsibility of it directly or indirectly on the BJP and Sangh Parivar. Instead they should work this out with the administration as it is duty-bound to uphold the Constitution,” said Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson.
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Dealer-point registration begins in Uttar Pradesh from Dec 10||After the successful implementation of the pilot project in Barabanki district, the transport department is launching the dealer-point registration service in the whole state from December 10, transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu said.When you buy a new vehicle, the dealer of the showroom from where you purchase your vehicle, will issue you the registration number, right then, right there. The new service will remove the need for people to make rounds of regional transport offices (RTOs) for registration of vehicles and payment of fee for the same. “The registration number will be generated on-the-spot with the registration of a vehicle in the dealer’s showroom,” Sahu said. He further said that people will also not need to obtain a provisional registration certificate after they purchase a vehicle in any district within the state. “The dealer will directly issue the registration number of the district concerned,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dealerpoint-registration-begins-in-uttar-pradesh-from-dec-10-101638383476458.html
02-12-2021||Mumbai||Mamata Banerjee in Mumbai: What is UPA? There is no UPA||Mumbai: Trinamool Congress (TMC) president and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said there was no United Progressive Alliance (UPA) left in the country and made a pitch for unifying opposition parties to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre.“What is UPA? There is no UPA,” Banerjee told reporters after meeting Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar at his residence on the second day of her three-day visit to Mumbai. On Tuesday, Banerjee met leaders of the Shiv Sena, the biggest constituent of Maharashtra’s ruling alliance that also comprises the NCP and Congress.Also Read | Mamata Banerjee meets Sharad Pawar on Mumbai visit, talks of opposition alliance“Considering today’s situation and the ongoing fascism, a strong alternative force is required in the country against it. No one can do it alone. We all need a strong alternative and if someone is not ready to fight, then what can be done,” Banerjee said without naming the Congress.“We want everyone to join this fight,” she added. Pawar, however, said the intention was not to keep the Congress away but to take along everyone who wanted to be part of an “anti-BJP front”. “It is not about Congress. Those who are against BJP and if they want to come together, they are welcome,” Pawar said while addressing reporters along with Banerjee.“Her (Mamata Banerjee) intention is to bring all like-minded parties together at national level for which she has come to Mumbai. We need a platform of collective leadership which is strong and can be relied upon by the people of the country. This thinking is not for today but for the 2024 (Lok Sabha) polls,” the NCP chief said.The Bengal CM’s comments assume significance because she was a constituent of the Congress-led UPA, which was in power at the Centre between 2004 and 2014, and even served as the Union railways minister under then prime minister Manmohan Singh. Banerjee was a senior Congress leader before she left to form the TMC in 1998, fought several assembly elections in alliance with the Congress and was known to enjoy warm personal relations with Congress chief Sonia Gandhi.Earlier in the day, addressing a gathering of former judges, writers, film personalities and activists at YB Chavan Centre at Nariman Point, Banerjee launched a veiled attack on the Congress and its senior leader Rahul Gandhi.“If you don’t do anything, if you stay abroad half the time, how will politics happen? You have to be in the field, if you are not in the field, the BJP will bowl you out,” she said.“If somebody is afraid, if they cannot take a decision, they just waste time and allow the BJP to become more and more powerful… we will not allow that. We are watching for the last six to eight years, but if somebody is not coming out openly, then somebody (else) has to bell the cat,” said Banerjee.The scathing remarks come amid growing distance between the Congress and TMC, which has poached several lawmakers and senior leaders from the former in its quest to expand its national footprint in recent months.Banerjee attacked the Narendra Modi government, alleging that the BJP was misusing agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The TMC chief said even she and her family members were targeted as were film personalities like actor Shah Rukh Khan and director Mahesh Bhatt.On Banerjee’s veiled remarks against the Congress leader, Pawar said she was speaking from experience. “In West Bengal, Mamata ji won because lakhs of TMC workers worked hard on the field. It is as simple as that. She has expressed her opinion based on personal experience which we also welcome,” the NCP chief said.To a question of who would become the prime ministerial face if they managed to stich an alliance, Pawar said, “It is not an important issue for us. It is necessary to provide a platform that will be a strong alternative and can be relied upon. Who will lead it is a secondary thing.”Replying to the same question, Banerjee said they had to first vote the BJP out to “save democracy” and then decide who would “become the Prime Minister based on the position of parties in the states”.“If all the regional parties are together, it is a very easy game to defeat the BJP,” Banerjee said.The Congress reacted sharply to the TMC chief’s remarks, saying a regional party cannot become an alternative to the BJP.Also Read | United front without Congress not feasible, state leaders tell Mamata“Mamata Banerjee is herself not part of UPA, what locus standi does she have to comment on it? Congress party has governments in many states with several UPA constituent/partners,” said Pawan Khera, Congress national spokesperson.Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole said, “Considering the severity of the situation, national interest must supersede personal ambition and all like-minded parties must join hands for national interest and to save democracy and the Constitution... A regional party that is confined to just one state cannot be an alternative to the BJP. The Congress is the only alternate to the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mamata-banerjee-in-mumbai-what-is-upa-there-is-no-upa-101638380716206.html
02-12-2021||Lucknow||Omicron scare: Foreign buyers cancel visits to Kanpur leather units||The emergence of the new coronavirus variant Omicron overseas has led to the Kanpur leather industry seeing a high traffic of emails from buyers, cancelling their visits to India. No case of the Omicron variant has been detected in India so far.Similarly, Kanpur industrialists dealing in finished leather and leather goods have largely put their visits, particularly to Europe, on hold. The visits were planned for in the period starting before Christmas, during which the maximum orders are placed with the leather exporters who have registered a negative growth in the last two years.Taj Alam, former chairman of the Council for Leather Exports (CLE), said the buyers were hesitant to go ahead with the visits scheduled for the next three months.“I was expecting several buyers. They all have called off their visits, unsure how the situation will unfold globally,” he said.For this very reason, the Indian Leather Producers’ Association fair that was slated to open in Kolkata in January next year has been converted into a virtual one. There is no clarity on whether or not the important “Madras Fair” (India International Leather Fair in Chennai) would be organised in January 2022, said exporters.The same is the situation in Germany where the Spoga fair, which has participation from buyers and exporters the world over, was struggling to sell display stalls. Almost half of the exporters have not booked stalls. The Spoga fair is held each year in the first week of February in Cologne, said Alam.The visits planned to Moscow (Russia), South Africa, Italy, Germany and UK to showcase the new products have been cancelled in bulk, said Shariq Alvi, managing director of a travel company that handles exporters and their overseas visits.The Omicron scare in the past two weeks has further hit the industry that, as per CLE, has witnessed a 60% loss in sales and production in the wake of the Covid pandemic.“Just 40% business is left for us to navigate. It may us take years to recover if a third wave hits,” said Javed Iqbal, chairman of CLE, from Italy.“Some of us are going to the buyers, putting ourselves at risk. We are a handful, but doing the best to survive,” he said.According to the data available with exporters, all the sectors of the industry have seen negative growth expect for saddlery which has recorded 10% positive growth.Other than finished buffalo leather, Kanpur controlled 60% of the total exports, but this has seen negative growth, the exporters who did not wish to be named, said. Shoe manufacturing, leather gloves, bags and garments all have registered negative growth between 5% and 15%, they said.In order to tackle the situation, the top export houses have opened 38 corporate offices in Dubai in the past one month to stay afloat. The buyers who were unable to come to India could go to Dubai where they are shown the samples and they could place the order.“The virtual system was not working for us. That was the only alternative for us to explore. Let us see how successful it is,” said Mohd Abid, an exporter.Dubai has given the exporters an added advantage, issuing a multiple entry visa for a period of five years rather than the earlier one of three months.“It is morale boosting and I believe it will help in attracting buyers at a third destination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/omicron-scare-kanpur-leather-industry-feels-the-pinch-as-foreign-buyers-cancel-visits-101638377775168.html
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chill in hills: Snow, rain forecast in Himachal, J&K from December 4||The western disturbance active over the region will bring rain and snow in Himachal Pradesh till December 5. Shimla meteorological centre director Surender Paul said on Tuesday that a yellow weather warning has been issued for snowfall in the higher reaches and thunderstorm and lightning in the middle hills of the state on December 3. Another western disturbance is likely to hit the region on December 4 and heavy snowfall is likely to occur again on December 5 for which too a yellow weather warning has been issued. The weather department has forecast disruption in essential services such as power and communication and blockade of roads in Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and the higher reaches of Shimla district due to the snowfall. However, there will be no impact on agriculture. The district administrations of Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti have advised tourists and local residents to avoid travelling to higher reaches during this period. Keylong coldest place in stateKeylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest place in the state, recording a minimum of minus 3.4°C, while Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of 2°C. There was no appreciable change in minimum and maximum temperature and were normal. State capital Shimla recorded a low of 6.8°C, while the minimum in Dharamshala was 7.8°C. Tourist destinations of Manali, Palampur, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded lows of 2.2°C, 6°C, 7.3°C and 5.6°C, respectively. Una was warm at 26.8 degrees C. One killed by shooting stoneA man was killed while his son sustained injuries when the vehicle they were travelling in got hit by a shooting stone in Kinnaur. Rajiv Kumar, 30, died in the accident at Kachrang village. His son Arnav Kumar sustained serious injuries. Kashmir shivers in sub-zero temperaturesCold wave continued in Kashmir with temperature dropping to minus 5°C at several places. Srinagar recorded its coldest night of the season at minus 2.5°C.At minus 5.2°C, Pahalgam was the coldest place in Kashmir. As per the IMD weather bulletin, Awantipore recorded minus 4.7°C. Gulmarg observed minus 1.6°C temperature. Leh registered minus 8.6°C, while Kargil and Dras shivered at minus 7.4°C and 12.8°C, respectively.As per the weatherman, a fresh western disturbance is most likely to affect J&K and adjoining areas on December 4 (evening) till December 6 (afternoon) with peak activity on December 5.“There will be widespread light to moderate snowfall in middle and higher reaches of Kashmir and Jammu, while light snow and rain over plains of the region is expected. Higher reaches of Kupwara, Baramulla, Bandipora, Shopian and Ganderbal could receive 6-9 inches of snow during above period,” reads an advisory issued by MeT office.The advisory said that snowfall could lead the temporary disruption of air and surface traffic over passes like Zojila, Simthan Top, Razdan Top, and Mughal Road on December 5. The growers have been asked to properly prune orchards and withhold irrigation and fertiliser application in wheat and mustard crops in plains of Jammu during the above period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chill-in-hills-snow-rain-forecast-in-himachal-pradesh-till-december-4-101638339639903.html
