05-12-2021||Other||BHOG scheme in Prayagraj: Now, prasad to be prepared under FSDA guidelines at 2 Hanuman temples||PRAYAGRAJ: Now, devotees visiting the Civil Lines Hanuman temple and the famous Bade Hanuman temple at Sangam to offer prayers will get ‘prasad’ prepared and packed following all the guidelines of Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA), according to officials. The two temples have been selected under the BHOG (Blissful Offering to God) scheme—an initiative started by the Association of Food Scientists and Technologist of India (AFSTI) along with the Food Safety and Standards India (FSSAI) to offer clean and hygienic prasad to devotees, they said. As part of the initiative, the state FSDA department would now supervise implementation of this scheme, they added. “The two popular temples of Prayagraj have been selected in accordance with the instruction of the divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal. Cooks and workers involved in preparing the bhog and the prasad would also be trained in ensuring proper hygiene and cleanliness as part of this initiative. For this, the FSDA department will also organise camps at the two temples,” informed Sanjay Kumar Pandey, assistant commissioner (Food safety), Prayagraj. During the camp, training and tips regarding precautions that need to be taken while making the prasad, taking it out and distributing it as well as additional steps to maintain cleanliness would all be imparted to the people concerned of the two temples, he added. He said that this BHOG scheme was being implemented in a total of five districts of the state, including Ayodhya, Varanasi, Mathura, Kanpur city and Prayagraj. Officials said that across the state, 17 districts including Prayagraj have been included under the BHOG scheme. These includes the districts of Saharanpur, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Moradabad, Bulandshahr, Bareilly, Agra, Aligarh, Mathura, Kanpur Nagar, Lucknow, Jhansi, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Ayodhya and Firozabad. “Under this scheme, 100 hygiene rating centers are also to be built and under which special campaign will be run in bakeries, hotels and restaurants etc to improve cooking standards and ensure food safety. A fresh food and vegetable market is also to be set in the district under this initiative. The vegetables of this market will be checked from time to time. There will be clean street food hubs too. The department will keep an eye on how the food is being prepared at the site and being sold here. A hygiene canteen will also be set up in a hospital or nursing home under the supervision of the department so that patients can get quality, safe and hygienically cooked food. This target is to be completed by March 31, 2022,” the officials shared. 
05-12-2021||Gurugram||₹32 lakh stolen from ATM in Gurugram’s Naharpur Rupa village||A group of unidentified men sprayed paint on the CCTV camera of an ATM kiosk of a private bank in Naharpur Rupa village on Friday evening and stole ₹31.88 lakh from the machine, said police. According to the complaint lodged by Gaurav Kumar Bainsla, advocate for the bank, the ATM was filled with ₹32 lakh in cash on Friday evening. The theft occurred between 6.50pm and 7.06pm and prior to that, a transaction of ₹12,000 had been carried out, said the complainant. On Saturday, the bank received information that the front CCTV camera was sprayed with paint. On checking the CCTV feed of multiple cameras installed at the ATM kiosk, the bank officials found that a group of unidentified men opened the machine and stole cash to the tune of ₹31.88 lakh. Subash Boken, spokesperson of Gurugram police, said a case has been registered under Section 380 of the IPC at Sadar police station and the matter is being investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/32-lakh-stolen-from-atm-in-gurugram-s-naharpur-rupa-village-101638728794476.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Special request to give 32 students admission to Class 11 post-deadline in Pune||In a bid to give a last chance to students to take admission to Class 11, the state secondary and higher secondary education department has given one last chance to Class 10 students to take online admission. While 32 students have now applied to get admission through the online admission process in the Pune region. These students have given a request letter to the deputy director office, for which the directorate is now going to coordinate with the head office.A special third round of First Come First Served (FCFS) was extended upto December 2. And all the students who had not yet registered for the admission process were allowed to register, apply and get admission. While in this special round even the ATKT and students with any percentage were eligible for admission.Till now, in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad a total of 90,821 students registered of which 74,194 got admitted in 317 colleges. While 39,291 seats remained vacant of the total 113,485 available seats. “For getting admission to Class 11 for this academic year, 32 students have requested the deputy director office of Pune region. As the deadline of the online admission process is over now, we are going to send a request letter to the state higher education department head office,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, who is in-charge of this entire admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/special-request-to-give-32-students-admission-to-class-11-post-deadline-in-pune-101638728735071.html
05-12-2021||Gurugram||Construction of farmhouses on Aravalli land starts again, says activist||Construction of farmhouses has once again started on the Aravallis, three months after the Faridabad authorities demolished illegal structures on the forest land, activists said. The matter was brought to light by an environmentalist from Gurugram, who filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court in the ongoing Khori Gaon demolition case.In the third week of July, the Supreme Court, while hearing a case about the demolition of Khori village in Faridabad, observed that “the direction to remove all unauthorized structures standing on the forest land applies to all such structures without any exception”.SS Oberoi, a city-based environmentalist who filed the affidavit in the Supreme Court on Saturday, said, “The Supreme Court had directed the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad to clear unauthorized structures on the forestland. A farmhouse spread across 10-acres in Ankhir village of Faridabad was also demolished also by the civic body pursuant to the orders of the court. However, despite the demolition, construction of the demolished structure has started again. The farmhouse is among the 123 other illegal encroachments listed in the affidavit filed by the forest department of the state of Haryana before the National Green Tribunal in the matter titled Sonya Ghosh vs. State of Haryana & Ors.”The land in question falls under specific notifications under special Sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act, which extends protection against land-use change to certain specified areas and forests in the Aravallis.He further said the place where the farmhouse is being constructed is just a kilometre away from the Asola Bhati Wildlife Sanctuary and acts as a buffer area with wildlife movement in the region. In June this year, a two-year-old female leopard was found dead at the Surajkund-Pali Road, which falls in the same area.After the apex court issued directions in July, the forest department started taking preparations to raze all illegal structures, including farmhouses, banquet halls and institutes, constructed on forest land. Around 15 farmhouses that were set up illegally in the Aravallis were also demolished.In Faridabad, officials estimated that around 120-130 illegal structures are currently standing on land notified under Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA).“We will look into the matter and send a team for inspection at the area on Monday itself. We have demolished 15 illegal structures in the district,” said a senior forest official, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/construction-of-farmhouses-on-aravalli-land-starts-again-says-activist-101638728674606.html
05-12-2021||Noida||SWAT head constable dismissed from service in Noida||Noida police on Sunday terminated the services of a constable from the SWAT team for his alleged involvement in letting go a group of ATM hackers scot free three months ago. In a press statement, Noida police said head constable Nitin Tomar has been dismissed from his service. Love Kumar, joint commissioner of police, (law and order) Gautam Budh Nagar, said on November 30 police terminated the services of SWAT team inspector Shahvez Khan and head constable Amrish Yadav. “Tomar has been terminated from his service on Sunday in connection with the same case. The other eight SWAT members have been attached to police lines. All these members have submitted their official weapons to the police department and a department enquiry is underway,” said Kumar. On November 29, Ghaziabad police and its cyber cell arrested five members of a gang of ATM hackers from Indirapuram, who during their interrogation said that they allegedly gave ₹20 lakh and a car to the Noida police in exchange of their release three months ago. The next day, the Noida police disbanded the SWAT team over allegations of bribery. Noida’s SWAT team was an 11-member team involved in conducting special operations and solving serious crimes in Gautam Budh Nagar. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Abhishek had conducted the primary enquiry into the matter and submitted a report to the police department. Following this, Alok Singh, police commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar, took strict action and terminated three police personnel. Kumar said the police are in the process of forming a new SWAT team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/swat-head-constable-dismissed-from-service-in-noida-101638728560312.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Covid-19: Pune sees 161 new cases and one death on Sunday||PUNE As of Sunday, Pune district reported 161 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.13 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 20,062 with 1882 active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment, or in home isolation. Pune also saw 23,317 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 39 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 368,146 and the death toll stands at 6,982 as one more death was reported on Sunday. Pune city reported 83 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 523,397. The death toll stands at 9,218. PCMC reported 39 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 269,991, with the toll at 3,512, as no more deaths were reported on the day. Pune district also saw 23,317 vaccinations on the day as per CoWin dashboard on Sunday for a total 13,608,901, of which 8,268,230 are first doses and 5,340,671 are second doses. A total of 245 sites saw vaccinations of which 137 are government centres and 108 are private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-pune-sees-161-new-cases-and-one-death-on-sunday-101638728559147.html
05-12-2021||Gurugram||MCG may miss Dec 15 deadline for fixing potholed stretches in Gurugram||With the ongoing ban on construction activities in the city, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is likely to miss its deadline of December 15, the third such deadline, to fix potholed roads across the city. MCG officials said it is likely that the road repair work will commence in February next year due to current cold weather conditions. In September, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had directed Gurugram agencies, including the MCG, to fix all roads damaged due to rains by November 30. On October 26, the MCG commissioner set a deadline of November 15 to fix all pothole-ridden stretches in the city.After the MCG missed the two deadlines, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg on November 23 directed the civic body to fix all potholed roads by December 15 to check dust pollution.“Due to the ongoing construction bans, there have been no construction activities by the MCG in the past three weeks. Work on potholed roads has remained suspended,” said a senior MCG official from its engineering wing, requesting anonymity.The Haryana government on December 3 banned construction activities in 14 NCR districts of the state, including Gurugram, till further orders, in the wake of the deterioration in air quality in the region. On November 24, the Supreme Court reimposed the ban on construction activities in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). The ban on construction activities in the NCR was lifted on November 22 in view of the improved air quality.The MCG official quoted above said that the civic body had anticipated procuring by November-end jet patcher machines that fix potholes within hours and due to its non-polluting component and all-weather resistance could repair roads even during the construction bans and peak winter season.“The procurement of jet patcher machines is still in process. So, there will be no road repair work until the construction ban is lifted,” said the official.MCG officials further said that with bitumen-related work infeasible during low temperatures, the civic body is only likely to start work on repairing potholed roads in February next year.“The minimum temperature needs to be above 15°C for executing bitumen-related work. Ideally, we will have to wait till early February to start road repair work for a long-term fix,” said another MCG official, privy to the matter.As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city had a minimum temperature of 10°C on Sunday. MCG chief engineer TL Sharma said that once the construction ban is lifted and there is an uninterrupted on-ground work, it will take the civic body around 10 days to fix all stretches.“We were on course to fix all potholed roads by November 20. However, the construction ban completely disrupted this. Once the ban is lifted, it will take us around 10 days to complete all remaining road repair work,” said Sharma.Sharma further said that for mending potholes on most roads, only bitumen emulsion is required.“Emulsion work has no relation with weather and can be used at any time of the year. Only for stretches with extensive road damage, a hot mix of bitumen is required for which warmer temperature is ideal. If required, for dust mitigation, we can take exemption from the departments concerned and fix stretches during ongoing construction bans,” said Sharma. For residents, the delay in the fixing of potholed stretches further adds to their woes.“During the rains, several arterial stretches across Sector 56 developed potholes. Even after two months, there have been no attempts to rectify them and the road conditions have only worsened. As a result, a large number of commuters no longer use the arterial stretches as alternative routes to reach Golf Course Road or Golf Course Extension Road,” said Sanjeevan Lal, a resident of Sector 56.
05-12-2021||Gurugram||Air quality improves to ‘poor’ in Gurugram||The air quality in Gurugram took a turn for the better, enough to move from ‘very poor’ to the ‘poor’ category on Sunday. According to the 4pm air quality index (AQI) bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Gurugram recorded an AQI of 277 on Sunday, in the ‘poor’ zone, compared to the reading of 334 on Saturday. Delhi and Faridabad, the cities neighbouring Gurugram, experienced ‘very poor’ air quality on Sunday with AQI readings of 305 and 311 respectively. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. To control rising levels of air pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR), the Commission For Air Quality Management (CAQM) has constituted an enforcement task force which is coordinating with the inspection teams in all NCR states to review and monitor the situation. In Haryana, 12 inspection teams have been constituted to examine activities in various sectors (industrial, vehicular transport, construction and demolition, dust from roads and open areas) aggravating the pollution levels. According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve further but remain in the ‘poor’ category on Monday and Tuesday. On December 8, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category and remain in poor to moderate category for subsequent days. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted dense fog at isolated places in the South Haryana region on Monday--a result of a fresh western disturbance. On Sunday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 23.6 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal, and a minimum of 10 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above normal.“There would be no significant change in the minimum temperature during the next 24 hours...the mercury will gradually fall by three to five degrees after that,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of the IMD. The weather bulletin of the Meteorological Centre Chandigarh also issued a yellow weather warning (indicating authorities have to be prepared) predicting dense fog at isolated places in south and south east Haryana, including districts like Gurugram and Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-improves-to-poor-in-gurugram-101638728314514.html
05-12-2021||Other||Pharmacists across UP to sport black badges from today||LUCKNOW: Pharmacists across Uttar Pradesh will sport black badges during their work hours from Monday, in support of their 20-point demand including wage revision, right to prescribe medicines and appointment of pharmacists at all health sub-centres. The pharmacists on Sunday staged protest at chief medical officer’s (CMO) offices in all districts and now they have planned to continue their agitation wearing black badges. “We have held discussions on almost all the demands with senior officials in the state administration and they have agreed upon several in principle. But despite that they are not issuing orders for the same hence we have decided to stage protest in all districts of the state,” said Sunil Yadav, executive regional president of the Diploma Pharmacists Association, who was at the protest site, CMO’s office in Lucknow. For almost the entire day, pharmacists staged protest at the CMO’s office and raised slogans in support of their demands. “We will now work wearing black badges from Sunday onwards and continue it till December 8,” said Yadav. The protesting pharmacists also handed over a memorandum of theirs demands to officials of the health department. “From December 9, we will hold work boycott for two-hours daily,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pharmacists-across-up-to-sport-black-badges-from-today-101638728254674.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Seven more Omicron cases detected in Pune, state tally climbs to 8||Seven more cases of Omicron, the new Covid-19 variant, have been reported in Maharashtra which took the total count in the state to eight, the state health report and officials from Pune district health department said on Sunday.All the eight cases of the new variant are from Pune district, six are from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and one each from Pune city and rural parts of the district, officials said.One of the seven patients reported mild symptoms while the others have not reported any symptoms. All the six patients from PCMC area are from one family and three of the patients had returned from Lagos Nigeria on November 24. The Pune city patient is a 47-year-old man and was found positive for the Omicron variant through routine surveillance. He visited Finland from November 18 to 25, 2021. He was tested owing to mild fever on November 29 and was found Covid-19 positive. He has taken both doses of the Covishield vaccine and he is now completely stable without any symptoms.The patient from Pune rural is a native of Alandi village though officials said not much information is available about the case.Both Nigeria and Finland are not one of the three ‘high risk countries’ listed by the state government which are South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe.The six patients from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation area include a 44-year-old woman who had come from Lagos, Nigeria on 24th November 2021 to meet her brother who lives in PCMC, along with her two daughters, aged 12 and 18 years old. The three of them and her brother along with his two daughters – a total of 6 people – have tested positive for Omicron as per the report obtained from the National Institute of Virology, Pune on Sunday evening.Thirteen contacts of the woman and her daughters were traced and tested during which her 45-year-old brother with his daughters, aged seven and 1.5 years old have also tested positive. The Omicron variant has been found in all three contacts. The Nigerian woman reported mild symptoms the rest of the five have not reported any symptoms at all.Earlier in the day, Rajesh Tope while speaking to reporters in Parbhani said, there is not much information is available on the new variant.“What we know so far is that the transmissibility rate of Omicron is high but the intensity may not be very severe. There is still no authentic information on whether it escapes the vaccine shield,” he said.Out of the six people, three are under 18 years of age and therefore have not taken any vaccine. The three adults have taken both doses of the vaccine – 2 have taken Covishield and 1 has taken Covaxin. All these patients are being treated at the Jijamata Hospital in Pimpri-Chinchwad and are stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/seven-more-omicron-cases-detected-in-pune-state-tally-climbs-to-8-101638728195514.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Vaccine stock with private hospitals in Pune running into ‘expiry’ trouble||Even as the threat of the Omicron Sars-Cov-2 variant has people rushing to civic vaccination centres, a large quantity of vaccines is pending at private hospitals in the city. These vaccines have been part of the stockpile for the past three months and with the validity of Covid-19 vaccines at six months, private hospitals hope that either the government or the manufacturer, Serum Institute of India (SII), would take back the stock and allocate fresh stock. The fresh stock is for future demand for vaccines either in the form of booster doses or a possible third wave. Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman of the hospital board of India, Pune chapter, Indian Medical Association (IMA) said, “As of last week, as per government figures provided to us there are about 650,000 vaccine doses available with private hospitals. We have had this stock with us since the past three months and since the validity of the vaccine is for about six months in total, this stock would remain efficient until March. We had discussions with the government to take this stock and distribute it to various centres and then allocate fresh stock to us later, as the demand goes up, but there has been no reply.” Dr Patil added: “Now we are planning to write to manufacturers, Serum Institute of India (SII), in this case, to take back the stock which they can distribute and give us fresh stock later when the demand goes up.”Dr Patil further said that the only way the demand would go back up is when the government permits administering a booster dose to those who want to take it, especially healthcare and frontline workers. Since the emergence of the Omicron variant, the demand for vaccines has gone up at government centres which have plenty of vaccine stock available. Dr Avdhut Bodhamwad, medical superintendent with Ruby Hall Clinic said, “The Omicron scare has not led to any resultant increase in vaccinations in our hospital. As per me, people want booster doses and not the regular ones because a lot of people already have taken both doses. If we get permission for booster doses from then demand will increase.” Dr Abrarali Dalal, CEO of Sahyadri Hospitals, said that vaccination for 18+ age group which started in the last week of May 2021 steadily picked up pace and remains stable as of now. “We have not seen any significant change in the numbers of vaccinations since the news about the Omicron variant,” added Dalal.Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital said, “There is just a slight increase in vaccination demand which has gone up from 25 doses a day to now 75 doses a day, which can be attributed to the Omicron scare.”While vaccine stocks are nearing their expiry date at private hospitals and government hospitals have more than enough stock, Pune still has about 1.3 million who have not taken their second dose of Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccine-stock-with-private-hospitals-in-pune-running-into-expiry-trouble-101638728194327.html
05-12-2021||Noida||Work expedited, Noida’s 1st habitat centre to be open by October 2023: Officials||The work on a 31-storey ‘Noida Convention and Habitat Centre’ — first such project in the city — in Sector 94 has been expedited for completion and opening for public use by October 2023, officials said on Sunday.The project — with the total cost estimated to be ₹684 crore — is to promote art and culture, and offer a green smart building to the people for socio-cultural activities in the city, according to the officials. A green building means to apply green technologies to a building throughout its life cycle, i.e., from construction to operation to demolition, so that the negative environmental impact of buildings can be minimised as far as possible.Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Noida authority, directed the staff last week to expedite the work at the site, they said. Noida — a planned city in Uttar Pradesh — was established over 20,000 hectares of land adjoining the national capital, Delhi, on April 17, 1976. The Noida authority signed an agreement with the Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam (UPRNN), which is building the project, on May 5, 2021 for the same.Following Maheshwari’s direction, the additional chief executive officer of Noida authority, Neha Sharma, inspected the site on November 30 (Tuesday) and instructed officials concerned to expedite construction works there.“The digging work for the project started in May this year, immediately after the agreement was signed with the state public sector undertaking UPRNN. But it takes time to prepare the ground for such a tall building and lay the foundation. We have dug up a 11-metre-deep structure for it, and will finish the de-watering work in the next 15 days, with this, the digging work will be completed. Then we will start the piling work to build the foundation of the building, and finish it within the deadline,” said Vijay Rawal, senior project engineer of the Noida authority, who is also the project in-charge.Spread across 20 acres, this project will house food courts, restaurants, retail outlets, banquet halls, waiting lounges, open lawns, art galleries, exhibition halls, workshop space, office space, gymnasium, swimming pool, and conference hall among other facilities, said the authority officials.There are two basement floors for parking spaces which will be able to accommodate nearly 7,000 vehicles, leaving five floors dedicated for the socio-cultural activities.“It will be a unique green smart building of its kind in the city, and is being built according to the provisions of the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). The convention centre will have connectivity with the Delhi Metro, and will use solar energy to run the restaurants, hotels, and other facilities in the building. People will be able to enter the building with the help of smart cards, and the parking will be automatic,” said Rawal.
05-12-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar reports 9 new Covid cases in a day; Noida on new variant alert||HT Correspondenthtreporters@hindustantimes.comThe Gautam Budh Nagar administration and the district health department were on alert on Sunday after nine fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the district within 24 hours — as of Saturday. Officials, however, said that “there was no reason to be concerned about the situation yet”.The coronavirus testing in Noida has been increased from an average of nearly 1,000 to 2,200 daily. Officials said that random Covid-19 testing has also been increased.Five of a family were among the nine persons who tested positive for the virus on Saturday, and none of them have any Covid-19 symptom, except a female who has a cough and cold, according to the officials.“The five persons from the family tested positive for the virus during a random check, and all of them are doing fine... We have increased the Covid-19 testing in the district, and have also asked all the hospital authorities to report about fresh cases immediately after those are being detected. There may be a few extra cases once in a while, but that is miniscule compared to the district’s population. There is no reason to worry about the increase in the number of cases yet,” said a senior health official, requesting anonymity.The other patients included a health worker from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), who tested positive for Covid-19 during a random sampling, and the remaining three persons tested positive for the virus during hospital visits. All primary contacts of the GIMS health worker have also been tested.Meanwhile, as a case of the new Covid-19 variant — Omicron — has been reported in Delhi, officials said that no connection to Noida has been found yet.However, with cases of the new Covid-19 variant coming to the fore in India and the state government issuing directions to check the spread of the infection, the district health department on Thursday reserved 30 beds at the Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39 for all international travellers who test positive for Covid-19.Gautam Budh Nagar has received a list of 499 international travellers so far, who have come to Noida from “at-risk” countries. Most of them have been tested for Covid-19, and no positive case has been reported yet, said the officials. The list includes all countries in Europe, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. There are about 44 European countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-reports-9-new-covid-cases-in-a-day-noida-on-new-variant-alert-101638728074524.html
05-12-2021||Pune||No lockdown in Pune, but zero tolerance for those not following Covid norms, says Dr Shashank Joshi||In light of the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2, Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid task force, said on Sunday that there would be no lockdown and the emphasis would only be on following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and vaccination. Dr Joshi said that there would be guided restrictions with zero tolerance for those not following Covid-19 norms in public places. He further said that while taking the vaccine or being fully immunised is encouraged, it cannot be made mandatory as vaccines have been approved under the emergency use authorisation and not as per the regular norms of the Drug Controller General of Indian (DCGI). On Omicron, Dr Joshi said: “We have many suspects and we might already have many cases. As of now, we have to ensure two things, double mask and double vaccination. Follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and focus on proper ventilation. As far as inbound travel is concerned, we need to do a very tight screening and tracing of all coming in from abroad, because Omicron is everywhere. They have to ensure home quarantine and if anyone is asymptomatic they should go for testing voluntarily.” “Currently, all Omicron cases in the country are sporadic and they are travel related. Domestic transmission is rare and there are no clusters and no community transmission right now. Even the Delta variant which caused the second wave had almost got extinct now so from the Delta standpoint also the infection has come down,” he added. Dr Joshi said, “However, vaccination should not be made mandatory. These are early generation vaccines. Only when they are formally approved can we make a case for compulsory vaccination and there are a lot of people ineligible for vaccinations due to allergies. Despite this our state has done reasonably well with regards to vaccination and we have to ensure that the second dose is taken by as many people as possible and we have to maximise our vaccination reach voluntarily. These vaccines are not formally approved by the Drug Controller, but they have only got the EUA.” He further added, “Currently we do not have restrictions and we have screening mechanisms at places from where potentially Omicron can come from. We are upping the guard in terms of Covid-appropriate behaviour, public health strategies, masking and vaccination policies. There is no question of any restrictions other than what are there currently and the lockdown will not occur at all. The restrictions would be guided by the positivity rate, so currently there is no need for any restrictions except zero tolerance for people who do not follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.” On Sunday, state health minister Rajesh Tope while speaking to reporters in Parbhani, when questioned about restrictions said, “We have to now strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and increase vaccination. Once WHO shares more information about the new variant, ICMR will prepare the protocol, which we have to follow in Maharashtra. What we know so far is that the transmissibility rate of Omicron is high, but the intensity may not be very severe. There is still no authentic information on whether it escapes vaccine shields. As of now in Maharashtra, we have tested 3,738 persons who came into the state in the past month from high-risk countries. Six of them have tested positive, while one has been found with the Omicron variant. What we have seen in South Africa, at this point, is there is no reason to be very concerned, even as we have to follow all the precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-lockdown-in-pune-but-zero-tolerance-for-those-not-following-covid-norms-says-dr-shashank-joshi-101638727959694.html
05-12-2021||Gurugram||Over 200 shopkeepers procure trade licence in Gurugram||More than 200 shopkeepers procured trade licences from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) at four special camps organised by the civic body on Saturday.Since November 27, MCG has sealed more than 400 commercial buildings across the city as their owners had failed to procure trade licences. On Saturday, trade license camps were organised at the Arcadia Market in South City 2, Bani Square in Sector 49, Ardee Mall in Sector 52, and Qutub Plaza in DLF Phase 1.“To facilitate the traders to apply for trade license on the spot, special camps were organized by the MCG at four places... about 200 traders applied for trade licence...,” said S S Rohilla, public relation officer (PRO), MCG.According to MCG officials, under the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, all types of commercial buildings operating within the limits of the municipal corporation have to obtain a trade licence from the civic body.According to MCG’s property tax records, there are more than 47,000 commercial buildings in the jurisdiction of the municipal corporation. Last month, during a review meeting with the taxation branch, municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja pointed out that the civic body has issued few trade licences, leading to loss of revenue for the MCG. Subsequently, he directed officials to inspect commercial areas across the city and ask the owners to procure licences, or else their structures will be sealed. According to civic officials, a special trade licence camp will also be organised at the Hong Kong Bazar in Sector 57 on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-200-shopkeepers-procure-trade-licence-in-gurugram-101638727954522.html
05-12-2021||Other||Govt doctors in Haryana threaten to go on strike from December 13||Doctors of government hospitals in the state on Sunday said that they will go on a strike from December 13 if their demands regarding stopping direct recruitment of senior medical officers (SMOs) and hiring of specialist doctors, among others, are not met. Over 1,000 doctors from across the state, under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association, held a meeting in this regard on Sunday in Karnal and later submitted a memorandum to the chief minister. The doctors said that if the long pending demands are not met then out patient departments of all government hospitals in the state will be closed for the whole day on December 13, and emergency and postmortem services will also be shut from December 14 onwards. “Doctors are being forced to go on a path of agitation. On November 9, doctors wore black badges and on November 12 there was a token pen down for two hours throughout the state. It is unanimously decided that our above mentioned issues should be resolved within one week, otherwise doctors will be forced to close OPD services on December 13 and to stop all services, including emergency and post mortem, from December 14 till our demands are met,” states the memorandum submitted to the chief minister. Dr MP Singh, vice-president of HCMS Association said, “We have been demanding the state government to stop direct recruitment of SMOs for months now. Due to direct recruitment, promotions of many officers in the department get affected. Also, there is an acute shortage of specialists in HCMS. Nearly one third of the specialists are working in cadres against the required strength. We have submitted a memorandum to the chief minister through his officer on special duty (OSD).”A senior official in the state health department did not respond to messages sent by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-doctors-in-haryana-threaten-to-go-on-strike-from-december-13-101638727895711.html
05-12-2021||Lucknow||Premature release of convicts: UP govt scrutinising details, seeking legal opinion||The state government is going through the details of all 103 prisoners for whom the Supreme Court has asked the government whether its policy of 2018 on the premature release of convicts serving life sentence can be applied retrospectively in the wake of some amendments made to it in July this year.The state government is also seeking legal opinion from the office of the advocate general on the issue. Around 103 prisoners from Uttar Pradesh serving life sentence have moved the Supreme Court seeking their premature release. These prisoners have served 20-25 years of prison term.“The state government is scrutinising details of all 103 prisoners before filing its reply in the Supreme Court. Legal opinion from the advocate general’s office is being sought on the issue,” said a state government official in the know about the development. Last week, a Supreme Court bench of Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice AS Bopanna had issued a notice to the state government seeking its response in two weeks saying that though 103 convicts had approached the court, it will not go into individual cases looking at the impact of their release on the society.“The United Provinces Prisoners Release on Probation Act, 1938, clearly states that the government must consider release on probation of such prisoners who have served 14 years’ prison term,” said senior advocate IB Singh. “Only such prisoners who are serving life term for committing heinous crimes are not considered for release on probation. Rest can be considered for release,” Singh added. The Supreme Court had granted ad interim bail in September this year to 97 convicts serving life imprisonment in Agra and Varanasi central jails for more than 20 years. The top court pointed out that the prisoners were not released even though they were entitled to premature release under the Uttar Pradesh government’s 2018 policy. Out of these 97 prisoners, 65 were lodged in Agra central prison, 30 in Varanasi and one each in Mathura and Naini (Prayagraj) jails. The state government had framed a policy on August 1, 2018, for premature release of prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment annually on the Republic Day or the Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti. The government had amended this policy on July 28, 2021. Under the 2018 policy, only on specific dates, including January 26, August 15, or October 2, convicts were considered for premature release after the prisoners applied under the policy. Now, after the amendments, they are considered for premature release on every 15th day of the month.
05-12-2021||Other||29 more Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh; Mathura reports maximum 10 cases, Lucknow 5||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh reported 29 more Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases under treatment to 139 in the state, which had 27 fresh cases on Saturday, according to health department officials. In the past 48-hours, 56 new cases were reported and 14 Covid patients recovered from the virus infection. Till now, 16, 87,430 patients had recovered in the state, they said. During the day, Mathura reported maximum 10 Covid cases followed by Lucknow that reported five fresh cases, Bareilly four, two each in Kanpur, Varanasi and Gautam Buddha Nagar, while one each in Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Sambhal and Shamli districts. However, no death due to the virus infection was reported during the day. “In all, 1, 74,079 Covid samples were tested in the past 24 hours in which 24 new cases were reported. So far, a total 8,83,63,221 Covid samples have been tested in the state,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, in a press statement. Prasad said, “Covid-19 infection has not been eliminated yet. Hence, prevention against the infection should be followed.” UP had been reporting less than 20 fresh daily cases since October 30, but for the past two days the number of fresh daily cases has increased to over 20, officials said. Experts suggested that adhering to Covid protocol was the most effective way to avoid infection. “Wearing mask and keeping distance from others when out of house along with taking the vaccine doses are the doable actions that work to break the chain of infection and keep us safe,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of Association of International Doctors.Two Jaipur, Delhi returnees test positive Two people, who returned Lucknow from separate states, have tested positive for Covid-19 along with three others, according to the data from the health department. One of the travellers, aged 70, came from Jaipur while the other, 22-year-old, came from Delhi. During the contact tracing by the health department, two family members of the man, who returned from Delhi, also tested positive for Covid. “We have sent samples for genome sequencing of these travellers, while they are in home isolation and under observation,” said a senior health official. At present, Lucknow has reported a total 2,3,8884 Covid cases including 2,651 deaths. There are 23 active cases under treatment in the state capital. CMOs changed Several districts in Uttar Pradesh got new chief medical officers (CMOs) including Mathura and Varanasi. In Mathura, nine foreigners had recently tested positive for Covid-19. CMOs of Sidharthnagar, Basti, Mirzapur, Hardoi and Pilibhit districts were also changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/29-more-covid-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-mathura-reports-maximum-10-cases-lucknow-5-101638727716728.html
05-12-2021||Pune||IT staffers want to continue WFH in light of Omicron in Pune, PCMC||With seven cases of the Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2 virus confirmed in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, employees in the city’s IT-sector, who were planning to resume work from offices, want to now continue with work from home (WFH).A group of employees have sent a petition to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray stating that IT firms should not force employees to work from office.In Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, as many as 40% of employees are working from offices.“Companies have made their own standard operating procedures, allowing three days of work from office and three days from home. Now with cases of the new variant coming up, we want 100% work from home like it was during the first wave,” said Aakash Kadgale, a software engineer, who works at the Hinjewadi IT park.Employees claim companies in Europe, Middle East and Africa have already delayed mandatory return to offices, so in India as well it should not be made compulsory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/it-staffers-want-to-continue-wfh-in-light-of-omicron-in-pune-pcmc-101638727663060.html
05-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: 300 teams to monitor int’l travellers from high-risk countries||In the wake of rising concerns over new Covid variant Omicron, officials from the district health department on Sunday said that they are closely monitoring international travellers from 12 high-risk countries entering the district and have deployed 300 rapid response teams (RRTs) for the purpose. The officials said that around 2,400 international travellers entered the district last week, of which 553 were from the high-risk nations.The 12 high-risk countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival, including Covid-19 testing, are the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Israel.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “On Saturday, 131 international travellers arrived with two from high-risk countries. They are all under quarantine and our team is monitoring them. All precautions are being taken and advisories have also been released.”  Of 300 RRTs, 180 teams will focus on urban areas and 120 on rural areas, the officials said, adding that the teams will be checking the status of testing of these people, and whether they are under home isolation or not, among others. The health department this week will also conduct a meeting with hotel operators and multinational companies in the district to make them aware about the compliance to the prescribed guidelines. Meanwhile, the Haryana government has asked all the districts to increase testing as many states have started reporting cases of Omicron variant. On Sunday, Delhi reported its first case of Omicron variant of Covid-19. “All the districts have been asked to ramp up their daily testing numbers and ensure that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is being followed by people strictly,” said a senior health official, who did not wish to be named. Oon Sunday, Gurugram reported nine fresh cases of Covid-19, while 12 patients recovered from the disease, according to the state government data. The active Covid-19 case tally in the district now stands at 78, of which 69 are under home isolation and nine patients are hospitalised, the officials said. On Sunday, 6,554 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district with 1,241 being given the first dose and 5,313 the second dose. So far, over 3.90 million doses of Covid vaccine have been administered in Gurugram, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-300-teams-to-monitor-int-l-travellers-from-high-risk-countries-101638727415542.html
05-12-2021||Lucknow||Expedite process of setting up NICUs, PICUs in all dist hospitals: UP govt||In view of the recent spike in Covid cases in some states, the Uttar Pradesh government has instructed the health department to expedite the process of setting up neonatal intensive care units (NICUs) and paediatric intensive care units (PICUs) in all district hospitals and community health centres (CHCs) to ensure there is no shortage of beds to treat children.“In the wake of the cases of new Covid variant Omicron in other states and in pursuance of the directives issued by UP chief minister, several measures are being taken,” said a state government spokesperson in a press statement on Sunday.“The process of genome sequencing of Covid-19 samples has been intensified at Lucknow’s KGMU, SGPGI, Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Meerut,” said the spokesperson. SNCU (sick newborn care units) were also being established at maternity hospitals, the spokesperson added.“Action is also being taken to increase minimum of 100 beds in every medical college of the state. The beds will be small in size and will have railing on the sides. Availability of all necessary equipment, including BiPAP machines and mobile X-ray machines, are being worked upon,” the statement said.“State’s 3011 PHCs and 855 CHCs are being equipped with all state-of-the-art resources. The presence of oxygen plants is also mandatory in hospitals of over 50 beds-capacity. Besides hospitals and medical colleges, oxygen plants are also being installed at the CHCs and the PHCs across the state,” the spokesperson added.“While there is no situation at present which warrants panic or worry, the government has put over 73,000 ‘surveillance committees’ on alert mode to ensure thorough screening and timely identification, isolation and treatment of people showing mild symptoms to avoid any chance of increased transmission of the virus or any water-borne or vector-borne diseases,” the spokesperson said. Nearly 530 oxygen-producing plants had been operationalised in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/expedite-process-of-setting-up-nicus-picus-in-all-dist-hospitals-up-govt-101638727354789.html
05-12-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi has fulfilled dreams of Purvanchal with ₹10 K crore projects: Yogi||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said here on Sunday that December 7 would be etched in golden words in the history of development of eastern Uttar Pradesh, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi would gift projects worth almost ₹10,000 crores to the region. These projects include a fertilizer factory (worth ₹8600 crores), AIIMS (worth ₹1010 crores) and three high class laboratories at BRD Medical College. Addressing a press conference at Gorakhnath temple, Yogi said that PM Modi had fulfilled the dreams of Purvanchal and added that this whopping investment would be the largest ever in eastern Uttar Pradesh since independence, propelling the region on the path of growth and development. Notably, PM Modi had laid the foundation stone of the fertilizer factory and AIIMS at Manbela ground on July 22, 2016 during a rally in the run-up to the 2017 assembly elections. “What appeared impossible in opposition rule has been made possible by Modiji,” Yogi said, referring to the establishment of the premier health institute and fertilizer factory. He said that the fertilizer factory which was once the pride of Purvanchal for producing urea for agriculture sector, was shut down following an accident, rendering many jobless. It always seemed impossible to restart this unit, but PM Modi made it possible by first laying its foundation and then inaugurating it. “Whenever we demanded restoration of the closed fertilizer factory, we merely got assurances from the previous government. But Modiji realised that the fertilizer factory was necessary for prosperity of the region,” Yogi said. The CM said that the fertilizer factory, coming up in an area of 600 acres with a capacity to manufacture 12 lakh metric tonnes of neem coated urea, was being set up by Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL). Talking about the deaths of children due to encephalitis and recalling his effort as Gorakhpur MP to fight against the disease, the CM said, “There was a time when flood and disease became the identity of Purvanchal. Over the decades, 40,000 to 50,000 children died of encephalitis but the previous government remained insensitive towards the condition of the poor and helpless people. It was PM Modi who understood their pain and gave AIIMS for treatment of such diseases.” He said that the virus of encephalitis was first recognized in 1971 by the Institute of Virology in Pune, but there were no labs in Gorakhpur and samples used to go to Pune. “But now we have set up three highly advanced labs at the Regional Medical Centre, BRD Medical College,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-has-fulfilled-dreams-of-purvanchal-with-rs-10-k-crore-projects-yogi-101638727294876.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Truck-SUV collision stops traffic at southern bypass||After the collision of an SUV and truck on Saturday evening, a massive traffic jam was seen at the southern bypass near Gill Chowk on Sunday evening. No causality was reported.It was only after the police removed the vehicles involved in the crash from the site that traffic was resumed on the stretch. Hundreds of commuters were stuck in a traffic for around an hour on Gill Road and the Ludhiana -Malerkotla Road was also affected and hundreds of vehicles stuck in the jam.Eyewitnesses said that the mishap took place after a truck tried to overtake a vehicle and collided with an SUV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-truck-suv-collision-stops-traffic-at-southern-bypass-101638726754296.html
05-12-2021||Lucknow||On a private visit to Prayagraj, Rahul tries to gauge voters’ mood in UP||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday seemed eager to know about the ground-level impact of his sister and All India Congress Committee general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s taking charge of the party affairs in eastern UP.Rahul was in Prayagraj to attend a private function of a trustee of Kamla Nehru Trust. Although the trip was a private one, he did discuss the forthcoming UP assembly election. He also took detailed information on his party’s prospects from local senior leaders while on the way from the Bamrauli airport to Swaraj Bhawan—the ancestral home of his family.He asked the leaders about the impact on the party and party cadre after Priyanka Gandhi took the front role in eastern UP. Former Congress MP Pramod Tiwari informed him that the situation of the party had improved a lot. The organisation at the booth level had become very strong, Tiwari said. The will to move forward had rekindled among the party workers. Even old Congressmen were also now again taking interest in the work of the party, Tiwari informed Rahul.Select Congress leader who could meet Rahul informed him that the party had recently been active on every serious issue of the region and the state. Rahul also asked them about the crowd coming to Priyanka’s rallies. To this, Congress leaders claimed that disillusionment with the BJP was making Priyanka’s rallies and visits a success. Even Samajwadi Party voters were moving towards the Congress even as the BSP was lagging far behind, said a senior Congress leader aware of the development. Rahul asked Congress leaders to remain vigilant as any laxity now when the polls were just a few months away could undo all the hard work done till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/on-a-private-visit-to-prayagraj-rahul-tries-to-gauge-voters-mood-in-up-101638726694307.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Pune’s Lohegaon airport landing system not equipped to deal with very low visibility||PUNE Pune’s Lohegaon international airport, operated by the Indian Air Force, is equipped with the Category 2 instrument landing system (ILS) as a result of which low visibility cannot be currently handled.Because low visibility is a rare phenomenon in Pune, Category 3 instrument landing systems, which can deal with restricted visibility, have not been installed. Category 3 instrument landing systems are installed at airports which face regular issues of low visibility.“There are different types of instrument landing systems Category 1, Category 2 and Category 3 (aka, Category A, Category B and Category C). According to the system installed at the airport, pilots are trained accordingly,” said a Lohegaon airport official, on the request of anonymity.“In Delhi, Category 3 is installed so even if visibility is 100m, a pilot trained on that system can do the landing. This type of system is only installed where low visibility is a common occurrence, like airports in the northern belt like Delhi, Amritsar, Jaipur, Lucknow, and Chandigarh,” added the official.Most other airports have landing systems that are Category 1 or Category 2.“In Pune this is a very abnormal phenomenon and it has been caused due to upper air cyclonic circulation off the south Gujarat coast and north Konkan system,” added the official.On Sunday, 11 flights got delayed between 2am and 10am at the Pune airport. Flights UK 971 (Del-PNQ) and AI851 (DEL-PNQ) were diverted to Mumbai due to bad weather conditions. A total of 67 flights were scheduled till midnight.Instrument landing systems Category 1 system - visibility is as low as 550 metresCategory 2 system - visibility as low as 350 metres Category-3 system - visibility drops to 50 metresFog in Pune “Fog is not a very common phenomenon in Pune city. As it rained heavily in the last one week, there was a lot of moisture in the air which was causing fog in the morning. We don’t witness fog in every winter season in Pune,” said Dr DS Pai, who heads climate research and services at India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune.The forecast for Monday is mainly clear skies with a maximum temperature of 28 degree Celsius and minimum temperature of 14 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-lohegaon-airport-landing-system-not-equipped-to-deal-with-very-low-visibility-101638726574408.html
05-12-2021||Noida||Pollution levels drop, wind speed helps improve air quality||There was a marginal drop in the pollution levels in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad on Sunday due to wind speeds, enough to bring back the air quality index (AQI) of the three cities back to the ‘poor’ from the ‘very poor’ category, according to weather experts.Noida recorded an AQI of 286 in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday against 355 in the ‘very poor’ category a day earlier. On Sunday, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida recorded the AQI at 294 and 283, respectively — both in the ‘poor’ category, against 327 and 335 — both in the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday.Meanwhile, Noida recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures at 25 degrees Celsius (°C) and 14 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Sunday. Humidity levels in the city hovered around 69% on Sunday. The wind velocity was recorded at six kilometres per hour (kmph). Noida saw a clear sky on Sunday, with a prediction of a possible rainfall on Monday. The maximum and minimum temperatures in the city on Monday are likely to be 25 degrees Celsius and 15 degrees Celsius, respectively.Greater Noida saw a similar trend as that of Noida on Sunday, said the officials.On Sunday, Ghaziabad recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures at 25 degrees Celsius and 13 degrees Celsius, with humidity levels at 66% and wind velocity at seven kmph. The city sky was clear on Sunday, with a slim chance of precipitation on Monday. The maximum and minimum temperatures in the city on Monday are likely to be 24 degrees Celsius and 15 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pollution-levels-drop-wind-speed-helps-improve-air-quality-101638726334420.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Leopard, 2 cubs seen at Katraj ghat; forest department puts area on alert||PUNE Residents of Katraj and the surrounding areas have been put on alert by the forest department after a leopard and two cubs were spotted in the Katraj ghat section recently. The forest department’s alert warns residents of villages in the area about traveling at night. As per the information released by the state forest department, the leopards were spotted on the Katraj ghat on Friday night at around 11 pm, in the Gujar-Nimbalkarwadi area, by a villager. Haribhau Kamthe, the villager who spotted the leopards immediately informed the forest department. Local villagers have demanded an increase in night patrols by the forest department in the ghat section. “The forest area in Katraj ghat section is large and there are several wild animals in this area. We have got the information about leopards on one of the farms in the ghat section and accordingly we have now increased patrolling. We appeal to citizens not to go out alone unnecessarily in the night and to be alert,” said Mukesh Sanas, forest officer, Pune forest department division. Santosh Nimbalkar, a resident of the Katraj area said, “I come back late at night after my work, as I work in shifts. It is scary to have wild animals around the ghat area.” Leopard attacksOn October 2021, a 45-year-old man was attacked by a leopard in Gosavi Vasti, Hadapsar. In the same month one leopard was spotted in Undri and Mohammedwadi area. It was the first incident of direct attack on by leopard in 2021 in Pune city. While over a dozen of leopard were spotted in Pune district by the forest department 12 leopards have been rescued in the past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/leopard-2-cubs-seen-at-katraj-ghat-forest-department-puts-area-on-alert-101638726274714.html
05-12-2021||Pune||CMRS to conduct final inspection of Pune Metro’s priority stretches in December||The commissioner of metro railway safety (CMRS), Shailesh Kumar Pathak has scheduled a visit to Pune in December to inspect The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited’s (Maha Metro) Pune metro project. The final inspection of the two priority stretches- Vanaz to Garware college and Pimpri-Chinchwad to Dapodi will be done before the commencement of the commercial operation, said officials. Atul Gadgil, director, Maha Metro said, “The commissioner and his team will visit Pune for the final inspection the two priority stretches. The two-day visit is scheduled to take place in the third week of December. Post the inspection, the CMRS will give us a final certification for commercial operations, which we intend to begin soon. We are conducting frequent trial runS on these two stretches before its inaugural.” In July, Maha-Metro completed a technical trial run on the Vanaz to Garware College stretch. Before that, Maha-Metro had extended the trial run on the 6km PCMC station to Phugewadi stretch to first week of January. Lakdi Pul metro will delay overall project Now that the Maha Metro has disapproved the proposal for a hydraulic bridge at Sambhaji bridge aka Lakdi pul, the metro work is likely to resume. “We are expecting a decision from the PMC general body with respect to resuming work on Lakdi pul. We have submitted a report to the PMC. The work has been delayed by three months and this will have an overall impact on the Metro project but will not affect the two priority stretches which we want to commence for commercial operation,” said Gadgil. Earlier, Ganesh mandals objected to the height of the viaduct which is part of the metro work at Sambhaji bridge, after which the Maha Metro decided to temporarily stop work. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol took cognisance of the objections raised and ordered that the work be halted. Pune Metro comprises of 30 stations, spread over two corridors which run over a length of approximately 33.1 km. The 17.4 km line-1 from PCMC to Swargate corridor has a 6 km underground stretch from Shivaji Nagar to Swargate. The 15.4 km Line-2 is elevated from Vanaz to Ramwadi. According to Metro officials, the complete Pune Metro project will wind up by December 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cmrs-to-conduct-final-inspection-of-pune-metro-s-priority-stretches-in-december-101638725734249.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||Resident doctors of several Delhi hospitals to boycott all services from Monday over counselling delay||Resident doctors of a number of central and state-run hospitals across Delhi will boycott routine and emergency services from Monday in protest against the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling.The Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) released a statement saying the doctors were exhausted and overburdened by the repeated delays and postponements of the counselling process. To intensify their protest, they would withdraw from all services, routine as well emergency, in healthcare institutions from December 6."Following the discussion with various RDA representatives of Delhi, we have decided to escalate our agitation further and withdraw from all services (routine as well as emergency) in healthcare institutions from December 6," said the press release.Earlier in the day, resident doctors of Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital announced their decision to boycott emergency and OPD services from December 6 due to "repeated delay in NEET PG Counselling 2021".The doctors are demanding the completion of the counselling process in view of the looming third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The doctors say it is necessary for the process to start immediately to "prevent the collapse of the healthcare system".(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/resident-doctors-of-several-delhi-hospitals-to-boycott-all-services-from-monday-101638725256196.html
05-12-2021||Pune||125 pedestrian signals to be installed across Pune city||Pedestrian safety is essential to creating a walkable city. Moving forward with a plan to improve pedestrian safety, and therefore walkability, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has allocated a budget to install 125 pedestrian signals at various chowks in the city. “As part of Pedestrian Day, observed in the city on December 11, we have approved 125 chowks in the city to be installed with modern pedestrian signals with countdown timers. The proposal was submitted by the electrical department and has been approved. Similarly, under Smart city project, more 125 chowks in the city will also get new pedestrian signals,” said Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol. According to the survey conducted by PMC, roads like Gadital Solapur road, Ganapati chowk, Vimannagar, Pen chowk, Senapati Bapat road, Athavale chowk, Law College road, Karnatak School chowk, Gulwane road, Sant Kabir chowk, Nehru road, Khadi Machine chowk, Katraj-Kondhwa road need better pedestrian crossing and management in order to install new signals. Besides signals, the mayor is also keen on zebra crossings being highlighted distinctly as well as having better footpaths in the city. “We have specifically asked our departments to keep the underground pathways in the city, clean and to be fully equipped with lights and CCTV cameras from December 11 onwards,” said Mohol. Harshad Abhyangkar, representing Save Pune Traffic Movement (SPTM) said, “SPTM and other NGOs are compelling Maha Metro to ensure that the roads along the Metro corridors provide sufficient road space for ‘walk-bus-cycle’ infrastructure. A cycle track that implements SPTM’s design suggestions is taking shape on Pashan road. We hope that with it, more cyclists will use the track instead of the carriageway. We have also encouraged the PMC officials to do a ‘Pathpathyatra’ of about 1 km to take note of the difficulties encountered while walking on the sidewalk and make improvements.” “On this Pedestrian Day, we are trying to highlight pedestrian’s importance through various interventions like safer streets, safer junctions, safer mid-block crossing, pedestrian only shopping streets, and pedestrian signals. Most of the city’s arterial streets are so motorist-oriented that citizens can barely cross the street Pedestrian signals must be implemented at every junction on priority to improve pedestrian’s safety on the streets,” said Aditya Chawande, architect urban designer, project associate at Parisar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/125-pedestrian-signals-to-be-installed-across-pune-city-101638725495545.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Vehicle-free Laxmi road on Pedestrian Day||To celebrate Pedestrian Day, on December 11, the city’s most crowded and bustling street, Laxmi road will be closed for traffic and will be an open street mall. This is on the behest of Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, who along with the Save Pune Traffic Movement (SPTM) has declared December 11 as the city’s Pedestrian Day where more importance will be given to walking than to vehicles. Laxmi Road will be closed to traffic from Nimbalkar Talim chowk to Umbraya Ganapati chowk. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will arrange special buses for the day. “We request the citizens to enjoy the bus ride and try not to get their vehicles in order to experience the open street mall. This will be done for only a day. The shopkeepers have also welcomed this decision. This is part of our attempt to create public awareness regarding pedestrian’s way,” said Mohol. Pranjali Deshpande, an expert on Urban traffic management and also part of this movement said, “On December 11, pedestrians will be able to enjoy shopping without traffic hurdles. On this day the street will be closed for vehicles from Nimbalkar Talim chowk to Umbraya Ganapati chowk.” The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), in November conducted surveys to understand views of pedestrians, and shopkeepers on pedestrianising Laxmi road. “Most of the respondents are positive for a one-day trial of the same. Pedestrians have given a positive response, as most of them walk a long distance from the parking area to shops. Pedestrians also mentioned that crossing the street multiple times to access shops on the other side is a big hassle,” added Deshpande, who helped the officials with technical support to analyse data, survey form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vehiclefree-laxmi-road-on-pedestrian-day-101638725255981.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Pune police invoke 62 nd MCOCA, highest in state||The Pune police on Thursday, arrested five gang members of history sheeter Mangesh Marne’s crime syndicate. They have been booked for terrorising citizens, extortion and murder attempt under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). This is the 62nd MCOCA case in Pune, thus creating a new record of the most cases lodged by a commissionerate in one year in Maharashtra.The crackdown against organised crime syndicates by Pune police commissionerate began after the police received criticism from deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar over the massive car rally carried out by the supporters of gangster Gaja Marne following his release from Taloja Prison. According to data shared by city police, as many as 400 criminals owing allegiance to different gangs have been behind bars ever since the crackdown.Earlier, on November 30, the Pune police slapped the stringent MCOCA against Nilesh Gaikwad and 11 members of his gang who have been found terrorising people in the Warje Malwadi area. On August 8, Nilesh Gaikwad and his accomplices tried to kill Kedar Bhalshankar in a shootout between Shivne crematorium and NDA road. There are many cases of murder, attempt to murder, assault against the MCOCA accused in the case, according to the crime branch records at the police commissionerate.Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “The action against organised crime will continue and we have issued a warning to all the criminals that strict action will be taken against them if they disturb the law and order. The police are keeping a close watch on the criminals and their operations across Pune.”The crime branch recently had ordered a crackdown on criminals who had made viral their criminal activities on social media. Also, special criminal dossiers were prepared on the old and new criminals and local criminal intelligence was gathered extensively before action was taken. The respective police stations in the city have been directed to keep a close tab on the criminal happenings and patrolling has been intensified to make life secure and safe for the citizens.Crackdown on crimeTotal cases in the past three years2019 3 MCOCA cases, 45 criminals jailed2020 5 MCOCA cases, 32 jailed2021 62 MCOCA cases, 400 jailedNames of Gangs under MCOCAGaja Marne (Kothrud)Nilesh Ghaywal (Kothrud)Suryakant alias Bandu Andekar (Nana peth)Ravindra Barhate (Chatuhshringi)Akash Akhade (Warje Malwadi)Sultan alias Tipya Gang, (Bund Garden)Shubham Kamthe (Hadapsar)Mangesh Mane (Kondhwa)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-invoke-62-nd-mcoca-highest-in-state-101638724894331.html
05-12-2021||Noida||Noida: Police arrest four men with drug, cannabis, liquor during checking drive||Dadri police arrested three people with 600 tablets of a drug, 1kg of cannabis and 27 bottles of liquor during a checking drive on Sunday. The suspects were identified as Sonu Bhati (25), Rahul Kumar (26), and Vinay Sahni (24)--all residents of Gadhi village in Dadri. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer (SHO) of Dadri police station, said the suspects used to roam in the neighbourhood and sell the drugs and liquor to locals. “The police received information about the movement of three suspects on a motorcycle. A police team reached Gadhpura village and stopped them for checking. The police team then found the drugs and the liquor bottles in their possession,” said Tripathi. A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 8, 20 and 21 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. “The suspects will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Monday,” he said. In a separate case, a 25-year-old man was arrested after he was found with 250gm of cannabis in Noida’s Sector 75 on Sunday. The suspect was identified as Saurabh Singh, a resident of Mohan Nagar in Ghaziabad. Vinod Kumar, SHO of Sector 49 police station, said police received information about the suspect’s movement near a shopping mall in Sector 75. “A police team conducted a search and found 250gm of cannabis on him. The suspect revealed he used to contact people through social media and then sell the narcotic products to them,” he said. A case has been registered against him under Sections 8 and 20 of NDPS Act. Kumar said the suspect will be sent to judicial custody on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-arrest-four-men-with-drug-cannabis-liquor-during-checking-drive-101638724834166.html
05-12-2021||Noida||Noida: 37 luxury buses fined ₹10k for illegally picking up, dropping passengers||The transport department on Saturday evening fined 37 luxury buses ₹10,000 each for illegally picking up or dropping passengers on the Noida Expressway near Mahamaya Flyover. Prashant Tiwari, assistant regional transport officer (ARTO), enforcement, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the luxury buses have All India tourist permit. “This permit allows tourist buses to pick up passengers from one place and drop them at another place. This permit does not allow picking up or dropping passengers on the way. On Saturday, we conducted a vehicle-checking drive and found these buses, which were going from Delhi to UP west via Noida, were illegally picking up and dropping passengers near Mahamaya Flyover. These buses have been fined ₹10,000 each for permit violations,” he said. Tiwari said illegal parking of these buses also leads to congestion on the Noida Expressway and slows down traffic movement. He added some buses were also fined for using pressure horns with an aim to check noise pollution as per the orders of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal. Shyam Lal Gola, president of All India Luxury Bus Union, said there are 4,780 luxury buses having All India permit in his union. “These buses travel interstate and ferry a number of passengers to Bihar, UP, Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and other states. A number of people from Noida also travel in these buses. However, there is no bus stand in Noida for these buses for pick-up and drop service. Commuters sometimes gather near Mahamaya Flyover to catch the bus. The drivers stop the buses there to pick up passengers,” he said. Gola said he has advised bus operators not to stop buses in Noida. “We demand a bus stand in Noida so that local people can easily board the buses. The bus driver will also be able to drop commuters without any problem,” he said adding it will also add revenue to the government exchequer. Officials from the transport department said roadway buses and buses with stage carriage permits are allowed to pick up and drop commuters on the Noida expressway. In July 2019, the Noida transport department had seized around 72 luxury buses in Noida and Greater Noida for violating permit rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-37-luxury-buses-fined-10k-for-illegally-picking-up-dropping-passengers-101638724714229.html
05-12-2021||Noida||City to get two more sewage treatment plants by September 2022: Noida authority||The Noida authority will be constructing two more sewage treatment plants (STPs) by September next year, the trials of which would commence in March 2022, said officials in the know of the matter. The authority informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT) of the latest move as part of follow-up action that it is taking in a case filed by Abhisht Gupta, a resident of Noida’s Sector 137, who claimed authorities in Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad were releasing untreated waste water into the Shahdara and Kondli drains, thereby further polluting Yamuna river. The authority informed the court that it has six functional STPs. The new STPs will have a capacity of 80 and 100 million litres per day (MLD), and will be constructed at an estimated cost of ₹115.44 crore and ₹143.58 crore, respectively. The collective capacity of the existing STPs is 231 MLD, while the average sewage generation is 215 MLD.In addition to this, 10 new projects have been identified, which will be constructed at an estimated cost of ₹25 crore, for strengthening the existing sewerage network. Of these, eight have already been completed, while two would be completed by March next year.The authority also informed the tribunal that criminal proceedings have been initiated against eight builders, aseither theyfailed to construct the STPs, or the plants were not functional. The authority had constituted a committee to evaluate the performance of STPs in high-rises and probe the due diligence of the housing societies in ensuring that the STPs are functional. Of the total 95 group housing societies, 72 societies have been found to have fully-functional STPs. Five group housing societies have pledged in their respective undertaking that they will ensure the STPs in their premises are made functional. The authority also informed that a consultant had already inspected 15 of the 30 drains which merge at Kondli drain. The consultant suggested a bio-remediation method for major and medium drains. The construction of sump wells has been suggested for minor drains. The authority has set the target of June 2023 for the implementation of these recommendations.The Noida authority also claimed to have carried out a survey of all the 30 drains to check for encroachments on embankments, but found none.The authority also informed that 22 desludging points have been constructed near sewage pumping stations (SPS). Sewage from public toilets and slums is collected and then discharged at these decanting points by registered sewerage decanters.According to the information submitted before the NGT, the authority aims to complete the making of a wetland by February next year. This is part of the action plan for in-situ remediation and rejuvenation of Noida drains using a constructed wetland system and developing a biodiversity park.The authority’s response to the NGT also mentioned that inspection has been undertaken, in association with Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board, in 85 industries and show cause notices have been issued to 10, including levying a penalty worth nearly ₹90 lakh for releasing untreated waste water into the sewage treatment plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/city-to-get-two-more-sewage-treatment-plants-by-september-2022-noida-authority-101638724655688.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Police posers rob senior citizen couple of ₹2.6 lakh in Pune||In yet another case of citizens getting robbed by men posing as policemen, an elderly couple was robbed of gold jewellery worth ₹2,60,000 on Saturday. A complaint was lodged by a 72-year-old man who was walking with his wife on Sus road, when the incident took place. On Saturday, at 11.30am, two men on a two-wheeler approached the pedestrian couple and told them that they were policemen. They asked the complainants wife to take off the jewellery for safe keeping. When the woman did so, one of the men used sleight of hand to steal all the jewellery that the woman was wearing. The couple is from Sion, Mumbai and were visiting relatives in Pune, said officials. When the complainant reached home, they realised that the jewellery was not in the bag. The stolen jewellery was worth ₹2,60,000. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 170 (personating a public servant) has been registered against the unidentified duo. Police sub-inspector Mohan Jadhav of Chatuhshringi police station is investigating the case. The police said, similar cases have occurred in the past in not only Pune city but also in Pimpri- Chinchwad and Pune rural police jurisdiction. With senior citizens as usual targets, the accused scare the elderly with false information about an attack in the vicinity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-posers-rob-senior-citizen-couple-of-2-6-lakh-in-pune-101638724654185.html
05-12-2021||Pune||24-year-old Pune resident duped in online car sale fraud||The Pune police on Saturday, registered a case against a man for duping a 24-year-old Pune resident of ₹36,400 on the pretext of selling a car on an e-commerce site for a cheap rate. The complainant came across an advertisement on a well-known social media platform. He contacted the car owner, expressing interest in the vehicle. The man offered to sell the car to him for ₹50,000, said officials. Once the complainant agreed to buy the car, the accused offered to send the car using something they called the Indian Army courier. However, to use the courier service and to get the car at the offered price, the accused demanded an advance payment of ₹36,400, according to the complainant. After the complainant sent the money, the accused stopped communication with the complainant. The transactions took place between May 28 and 29 this year. A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act has been registered at Uttamnagar police station. Police inspector (crime) Arun Botre of Warje police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/24yearold-pune-resident-duped-in-online-car-sale-fraud-101638724294215.html
05-12-2021||Lucknow||Coffee with V-C:Lucknow University’s novel plan to bond with students||The Lucknow University (LU) administration has launched a new initiative named ‘Coffee with the Vice Chancellor: Let’s Walk the Talk’. The initiative is aimed at strengthening communication between students and the vice chancellor, LU officials said. “It is going to be an interactive series of discussions with the students and is about caring, sharing and bonding. The outreach concept will soon be a regular feature of the campus life,” said LU’s dean student welfare Prof Poonam Tandon. “The vice chancellor will meet student representatives from various departments and institutes of LU twice a week. The proceedings will be conducted under the aegis of the DSW office,” Tandon said. “These interactive sessions will provide a platform for students to discuss their expectations, aspirations and contributions over a cup of coffee with the vice chancellor. We hope that during the sessions students will express their thoughts and the interaction will be symbiotic to both students, educators and administrators of the university,” Tandon said. Vice chancellor Alok Kumar said, “The students ultimately are the most integral element in any academic set up. What they think, perceive and desire about and from their alma mater will help us improve the quality of campus life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/coffee-with-v-c-lucknow-university-s-novel-plan-to-bond-with-students-101638724234337.html
05-12-2021||Lucknow||UPTET question paper leak: Role of police constable under scanner||While exploring further nexus of people involved in UP Teachers’ Eligibility Test-2021 (UPTET) question paper leak, the UP police Special Task Force (STF) is cross-checking the role of a police constable whose name surfaced during recent arrests from Aligarh in the case, said senior police official. He said the raids were carried out in Aligarh and Agra in search of the constable and his associates. The official said the constable’s role surfaced after the arrest of one Gaurav Kumar from Aligarh. He said Gaurav, who is resident for Aligarh’s Tappal, revealed during interrogation that he had arranged question papers with the help of his friend Nirdosh Singh, the resident of Gonda, Aligarh. The investigation revealed that Nirdosh has arranged these papers through Dharmendra Malik, Ravi Pawar alias Bunty, Manish Malik alias Monu, Ajay alias Bablu from some contact in Mathura. He said it is suspected that Nirdosh’s brother, who is a police constable, was also in the knowhow of the entire thing. He said the investigation about Nirdosh’s involvement is being crosschecked. So far, 39 people had been arrested in connection with the paper leak case while the involvement of at least 10 others surfaced in the matter. The UP STF had arrested 34 people while five others were arrested by the local police unit in Basti district. The state government had cancelled the UPTET-2021 scheduled on November 28 after the paper leak came to fore following the arrests and recovery of question papers from some of them hours before the exam on November 27. A total of 19,99,418 examinees were supposed to write the UPTET scheduled in two shifts at 2,736 centers across 75 districts of UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet-question-paper-leak-role-of-police-constable-under-scanner-101638723694055.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Swachh a pity, say Bavdhan residents; conduct own cleanliness survey||Pune jumped 10 spots to be ranked India’s fifth cleanest city in the ‘Swachh Survekshan 2021’, results of which were declared on November 20. However, this did not sit well with the Bavdhan residents who believe the reality on ground is contradicting and their area is an embodiment of irresponsibly discarded filth. Suggesting that the ratings could be rigged, a group of 10-20 volunteers from Bavdhan Citizens’ Forum decided to take matters in their own hands and conducted their own survey. “We surveyed 10 main lanes and service roads in Bavdhan and documented every spot where garbage was being dumped. This is what we found, considering the total area of Bavdhan, the number of janitors is inadequate. There is also a lack of garbage trucks and lanes are not cleaned daily. So much so, some lanes aren’t cleaned for ten days. The garbage isn’t picked up immediately, leading to accumulation of garbage on the road. The cleaner’s sort and store garbage on the road, which in turn leads to people dumping more garbage on that spot, said Dushyant Bhatia, a member of the forum. Through the survey, the members also observed, that no action was taken against hotels, societies, citizens, vegetable growers, shopkeepers who litter the streets. Due to the lack of a timetable for the garden waste pickup, the society and the citizens throw mulch and branches on the road. The members have used the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) complaint portal to highlight the ever- growing garbage menace, only to have the ticket closed without attending or some temporary clean-up done. In their survey, the members found that root of the problem are habitual violators, weak system of garbage pickup service, improper ways of street sweeping and collection of collected waste, no fixed garden waste collection schedule and unfinished road/footpath works. Resident Deepa Prabhu says, “We have a concept called adopt a lane, wherein volunteers adopt the lane they live in and report civic issues, connect with concerned departments and get it resolved. But garbage is a huge issue and needs holistic approach. So, we have got all the chronic spots and pain points covered through this survey. This exercise helped us to identify major issues and hence give crisp points for discussion and probable solutions. Now it’s easy for us to sit with the ground level PMC cleanliness team to take appropriate action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/swachh-a-pity-say-bavdhan-residents-conduct-own-cleanliness-survey-101638723635240.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Nod sought for hiring 50 firemen on contract basis in Pune||Following the state government’s reluctance to fill vacant posts, the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) has decided to hire firemen on contract basis. Given the shortage of manpower, the PMC standing committee chairman approved the contract-based recruitment, according to officials of the city fire department. According to Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, Pune city, a total of 910 posts have been sanctioned, out of which 527 posts are vacant. The current strength of PMC fire department is 383, and the contract hiring will add 50 firemen to the existing strength. “Yes, the number of firemen being hired is less. However, in the old jurisdiction of PMC, we have had fire stations which were functional with only two people. They are not able to use the vehicle, so their vehicles are brought to the central station. These 50 firemen will ensure that every station has a vehicle and staff strength to use it,” said Ranpise. While the temporary post-filling will help the fire department in mitigating the fire-related duties in the city better, the fate of those hired in these temporary roles is something to be pondered over. “This has been done before. We had hired firemen on contract three years ago,” said Ranpise. However, what the deal means for those signing up for the risky job on a temporary basis was evident from Ranpise’s answer, “I do not know what happened after the year was up. We were not hiring, and the contract ended.” The fire department of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) works with maximum percentage of staff on contract basis. A 27-year-old fireman from Pirangut division, who has been on contract for the past three years, outlined their plight under condition of anonymity. “We do not get housing facility like fire officials usually do or dearness allowance. We work six days a week and there is no concept of annual leave. If we remain absent on a day aside from our weekly off, we face pay cuts. Health insurance is a joke. The training that we underwent in Mumbai was paid for by us; it cost me around ₹1-1.5 lakh. The difference between the lives of my colleagues on government payroll and mine is vast, while we both do the same job,” said the official.  Manpower crunch Sanctioned posts: 910 Number of ranks: 22-24 Vacancy: 527 Present strength: 383 Number of fire divisions: 12 Retired in 2020-2021: 33 Estimated staff requirement for new jurisdiction: 2,500||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nod-sought-for-hiring-50-firemen-on-contract-basis-in-pune-101638723344824.html
05-12-2021||Other||Lucknow’s JIM students’ initiative to help poor students continue online education||Lucknow: Students of the Jaipuria Institute of Management (JIM), Lucknow on Sunday continued their social outreach programme that is aimed at helping school dropouts and underprivileged students continue their studies through online education. As part of the outreach, 54 teams of JIM students spread out across the city, visiting residential and market areas as well as metro stations appealing to the people to donate used phones, tablets, and laptops. “After being refurbished, these devices would be distributed to the underprivileged students of government schools with the help of basic education department and NGOs. After a good response on December 2 and 5, the students will continue the campaign on December 7 as well,” said Kavita Pathak, director, JIM. “This initiative is a ray of hope to for such students who had to dropout from schools due to pandemic and lack of access to digital devices necessary for attending online classes. This is for a noble cause and I appeal to everyone to support the cause”, said Reena Agrawal, chairperson, social responsibility committee at JIM, Lucknow. Increasing awareness, interest, and significant contribution of the people of the city towards this campaign has kept us motivated. I am proud to be a part of this noble cause and extremely happy that our efforts will help school and college dropouts restart education,” said Safwan Ahmed, JIM student. Vishal Singh, another student who is part of the campaign said: “Young blood can shape a better India. I am happy to see that my fellow students understand the importance of initiative and are trying their best to make it a success.” “We are collecting proof of identity of the donors of digital devices and identifying them. In return, we are providing a receipt to them as proof,” said Omesh Srivastava, a campaign volunteer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknows-jim-students-initiative-to-help-poor-students-continue-online-education-101638723334913.html
05-12-2021||Mumbai||Two minor boys drown in Thane water pit||Dead bodies of two minor boys were discovered on Sunday afternoon, drowned in a pit, filled with rainwater in Thane. The regional disaster management team removed the boys’ bodies from the pit. The deceased, identified as Abhishek Verma and Krushna Gaud (both 11), residents of Ramnagar, Upvan area of Thane West.According to the Vartak Nagar cops, the families of the two boys came to the police station at around 9.30pm to file a missing complaint. Both the boys had left home at around 4.30pm on Saturday, each informing his family that he was going to play at the ground. When neither returned till dinner time, the families realised that both boys were missing. The duo might have entered the pit for fishing or swimming, since their clothes were found nearby, and drowned as they could not comprehend its depth, the police said. The bodies were sent to a government hospital for post-mortem and a case of accidental death was registered, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-minor-boys-drown-in-thane-water-pit-101638722014834.html
05-12-2021||Mumbai||19 international passengers, 6 contacts test positive||Mumbai/Kalyan A total of 19 international travellers and six of the contacts tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai, according to information from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). This has taken the total suspected Omicron cases in Mumbai to 24.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the civic public health department said, “All patients have been shifted to hospitals, and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing.”Two of the close contacts of the Nigeria returnee from Kalyan tested positive for Covid as well on Sunday. As per the health department of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), a total of 100 people have been tracked, traced and tested.Till December 4, a total of 4,227 international passengers from high-risk countries have arrived in Mumbai, BMC said. As per the Maharashtra government order of December 2, all people who are coming from these countries, or have travel history to these countries within the past two weeks, have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine of seven days upon arrival in Mumbai.On Saturday, a 33-year old resident of Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC), who returned from South Africa and came to Mumbai via Delhi, tested positive for Omicron. A senior civic official from KDMC said, “This patient is completely asymptomatic. He is in a Covid care facility for observation. On Tuesday, he will complete 14 days since his test result and an RT-PCR test will be done again. If found negative, the person can return home. All his family members were tested for Covid and they tested negative. They have to self monitor their health for symptoms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/19-international-passengers-6-contacts-test-positive-101638721353971.html
05-12-2021||Bangalore||CM Bommai says Congress trying to win council polls through money||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the Congress was using ‘money power’ to win the upcoming legislative council elections in the state, adding that the grand old party was losing people’s support. The council elections are slated to be held on December 10.Bommai, who addressed the 'Vijay Sankalp' convention organised by the Bharaitya Janata Party (BJP) at Attibele, said, "The Congress had stooped to the level of using any means to win the elections. Fielding those with moneybags as its candidates, making them pay big for the party kitty. There is a clear fall of morality in the Congress. People should show the Congress its place as the party is trying to win the election through immoral splurge of money."Hitting back at Congress veteran and former CM Siddaramaiah's allegations that the BJP always used money and muscle power to win elections, Bommai said it is the grand old party which indulged in money distribution."What morality do you talk about when you are banking on money for selecting candidates to fight the election? You (Siddaramaiah) did not bother to look at gram panchayats when in power. Your promise just ahead of the 2017 election to distribute one lakh houses has remained a promise," Bommai said.The CM further said the BJP-led government in the state has initiated steps to build one lakh homes in urban areas and four lakh homes in rural areas, which would be completed in the next one and half years.The BJP is contesting in 20 out of 25 seats in the legislative council election across 20 local bodies, voting for which will take place on December 10.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cm-bommai-says-congress-trying-to-win-council-polls-through-money-101638720030311.html
05-12-2021||Mumbai||Seven more Omicron cases reported in state||Mumbai The number of Omicron cases shot up in Maharashtra with the samples of seven more people in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune testing positive for the variant. The seven new cases reported on Saturday include a 44-year-old Nigerian citizen of Indian origin, who travelled from Nigeria to Pimpri-Chinchwad near Pune. Her two daughters, brother and his two daughters, who were her close contacts, also tested positive. The 47-year-old-man from Pune, who had travelled to Finland last month, also tested positive. The woman and her daughters had travelled to Pune on November 24 from Lagos in Nigeria. After the woman tested positive, 13 of her close contacts were traced and tested. However, while the Nigerian woman has mild symptoms, the other five have no symptoms at all. Of these six people, three are under 18 years of age and hence, they have not taken any vaccine. The three adults are fully vaccinated, while two have taken Covishield, one has taken Covaxin. These patients are being treated at the Jijamata Hospital in Pimpri-Chinchwad and are reported to be stable. In Pune, another patient, who visited Finland, had a mild fever on November 29 and then tested positive. This man was fully vaccinated with Covishield and is asymptomatic and stable. The genomic sequencing carried out at the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) found the variant in his swab sample. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, Maharashtra said, “Though it is too premature to predict if a third wave may set in, the Omicron strain shows mild symptoms. Hence, this variant may be in disguise. It may also act as natural vaccination and build up immunity.” So far, a total of 4,901 international passengers have arrived in Maharashtra, at the Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur airports, from countries designated as high-risk. Their RT-PCR samples have been collected, and of these, nine were found to be Covid-positive, and have been sent for genomic sequencing. Public health minister Rajesh Tope stressed on the need for increasing vaccination coverage and observing Covid-appropriate behaviour. “However, there is no cause for panic. Experts from South Africa said that the variant shows mild symptoms, but with high transmissibility,” he said, adding that in South Africa, there were no reports of any high need for hospitalization, ICU admissions or death rate. On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 707 Covid-19 cases with Mumbai accounting for 207, with a total of 7,151 active cases. It also saw seven fatalities, taking the mortality tally to 1,41,170. A total of 78,858 people are in home quarantine and 916 people are in institutional quarantine. Maharashtra has till 7pm on Sunday had administered 11,84,35,568 doses to 7,58,84,638 people inoculated with first dose and 4,25,50,930 with both their doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/seven-more-omicron-cases-reported-in-state-101638718658082.html
05-12-2021||Patna||Judges should not count their leaves: SC judge||Judges should not count their leaves and instead devote all the time to the service of the people, as there is no alternative to hard work, said Justice MR Shah, Supreme Court judge, at the valedictory session of the 30th batch of civil judges (junior division) of the Bihar Judicial Services, organised by the Bihar Judicial Academy here on Sunday. Speaking as the chief guest, Justice Shah reminded the young officers that honesty, integrity, impartiality, empathy and a complete dedication towards work were the hallmarks of a good Judge. He interacted and met the 337 civil judges and motivated them to give their best to society, said a communique issued through the district public relations officer, Patna, on Sunday. Justice Sanjay Karol, chief justice of the Patna high court-cum-patron in chief, Bihar Judicial Academy, spoke about the quality training provided to the young officers by the best minds of the country even during the pandemic. He also reminded the young civil judges that a judge should always be humble and behave properly with the advocates and the litigants. He highlighted the fact that Patna high court and the people of Bihar had high hopes from these young judges and that they need to work hard and follow the necessary judicial discipline to live up to the expectation. Justice Rajan Gupta, judge of the Patna high court-cum-executive chairman Bihar State Legal Services Authority, cautioned the young officers that due process of law should not be compromised on account of haste to merely contain the figures of pendency. On the other hand, due process of law should be used to instil confidence in the general public. Justice Ashwani Kumar Singh, judge of the Patna high court-cum-chairman, Bihar Judicial Academy, urged the young judges that they should keep evolving as a person and not let their knowledge stagnate. Earlier, Alok Kumar Pandey, director of the Bihar Judicial Academy delivered the welcome address while Bharat Bhushan Bhasin, additional director of the academy proposed a vote of thanks..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/judges-should-not-count-their-leaves-sc-judge-101638716793582.html
05-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai fire brigade to train sr citizens and homemakers with fire-safety skills||From January 2022, the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) will begin an awareness drive in a phased manner to arm senior citizens and homemakers with basic firefighting skills. The training will be free of cost and will be held during weekends in the command centres at Byculla, Wadala, Vikhroli, Mankhurd and Borivli.Explaining why MFB has decided to rope in senior citizens in the drive, Hemant Parab, chief fire officer, Mumbai Fire Brigade informed, “Several senior citizens hold a key position in the management bodies of the housing societies across Mumbai. Sensitising them with fire prevention acts will enable them to carry out regular maintenance in their premises and also, they will be able to identify and alert us about discrepancy or malfunction in fire equipment of their buildings.” Last month, the fire brigade sent notices to more than 90 residential buildings for non-compliance with fire safety norms. MFB discovered during their regular inspections that members of several housing societies are not aware of the maintenance of the firefighting systems. “Besides teaching and sensitising them with provisions of the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, basic firefighting techniques like operating an extinguisher, maintaining the refuge areas, evacuation techniques and household items that can be used to douse the fire, will be included in the training session,” shared Parab.Homemakers will be trained under the unique module which has been jointly organised with an NGO, Project Mumbai, as the fire brigade found in its case studies that women and children are some of the most vulnerable during fire incidents.Parab informed, “Several fire incidents occur due to cylinder blasts at home. The idea is to give homemakers a basic understanding of how to control the flame at its initial stage. The NGO will be providing all the logistic support and help people get registered for the course.”Shishir Joshi, founder and CEO of Project Mumbai said that the overall programme has been divided into four categories. While the first two involves senior citizens and housewives, the third and fourth categories will be arranging awareness drives and campaigns at schools and municipal ward levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-brigade-to-train-sr-citizens-and-homemakers-with-fire-safety-skills-101638716673741.html
05-12-2021||Other||14 die in security operation in Nagaland; CM calls for high-level probe||Thirteen people died, including an Army jawan, in an operation by security personnel in Nagaland’s Mon district on Saturday, police officials said. The Army personnel were conducting an operation in the area after receiving inputs on the movement of militants of Yung Aung faction of proscribed outfit NSCN (K) but mistakenly fired at a ferry van carrying local coal miners, officials said. Another civilian was killed while a few others were injured in Mon town on Sunday when security personnel opened fire to fend off an angry mob that had vandalized the camp of 27th Assam Rifles camp after Saturday’s incident, officials said. “In the two firing incidents, in all, 13 civilians were killed,” said a local police officer, who was not willing to be quoted considering the sensitivities involved. Army personnel reportedly fired at a ferry van carrying local coal miners to Oting village from Tiru on Saturday late evening. Police officials said the pick-up truck was ferrying Oting villagers who were working in a coalfield near Tiru. The coal miners normally return home on Saturday and report back to work on Monday, the official said.The vehicle was allegedly fired on by Army personnel who were conducting an operation in the area after receiving inputs on the movement of militants of Yung Aung faction of proscribed outfit NSCN (K), the police officer quoted above said. Mon shares a porous international border with Myanmar, where the Yung Aung faction of NSCN (K) is based. Hearing about the incident, police said, angry villagers reached the spot and attacked Army personnel in which a jawan lost his life. They also reportedly set ablaze two security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing by security forces to “control the situation”, police said. The injured and the dead bodies were said to have been shifted to Mon district headquarters. “The security forces have suffered severe injuries in the incident including one soldier who succumbed to the injuries,” the headquarters of 3 Corps, the Army unit conducting the operation, said. Arson was reported from different parts of the district on Sunday in which two government vehicles were burnt and protest marches were held. The Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO), the apex body of six Naga tribes of five districts including Mon, directed locals not to participate in the Hornbill festival, the state’s biggest festival that started last week. Nagaland home commissioner Abhijit Sinha said section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been imposed in Mon district and internet services have been suspended “till further orders”. Local police are conducting a flag march in the area to prevent any other untoward incident, he said. The state government and the army have both constituted inquiry teams to probe into the incident. In a statement, the Army said a court of inquiry has been ordered and “deeply regretted” the incident. The Army said the unfortunate loss of lives is being investigated at the highest level. Chief minister Neiphiu Rio promised a high-level probe into the incident and appealed to all sections of the society to maintain peace as he returned to Kohima from New Delhi after the incident. “The unfortunate incident leading to the killing of civilians at Oting, Mon is highly condemnable. Condolences to the bereaved families & speedy recovery of those injured. High level SIT will investigate & justice delivered as per the law of the land. Appeal for peace from all sections,” he tweeted. Union home minister Amit Shah also tweeted, “Anguished over an unfortunate incident in Nagaland’s Oting, Mon. I express my deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives. A high-level SIT constituted by the State govt will thoroughly probe this incident to ensure justice to the bereaved families.” The Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO), the apex body of six Naga tribes of five districts including Mon, has vehemently condemned the “barbaric act” of the security forces. The ENPO has requested all its six (Konyak, Khiamniungan, Phom, Sangtam, Yimkhiung and Chang) tribes to abstain from participating in the ongoing Hornbill Festival with immediate effect till the funeral rites of the deceased are completed, and directed them to hoist black flags at their morungs (traditional huts) at the main festival site- The Naga Heritage Village Kisama. The Konyak Union Kohima, whose office in Mon Town was also vandalised, has already announced to abstain from any further participation at the ongoing festival citing atrocities perpetrated by the security forces at Oting village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14-die-in-security-operation-in-nagaland-cm-calls-for-high-level-probe-101638716313780.html
05-12-2021||Mumbai||Mamata not considering a political foray into Maharashtra: Shiv Sena||Stirring the political pot, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha (RS) MP Sanjay Raut has said that All India Trinamool Congress (AITMC) president and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee seems to be looking at creating an anti-Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) front while excluding the Congress from it. Raut added however that the AITMC is not considering a political foray into Maharashtra as the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) are standing up to the might of the BJP effectively.In his weekly column on Sunday in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, of which he is the executive editor, Raut said that Banerjee, who visited Mumbai last week and met Sena leader and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, wants to expand beyond her state. The AITMC has already created a footprint in Goa, Meghalaya and Tripura, he said. “It seems that she is thinking of doing something new minus the Congress,” wrote Raut, quickly adding that the AITMC chief had said that they are not eager to make a foray into Maharashtra due to the strong presence of the Shiv Sena and NCP.Taking a potshot at the BJP for claiming that Banerjee came here to poach local industries, Raut said, “They (BJP) criticised Banerjee but did not utter a word against the Gujarat chief minister who met industrialists from Maharashtra for the Vibrant Gujarat summit. This is hypocrisy.”The Congress is a constituent of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, which is led by Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. During her visit to Mumbai, Banerjee, while speaking to the press, questioned the existence of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) which is anchored by the Congress.In a deliberate reference to Banerjee’s slogan during her visit, “Jai Bangla, Jai Maharashtra” Raut said, “This cry is a symbol of how politics will shape up in the future.” He likened Banerjee’s visit to that of a sister returning to her parents’ home.Raut said that like the BJP’s resounding defeat in West Bengal at the hands of Banerjee, a similar set of events had played out in Maharashtra (through the formation of the MVA government) “to stand up to the overarching dominance of Delhi”. The people of Maharashtra and Bengal had defeated the “power, money and extreme terrorism of the central investigating agencies,” he said.Referring to the clashes between the West Bengal government and the Centre, Raut quoted Banerjee as saying, “the Marathas and the Bengalis are martial people; they will not step down…”With the BJP having questioned details of the meeting between Banerjee and Aaditya Thackeray at the Trident hotel, Raut said that the duo discussed the development of tourism in both the states and that Banerjee demanded a plot in Mumbai for accommodating cancer patients visiting the Tata Memorial hospital in Mumbai.BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar had ridiculed Banerjee’s visit to Mumbai as “a storm in a teacup”. “All regional parties cannot coalesce together due to the contradictions involved. So, there will be multiple alliances… Hence, an anti-(Narendra) Modi all-party alliance cannot shape up,” Bhatkhalkar had said. In a cautious comment, Atul Londhe, chief spokesperson of the Maharashtra Congress, said that the column and Saamana’s editorial position had put forth an anti-BJP stance. He said that unlike Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel and his predecessor Anandiben Patel, Banerjee had come here to serve as a link between Maharashtra and Bengal. “The Congress has nationwide presence… to defeat the BJP, the Congress will have to be taken together,” he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mamata-not-considering-a-political-foray-into-maharashtra-shiv-sena-101638716074097.html
05-12-2021||Other||Centre to upgrade health institutes in Manipur, says Union Ayush minister||Union Minister of Port, Shipping & Waterways and AYUSH Sarbananda Sonowal on Sunday said the government has decided to develop 15 Ayush dispensaries and seven 10-bedded Ayush hospitals besides 100 School Herbal Gardens in Manipur under the AYUSH ministry.Sonowal, who was in Imphal on his 2-day visit to the northeastern border state, made the announcement during a press conference at the Indian Medical Association Hall in Imphal.Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh, Union minister of state for external affairs & education Dr RK Ranjan Singh were also present during the press conference. Sonowal also announced the development of one nursery each in 16 districts of the state to produce quality planting materials and 50 health and wellness centres.Disclosing that these were the projects which his ministry decided to take up for the people of Manipur, he said, “I’m confident that the particular schemes will inspire the people of Manipur to develop the herbal gardens and medicinal plants.”“I’m also confident that the Ayush industry also plays an important role in the state of Manipur and creates employment generation,” he said and hoped for successful completion of the projects with the cooperation of the people.Stating that Manipur is a very potential and resourceful state in terms of medicinal plants, it is known for its traditional trading system and also its traditional system of medicine, he said with the availability of resources, the Ministry of Ayush and the Government of India are stamping its spot in Manipur. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given lots of importance and emphasis to the steady growth of Northeastern states.The Union minister also expressed his gratitude to the chief minister of Manipur and the council of ministers along with local MLAs and the people of Manipur.Later, the minister visited 19-bedded AYUSH Hospital at Kongjeng Leikai, Imphal West District and interacted with medical staff and patients besides witnessing a yoga performance by students.Earlier in the day, the visiting Union minister attended a function to promote the documentation, scientific validation and evaluation of traditional healthcare practices of the northeast region of the country.Advisor to CM (health) Manipur, Dr S Ranjan Singh, professor A Santa (RIMS), professor L Deben (JNIMS) were also present during the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-to-upgrade-health-institutes-in-manipur-says-union-ayush-minister-101638713914646.html
05-12-2021||Patna||Omicron scare impacts hospitality sector in Bodh Gaya||Though the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease is yet to make an entry into the state, the hospitality sector in Bodh Gaya, the major tourist destination of Bihar, has started feeling its impacts. Bookings and even queries to block facilities at hotels, tour packages and guides have stopped coming and even those which were to be confirmed in the last three-four days, have been cancelled, as per hotel owners, package tour planners and guides in Bodh Gaya. Bodh Gaya is one of the most visited destinations in the state during winters. It was here Lord Buddha attained enlightenment under the Bodhi tree, located on the premises of Mahabodhi temple. To mark the spiritual significance of that incident, various Buddhist sects and groups hold Buddhist Puja ceremonies, rituals and prayer sessions during winters which include Chivar Daan, a ritual of donating robes to the monks and nuns to Sutta Path and prayers for world peace. These festivals are learnt to be attended by tourists from across the world, keeping the hotels, tour package centres and guides at Bodh Gaya occupied and throbbing with activities throughout the tourism season from October to March. “And when Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual Guru is in the holy city, more than 1.5 lakh foreign tourists stay back there. A huge number of tourists mean big businesses for all in Bodh Gaya, ranging from hotels, tour planners and guides to roadside food vendors and handicrafts sellers. Everybody remains engaged and earn money. And this time as the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC), which manages the maintenance and activities at the Mahabodhi temple, allowed six Buddhist festivals and Pujas, the entire sector expected a good season after a long gap of two seasons amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The knock made by Omicron variant of the Covid-19 in the country has spoilt everything,” Suresh Kumar Singh, the Bodh Gaya Travel Association secretary, said. Even the case of a member of the Mongolian delegation, which visited Bodh Gaya a couple of days ago, testing positive for Covid-19 seems to have created panic among people. “We had a good number of queries for the bookings of the packages and hotels. In fact, people were preparing to visit Bodh Gaya in December end or in January-February 2022 to attend Buddhist Pujas. And Srilankans were planning to turn up in March 2022,” he said. But there came the news of Omicron cases being identified in the country and all the queries stopped. Even those which were to be confirmed have been put on hold, he added. “What if the state again comes under the lockdown?” he said. Rakesh Kumar, the Bodh Gaya tourist guide association secretary said the hospitality sector people just started getting back to normal when the Omicron hit again. “The immediate impact of the new variant of Covid-19 is Union government’s decision to revise its plan to resume international flights from December 15. Now, the new date will be announced later, “ he said. The hospitality sector in Bodh Gaya cannot survive without foreign tourists. Though the government has been promoting domestic tourism and people are also visiting Bodh Gaya, they are not staying back, he added. 
05-12-2021||Mumbai||ED records Param Bir Singh’s statement in corruption case||Mumbai Former commissioner of Mumbai police Param Bir Singh on Friday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) at its south Mumbai office to record his statement in connection with the money laundering case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Param Bir Singh, who had been issued three summons by ED, finally responded on Friday. According to ED officers, Singh was questioned by the investigation officer, an assistant-director level officer, in the presence of the Deputy Director of ED Mumbai for several hours before they recorded his statement. Anil Deshmukh is in judicial custody. He was arrested by the ED on November 3, after he appeared before ED officials on Nov 2 in the laundering case. He had earlier failed to appear even after five summons in the case by the ED. The case by the ED was registered following the CBI FIR against Anil Deshmukh for allegedly asking some police officers to extort ₹100 crore a month for him. In the same case, the ED had earlier arrested Deshmukh’s Personal Assistant and Personal Secretary and had summoned Deshmukh and his son Hrishikesh for questioning. Param Bir Singh had alleged in his letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh asked Sachin Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore a month following which Vaze had contacted several bar owners and demanded money from them his bosses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-records-param-bir-singh-s-statement-in-corruption-case-101638711993473.html
05-12-2021||Mumbai||EOW files 10th FIR against Cox and Kings for duping Yes Bank||Mumbai The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mumbai police has registered the 10th First Information Report (FIR) in connection with the bank loan frauds linked to global tour and travels company Cox and Kings. Unlike the previous nine FIRs, the latest offence is registered against Cox and Kings Financial Services Ltd (CKFSL), a sister concern of Cox and Kings, for defrauding Yes Bank of nearly ₹ 400 crore.The FIR names Cox and Kings Financial Services Ltd’s promoter and director Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar, his wife Urshila Kerkar and two others as accused in the case. They were booked by the Banking (cheating) unit-2 of EOW recently on the complaint of Ashish Vinod Joshi, chief vigilance officer, Yes Bank.According to the FIR, by making false and bogus purchases and selling transactions records in the company’s account books during years 2018 to 2019, the accused persons showed the financial condition of the company is in good shape.“The company presented its incorrect/falsified financial statements to justify high creditworthiness. The company did not use the loan money for the purpose they have availed it. The company also violated various terms and conditions imposed by Yes Bank and breached the bank’s trust with the help of fudged balance sheets and caused wrongful loss to the bank to the tune of ₹398.38 crore,” the complainant added.EOW sources said various financial irregularities surfaced during the forensic audit of accounts of Cox and Kings groups, following which details of loan defaults have also emerged.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is also probing the money laundering aspect pertaining to the purported irregularities of the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eow-files-10th-fir-against-cox-and-kings-for-duping-yes-bank-101638709352963.html
05-12-2021||Jaipur||‘BJP will win Rajasthan polls with two-thirds majority’: Amit Shah at Gehlot turf||Union home affair minister Amit Shah on Sunday exuded confidence that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will win the assembly elections in Rajasthan in 2023 with a two-thirds majority.Addressing the 'Janpratinidhi Sankalp Sammelan' in Jaipur, Shah threw a direct challenge at Rajasthan chief minister and Congress leader Ashok Gehlot and said the BJP will form the government in the northwestern state.“The BJP will win the 2023 Rajasthan Assembly polls with a 2/3rd majority. This useless and corrupt Ashok Gehlot government must be rooted out in time from Rajasthan and the BJP should govern,” Shah was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Shah alleged that the Congress implemented the 'Gareeb Hatao' slogan, instead of 'Gareebi Hatao Andolan'. “Congress hear me out, instead of 'Gareebi Hataao', you did 'Gareeb Hataao'. BJP has provided more than 11 crores toilets which have secured the dignity of women and daughters. We have given more than 2 crore homes. Given gas cylinders to 13 crore homes. We have given ₹5 lakh of medical facilities to ₹60 crore people,” the home minister said during his speech, slamming the Congress further.Shah was on a two-day visit to Rajasthan and went to Jaipur to address the BJP state working executive committee meeting.He said that the BJP will be voted to power in Rajasthan with a thumping majority. "BJP will never topple the government in Rajasthan, it will come to power in state with strong mandate in 2023 assembly polls", Shah said.(With inputs from Sachin Saini in Jaipur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-will-win-raj-polls-with-two-thirds-majority-amit-shah-at-gehlot-turf-101638707045553.html
05-12-2021||Mumbai||FIR against gangster Suresh Pujari for extortion||Mumbai The Mumbai police have registered an extortion case against gangster Suresh Pujari for allegedly trying to extort money from a Borivali-based hotelier by threatening to kill him. Apart from the local police, the case against Pujari is also being probed by the city crime branch officials. The complainant, a resident of Bhayander, works in a Borivali hotel as the manager. The hotel is owned by four partners.According to the police, on June 25, the manager received a call from an unidentified number asking for the four owners. The caller identified himself as gangster Suresh Pujari and asked the manager to tell his employers to give him the extortion money. Again between June 26-29, the manager received several phone calls from seven different and unknown numbers, but he didn’t answer. He then received a threatening SMS stating that if the hotel owners did not call Pujari, then his men would barge into the hotel and kill him. The hoteliers were afraid and didn’t inform anyone about the threats. On October 15 when Suresh Pujari was arrested in Philippines by the local intelligence services, the hoteliers mustered courage to report the matter to the police. The police have registered a case against Pujari under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code for extortion and death threats. The crime branch officials are also making a parallel probe in the case.At present, Pujari has eight extortion cases registered against him in Mumbai. Pujari had been on the run for the past 14 years and in 2015, Interpol issued a Red Corner Notice against him.According to police officials, Suresh Pujari was initially associated with underworld don Chhota Rajan and Ravi Pujari gangs, but in 2011 he formed his own gang. “Even after forming a separate gang Suresh Pujari and Ravi Pujari stayed in touch and helped each other,” said a crime branch official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-gangster-suresh-pujari-for-extortion-101638708333303.html
05-12-2021||Jaipur||Fed up with fights with husband, Kota woman jumps into well with 5 daughters||Upset over regular fights with her husband, a 40-year-old woman allegedly jumped into a well with her five minor daughters, all of whom died, when the man had gone to attend the condolence meeting of a relative, police said Sunday.They said the villagers spotted the six bodies Sunday morning and informed the police who rushed the bodies to a local hospital.The deceased woman has been identified as Badamdevi, a mother of seven and the wife of Shivlal Banjara, a resident of Banjaron Ka Dera at Kaliyahedi village under Chechat police station.The five minor deceased girls are Savitri (14), Ankali (8), Kajal (6), Gunjan (4) and one-year-old Archana.Police said the two other daughters -- Gayatri (15) and Punam (7) -- escaped the ill-fate as they remained asleep.Chechat Circle Officer DSP Praveen Nayak said prima facie the routine fights between the woman and her husband was the reason behind the woman taking the extreme step.Shivlal worked as a blanket and cloth vendor.The CO said the man was not present at his home when the incident occurred on the intervening night of Saturday on Sunday as he had gone to attend the condolence meeting at his relative’s home in another village.Chechat police station SHO Rajendra Meena said the well is just 100 meters from the house of the woman.Shivlal returned to home Sunday morning after being informed of the incident but he did not tell the police why his wife took the extreme step, the SHO said.A case under section 174 of CrPC would be lodged in the matter to investigate carried out, he said.The postmortem of the six bodies is underway, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/fed-up-with-fights-with-husband-kota-woman-jumps-into-well-with-5-daughters-101638706896248.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||ATM withdrawal: Need to clearly define terms of use||A court’s interpretation of a law or a rule or even terms and conditions of a contract, can well have far reaching implications for consumers. One such verdict of a district consumer disputes redressal commission, given in 2018, continues to haunt consumers even today.I am referring to the order of the Fourth Additional District Consumer Commission in Bengaluru, saying that when a wife or a husband withdraws money from an ATM at the behest of the spouse, it constitutes ‘unauthorised’ use. Therefore, the bank enjoyed immunity from liability towards any deficiency in service connected with that particular ATM withdrawal.Of course, one can put forward many arguments against this verdict. Besides, there is some comfort in the thought that neither the apex consumer court nor the final authority in the matter — the Supreme Court — has looked into the issue. However, given the consequences of such a verdict on millions of ATM users, it is absolutely essential to find an immediate out-of-court solution to the problem created by the consumer court verdict, keeping in mind the ground realities in the country.Before I go further, let me give a brief account of this case for the benefit of those who may not be aware of it. The case is about a woman, recuperating after delivering a child, handing over her ATM card and PIN number to her husband, for withdrawal of ₹25,000 from her account. Unfortunately, the ATM did not dispense the money, but showed a debit in her account. The husband immediately called up the bank’s helpline and was assured that the money would be deposited into his wife’s account.When this was not done, the couple lodged a complaint and was told that as per the terms and conditions governing the ATM card, the card was not transferable, the card holder was not entitled to hand it over to anyone nor disclose the PIN number. By asking her husband to draw the money, the consumer had violated these terms and conditions and therefore was not entitled to claim any relief.The district consumer commission agreed with this view and held that the bank bore no liability for the unauthorised use of the card and having violated the terms and conditions, the consumer was not entitled to any relief (Mrs. Vandana Vs the General Manager, SBI local head office, Bengaluru — CC. No. 1786 of 2014, decided on May 29, 2018).Now there are many unanswered questions here. For example, did the bank bring to the notice of the customer, the terms and conditions of usage and explain the meaning of the term ‘not transferable’? Did the bank tell the customer that asking the spouse to withdraw money constituted violation of the terms of usage? Does not asking your spouse to draw money from the ATM on your behalf constitute ‘deemed authorisation’ and therefore such withdrawal, authorised? If the cash was not dispensed by the ATM, how can the bank keep the money that legally belongs to the customer? Is it not illegal? Does it not constitute ‘unjust enrichment’? How can such conduct be upheld?These are of course questions to be considered by the courts, but in the meanwhile, it is imperative that the banks immediately provide for such ‘authorised’ withdrawal. A large section of the population — the sick, visually challenged, physically constrained people and very senior citizens, depend on their spouse or a close relative to draw money on their behalf. While cheques are mostly used in these situations, there could be emergencies where someone has to rush to an ATM in the night to draw cash. Besides, with many banks closing down branches as unviable, a bank branch may be too far away. In fact, the very convenience of an ATM card would be defeated if one is unable to authorise even a spouse or a close friend or a close relative to draw cash on your behalf, particularly in emergencies. One way out could be to provide for an ‘authorised user’. That is, the ATM card holder can be given an option of filling up a form, giving details of an authorised user and his or her photograph. It is a little different from an add-on credit card in that here the card remains with the card holder and whenever necessary, he or she can give the card and the PIN number to the authorised user to draw cash. The card holder can withdraw this authorisation-again through a proper format — whenever required and of course change the PIN. This way, the debit card holder enjoys the convenience of asking the authorized person to withdraw money on her or his behalf , while also taking responsibility for withdrawals or usage by the authorised user. Will the Reserve Bank kindly consider this? 
05-12-2021||Other||FIR against former Uttarakhand cabinet minister Yashpal Arya, his son and 22 others||Uttarakhand Police have registered an FIR against former cabinet minister Yashpal Arya, his son and 22 others in Bazpur of US Nagar after an altercation took place on Saturday between Arya’s supporters and a group of farmers. Arya already lodged the case against demonstrators in the evening on Saturday, police said.Arya was on the way to Bazpur on Saturday with his son former MLA Sanjeev Arya and supporters to participate in a programme organised by the district Congress. When his fleet arrived at Levda river, around two dozen farmers stopped him headed by Kulwinder Singh Kinda, a member of zila panchayat, and started shouting slogans against Arya. An altercation took place between demonstrators and Arya’s supporters.After the incident, Arya and his supporters approached the police station and lodged an FIR against 13 demonstrators after a dharna in the police station’s premises. Police had lodged an FIR on the complaint of Arya under section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and SC/ST Act.On the other hand, Sukhmeet Singh, a demonstrator and a resident of Bheekampuri village of Bazpur handed over a complaint against the former minister and his supporters in the police station. Sukhmeet alleged that he and other demonstrators were opposing Arya peacefully near Levda river on Haldwani road but Arya’s supporters misbehaved and beat them.“We have registered an FIR against former cabinet minister Yashpal Arya and 23 others on the complaint of the complainant. Arya had already lodged an FIR against the demonstrators,” said Ramesh Tanwar, in-charge, Bazpur police station in US Nagar.“Police have registered an FIR on the complaint of former cabinet minister Yashpal Arya. Police are probing the case and action will be taken accordingly. Law and order situation is peaceful in Bazpur,” said Pramod Kumar, additional superintendent of Kashipur.Police have registered an FIR against Arya, his son Sanjeev Arya and 22 others under sections 323, 504 and 147 (punishment for rioting), said an official. Police are probing the case, said Tanwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-former-uttarakhand-cabinet-minister-yashpal-arya-his-son-and-22-others-101638703414876.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann of AAP says BJP leader offered him money, cabinet berth to switch camp||Bhagwant Mann, an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP from Punjab, said on Sunday a senior BJP leader recently offered him money and a Cabinet berth at the Centre to switch loyalty ahead of the Assembly election in the north Indian state next year.Mann, who heads the AAP’s Punjab unit, said he was not someone who could be bought with money power or similar allurements. He also said that the BJP was in touch with several other AAP MLAs in Punjab, according to a report in the Indian Express.The two-time MP from Sangrur, however, did not name anyone, even as he stated that he was contacted four days ago. "Mann sahab, what would you take to join the BJP?,” Mann quoted the BJP leader as saying, adding that he was also asked if "you need money".Maan said he was further told that if he joined the saffron camp, he would be made a Union cabinet minister. "I told him (BJP leader) that I am on a mission not on commission," said the AAP's lone MP from Punjab while talking to reporters in Chandigarh.He said he told the BJP leader that there might be others "whom you could buy", but he could not be bought with money or anything else.When asked to name the BJP leader, he said he would disclose it when the time comes, adding that the BJP has no base in Punjab. “Its leaders are not even allowed to enter villages and are facing anger from farmers over the agri laws that its government at the Centre introduced. No one who has the future of Punjab in mind would join the BJP,” Mann added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhagwant-mann-of-aap-says-bjp-offered-him-money-cabinet-berth-to-switch-camp-101638702469267.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Your Space: Authorities should step up prevention measures to deal with Omicron threat||We all witnessed devastation caused by the second wave, many were infected, some succumbed to it and some outlived the tragedy. In view of the new variant, we do not want to relive the second Covid wave nightmare and the government should take steps to contain its spread, say readers.Preventive measures should be in placeAs the threat of the Omicron variant looms, it is necessary to contain its spread. The government should have preventive measures in place and not cause panic by imposing lockdowns. After numerous lockdowns, businesses have resumed and are started to get back on track, if the spread is contained, a lockdown can be avoided. Along with preventive measures, vaccination of all beneficiaries is also essential. With the government on alert, they should be well prepared for all challenges. Sudden change in the rules create panic. Sudden changes in the guidelines cannot be fulfilled immediately. The government should intimate 4-5 days in advance so that people can be prepared. There should be consistency in the rules and proper coordination between government agencies. Bhoovnesh KakaniIncrease testing, follow Covid-19 protocolsAfter handling two Covid waves, it is expected that authorities would know what to do and how to handle this challenge appropriately. Testing should be increased and those who are not vaccinated yet should be encouraged to take the jab. All stakeholders in the various industries should be asked to exercise utmost care, follow all Covid-19 protocols and educate others on Covid-appropriate behaviour. Now that new Covid variant Omicron has entered Maharashtra, hopefully our authorities will take proper care by strictly following appropriate protocols. They should start surveillance at all public places such as markets, malls, mandis. Many people have stopped observing it. Aamar JoshiWe need a pragmatic approachIt is a little early to predict the exact course of how this variant will impact us. Businesses are watching closely as already the global business eco system is stressed. Container rates are at an all-time high, fuel costs have been high, input cost inflation has never been higher. Further disruptions by this variant will have tougher pressures on all.Also, the global and domestic travel restrictions and testing protocols will hamper business travel; that had just started to open. Overall, we need a pragmatic approach from global leaders towards handling this crisis. Sudden changes and prohibitive rules will not solve problems. Politics and optics should not outweigh businesses and sustainability.Indraneel ChitaleMask up, wash hands and sanitiseAuthorities should follow the pragmatic and sustainable ways instead of rushing to show that they are doing something. Also, responsibilities lie with people as well. Now, no new suggestions are being made. Wear mask, wash hands, avoid crowding, follow Covid protocols if tested positive are the basic norms which we have been told again and again. But somehow, we are not paying attention to that and not following these rules. Fines and penalties have their limitations. They won’t work every time. People should follow this on their level for the safety of their family. Now if you go to public places like malls or parks, hardly anyone wears mask or even carries sanitiser. Seems like we have left washing hands frequently and not touching the surfaces behind us. So, we should not wait for the virus to ravage us again to start following the protocols. If we do it now, then probably the worst can be averted.Kamal JagtapRemain cautious and proactiveVariants of coronavirus will keep coming. We don’t need to panic but remain cautious and proactive. We can protect ourselves from variants if we’re fully vaccinated and observe Covid-appropriate behaviour. But unfortunately, this is not happening. Everyone seems to have forgotten about the virus. If the pandemic has taught us one thing, it is that we cannot fight and win the war against this virus with half-measures and half- drafted policies. If authorities are not willing to do that, then there’s no point in having restrictions. Also, people who are spreading misinformation about the ineffectiveness of vaccines should be tapped and prohibited from doing so. Pooja JoshiImprove border surveillance and vaccinationWe have already suffered during the last two waves on every be it finance, health or loss of lives. It is evident that this virus is not going anywhere. We will have to keep fighting it with proper measures. It is a collaborative fight against the common enemy in which citizens and authorities should come together. Experts have said that vigilance, genome sequencing, improving border surveillance and vaccination are some of the things that are necessary to tackle the new Omicron variant. I hope authorities are taking the necessary steps to implement it. Citizens should also keep following the preventive norms. Madhukar Deshpande||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-authorities-should-step-up-prevention-measures-to-deal-with-omicron-threat-101638700892221.html
05-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train operations to become faster, say Railways. Here's how||The Western Railway (WR) zone of the Indian Railways, which operates the Mumbai suburban railway network, has announced that the essential Mumbai local trains will now be running at a faster speed. The announcement comes as the railways carried out several major works on the line to remove operational constraints and enhance the mobility and safety in train operations.According to a LiveMint report, with the successful removal of several bottlenecks on the operational lines, the punctuality of Mumbai suburban trains has increased from 95% in the year 2019-20 to 99.3% in the year 2021-22.Here are the changes brought into effect:The Railways said that they removed the permanent speed restriction (PSR) of 20kmph on Marine Lines saving 2 minutes per train or 560 minutes in a day, as reported by LiveMint. The PSR of 60kmph has also been removed between Bandra and Khar section, saving 1.25 min/train or 307 min/day.Further, the report stated, the 3 line crossover at Santacruz has been converted into a 2 line crossover, enabling officials to increase the speed from 15kmph to 30kmph.The speed at crossover 145/146 at Dadar has been increased from 15kmph to 30kmph, enabling faster receipt and dispatch of trains from platform 6. At Mumbai Central, the shunting time has been reduced by 30 minutes, due to extension of shunting neck for 25 coach LHB rakes.“The relaxation of Permanent Speed Restriction has also resulted in increasing the speed of the trains to 50kmph from 35kmph on harbour line. It will be useful in increasing the punctuality of the trains by 2 minutes per train," a senior official of the Western Railway told LiveMint.“Similarly, the speed at cross over 101/102 at Bhayander has been increased to 30kmph from 15kmph, resulting in savings of 1.25 min/train. Also, the common loop at Bhayander has been made fit for passenger trains which will help in better operational flexibility for prioritising the trains," the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-operations-to-become-faster-say-railways-here-s-how-101638698040303.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||Centre should take it seriously: Delhi pushes for international flights ban after first Omicron case||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday reiterated his government’s demand for a ban on international flights as the national capital reported its first case of Omicron variant of the coronavirus taking India’s tally to five so far.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has been tweeting and also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider stopping international flights, saying the city gets affected the most.On Sunday, the Delhi health minister said banning international flights is the most effective way to contain the spread of the Omicron variant.Also read | 1st Omicron case in Delhi is Tanzania-returnee; new variant cases now 5 in India“It is being reported that the gestational period in case of Omicron could be more than other variants. This means an infected person may go undetected at the airport,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“All the cases have come from affected foreign countries. The central government should take it seriously,” he also said.Also watch | Omicron: National capital records first case of Covid variant. What are the known symptoms in IndiaThe Centre has designated European countries, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel as "at-risk”.Also read | Amid Omicron scare, Delhi Police prepare action planRT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from these “at-risk" countries and these passengers will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come, according to the new norms. The new rules say two per cent of the passengers arriving on flights from other countries will be subjected to the test randomly.Also read | Omicron patient in Maharashtra stable, responding well to treatment: OfficialsOn Monday, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a strike warning saying the new Omicron variant poses a "very high" global risk and could have "severe consequences" where there are surges.The country reported the first two cases of the Omicron variant on Thursday in Karnataka as a 66-year-old South African national and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history tested positive for Covid-19. Both men are fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease.A 72-year-old non-resident Indian man belonging to Jamnagar in Gujarat and a 33-year-old man from Maharashtra tested positive for Omicron on Saturday. Masks, vaccinationThere are a 99 per cent chance masks can “save people from all Covid-19 variants, be it Alpha, Beta, Delta or Omicron”, the Delhi health minister also said.“Experts have been saying that the third wave of Covid-19 can hit the country in January-February. It can be prevented if everybody wears a mask,” he said.Also read | Weakness, body ache: Common symptoms of 5 Omicron patients in IndiaJain said more than 90 per cent of the eligible population in Delhi has got the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 60 per cent of the people have got the second jab. “We appeal to the remaining people to get vaccinated as soon as possible,” he said.Jain said more than one lakh people are being vaccinated against Covid-19 in Delhi every day. “If we continue at the same speed, everyone will be covered soon.”He pointed out that many people have not received their second dose of Covishield yet due to the large gap (84 days) between the doses.Jain, in response to a question on administering a booster dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, said the Delhi government will follow the notification of the central government and the recommendations of experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-delhi-reports-1st-omicron-case-minister-pushes-for-international-flight-ban-101638698705410.html
05-12-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh records statement before ED in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has recorded the statement of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with its money laundering investigation into alleged irregularities in the state police.The statement was reportedly recorded on December 3 at the agency's office in south Mumbai under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).A PTI article said the 59-year-old Singh, who was recently suspended as director general of home guards for dereliction of duty, was quizzed for about five hours with questions on different aspects of the case, including the allegations he had made against his then boss, former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh earlier this year.Mumbai | Enforcement Directorate has recorded the statement of Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with a money laundering caseSingh was summoned at least three times in the past by the ED but he never deposed. He may be summoned again.The 1988-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was suspended by the Maharashtra government a few days ago following registration of multiple police FIRs against him and some other police personnel on charges of extortion.Also read | Extortion case: Police file charge sheet against Param Bir Singh, Sachin VazeIn March, Singh had levelled allegations of corruption and misuse of official position against Deshmukh after he was shunted from the post of the Mumbai police commissioner in the aftermath of Antilia bomb scare incident.He had accused Deshmukh of asking police officers to collect ₹100 crore a month from restaurants and bars in Mumbai, a charge the NCP leader has denied.Singh, then declared absconding by courts in Mumbai and Thane, surfaced in public late last month after remaining underground for over six months. After he moved the Supreme Court, he was granted temporary protection from arrest.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-records-statement-before-ed-in-money-laundering-case-101638699229563.html
05-12-2021||Bhopal||Road roller set on fire in MP as Naxals declare bandh on December 10||Naxalites burnt a road roller engaged in construction work in Madhya Pradesh's Balaghat district and left behind pamphlets calling for a bandh in MP, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh on December 10 to protest the killing of rebels in an encounter in Gadchiroli last month, police said. The incident took place on the intervening night of Friday-Saturday near Korka village of Balaghat, they said. Enraged over the killing of Naxals in a police encounter at Gadchiroli in neighbouring Maharashtra, a group of 18 to 20 rebels burnt the roller engaged in road construction work near Korka village under Birsa police station area, Superintendent of Police Abhishek Tiwari said on Saturday. The Maoists also left behind pamphlets, calling for a bandh on December 10 in three states - Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, he said. Police patrolling has already been increased in affected areas since the past one-and-a-half-months, the official said, adding that search is now also underway for Naxals involved in burning the road roller. A banner with seven pamphlets, mentioning the name of the Chhattisgarh Zonal Committee and Malajkhand Area Committee of Maoists were also found at the spot, police officials said. The pamphlets mentioned the killing of 26 Naxals, including prominent Maoist leader Milind Teltumbde (57), who was carrying a bounty of ₹50 lakh on his head, in the police encounter in Gadchiroli on November 13, they said. On Saturday, Madhya Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajesh Rajora informed that the state government had decided to bring three Maoist-hit districts - Dindori, Balaghat and Mandla - under one police zone from December 1. Dindori was part of the Shahdol police zone, but now it has become a part of the Balaghat zone as all the three Naxal-affected districts are brought under one zone, he said. Balaghat has been one of the most Naxal-hit districts in MP. Last month, a group of Naxals allegedly killed two villagers on the suspicion of being police informers in Malikhedi village of Balaghat. In a similar incident in June this year, the rebels had killed a 42-year-old man in Bamhani village under Roopjhar police station area in Balaghat. In August this year, in a major success against Naxalism, the Balaghat police had after an encounter arrested a 25-year-old rebel, identified as Sandeep Kunjam aka Lakkhu, who was carrying a reward of ₹8 lakh on his head. During a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on November 29, officials had informed that seven hardcore Maoists (Area Committee Members or ACM) were killed in police encounters and three others arrested in the past two years in MP, which also led to the seizure of arms and ammunition as well as curbing of extortion activities of the ultras among tendu leaves contractors. Eighteen people were also arrested on charges of supplying arms to Maoists during this period, officials earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/road-roller-set-on-fire-in-mp-as-naxals-declare-bandh-on-december-10-101638693185674.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Flight operations resume at Pune airport after 7hr delay due to fog||Dense fog delayed flights at the Pune International airport between 3am and 9am on Sunday. The flight operation resumed by 10am after the visibility improved with the city witnessing sunny morning after four days, Pune airport director Santosh Dhoke said.To deal with the rush of stranded passengers, the airport authority had to open up the International Security Hold Area for passenger seating.Earlier, Pune airport’s official handle tweeted, “There is low visibility at Pune due to fog. Current visibility is below 100m. As a result, all flights are delayed for the next few hours. All passengers travelling from Pune Airport are requested to check flight timings with their Airlines.”The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier said that high humid conditions with clear skies and calm winds created a favourable condition for fog formation over Pune.As per realtime information provided by IMD. “The visibility at Pune airport was nil at 6am, however it improved to 200m at 9am.”Vineet Kumar, researcher at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said, “Visibility factor depends on flight instruments and the airport. For example, in Delhi some flights can land even in 100m visibility as the airport has fog tracking instrument sensors.”Also Read: PMC Corporator Avinash Bagwe disqualified by Bombay High CourtMajority of flyers who were at the airport since 2 am to catch early morning flights had to wait till 10 am, when flight operations restarted.“I had a flight for Delhi at 4:55 am and I was at Pune airport since 3 am. Now, I have got the message that the flight is scheduled for 10.55. Boarding is yet to start. No one is there to attend the passengers whose flights are rescheduled. Worst experience with IndiGo6E. Due to the haphazard situation at Pune airport, I have rescheduled my connecting flights from Delhi thrice already,” said Tripurari Pande over a phone to HT.Another harried passenger Shekhar Bandal tweeted: “Because of visibility issues in Pune Airport our flight is diverted to Haidrabad (Hyderabad). And we still don’t have any update when the issue will get clear.”Another passenger Ravishankar Kommu tweeted to say,“As it is, Pune airport is about as big as Machilipatnam bus stand. Suspension of operations due to fog for 8+ hours is just the icing on the cake all passengers need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/flight-operations-resume-at-pune-airport-after-7hr-delay-due-to-fog-101638689371043.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||#WallsOfKindness: A warm hug in winters||New DelhiCome winter, and we pull out the woollens tucked away neatly in our bed boxes or at the top most shelves of our wardrobes. But for the needy, it takes much more than that to stay cozy when the temperature dips to an unbearable low. Fighting this cold with warmth is the initiative named Neki Ki Deewar (wall of kindness), many of which have mushroomed in vibrant colours, at various places in Delhi and even NCR. It’s at these spots that anyone can donate by simply hanging clothes, placing shoes and other objects of utility, for the underprivileged who can pick up whatever they need.“There are several such walls in Janakpuri, and people donate in good amount,” says Vijayan KP, a businessman based in Janakpuri’s C-2 block, adding, “The demand is so high now that if you donate today, it’ll be gone by tomorrow. What’s commendable is that nobody donates clothes are too worn out to be worn. People understand that they are making an effort for a good gesture. My family is also planning to donate a bundle of warm clothes, socks and gloves this month, as this is the time when these things are needed the most. Winter is only going to get more intense in the days to come, and we better lend a helping hand to the needy.A number of walls have resumed operations after the reduction of Covid-19 cases in the city. These often house the repurposed waste collection centres called dhalaos. Monica Rani, a merchandiser by profession, who is a resident of Dwarka’s sector 10, shares, “I heard about Neki Ki Deewar concept when one such wall came up in Dwarka, last month. I went to check out the place and ended up donating some clothes myself. All I did was leave them in hangers for anyone to pick up. This initiative is like a warm hug during this season. More and more people should come forward to give away clothes for those who require them especially for the winter season.”“Assigned caretakers look after each of these facilities, to maintain their cleanliness and operation,” says Yogesh Saini from Delhi Street Art, who has painted some of these dhalaos in colourful scapes of fauna with human figures. Saini informs, “Over the past few months, our team has been actively partnering with both North Delhi Municipal Corporation and South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to turn old dilapidated garbage dhalaos into aesthetic looking Neki Ki Deewars, which are essentially donation centres where people can bring their surplus supplies of clothes, books, shoes, toys, etc for donation. The artworks created by us focus on clear and colourfully written visual messages, so that anyone — the donor as well as the recipient of donated goods — can immediately identify these donation centres from a distance.” Rajeev Kumar Jain, superintending engineer (west zone), SDMC, informs that this initiative began in Delhi in 2018 when a wall in Subhash Nagar was earmarked for this purpose. “Today, that wall has more than 250 cloth hangers at any given point of time,” says Jain, adding, “In west Delhi itself, there are six dhalaos that have been converted into Neki Ki Deewar. This initiative actually restores dignity and self-respect of the needy, as there is a certain anonymity in donating and collecting the clothes. And people also get a chance to donate selflessly, to a broader scope of people apart from their househelps. It eliminates that ‘ehsaan’ wali feeling in the whole process and yet spreads the message of kindness.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wallsofkindness-a-warm-hug-in-winters-101638688775588.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Daffodils’ moment, calcified into metaphor and life lesson||Writer Aldous Huxley once said: “Every man’s memory is his private literature.” So was William Wordsworth’s memory of The Daffodils, which he transformed into an eternal poem. Human memory is not merely a storage box, but a dynamic repository that derives its strength and durability from its power of imagination. Memories are our personal assets, inspiring us to be curious and creative, and no two persons react to a common memory in a similar way. Perhaps another poet accompanying Wordsworth to the same site would have reacted to the daffodils in a different way. My ‘Daffodils’ moment came when I was travelling by train about four decades ago. As the train left the station and passed through the quarters of class IV employees, my eyes fell on a man in a blue uniform, squatting at the entrance of his house. He had come home for lunch, and even from the fast-moving train I could catch a glimpse of a thali (brass plate) in his hands which contained two chapattis, an onion, two green chillies, and two little mounds of salt and red chilli powder. The glowing smile on the face of the man was unmissable. This is the image I have carried in my mind for years. Initially, it was simply a matter of cheer that I could capture the scene from the running train, but then my curiosity led me to reflect on that enigmatic smile. What could have evoked that fervent expression on his face? Was it the satisfaction of having a meal after working long hours on the railway tracks; or was it the joy of having the lady of the house taking care of his needs by getting the thali ready for him; or was it his humility, expressing gratitude towards God for having provided him with a square meal? Thus the ‘Daffodils’ moment lying ensconced in the deep recesses of my memory got calcified into a metaphor and a life lesson that would ‘flash upon that inward eye’ not to fill the heart with pleasure, as it did with Wordsworth, but to remind me of human simplicity, humble joys, caring relationships, and modest desires. This image surfaced quite often during the despondent days of demonetisation, and it has been my constant companion during the coronavirus lockdown, always urging me to be humble; to find happiness in the smallest things; to understand and respect the value of the home and familial bliss; and to be grateful for whatever has been bestowed upon me, howsoever minimal it might be, without pining for what is not. The secret of that smile will always remain a riddle for me, but this is my memory, and this is my private literature, as Huxley put it. njkaur1953@gmail.com The writer is a Patiala-based retired associate professor in English||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/daffodils-moment-calcified-into-metaphor-and-life-lesson-101638687930751.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||Light rain, thundershowers likely in Delhi today, AQI to remain ‘very poor’: IMD||A blanket of cloud and haze enveloped Delhi as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted light rain and thundershower in the national capital on Sunday evening or night. The air quality index in Delhi will, however, remain in the very poor category, according to the real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board.The Air Quality Early Warning System’s forecast for this evening said that the AQI in the national capital region is likely to be on the lower end of ‘very poor’ category.As of this morning, Delhi recorded an AQI of 305 (very poor), Faridabad 296 (poor), Ghaziabad 288 (poor), Gurgaon 174 (moderate) and Noida 273 (poor).The mercury dropped to 11.4 degrees Celsius in Delhi, two notches above the season's normal on Sunday, according to the weather department, while the maximum temperature is likely to be around 25 degrees Celsius, they said. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30am was 95 per cent.Foggy conditions are expected to persist over the next six days as well, the IMD forecast showed, while the temperature could hover around 9 to 11 degree Celsius.Delhi's air quality in November this year was the worst for the month in seven years. The city witnessed ‘severe’ pollution on 11 days and not a single day of "moderate" or "better" air quality, according to data shared by the Central Pollution Control Board.Although stubble burning remained a major factor behind the spike in the air pollution levels, experts believed that local sources of emissions are the primary reason for highly PM levels in the air in the post-farm fire period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-thundershowers-likely-in-delhi-today-aqi-to-remain-very-poor-imd-101638684476451.html
05-12-2021||Patna||Bihar’s rescued child labourers now want to return to work||*Mantosh (name changed), a 15-year old boy from Supta village in Bihar’s Gaya district is one among several victims of human trafficking who were rescued last year from Jaipur, where they were working at a bangle manufacturing factory. Back to his village now, he does menial jobs to earn his bread and also helps his parents at the village farms. While these are busy days for a farm hand, Mantosh wants to leave the village to earn “better” money outside. *Taj Mohammed (name changed), another victim of human trafficking from Bhulli village in Sitamarhi district, who was also rescued from a bangle factory in Jaipur in October this year, has been working at a village farm since his return. The head of his family who used to work as a labourer in Kashmir has been seriously ill for the last one year and had to borrow ₹40,000 from a local money lender for treatment and sustaining the family. Taj Mohammed has been working to pay back the debt at the village farm but is desperate to go out for better earnings. Ramesh (name changed), yet another child labourer from Bhitiya village under Rasulpur Panchayat in Jehanabad district, was also rescued from a bangle factory in Jaipur this year. The boy despite his harrowing experience in Jaipur where he was threatened by employer’s goons before he managed to leave with police’s help, now wants to leave home again to earn. HT has learnt that altogether 711 child labourers were rescued mainly from the bangle factories in Jaipur between 2018 and 2021 and many of these are in the same mental condition these days. The euphoria of returning to their native places is over now and the harsh economic realities have taken over, forcing them to reconsider earning options outside. The common refrain among them is that while life was tough as captive labourers at the factories but it’s even tougher to survive and sustain without earnings.“What option do they have except working? He will have to leave home to earn money,” Urmila Devi (40), mother of rescued child labourer from Gaya, said. “Though he is working at a village farm, he doesn’t like it. Payment is very poor,” she added. “He couldn’t even join the school as the authorities refused admission on the ground of him being overage,” she said. The woman said Mantosh was one among the 50 children who were taken from Aligarh to Jaipur. “In fact, we were working at a brick kiln in Aligarh in UP at that time. We have been going there for the last six-seven years. We go there every year in May and return during winter. It was at the Aligarh brick kiln that the broker lured our children to go with him to Jaipur. My son was also working there with us. Though we didn’t want to send him , he insisted and joined the group,” Urmila Devi said. Mantosh said life was difficult at the bangle factory. “We had to work since morning till late evening. I was not beaten as I never disobeyed the employer,” he said. He adds that he was able to save some money while working at the factory in Jaipur and the life at the village was not any better since he had to work here too but for very little payment in return.Also Read: Ahead of rabi sowing, Bihar farmers face fertiliser crisisHis mother said every child in the family has to work to sustain. “We are daily wage earners and have been going to Aligarh to work at brick kilns for the last six- seven years. They pay good money and provide food and accommodation also. Here in the village, the work is irregular and the payment too is very poor. Here sometimes ₹250 a day is paid while in Aligarh they pay ₹400 a day,” she said. We would have preferred to stay here had there been any government assistance and even the boy would not have been eager to leave, she added. Aas Mohammed, father of the rescued child labourer from Sitamarhi, said the boy has been working at the village farm for the last few days. “How would the family survive? I cannot work now because of my poor health. For over 10 years, I worked as a labourer in Kashmir. Most of the people in our village go to Kashmir during summers to work. But now, I can’t work, but the debt has to be cleared,” he said. He too hopes that the family gets some financial support from the government. “I have come to know that there is a provision, but we haven’t been given the financial support,” he said. Suresh Kumar from Centre Direct, an Non Government Organisation (NGO) which has been in many rescue operations, said the government has various kinds of support schemes for the rescued child labourer. “But many of rescued children have not been given the support,” he said. Soon after the child labourer is rescued, ₹3000 is given by the labour resources department as immediate financial support. This money is meant to meet immediate expenses of the child. And later, ₹25,000 is given to the family from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund under the Child Labour Tracking system initiative,” he said. Out of the 711 rescued child labourers , only 21 have received immediate assistance of ₹3000 given by the labour resources department. And only 31 rescued child labourers have received financial assistance from Chief Minister Relief Fund, he added. 
05-12-2021||Delhi||In Delhi Police’s action plan to tackle Omicron, stress on vaccination, oxygen availability||The Delhi Police have instructed all 15 police districts and other units to be fully prepared to face any exigency through their respective Covid-19 nodal officers amid rising concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.In an order issued by special commissioner of police (welfare) Shalini Singh on December 2, the force has been asked to ensure the preparedness of Covid care centres, availability of oxygen cylinders and concentrators, life-saving medicines, hospital beds, ambulances, sanitisers, masks, gloves, PPE kits and other essential items.This comes after four cases of Omicron have been detected across the country so far. The order said the Covid care centres at Shahdara and Rohini must be revived on priority. The department has also been asked to revive its Covid-19 Health Monitoring Cells headed by inspector-rank officials, officials have said.Also read | Why Omicron is likely to affect major Indian cities, ex-CSIR scientist explainsDelhi Police officials have been directed to make the Covid-19 helpline functional at the earliest and gradually step up prosecution of those found violating Covid-appropriate behaviour."We have advised our staff to wear masks, maintain hygiene, minimise touching items and use sanitisers regularly. Windows of police stations are being kept open for ventilation. They have also been asked to ensure there is no crowding at police stations," a senior Delhi Police officer said, according to news agency PTI.The Delhi Police have also instructed its personnel and their family members to get fully vaccinated, besides following Covid-appropriate behaviour, officials said on Saturday.Also read | Area with 3 cases cluster, jabs must for parents: 5 new Karnataka Omicron rulesData shared by the Delhi Police show more than 95 per cent of its staff are vaccinated. According to the data, of the 77,809 members, 74,289 have been vaccinated till December 2 and 1,636 have been medically exempted due to health-related issues."Deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) have been tasked with reviewing the medical exemption granted to certain police personnel from vaccination and encouraging them to get vaccinated after consulting doctors," the order read.Also read | After favouring booster dose for 40+, INSACOG says ‘more experiments required’"The DCPs shall be the nodal officers for ensuring proper medical facilities to the police personnel and their families, and an officer of the rank of inspector or above shall visit the hospitalised police personnel and ensure requisite assistance," the order read.Nodal officers from hospitals and DCPs, who are the nodal officers for the police, must share all contact information immediately on the department's official e-mail ID.DCPs will be responsible for ensuring data on hospitalisation of police personnel is e-mailed to the department by 8am every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-omicron-scare-delhi-police-prepare-action-plan-101638679904924.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||Air quality worsens, Delhi may get light rain on December 6||The city may receive light rain on Monday under the impact of a western disturbance, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Saturday, adding that winds are likely to get stronger as well and help improve the pollution levels.On Saturday, the maximum temperature at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, was 26.8 degrees Celsius — two above normal, and the minimum temperature was 11°C, also two above normal.Met officials said temperatures are expected to fall in the coming days after the western disturbance passes.“Delhi just saw the impact of a western disturbance that led to light showers in many parts of Delhi on Thursday. We will witness another western disturbance from December 5 (Sunday) to December 7 (Tuesday). Some parts of Delhi will also see light rain,” said a senior IMD official.IMD scientists also said that Delhi’s air quality on Saturday deteriorated marginally from Friday as wind speeds slowed down. However, the air quality index (AQI) of the city will improve to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category from Sunday. Recordings by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the overall AQI on Saturday was 362, in the ‘very poor’ category. On Friday, the AQI was 346.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-quality-worsens-delhi-may-get-light-rain-on-december-6-101638662943718.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||13 flyers under scanner amid new variant concerns||Thirteen international passengers who arrived in the city from “high risk” countries are under observation at Delhi’s Lok Nayak hospital as their samples await genome sequencing results to ascertain if they have been infected by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Nine of the 13 have tested positive on either an RT-PCR or rapid antigen test. The results of four others are awaited. However, to confirm whether they have been infected with the new variant, their samples have been sent for genomic sequencing.“It will take another couple of days to get the results,” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity. India’s genomic sequencing consortium INSACOG has asked all its labs to fast-track sequencing of samples from travellers, connecting airports to labs with smaller sequencers so that they do not need to wait for many samples before a cycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/13-flyers-under-scanner-amid-new-variant-concerns-101638662484070.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Poor air quality: Haryana now shuts schools in all NCR districts||Amending its previous orders to comply with the recent directive of Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) for NCR and adjoining areas, the Haryana government has ordered that the schools, colleges and educational institutions in all national capital region (NCR) districts of the state will remain closed till further orders in view of deterioration of air quality in New Delhi and the NCR. These 14 districts are Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Palwal, Rewari, Mahendergarh, Jind, Panipat, Mewat, Karnal, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri. Earlier, the state government had ordered closure of schools only in four NCR districts. Reproducing the CAQM directions of December 2, the state pollution control board has said only online mode of education, except for the purpose of conduct of examinations and laboratory practical, will be allowed in NCR districts. The CAQM had also directed that industrial operations and processes in NCR not running on piped natural gas or cleaner fuels, will be allowed to operate only up to eight hours a day only from Monday to Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poor-air-quality-haryana-now-shuts-schools-in-all-ncr-districts-101638651558934.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ajay asks father OP Chautala to reconsider on party bifurcation||National president of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) Ajay Chautala, whose party is the junior partner in the ruling alliance in Haryana, has asked his father and INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala to reconsider the decision of expelling him and his sons, which might unite the family again. The former chief minister’s decision had led to a divide in the erstwhile INLD and the subsequent formation of the JJP in 2018. Next year, the party clinched a post-poll alliance with the BJP and Ajay’s elder son Dushyant Chautala became the deputy chief minister of Haryana. “He (OP Chautala) is our elder. He should reconsider his decision. He should take the first step and we will follow,” Ajay said. He was responding to a query on his father’s recent comment that “there is nothing permanent in politics”, which had created a political buzz on the family feud and its unification. Ajay was in Ambala to invite the party cadre to the JJP’s third foundation day celebrations in Jhajjar on Thursday. Accompanying him were state president Nishan Singh, state spokesperson Vivek Chaudhary, party’s Ambala incharge Kulwant Multani and other local leaders. The JJP leader also alleged that he was expelled unconstitutionally by his father, who was following the instructions of his younger son Abhay Chautala. “My sons (Dushyant and Digvijay) were debarred due to anti-party activities, but I wasn’t told why I’m being expelled. As per the party constitution, a worker or leader in question is served notice, but I wasn’t,” Ajay told the gathering at Sector 8. Ajay also targeted former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and said the Jhajjar rally will show him their strength. He was also hopeful that other demands of the farmers will be accepted soon. “No meeting gets failed, but a series of discussions begin. In this case, I’m hopeful that a solution will be brought by the Union government in a couple of days,” he added. On being asked about a possible protest by farmer unions against the JJP rally, Ajay said, “Everyone is free to agitate in a democracy.”In a statement, the party said that they will also welcome all the workers who left them during the farmer agitation and are willing to return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ajay-asks-father-op-chautala-to-reconsider-on-party-bifurcation-101638651380290.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Budgam police bust gang of burglars in Kashmir; 7 arrested||The police busted a gang of burglars in Kashmir and arrested seven people along with stolen property worth lakhs from their possession.On a complaint about a burglary at an automobile workshop, the Budgam Police launched an investigation.“During the investigation, the special team of the police zeroed in on some suspects. During questioning, Imran Hassan Mir of Kakarpora, Mirgund Pattan, confessed to his involvement in the crime and stolen property was recovered from the premises of his house which he had concealed in a tin shed.”The police said the arrested person also confessed the role of his two more accomplices who had hatched the conspiracy and participated in the crime.“Both accused identified as Yawar Abbas of Lashkar Mohalla, Nishat, and Aijaz Ahmad Malla of Dewar, Parihaspora, were subsequently arrested,” a police spokesman said, adding that during the investigation, another accused Syed Akther Shah of Parihaspora was arrested and on his disclosure stolen property was recovered. “Following more leads, the investigating team arrested two more accomplices of this gang and recovered stolen property which they had concealed at their workshop at Dub Ganderbal. Furthermore, the team arrested one more person who was also part of the crime.”The police said the stolen property included 32 clutch plates, 16 axles, 28 bearings, 17 desk pads, 8 batteries and other accessories worth ₹5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/budgam-police-bust-gang-of-burglars-in-kashmir-7-arrested-101638651379057.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu roots for opening India’s trade with 34 countries via Attari border||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday demanded that there was the need to open India’s trade with 34 countries via the Attari-Wagah border. Addressing a press conference during his visit to the 15th Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX) in Amritsar, Sidhu said, “The trade via the Integrated Checkpost (ICP) with 34 nations will usher in development in Punjab and elsewhere. Only 5 of the 34 countries are present here at PITEX.” He, however, did not list the names of 34 countries. “A huge potential of trade lies locked. I am not saying that there is no need to be vigilant at the border. Just a year after the World War II when all European nations were fighting each other, the borders in the continent were opened. The progress of centuries took place in a few years,” he said. All the 34 countries should be brought on board via the PITEX festival, he said, adding that the trade should be via 2,100 km Dubai route instead of just 20-km route from Attari to Lahore.Sidhu said, “The minimum support price (MSP) on wheat was increased to ₹1,300 per quintal in 30 years in the country. But here is an opportunity to sell wheat at ₹3,000 and basmati at ₹7,000 per quintal.” Any passport holder should be allowed to trade through borders, he said. “With this, Punjab will see development of six years in six months. If Mumbai-Karachi port trade can take place, why Amritsar-Lahore circuit should not be opened. We are doing trade of less than 5% of the total potential,” he added. The Punjab government, he said, will start giving MSP on pulses. “Why can’t we give MSP on pulses when we are importing pulses from other countries,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-roots-for-opening-india-s-trade-with-34-countries-via-attari-border-101638651261162.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Follow Covid guidelines, Vaishno Devi shrine board tells pilgrims||Amid the Omicron scare, the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVDSB) on Saturday appealed to the visiting devotees to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour, taking precautions to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and not let down their guard in the wake of a recent spike in Covid cases. The chief executive officer of the SMVD Shrine Board, Ramesh Kumar has appealed to the pilgrims coming on the pilgrimage to keep with them the valid and verifiable RT-PCR report of not older than 72 hours. Pilgrims have also been advised to keep masks with them, besides maintaining social distance norms. It has already been mandatory for the pilgrims to wear face masks/face covers and every yatri proceeding on the yatra is being scanned through thermal scanners at the yatra entry points. For the awareness of the visiting pilgrims about various precautionary measures to be adopted in view of Covid-19, regular announcements are also being made on the already installed multi-purpose audio system and hi-tech video walls on the track. The shrine board is sanitising its premises in sync with the guidelines and protocols for ensuring the safety of the visiting pilgrims, staff and the public at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/follow-covid-guidelines-vaishno-devi-shrine-board-tells-pilgrims-101638651081211.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||International Gita Seminar: 100 foreign students of Kurukshetra University to present research papers||As many as 100 foreign students studying at Kurukshetra University will present their research papers on the Bhagavad Gita. As per a statement issued by the Kurukshetra University, these students belong to Afghanistan, South Africa, Kenya, Zimbabwe and Mauritius and are studying in different departments of the university. These students will present their research paper on ‘Contribution of the Holy Book Gita’ to the Freedom Movement’ during the International Gita Seminar which will be organised at Kurukshetra University on December 9. The responsibility of organising this seminar has been entrusted with the Kurukshetra University administration. Organising secretary of the seminar, Professor Tejendra Sharma, said in the inaugural session of this seminar, speakers from various countries and states have been invited by the Kurukshetra University’s mass communication department.There will be an online session on the second day of this seminar on December 10 and about 1,000 teachers and researchers of universities will participate in the discussion.He said that on the closing ceremony of the seminar on December 11, a ‘Gita Sansad’ would be organised. Sharma said the university has also invited several scholars from about a dozen countries, including the UK, the USA, Mongolia, Bulgaria, Afghanistan, and Mauritius for the International Gita Seminar 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/international-gita-seminar-100-foreign-students-of-kurukshetra-university-to-present-research-papers-101638651079105.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Joined BJP to serve Sikhs, SAD making baseless claims: Manjinder Sirsa||Former Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Saturday trashed the allegations levelled by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leadership that the BJP coerced and used dirty tricks to induct him into the party fold. In a press release, Sirsa said that he has joined the saffron fold with the sole aim to serve the Sikh community and the party has provided him a platform which will help him resolve the issues unresolved for long. “Had the BJP coerced me, it would have asked me to join as the DSGMC president and not as an individual. I joined on my own volition because the Akali Dal was not in a position to work on resolving the Sikhs’ issues after breaking alliance with the BJP,” he said. It is possible to serve his community only by being a member of a national party, he said, adding that he will focus on resolving the issues of Sikhs and will not get distracted by wild allegations. “The Akali Dal today has been reduced to a regional party as its leadership itself claims and it’s not focusing on pan-India Sikh issues. The Sikhs living outside Punjab are looking to me to take up their issues. The Sikhs of Meghalaya, Madhya Pradesh and UP are faced with a host of issues,” he added. These issues can be resolved on a platform like the BJP by raising his voice at the national and international level, Sirsa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/joined-bjp-to-serve-sikhs-sad-making-baseless-claims-manjinder-sirsa-101638650958959.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab continues to fare badly on Covid testing count||Even as the central government recently asked Punjab to ramp up its daily Covid-19 testing amid fresh concerns over the Omicron, a new virus variant, the state health department continues to perform poorly on the front. On Friday and Saturday, the state’s daily testing remained at nearly 30,000. On November 29, even Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni, who also hold the health portfolio, had directed the department to conduct at least 40,000 daily tests following the reports of the new variant and a possible third wave in the state. After the Centre had flagged low testing in the state, the health authorities had directed the district health officials to conduct at least 50,000 tests a day. But the state did not achieve the given target on even a single day in the past one week. Before Friday, the state was conducting an average 22,000 tests a day. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar was not available for comments. 46 fresh cases, one fatalityThe state recorded 46 fresh Covid cases and a death from the virus in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate for the day was 0.15%. With this, the state’s total tally of positive cases has reached 60,3410, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases in the state increased to 359. Of the fresh cases, the maximum 12 were detected in Ferozepur, 9 in Jalandhar and 7 in Hoshiarpur. With 43 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 586496, the bulletin said. So far, 16, 608 persons have died due to the virus in the state. A total of 16250379 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state out of which 30886 were tested on Saturday. As many as 1,09,897 doses of vaccine were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-continues-to-fare-badly-on-covid-testing-count-101638650481231.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Man who shot Karnal youth dead arrested||Two days after a 25-year-old man was shot dead after a wedding in Karnal’s Gondar village, police on Saturday arrested the main accused. The police said that accused Ajit Singh was arrested from Sector 12 of Karnal city. He was produced in a court which sent him to five-day police remand. However, the family members have accused six persons of the murder. The police said efforts were on to arrest the remaining accused. Mohan Lal, incharge, crime investigation agency of Karnal police, said the preliminary investigation revealed that Ajit opened fire at Goldy after an argument during a function on Thursday evening. Goldy’s bullet-ridden body was recovered near the canal. He later succumbed to his injuries in a hospital. On the complaint of his family members, the police had booked six persons under various sections of the IPC and Arms Act. He said the police have sought Ajit’s remand for the recovery of pistol and car used to ferry Goldy after the incident.Two held with 815 gm heroin in KaithalTwo persons have been arrested with 815 grams heroin by Kaithal police. The police also recovered a scooter from their possession. As per the police, the accused have been identified as Rajesh Kumar of Kaithal and Vikram Singh of Sangrur in Punjab. The police said that they have produced them in a court, from where Vikram was taken on four-day police remand while Rajesh was sent to the judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-man-who-shot-karnal-youth-dead-arrested-101638650358889.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||61 pilgrims among 202 fresh Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir; 49 infections in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 202 fresh Covid-19 cases that included 61 travellers in the past 24 hours, said officials on Saturday. “Almost 88 of the 202 cases were reported from Jammu division and remaining 114 from Kashmir,” they said. However, no Covid death was reported in the past 24 hours across the UT. So far 4,479 persons—2185 in Jammu and 2294 in Kashmir—have died of Covid 19. The fresh cases were reported from Srinagar 49, Baramulla 18, Budgam 12, Pulwama 6, Kupwara 6, Anantnag 3, Bandipora 11, Ganderbal 9, Jammu 15, Rajouri 4, Doda 6, Kathua 1, Samba 1, and Reasi 61 (all of them travellers). Health officials said there was no new confirmed case of mucormycosis (black fungus) on Saturday. So far 58 black fungus cases have been confirmed in J&K. 88 cases detected in Jammu The Jammu region comprising 10 districts recorded 88 Covid positive cases with most of them being reported from Reasi district, said officials. The 61 cases recorded in Reasi were all pilgrims at the Katra railway station, who were sent back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/61-pilgrims-among-202-fresh-covid-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-49-infections-in-srinagar-101638650242722.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: Ghulam Nabi Azad takes swipe at BJP over inflation||After foreseeing the grim prospects of the Congress in the 2024 general elections, senior party leader and former Rajya Sabha member Ghulam Nabi Azad on Saturday said he doesn’t see any leader or party as his enemy. Addressing a rally at Ramban, Azad said, “I don’t consider any party or leader my enemy. Our enemy is poverty and backwardness and we have to wage a jihad against them.” Azad’s back-to-back rallies in the Jammu region and his open criticism of the Congress has fuelled speculations that the ‘lucky mascot’ of Congress may launch his own party ahead of the next assembly elections in J&K. “Some people talk about a different jihad but the real jihad which we have to wage in the country and in J&K is against poverty and unemployment. These are our biggest enemies and not any other party,” he said. “I don’t consider any party or leader my enemy. The enemy is poverty and backwardness and against them, we have to wage a jihad,” he added. Azad lamented that some elements mislead people from one religion has to wage jihad against another religion. Claiming himself to be less of a politician and more of a reformer, Azad said, “while poverty and unemployment are taking a toll on the common people, dividing them is another ill plaguing the society.” Azad again took a swipe at the BJP government for the rising inflation and said that Congress will continue to fight for the people. He criticised the government for evacuating the people from government land and said, “Had I been the chief minister, I would have asked the people to take all the land because people in a hilly state have no land to eke out their livelihood.” 
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu crime branch files chargesheet against teacher for forging papers to get job||The crime branch, Jammu, on Saturday filed a chargesheet against a government teacher and a co-accused for forging the marksheet of Class 12 and using it for the purpose of securing a job as a government teacher in Poonch. The government teacher was identified as Sumit Gill and co-accused as Mohammad Sajjad, both residents of Poonch. Gill, on the basis of the forged marksheet, had secured the job at Government Middle School, Salotri in Poonch. They were booked under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 120-B, 201 of the IPC at the crime branch, Jammu. The case was registered after allegations of fraud and cheating for securing the job by the accused were prima facie established during a preliminary enquiry conducted by the crime branch. The complaint was lodged by Yogesh Kumar of Poonch. The investigation proved that accused Sumit Gill in connivance with co-accused Mohammad Sajjad hatched a criminal conspiracy, committed the offences of cheating in order to obtain benefit by submitting a fake and forged document which amounts to the commission of offences punishable under the relevant sections of law. The chargesheet has been produced in the court of the chief judicial magistrate, Poonch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-crime-branch-files-chargesheet-against-teacher-for-forging-papers-to-get-job-101638649942303.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar: In view of snowfall forecast, Bandipora-Gurez road closed for traffic||Ahead of the prediction of snowfall from Saturday night, the administration has closed the Bandipora-Gurez road for traffic as a precautionary measure.The road to Gurez that passes through the Razdan Pass has been closed for traffic from Saturday. The instructions were passed by the administration following an advisory from the meteorological office.The MET office in Srinagar had issued a fresh weather alert saying that a fresh western disturbance is most likely to affect J&K and adjoining areas from December 4 to 6 with peak activity on December 5.“There will be widespread light to moderate snowfall in the middle and higher reaches of Kashmir and Jammu and light snow and rain over plains of Kashmir and Jammu is expected. The higher reaches of Kupwara, Baramulla, Bandipora, Shopian and Ganderbal district could receive 6-9 inches of snow during the above period,” reads an advisory issued by the MeT office.The advisory said the snowfall could lead to temporary disruption of air and surface traffic over the passes like Zojila, Simthan top, Razdan Top and Mugal Road due to the snow and freezing temperatures on December 5.Meanwhile, Srinagar and other parts of Kashmir recorded another cold night and a cloudy day engulfed with fog.Srinagar recorded -0.7°C, Pahalgam recorded -2 °C while Gulmarg registered - 1.2 °C. North Kashmir’s Kupwara town registered - 1.3 °C. Leh in Ladakh recorded - 9.3 °C while Kargil and Drass observed - 8.1 and minus 10.7 °C.The wintry conditions in the Valley set in much ahead of the beginning of the extremely harsh weather conditions which usually start around the third week of December. ‘Chillai Kalan’, the 40-day period of harsh winter in Kashmir, begins on December 21 every year. Some parts of south Kashmir received snowfall in late October that caused damage to fruit growers who hadn’t harvested their crop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-in-view-of-snowfall-forecast-bandipora-gurez-road-closed-for-traffic-101638649940548.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Tenure extension cancelled, but Bathinda DSP Gurjeet Romana continues in office||Even as his one-year extension was cancelled by the Punjab home department last week, Gurjeet Singh Romana, considered a blue-eyed boy of some senior leaders of the ruling Congress, is continuing to discharge duties as deputy superintendent of police (DSP) in Bathinda. Principal secretary (home) Anurag Verma in an order dated November 25 had said that the extension in service from August 1, 2021, to July 31, 2022, granted to Romana was cancelled with immediate effect on the directions issued by the department of personnel and the official was retired on November 24, 2021. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ajay Maluja confirmed that the home department had ordered to cancel extension to Romana. “But Romana has been asked to continue verbally. We have not received any official orders so far. But new orders are likely to be issued soon as there are various provisions available for this,” he added. When contacted, Anurag Verma said the extension given to DSP Romana was cancelled and he was retired with immediate effect. “These are the last orders from our side,” he said. Romana, who is deputed as a DSP-1 in Bathinda since July 2018, was granted extension even as the Punjab government had scrapped the service extension policy for its employees from March 31, 2020. Romana was in the centre of controversy in 2017 after being indicted in departmental inquiries for releasing an accused in a drug case. He was held guilty for his suspected role in an FIR lodged against one Gobind Gupta for allegedly having an illegal stock of 1,500 habit-forming tablets. Gupta, who was arrested on April 10, 2017, was released within 10 days of lodging the FIR at Bathinda’s Nehianwala police station after a court granted him bail. In the cancellation report, Romana had reportedly cited a drug inspector’s statement claiming that Gupta had licence to sell and purchase such medicines. Official sources confirmed that no action was taken against Romana as the internal report later concluded that “Gupta’s release was a mistake on the part of Romana and not a deliberate attempt”. The accused in the drug case was re-arrested. 
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Protesting against fee hike, parents block the Khanna-Nawanshahr highway||Protesting against a fee hike at the Sacred Heart Convent School, Samrala, parents of students on Saturday blocked the Khanna-Nawanshahr highway right outside the campus.The parents alleged that the school management was flouting the norms set by the district administration’s fee regulatory committee, under which schools were mandated to only charge tuition fee given that only online classes took place during the pandemic-induced lockdown.Surinder Singh, one of the parents, stated that the school management started demanding additional charges and sent notices for requesting payment of dditional charges and despite having had a round of meetings with the parents, wherein they agreed to not charging any extra money other than the tuition fee, “The school management has threatened the parents that they would not release the results of the students if they did not pay the fee and other charges,” he added.Satnam Singh, another protester, said that the school has been harassing parents, despite the issue of the hike being pending with the fee regulatory committee.The protest led to a heavy traffic jam, with hundreds of vehicles getting stuck on the highway outside the school. The police later pacified the protesters by assuring them of appropriate action.Harvinder Singh, deputy superintendent of police, Samrala, said that they have asked the parents to file a complaint against the school following which tjhey will initiate a proper investigation into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-protesting-against-fee-hike-parents-block-the-khanna-nawanshahr-highway-101638648979048.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Sowaddi Kalan village near Mullanpur town to get ITI||Punjab technical education and industrial training minister Rana Gurjeet Singh laid the foundation stone of government Industrial Training Institute (ITI) at Sowaddi Kalan village, near Mullanpur town, on Saturday. Around ₹ 2.50 crore for building and ₹ 3.50 crore for equipment of the project was released by the minister.The cabinet minister was also accompanied by senior Congress leaders, Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, former minister Malkit Singh Dakha, former MLA Gurdeep Singh Bhaini, Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC) chairman KK Bawa, district congress committee Ludhiana (rural) president Karanjit Singh Soni Galib, vice-chairman of Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) Karan Warring, besides others...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sowaddi-kalan-village-near-mullanpur-town-to-get-iti-101638648864130.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Tributes paid to hero of 1971 Indo-Pak war||A ceremony was organised to pay tribute to Param Vir Chakra recipient, flying officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, on the 50th anniversary of 1971 Indo-Pak war at District Administrative Complex, on Saturday. Martyr Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, a native of village Issewal in Dakha was a war hero and had sacrificed his life during the Indo-Pak war of 1971.When Srinagar air field was being attacked by a wave of six Pakistani aircrafts on December 14, 1971; Sekhon displayed exceptional flying skills and took off to counter the enemy attack. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Vir Chakra, colonel Harbaksh Singh Kahlon, wing commander MS Randhawa, colonel SS Bhullar, captain Nachattar Singh, subedar Bhupinder Singh, Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC) chairman KK Bawa paid tribute to Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon by laying wreaths, while Punjab police presented him the guard of honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-tributes-paid-to-hero-of-1971-indo-pak-war-101638648859364.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Fearing road cave-in, RTI activist files second complaint with PSHRC||Fearing a road cave-in following the Municipal Corporation’s failure to fix a leakage in water supply lines in Model Town, Gol Market, for over a year, RTI activist Arvind Sharma on Saturday submitted a second complaint with the Punjab State Human Rights Commission (PSHRC). Sharma, who himself owns a shop in Gol Market, accused the MC officials of submitting a wrong report to the PSHRC after he filed his first complaint in the month of January. He further alleged that the authorities failed to resolve the issue even after laying new lines in the past, citing frequent accidents that take place due to the pot holes in the roads. Seeking strict action against the concerned officials, Sharma stated that leakage might eventually lead to the road caving in.“It seems like the MC has failed to learn lessons from the past mistakes. Even after two students and a woman had a narrow escape after a major portion of the road caved in in Deep Nagar in October, the authorities are adopting lackadaisical approach toward the leakage in water supply lines,” his complaint read. Sharma elaborated on the issue, “The authorities stated that Deep Nagar road caved in due to leakage in sewer or water lines. But even after over a year has elapsed, the officials have failed to stop leakage in water supply lines in Gol market. Strict action should be taken against the concerned officials and they are putting the lives of residents at stake.”The corporation’s superintending engineer, Ravinder Garg, was unavailable for comments despite repeated attempts. Pardeep Sabharwal, the MC commissioner, meanwhile, stated, “As per the report submitted by the concerned officials with my office, the line was repaired in the past. If any problem is being witnessed in the area, the staff will again be directed to resolve the same at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-fearing-road-cave-in-rti-activist-files-second-complaint-with-pshrc-101638648739091.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University zonal youth & heritage festival kicks off||Making a return after a pandemic-induced two-year hiatus, the Panjab University Zonal Youth and Heritage festival, Zone-B, commenced at GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, on Saturday.Over 700 participants from 22 colleges affiliated to Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh, are competing in over 63 events in the four-day festival, the theme for which is “Love and Respect Nature”.Sakatar Singh Bal, additional deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, and Randhir Kaur, deputy commissioner of the state taxation, were chief guests at the event. Several other dignitaries were also present on the occasion including Navjeet Singh (PCS), who was the guest of honour. The inaugural day saw performances in a range of music events, including group shabad, bhajan, group song and instrumental (Indian), folk song, classical music vocal, gazal, geet, percussion and non-percussion, folk instruments and orchestra. Besides, students also competed in various art-related events including on-the-spot painting, photography, collage making, clay modeling, rangoli, poster making, cartooning and still-life drawing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-zonal-youth-heritage-festival-kicks-off-101638648678683.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Punjab government felicitates industrialist Rajni Bector||: Padma Shri awardee and industrialist Rajni Bector was on Saturday conferred with a Certificate of Honour by the Government of Punjab on Saturday.Under the patronage of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab industries and commerce minister, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, handed over the certificate to Bector at her residence.Kotli also presented Bector with phulkari, acknowledging her tireless efforts to take industries in the state to “the next level”.Speaking on the occasion, Bector briefly discussed the positive approach that she undertook in all her endeavours. She further said, “I always wish that industry in Punjab should grow and achieve new milestones thus becoming the pride of the nation.” Bector’s son, Anoop Bector, daughter-in-law Rashmi Bector and grandchildren were all in attendance during the felicitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-punjab-government-felicitates-industrialist-rajni-bector-101638648558498.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sahnewal MC chief Hara attacked by unidentified persons||Unidentified miscreants opened attack on Sahnewal municipal council president Captain Sukhjit Singh Hara, 57, twice at the Southern bypass on Friday. Though Hara escaped unhurt, his Ford Endeavor SUV was badly damaged. Hara, who hails from Nandpur village, said it was a planned attack and he suspects the hand of drug peddlers who wanted to get back at him for starting a campaign against drug use in Sahnewal. Hara has not ruled out the possibility of his political rivals orchestrating the attack.In his complaint, the MC chief stated that he was going to Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar in his SUV on Friday night. When he reached the flyover at Southern bypass near Dugri, he found a stationary truck on the flyover. When he went closer, unidentified persons sitting inside the truck, opened attack with iron rods and sticks. He sped up his vehicle and escaped after dodging the assailants but a group of men on motorcycles again opened attack on him. Hara managed to escape and inform the police, but the assailants managed to escape.Hara further said that he suspects that it was a planned attack as the truck seems to have been stationed on the flyover to intercept him. “I had lodged cases against drug peddlers and helped the police in arresting them. It could be the handiwork of drug peddlers. As I am an aspirant for an assembly ticket from Sahnewal constituency, the attack could be an outcome of political rivalry also. Otherwise, I have no enmity with anyone,” said Hara.Police on Saturday scanned closed-circuit television cameras installed on Southern bypass under safe city project, but to no avail, as those were not functional.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balvir Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 341(punishment for wrongful restrain), 427 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against unidentified accused at Dugri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sahnewal-mc-chief-hara-attacked-by-unidentified-persons-101638648378568.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Grief, love and redemption||The Northern goshawk, or the Baaz, Punjab’s State Bird, finds resonance not only in the history, culture and religion of the sub-continent but it is a bird that has held its own against the Peregrine falcon in the global practice of the art of falconry. No single individual in contemporary history has done more to popularise the goshawk than Helen Macdonald, who penned an account of her relationship with a female goshawk, Mabel, in H is for Hawk. Brutally honest, the memoir brimming with emotional richness stirred the souls of naturalists.Macdonald, an English woman, lost her father. To shake off sorrow’s throttling grip and grasp at healing, Macdonald took to training a difficult goshawk as she wanted to immerse herself in a creature that knew no remorse or emotion. “As she tries to navigate a deep, deep grief..With the hawks taming comes Helen’s untaming, in a book with a deep love at its heart,” is how her book was blurbed.Female goshawks may be enigmatic, charming and loyal to the trainer like a pet dog, flashing lemon yellow eyes that turn orange with age. But the avian hunter is sheer brutality when let loose on hares and pheasants. The goshawk pins the alive prey down with her talons and rips its chest out in the practice of a malevolent ‘open heart surgery’. Stalking the quaint English moors with Mabel, Macdonald wrote: “Everything was gone except this quiet Sylvan scene. Into which I intended to let slip havoc and murder.” Both Helen and Mabel would share the prey the latter slaughtered.The book bagged awards and was turned into a popular BBC series, Macdonald became a celebrity, featuring in Vogue. “Goshawks are the Christopher Walken of birds....not extraordinarily intelligent like dogs or parrots but they possess phenomenal tactical intelligence, such as the way in which they make use of the winds to attack, like a military operation,” Macdonald was quoted as saying.Gharials, free to flowThe critically-endangered species, Gharials, are all set to further the swim against the tide of extinction on the Punjab section of the Indus system. The Forests and Wildlife Preservation department will release 25 Gharials near village Miani in the Beas Conservation Reserve (BCR) on December 5, 2021. This will bring the number of Gharials released into the BCR to 95, and the fourth such batch of captive-bred Gharials freed since that historic day of December 25, 2017, when 10 Gharials were the first to taste the silvery ripples of the Beas. Village Miani falls under Dasuya tehsil of Hoshiarpur. The spot chosen for the impending release is considerably upstream of Harike barrage, at 104-112km as the Beas meanders. The release sites of the four batches have progressed upstream since 2017 as a few Gharials were swept into the Harike barrage and either died or were flushed down with the canals and reached the Abohar-Muktsar areas, 60-70 km downstream of the barrage. The lives of Gharials swept downstream of the barrage were placed in jeopardy. However, the department was able to effect their rescues from the canals and minor drains system. The other factor, which has occasioned the selection of the Kula Fattah forests on the banks of the Beas near village Miani, is that the section of the river here enjoys a relatively undisturbed habitat and situates a long island chain. Islands are essential for Gharial breeding and lend safety from turbulence in water levels. The litmus test for Punjab’s Gharial Reintroduction Programme will be met when freed Gharials commence breeding. Till the time the department first released Gharials in 2017 on the Beas, the species was extinct on the Indus system. Of the three river systems dominating the subcontinent, only the Brahmputra remains void of Gharials. The Ganges system was the first to support reintroductions. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-grief-love-and-redemption-101638648199016.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 25-year-old woman hangs self over dowry harassment||Allegedly harassed by her husband and in-laws for dowry, a 25-year-old woman ended her life by hanging herself in Shimla Colony, Rahon road, on Saturday morning.Basti Jodhewal police lodged an FIR against her husband, mother-in-law and sister-in-law for dowry death. All three are on the run.The victim’s father, in his statement to the police, said his daughter had married the accused four years ago and the couple has a three-year-old son. The 25-year-old’s husband and in-laws used to constantly harass her for dowry. The complainant said he had intervened several times but to no avail. On Saturday, the accused humiliated her for dowry again, following which she locked herself in a room and hanged herself from the ceiling fan.Inspector Mohammad Jamil, Basti Jodhewal station house officer, said an FIR under Section 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-25-year-old-woman-hangs-self-over-dowry-harassment-101638648138493.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout | When swords replaced ploughs in Punjab||The curtain rises on a pitch-dark stage and then a blood-red light appears highlighting the scattered swords. A sutradhar enters in dark robes with a turban on his head. He could be Sikh or Muslim, Nihang or Malang. Men carrying drums follow him as he chants of vicious times and hapless victims and together they start singing: In the year 1947, ploughs were to be found nowhere...Such is the tone set by Swarajbir Singh’s play: Pul Siraat (Bridge of Siraat), which the Quran says is the one to be crossed to reach paradise. Ironically, unfolds the story of a Muslim girl Fajjan who is swept away by the waves of violence and converted to Harnam Kaur. She goes on to become the village mad woman in her old age. This is one of the 16 plays included in the anthology, Plays from a Fractured Land: Punjabi Partition Drama In Translation.Atamjit says, “Going beyond Partition fiction available in different languages, the volume has dramas from both sides of the border. A collection of plays on the traumatic experience of Partition of Punjab ostensibly tells the fraught history of communal conflicts in Punjab.”He adds that the plays included in the collection employ irony, paradox, humour and pathos to underline that Partition was a failure of human ideals.Many stories, many sighsIn all, there are four full-length plays, four short plays, four excerpted and abridged plays and four one-act plays. An interesting inclusion is a one-act play by writer and film-maker Sagar Sarhadi of the Bazaar film fame. The writer, who passed away in March this year, spent his childhood years in Baffa village near Abbottabad, in the North-west Frontier Region in colonial times, and fondly had the second name of Sarhadi. His play, Messiah, is once again a woman’s story of those troubled times, in which she is unable to recognise her own lost brother. Atamjit points out, “Sita’s story is reminiscent in a way of Saadat Hasan Manto’s Khol Do. The irony is that the woman encountered so many beasts in the divisive violence that she could not recognise any other form of masculinity.”From across the border, in a more recent play the woman’s story is seen with difference in the saga of the two hostile countries. Dukh Darya (River of Sorrow) by playwright Shahid Nadeem, the husband of well known theatre artiste, late Madeeha Gauhar, has been staged many times on both sides of the border to wowed audiences. It was based on a real-life story of a Pakistani Kashmiri woman Kausar who jumps into the river as she is termed barren. She is rescued on the Indian side of the river and gives birth to a girl child in a jail as she is raped in custody. Thus, it becomes a tangled drama of a Pakistani woman with an Indian daughter. Atamjit comments thus on the play: “The River Of Sorrow is a quintessential Punjabi play that talks of oppression as well as the magnanimity of the Punjabis, it is history as well as myth, and it represents real politics and as well as cultural realities such as respect as well as disdain for women. The waters of our rivers drown us in sorrows. And the same waters also wash away the sorrows”.A galaxy of playwrightsThe volume includes a galaxy of Punjabi playwrights, and but for the pitfalls of language here and there and laxity in line editing, it is a book well worth the pride of place in the book shelf. The editor’s play ‘Rishtean Da ki Rakhiye Naa’ (No Man’s Land) inspired by Saadat Hasan Manto’s immortal story ‘Toba Tek Singh’ is there in a fine translation by Rana Nayar. From across the border we have a play based on a classic story by Ahmed Nadim Qazmi, Parmeshwar Singh, penned into a play by Aamir Nawaz. Like Kashmiri Lal Zakir’s story Karmanwali, adapted into a play by MK Raina, the play too is about a Sikh taking home the child, Akhtar, who gets separated from a group of Muslims migrating to Pakistan. It is a complex play because although for Parmeshwar, Akhtar is as dear to him as his son Kartara, who was separated from him in similar circumstances, yet other members of the family and the society as such refuse to accept a Muslim amid them. Parmeshwar takes him to the border so that he may cross over and so the boy starts following the sound of the Azan. But when a Pakistani soldier fires at Parmeshwar, Akhtar runs back with his hair flying in the wind.Plays by other playwrights in the book include Harsaran Singh, Gurdial Singh Khosla, Ajmer Singh Aulakh, Kewal Dhaliwal, Jagdish Sachdeva, Sahib Singh and Devinder Daman. The translators besides Nayar are Amena Z. Cheema, Swaraj Raj and Vivek Sachdeva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-when-swords-replaced-ploughs-in-punjab-101638647726260.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Government doctor among 2 held for opening fire during clash||Police arrested two persons, including a government doctor, for opening fire from a revolver during a clash near Rishi Nagar market on Friday night in which a Jassian-road resident was injured. Police have seized the .32 bore revolver used to fire the shots and the Toyota Fortuner in which the accused were travelling.The accused have been identified as Dr Hari Om, 39, and Vinit Bhandari, 38. Both are the residents of Rishi Nagar.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City-3) Sameer Verma said the incident took place around 10pm on Friday when the accused got into a spat with Ranvir Verma, Adesh Sehgal and their friends over a petty issue.Matters escalated and Bhandari flashed his licensed .32 bore revolver and fired around three to four shots targeting Ranvir and his friends.In the incident, Ranvir suffered injuries on his head and was rushed to the civil hospital, said the ADCP. On Saturday, the police arrested the two accused under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 336 (rash or negligent act endangering human life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-government-doctor-among-2-held-for-opening-fire-during-clash-101638647718597.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||50 years of 1971 war: Brig HS Lamba recalls the Dacca triumph||On December 16, 1971, while Bangladesh was celebrating the liberation in Dhaka, one of the fiercest battles of the Indo-Pak war was being fought in the Khulna sector. Fifty years later, sitting in the lawn at his bungalow in Chandigarh, a retired Brigadier’s eyes well up as he talks about his fellow soldiers who died while liberating Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971. He talks about what went wrong and how lives were lost in large numbers during the Battle of Siramani. In Khulna sector, Pakistan’s 9 Infantry Division was pitted against 9 Infantry Division of the Indian Army commanded by Maj Gen Dalbir Singh. Brigadier Harbhajan Singh Lamba (retd), 84, was then a major commanding a company in the 13 Dogras, when the battalion was directed to capture Siramani. Siramani was Pakistan’s main strength, as they had placed mines and used heavy artillery to delay Indian troops’ advancement. “Three attempts by different battalions were made to capture Siramani but when they could not succeed, then 13 Dogras was ordered from the division to capture it,” recalls Brigadier Lamba, an Ati Vishisht Seva Medal recipient. “I knew it was going to be a decisive battle, and we were going to suffer casualties. I remember saying to my jawans: ‘If you don’t perform today, you will perish,’ and reciting a Guru Gobind’s quote,” the officer repeats the lines with heavy voice. It was a day light attack. “At 09:45 hours, we advanced in the enemy area in open to capture Siramani East. Now, despite being assured of support of the entire divisional artillery, not a single artillery shell landed on the objective,” he says. The officer said that the enemy was picking commanders and he was the first one to be hit. “I shouted at a Captain from the artillery, asking for fire but he got a bust and dropped dead,” he recalls. “The artillery got delayed by 30-35 minutes, which was a lot of time, especially when you are advancing towards the enemy in open. We suffered heavy casualties. Every step that we took forward, a man was either killed or wounded and dropped. That is how we advanced towards the enemy.” There were times when they thought that the assault would have to be abandoned due to heavy casualties, but at last artillery came and the operation was a success. It took about 1:45 hours to capture the Siramani East and by 3:30, they sent a success signal PHAKIAN (everything is fine). The officer’s battalion captured four Pakistani officers besides about a score of troops and seized a large quantity of arms and ammunition. It decimated a major portion of 15 frontier force rifles in a straight fight. The battalion was awarded Siramani as a battle honour. That was the time when Major General Dalbir Singh came on a jeep and reminded him that he was shot and sent him to hospital in his jeep. Brigadier’s wife, Dolly Lamba, recalls how she was handed over his clothes and ammunition boots soaked in blood. The officer was awarded a Mention in Dispatches. When someone asks about awards, I answer: “The one I got, I don’t put it on.” For Dolly Lamba, the biggest reward is the fact that her husband is sitting next to her sipping evening tea in their lawn, even 50 years after the war. 
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Ward 28 is a picture of neglect||From garbage heaps, parking woes to stray cattle menace, residents in Ward No. 28, which comprises semi-urban areas, complain of a number of civic issues.The ward comprises Maloya village, Sector 39 West and a number of neighbouring colonies, including EWS flats. Before the fresh delimitation, these areas came under Ward No. 7.In Maloya, residents complain of poor sanitation and lack of parking spaces. Open garbage dumps and dilapidated streets are a common sight. Residents say nothing much has improved over the years. Most parks face neglect and are being used for parking of vehicles.Amar Puhal, 25, a resident of Maloya Colony, says: “The locality suffers from poor sanitation and lack of place for recreational activities. The streets are in a poor condition and parks are not maintained.”Youngsters complain that they do not have a proper ground for recreation. Locals also complain of stray dog and stray cattle menace. They say no garbage bins are installed at most places, which results in accumulation of waste in surrounding areas.The situation at the EWS Colony, Maloya, is none better. Residents complain of poor sanitation, as garbage can be seen in every nook and cranny. They also rue the fact that there is no market nearby.“The water is supplied only in the morning and evening, but it should be supplied during the afternoon as well. There is no cleanliness in the locality and there is no maintenance of parks,” says Waseela, a 60-year-old resident.Bhimla Devi, 38, who resides in Gursagar Bhattal Colony, says, “The issues here are countless. I am the one responsible for garbage collection here. I have to burn it as no one comes to ferry it to the processing plant. There is no electricity line here and there is only one public water tap in the colony.”Residents say that during the rainy season, water enters into their houses due to blocked drains and they have to bear with dirty and stinky surroundings. “The colony is in an extremely poor state. There are no garbage bins installed here for the public,” says Sanjay, a local. The situation at Gwala and Kumhar Colony is no different. Dotted with dilapidated streets and heaps of garbage, the colony gets inundated with rainwater every monsoon. Know your wardLocalities: Maloya village, EWS Colony, Sector 39 West, Gursagar Bhattal Colony, Gwala and Kumhar Colony, Sukhrana and Bansal Farm Reserved for SC candidatesVoters: 28,000Key issuesPoor sanitation and open garbage dumpsParking issues and dilapidated parksStray cattle and dog menaceLocal voicesThe locality suffers from poor sanitation and lack of spaces for recreational activities. Amar Puhal, 25, Maloya ColonyThe water is supplied only in the morning and evening. There is no cleanliness in the locality.Waseela, 60, EWS Colony, MaloyaPublic parks are not maintained and have been turned into parking spaces. There is no sanitation. Renu Saxena, Maloya ColonyNo one comes to collect the garbage. There is no electricity and only one public water tap.Bhimla Devi, 38, Gursagar Bhattal Colony 
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC election: Cong leader Babla’s sister and wife are richest candidates in fray||The Congress has fielded the four richest candidates in the Chandigarh municipal elections, which are scheduled on December 24.Balwinder Kaur, sister of senior Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla, tops the list with total assets worth ₹34.88 crore. She is in the fray from Ward No. 15. Babla’s wife Harpreet Kaur, who is contesting from Ward No. 10, is the second richest with ₹31.34-crore assets. The third richest candidate is Vijay Singh Rana, who is in the fray from Ward No. 33 and has declared assets worth ₹26.95 crore. The fourth is former councillor Jagjit Singh Kang, who is contesting from Ward No. 29 and has declared assets worth ₹22.94 crore in his nomination papers. The total assets include both movable and immovable owned by the candidate and their spouse. Balwinder Kaur and her husband and senior Congress leader Roopinder Singh’s combined assets of ₹26 crore made her the richest candidate in the 2016 municipal elections too. At the time, she had fought on the SAD ticket and lost.Her moveable properties are worth ₹60.93 lakh, and her husband’s are worth ₹1.14 crore. The immovable assets, including an industrial plot in Mohali and house in Chandigarh’s Sector 27, are listed at ₹33.74 crore.Bablas were the second richest in last MC polls as well, when their worth was reported at ₹23 crore. Last time, Devinder had fought the election and is the leader of opposition in the present MC House. The couple owns five cars, including Mercedes Benz, Kia Seltos, Toyota Innova, Mahindra Thar and Maruti Esteem, besides an electric golf cart. They also own jewellery worth more than a crore, while Devinder owns a licensed .30 BA Rifle and .30 Bore Pistol worth ₹2.5 lakh. The total worth of their movable assets is ₹3.38 crore.Their immovable assets are worth ₹29.4 crore, and include an agricultural land in Parol village besides commercial buildings and industrial plots in Chandigarh and Mohali.Others in the crore clubNitika Gupta, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Ward No. 5, has listed total assets worth ₹10.82 crore. Former deputy mayor Harmohinder Singh Lucky, who is the Congress candidate from Ward No. 2, has immovable asset worth ₹8.85 crore and moveable assets worth ₹87.90 lakh. Also, in the crore club isBhupinder Badheri, Congress candidate from Ward No. 30, who is worth ₹7.68 crore.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Manaur, from Ward No. 29, has listed assets totalling ₹6.2 crore, while Jasbir Singh, who is the party candidate from Ward No. 21, is worth ₹5.92 crore. AAP poll campaign in-charge Chandermukhi Sharma has declared ₹3.04-crore assets.Jasbir Singh, a Congress candidate from Ward No. 24, has declared assets worth ₹4.10 crore. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma is worth ₹3.14 crore while former BJP mayor Davesh Moudgil is worth ₹2.67 crore. Gurbax Rawat, sitting Congress councillor and candidate from Ward No. 27, has ₹2 crore worth assets. The list also includes Manmohan Kaur (Ward 23) with ₹4.44 crore, Neha Arora (Ward 23) with ₹2.20 crore, Yashpal (Ward 25) with ₹2.11 crore, Gurvinder Kaur (Ward 1) and Darshana (Ward 5) with ₹2 crore, and Jannat Jahan (Ward 4) with ₹1.95 crore.322 nominations filedAccording to the state election commission, 322 candidates filed their nominations, which also include covering candidates. Election documents of 316 have already uploaded on the SIC mobile app, while the rest will be uploaded on Sunday. At 14 each, maximum nominations came from Wards No. 8 and 29. The lowest came from Ward No. 11, from where only five people filed the papers. The candidates have time till December 9 to withdraw their nomination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-election-cong-leader-babla-s-sister-and-wife-are-richest-candidates-in-fray-101638647239887.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC election: Rebel candidates a headache for parties||With a number of rebel candidates tossing their hat into the ring, an already multi-cornered contest has been thrown wide open as nominations for the Chandigarh municipal elections came to an end on Saturday. After being denied the ticket, many office-bearers and party workers of the three main contenders — Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) — have entered the fray either as Independent candidates or as nominees of rival parties.Traditionally a two-cornered contest between the BJP and Congress, the Chandigarh municipal elections are seeing a multi-cornered contest this time with even the AAP and Shiromani Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party (SAD-BSP) combine in the fray. In such a scenario, the presence of rebel candidates could make a major difference in the fortunes of these parties.“Even in the previous two-cornered fights, winning margins were in two digits at times. These rebel candidates are likely to hurt their parent parties, especially if the person has a strong track record in the ward. If they contest from the main rival party, it becomes all the more difficult for the parent party,” said a senior Congress leader, who didn’t want to be named. Even his wife was denied the party ticket.Kamal Kumar, a former Congress office-bearer, joined the AAP a couple of days back and filed his nomination papers from Ward No. 3 on Saturday. He will take on Congress’ Ravi Thakur and BJP’s sitting councillor Daleep Sharma. “It is very disappointing that in the Congress, everything else but merit gets you the ticket,” said Kumar.Hiral Lal, a former organisational secretary in the Congress, is contesting elections on the AAP ticket from Ward No. 24. He left his old party after his claim to the ticket was denied. Rajinder Kaur Panag, another Congress office-bearer and daughter of a former Mahila Congress president, joined the SAD on Friday and filed her nomination papers from Ward No. 18 on Saturday. Prem Pal Chauhan, another former organisational secretary, is contesting as an Independent candidate from Ward No. 15. “The ticket is not an issue. How the Congress is being run is what made me leave it. Till the last moment, I was assured that I would be given the ticket. There are 15 rebel candidates contesting as Independents. We will be supporting each other,” he said. Former Congress state general secretary Shashi Shankar Tewari, who resigned after his wife was denied ticket, said: “We will oppose Congress candidates in all wards. Tickets have not been distributed on merit and dedicated workers have been ignored. Many senior Congress functionaries are contesting as rebel candidates, and we will be holding a joint press conference on Sunday.” Not just these Independent candidates, the Congress is also facing a challenge from at least 20 former members who are contesting on the AAP ticket. “Most of these people left the Congress with former party president Pardeep Chhabra. They have been given tickets, and now will cut into the traditional voter base,” said Tewari. BJP, AAP face challenge too The ruling BJP is also facing challenge from its own former party functionaries. Narendra Pal Chaudhary, state coordinator, Swach Bharat Vibhag, and a former member of the SC Morcha national executive committee, has filed papers as an Independent candidate. “I have served the party dedicatedly for so many years, but the local unit totally ignored my efforts. The party has put up a candidate in Ward No. 26, who is not even popular there.”Manpreet Kaur, the wife of BJP national Kissan Morcha member and two-time Daria sarpanch Gurpreet Singh Happy, is also unhappy with ticket distribution and is contesting as an Independent from Ward No. 9. Another long-time party worker, Yashpal Singh Yadav, is contesting as a rebel candidate from Ward No. 27. Kripanand Thakur, a district secretary and party member of over two decades who enjoys strong support in Hallomajra, also filed his nomination from Ward No. 20 as a rebel candidate. Fighting its first municipal poll, even the AAP will face competition from its rebel candidates. Sahil Chawar, founder member of the party’s city unit and youth state general secretary, is contesting as an Independent candidate from Ward No. 4. Former party member Farman Ansari is in the fray from Ward No. 3. Reema Mahajan, who is the wife of former senior AAP functionary Jagdeep, filed nomination papers as a SAD candidate on Saturday. 
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati | Omicron se darta kaun!||Tough to be treading through times where the Fear Curve shows nary a sign to flatten, mostly a propensity to fatten. Much in the manner of middle class India’s waistlines or secret Swiss bank account bottom lines.Post Unlock, barely had we heaved a sigh of relief that we were done with the Covid19 con, that there pops up Omicron. Barely were we getting acquainted to the Post New Normal’s sartorial statement – vanished masks -- when along come alerts of another return to masked living. What better testimony to this Fattening of the Fear Curve narrative than a recent public travel episode. The past many weeks had seen many a commuter on public transport, like the capital’s Metro, sport the new look of the Post New Normal – Dismantled Masks to Disappeared Masks.Social distancing on the Metro, as in most public places, had gone with the wind as commuters merrily threw caution to the wind. Faster than the Metro tore through the Capital’s smog-suffused wind.Until Omicron warnings spurred officialdom to pull up the socks. Getting a taste of this return to the cracking of the whip was a fellow lady commuter immersed in that National Olympic Idling Sport called Whatsapping. When she found a posse of paunchy constabulary peering down at her, she goggled up to realise that not only the coach she was commuting in was “Pink”, but that the slip she was being handed was pink, too.She went rather pink in the face at being served a challan for fashioning a style statement peculiar to Post New Normal – Dangled Mask.As one headed to the second leg of that day’s journey, another factor on the Fear Curve raised its head. Legging it to a shopping hub, one was engulfed in a surging sea of humanity pretending the Pandemic and its protocols were never part of its vocabulary. A madding crowd whose subtext spelt: “Omicron se darta kaun!”A stray voice rising over this madding crowd of shopaholics (yours truly included) struck a sudden chord. “Arre bhai, khoob saara khareed lo, phir se Lockdown lagega.”This brought one not only to a narrow alley clogged with shoppers who bore a rather un-poetic resemblance to jostling jailbirds out on parole, but also face to face with the fear of another “jail” term. Face to face also with a peculiar kind of shopaholicism.Pandemic’s Panic Shopaholics.This essentially entails lockdown hoarding tendencies of two types.Of essentials and essentially shopaholicsThe first type of Panic Shopaholicism entails building inventories of essentials. ‘Essentials’ defined by buying list lessons from Lockdown 1.0. Aloo Bhujia one didn’t mass order prior to the last Lockdown out of fear it would consolidate one’s status of Couch ‘Potato’. Maggi instant noodles and soup one didn’t stock up on because one didn’t foresee we’d be in such a soup. The curious case of Who Moved My Puffcorn Cheese.Of panic and pyjamasThe other type of Panic Shopaholicism is made of non-essentials. Stocking on extra hair color Brown or Auburn, in case of Lockdown Omicron. Remember, one doesn’t yet want to look a literal version of 50 Shades of Grey. Mass buying trendy Tees and boxers for the groom on Zoom. Remember, previous Pandemic pyjamas may not take too kindly to the gluttony and gorging one has indulged in Unlock, with the noble intention to egg on the Restarting India narrative.The curious case of Pyjamas Are Unforgiving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witerati-omicron-se-darta-kaun-101638647178493.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||22-year-old woman latest Covid casualty in Ludhiana||A 22-year-old woman of Kothe Khanjura village in Jagraon died of Covid-19 while another person tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Saturday.So far, 87,671 persons have tested positive for the virus in the district, of which 2,111 patients have succumbed to the disease. The district currently has 19 active cases. Three fresh cases of dengue were also reported in the district during the last 24 hours. The total number of confirmed dengue cases in the district has reached 1,812, while the count of suspected cases is at 4,680.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/22yearold-woman-latest-covid-casualty-in-ludhiana-101638646879570.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Random Forays | Understanding the economy that thrives on our fears||I am not an economist by any stretch of imagination but I do feel strongly about people who prosper by propelling and igniting fear in the minds of the general populace.From small time crooks to big time companies, there is a significant section of the economy which basically thrives on the fear factor prevailing in society at the time. The pandemic has seen the worst of such tendencies to make a fast buck by inflaming rumours and instigating people to go in for panic buying. The virus and its avatars or variants have of course pushed the whole world onto the back foot and millions of lives have been lost.But there have been several deliberate spikes in the fortunes of some manufacturers, not necessarily based on facts, but because of hyper rumour mills which have resulted in fear ridden purchases by the millions of items which were never really needed.Some months ago, it was feared that fungi of many hues would attack us without warning and we were thus ‘advised’ to consume so and so potion, in order to ward them off! Many products and so called immunity boosters emerged from nowhere during the pandemic to reap in the moolah simply because people were justifiably scared of contracting the disease. Whether these ‘products’ or chemicals actually had the desired impact will never be known.Purported new variants of the dreaded virus are also regrettably causing the same fear among the masses. Whether or not they will actually find their way into our nostrils, God forbid, they will play with the minds of billions of people across the world. Drug manufacturers will undoubtedly benefit hugely since doctors will recommend a series of expensive curative measures if anyone starts sneezing in the coming weeks. Booster doses of all sorts will also boost the economy of their creators by gigantic scales.The cholesterol ‘myth’ as it is now known to be, and the resultant terror that it created, resulted in the sales of drugs known as statins worth billions of dollars all over the world for decades. Many a hale, hearty, man must have lost his life just by worrying himself to death about his cholesterol levels being high, even though his arteries were not half as clogged as the healthcare industry made him fear. Blood pressure and sugar levels are the real ‘variants’ that need to be kept in check, doctors now emphasise, while keeping rather quiet about cholesterol.‘Fear is the key’, was the title of the 1972 film directed by Michael Tuchner. Fear is indeed the key to the success of many other segments of the economy as well. The electronic media madness has already been pilloried enough by this writer over the years for playing up nonsensical issues, ad nauseum. And each new strain of the pandemic unfortunately gives these channels enough masala to ensure that their TRP ratings keep maintaining “healthy” heights.Prudence is really the key, after all. Following norms and guidelines to the hilt. But allowing ourselves to be befooled into thinking that Omicron or whatever is peering through a hole in the wall eager to enter into our system, is being paranoid without need.Godmen have befooled us for centuries too, shady ones that is. In many temples across India, the unfortunate trend is for visitors to be coerced into donating large amounts since they are made to fear divine penalties If they do not. Anyone who indulges in profiteering by feasting on the nerves of the people is bound to have an interest in the continuance of war, calamities, pandemics, confusion and chaos. Inflaming rumours of the worst kind is like second nature to them. Normalcy does not suit such vested inserests. Only a balanced collective mindset and cogent action by governments can deny fraudsters of these kinds their ill gotten wealth.Less hype and more factual awareness would lead to reduced uncertainty and enhance calmness in society. Mass hysteria is not the way to deal with national adversity. And those who perpetrate it especially with nefarious designs must be brought to book!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-understanding-the-economy-that-thrives-on-our-fears-101638646878190.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar: LeT militant arrested in Budgam||The police on Saturday claimed to have arrested an active Lashkar militant in Budgam who was a close associate of Yusuf Kantroo.The militant was arrested from Poskhar Beerwah along with a pistol and grenade.Police spokesman said on a specific input regarding the movement of terrorists in the Poshkar area of Budgam, the police along with the 62RR/2RR and 79 Battalion of the CRPF launched a joint cordon and search operation in the area.“During the search operation, the joint team arrested an active terrorist linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT,” the spokesman said.The police identified the arrested militant as Abdul Hameed Nath of Pethzanigam Beerwah, Budgam.“Incriminating materials, including a pistol and a magazine, five pistol rounds and one Chinese grenade were recovered from his possession.”Police said that Nath was active since February 2021 and was an associate of a prominent Lashkar commander, Yusuf Kantroo, who is involved in several attacks.A case under relevant Sections of law stands registered against him in the police station and an investigation has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-let-militant-arrested-in-budgam-101638646699591.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal registers 78 Covid cases; Kangra reports highest infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 78 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,27,487. No fatality was reported on Saturday and the death toll remains 3,835. The highest of 25 cases were reported from Kangra, 17 from Shimla, 10 from Una, seven from Hamirpur, six from Solan, five from Mandi, three each from Bilaspur and Chamba and one from Kinnaur and Kullu. The active cases climbed up to 800 while the recoveries have reached 2,22,831 after 75 people recuperated. In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is the worst hit among all 12 districts logging 51,505 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 31,933 cases and Shimla with 27,958 cases. TRACKER Total Cases: 2,27,487 Recoveries: 2,22,831 Deaths: 3,835 Active: 800||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-registers-78-covid-cases-kangra-reports-highest-infections-101638646698087.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi in Kangra to offer prayers at Baglamukhi temple||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi arrived on a private visit to Kangra on Saturday. It is learnt that Channi will pay obeisance at the famous Baglamukhi temple and offer special prayer in the evening.Channi landed at the Gaggal airport in the afternoon where he was received by Kangra District Congress Committee (HPCC) president Ajay Mahajan, state general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania and other local leaders.Channi headed straight to the temple, located at a distance of around 42 km from Dharamsala.The Baglamukhi temple is believed to be that of the Mahabharata era and has gained prominence in the past few years. It is famous among politicians, celebrities and players, who often pay a visit to the temple to offer special prayers.Goddess Baglamukhi is worshipped to ward of enemies and evil spirits. Channi is said to be a devotee of Baglamukhi and has visited the temple several times.Famous politicians who visited the temple in the past include Amar Singh and Jaya Prada, former Samajwadi party leaders, and former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh.Former President Pranab Mukherjee also visited the temple in 2015 while former cricketer Yuvraj Singh had performed a “yajna” after recovering from cancer.Photo: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi after arriving at the Kangra airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-in-kangra-to-offer-prayers-at-baglamukhi-temple-101638646639979.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dharamshala: 2 trekkers missing in Dhauladhar mountains since November 29||Two trekkers from Dharamshala have been missing in the Dhauladhar mountains since November 29.Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Khushal Chand Sharma said the trekkers had been identified as Naveen Kumar, 44, a resident of Dari, and Harsimaranjeet Singh, 34, of Kotwali Bazar locality.“They had left towards Thatharna on November 29, a small hill overlooking Dharamshala town, and camped there for a night,” said Sharma.He said some locals who had met the hikers informed that they were planning to cross the 4,450-metre Kundli Pass.The families lodged a missing complaint after they didn’t return. They had made the last call to a friend asking him the directions towards Chamba.“We have launched a search and rescue operation to trace them. A foot search team from Dharamshala has been sent towards the Kundli Pass while another team is on its way from the Chamba side. Local trekkers are also helping the operation,” said the SP.So far, there is no trace of them, he added.He said the family members of one of the trekkers had arranged a private helicopter, but it couldn’t arrive on Saturday due to some problem. The district administration has also requested the Ministry of defence for an aerial survey.After back-to-back tragedies in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts involving trekkers, the Kangra district administration had banned trekking on mountain passes of 3,000 m and above on November 11.Kangra has around a dozen mountain passes across the Dhauladhar, which are widely used by Gaddi shepherds to cross over to either side with their herds.In recent years, trekking activities through these passes have increased. As per local trekkers, Kundli is one of the trickiest passes and can only be crossed from June 15 to October 15.For first-timers, it is a hard climb as one has to manoeuvre up a steep glacier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dharamshala-2-trekkers-missing-in-dhauladhar-mountains-since-november-29-101638646638182.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees no new Covid case among foreign returnees||Amid Omicron scare, the Chandigarh health department has not reported any new Covid-19 positive case among international travellers who have returned to the city from high-risk countries in the past 10 days. The only positive case is that of a South Africa returnee who resides in Sector 36 and had tested positive along with his wife and domestic help on November 29. Even their symptoms are stated to be mild.UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said on Saturday that after the central government mandated testing of all people arriving from such countries, over a dozen foreign returnees had arrived in Chandigarh. Of them, only one man has been tested positive for Covid-19, he said.“All those who were tested negative in Chandigarh after their arrival are under home quarantine while their repeat tests, which are scheduled on the eighth day of their arrival, are due. We are keeping a strict vigil on them and are monitoring their health,” said Garg, adding that the department is adopting every possible measure to control virus transmission amid Omicron concerns.The World Health Organisation has warned that the risk related to Omicron – a new variant of Covid-19 – is “very high”. The global health body said that the B.1.1.529 strain, first found in South Africa, is “highly divergent” and is likely to spread internationally at a very high speed and could possibly have severe consequences. On November 29, a 39-year-old South African returnee was tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh, raising concerns about Omicron transmission in the UT. A resident of Sector 36, he had tested negative on his arrival at the airport on November 21 but was found to be infected during his retest.“The health department has already sent his samples for genome sequencing, results of which are still awaited. The man, his wife and the maid are isolated at hospital, their health condition is stable and they are not requiring oxygen support,” said Garg.Meanwhile, a woman who was booked on Friday for breaking the quarantine order after returning from South Africa was shifted to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, after her oxygen level dipped. However, she again tested negative on Saturday.Highest vax numbers in a monthThe number of vaccine doses administered in Chandigarh has shown an improvement after concerns about the new variant emerged, the health department said.“Earlier, only 4,000-4,500 people were getting vaccinated daily, but on Saturday, over 6,000 got vaccinated in Chandigarh. This is the highest single-day tally in the past 30 days. People have realised the threat of the new Omicron variant,” said the health secretary.As on Saturday, 9,45,950 (113%) people have taken their first shot in Chandigarh, while 6,48,250 (77%) are fully vaccinated.Tricity’s daily tally drops below 10Meanwhile, the tricity’s daily case tally dropped down to single digit once again, as only eight people tested positive on Saturday. As many as 18 cases had surfaced on Friday, including 14 in Mohali alone.On Saturday, both Mohali and Chandigarh recorded three cases each while Panchkula reported two. No Covid-related death has been reported in the tricity for the past couple of weeks.Even the tricity’s active caseload dipped to 123 from 141 reported on Friday. There are 60 active cases in Chandigarh, followed by 48 in Mohali, and 15 in Panchkula. Chandigarh has so far reported 65,481 positive cases, of which 64,601 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded to date are 68,974. Among these, 67,854 patients have recovered and 1,072 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,841 includes 30,447 recoveries and 379 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sees-no-new-covid-case-among-foreign-returnees-101638646098433.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 15 burglary cases solved with arrest 2 members of gang||A gang of burglars, active in Haibowal and surrounding areas, was busted with the arrest of two members on Saturday.The accused have been identified as Surajpal, 32, of Kunj Vihar, Jassian and Kaka, 40, of Sharma Verma Colony, Haibowal Kalan. Police have recovered two LCDs, an apple tablet, six mobile phones, five watches, a camera, two laptops and gold jewellery from their possession. Deputy commissioner of police DCP Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said the accused used to target labour quarters.They would roam around looking for locked houses and targeted them in the evening. “Surajpal is already facing trial in ten cases of burglary and snatchings. He was arrested by the police and sent to jail but he bailed out on August 27 and again indulged in the crime,”said the cop.With the arrest of the accused, the police claims to have solved at least 15 incidents of burglaries. They would take action against the buyers ofstolen items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-15-burglary-cases-solved-with-arrest-2-members-of-gang-101638646038247.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Saturday was hottest December day in 7 years||With maximum temperature going up from Friday’s 25.9°C to 28.1°C, Saturday was the hottest December day in Chandigarh since 2014, according to data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). With a spell of rain likely on Sunday, the mercury is expected to fall again.At 28.1°C, the maximum temperature was also four notches above normal. Just two days ago, it had plunged to 19°C after the arrival of a western disturbance in the region. “After the western disturbance passed, there was a period of clear weather. As another western disturbance is approaching the region, so colder northerly winds remained absent, causing the temperature to shoot up,” said Manmohan Singh, director, IMD, Chandigarh. Singh said that due to the cloudy weather, Saturday night is expected to remain warm, though temperature is likely to plunge on Sunday with chances of light to moderate rain in the city. Weather will remain cloudy on Monday though clear skies are likely to return by Tuesday. Chances of moderate fog, which could drop visibility below 1 kilometre, are also present. Meanwhile, due to the skies clearing up, the minimum temperature went down from 14.1°C to 12.1°C, still five notches above normal. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 21 and 23 degrees while the minimum temperature will remain between 9 and 11 degrees.Air quality back to satisfactoryEven the Air Quality Index (AQI), that had crossed 300 at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station in Sector 22 on Friday, dropped below 100, which is considered satisfactory. It was recorded at similar levels at the monitoring station in Sector 25 as well. Officials said that with the sky opening up and winds blowing in the city, pollutants were dispersed and the air quality improved on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-saturday-was-hottest-december-day-in-7-years-101638645859393.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: MC takes action against staff found fleecing residents||After three municipal corporation (MC) employees were caught on camera fleecing residents on the pretext of regularising illegal water-sewer connections under one-time settlement policy, the civic body suspended two of them and terminated the services of third, who was a contractual employee.The accused have been identified as Avtar Singh, an electric pump operator, Varun Kumar, a peon, and Karan Sood, a sewerman. In the video captured by residents of Ram Nagar of Ward 27 on November 11, the trio was purportedly seen charging the residents ₹800, against the actual fee of ₹200, for regularising their water-sewer connections. They had fleeced at least eight residents but were made to return the money. The video also showed the residents surrounding the employees, prompting them to “apologise for their mistake”.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had marked an inquiry to additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal following which the suspension and termination orders were issued on late Friday evening. Action has been taken for fleecing residents, causing loss to the state exchequer and putting a blot on the image of the MC, the order stated. Sabharwal said, “The action taken against the three employees will serve as a warning for others too indulging in such acts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-takes-action-against-staff-found-fleecing-residents-101638645739442.html
05-12-2021||Lucknow||Over 35% of Uttar Pradesh’s population fully vaxed: Health department||Almost 77 per cent of Uttar Pradesh’s eligible population has received the first dose of the Covid vaccine, and almost 35 per cent has been fully vaccinated, according to the state’s health department. In all 16,72,35,864 doses have been administered in the state including 11,42,81,008 first dose and 5,29,54,856 second dose, the data stated. The state government’s spokesperson on Saturday said statewide ‘cluster approach’ and door-to-door visits have resulted in a significant hike in the second dose coverage across Uttar Pradesh. While more than 77 per cent of the adult population has received at least the first dose of the Covid vaccine and over 35 per cent have received both doses. “Vaccine gives protection against the virus hence all eligible people should get both their doses when due. The new variant of Covid has been reported at some places in the country and we need to adhere to Covid protocol which is the same for any variant of Covid. We can remain safe from the new variant with the same preventive measures,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary of medical health at a press conference. The teams are going from village to village in Uttar Pradesh and giving call slips (containing information of place and date of vaccination) to the people. Before the arrival of the vaccination team in the cluster, the cluster mobilization teams are clearing out the misconceptions related to the Covid-19 vaccine among the people and motivating them to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-35-of-uttar-pradesh-s-population-fully-vaxed-health-department-101638645738403.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Vegetable prices dip at apni mandis as supply improves||Improved supply at apni mandis in Chandigarh has resulted in a dip in vegetables prices. Tomatoes, which were priced at ₹90 per kg around 10 days ago, are now available for ₹60 per kg.“Earlier, supply of tomatoes was especially poor, due to which the price was high despite slashing of fuel prices. It has improved now, but locally grown tomatoes from Punjab have still not reached the market. Once they do, prices will drop further,” said Satbir Singh, a superviser with the Punjab Mandi Board. At the Sector-26 wholesale mandi, supply was earlier being received only from Himachal Pradesh, where the production was already low owing to the weather. “But now, we are getting the produce from Maharashtra as well,” said a market committee official. Even prices of onion have dropped from ₹35 to ₹30 per kg, as supply is now being received from Maharashtra and Rajasthan. Other veggies like capsicum and cauliflower have also gotten cheaper as weather conditions have improved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-vegetable-prices-dip-at-apni-mandis-dip-as-supply-improves-101638645559412.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Teen gangraped by neighbour, stranger in Sahnewal village||A 14-year-old girl was gangraped by her neighbour and a stranger, who had turned up there after hearing her cries for help, in Natt village near Sahnewal on Friday.The girl said she was heading to the factory where her mother worked, when the neighbour, identified as Anil Kumar, offered her a lift on his motorcycle. But instead of taking her to the factory, the accused took her to a field and raped her. Soon, another man turned up there. Instead of rescuing her, he too raped her. The accused, who was later arrested and identified as Mujmil Hussain of Natt village, also filmed the act.The victim said that later in the evening, Kumar dropped her near her house and fled. She walked home and narrated the incident to her mother, following which they lodged a police complaint.Sub-inspector Sukhdeep Kaur, the investigating officer, said a case under Section 376-D (gangrape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered against the two accused. While police have arrested Hussain, they are still on a lookout for Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teen-gangraped-by-neighbour-stranger-in-sahnewal-village-101638644777887.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab health dept told to pay ₹5 lakh for Hepatitis C infected blood infusion||The Mansa district consumer dispute commission has ordered the Punjab health authorities to pay a compensation of ₹5 lakh to a patient for infecting him with the Hepatitis C virus (HVC) through the contaminated blood it used in transfusion in 2015.In an order passed on November 30, president RL Mittal and commission members Sharda Attri and Suraj Goyal held the health officials guilty for the deficient medical service.“For the wrongdoings of the staff, the complainant, Subhash Chand, would have to suffer from this lifelong disease which may require heavy medication and expensive treatment,” reads the decision.Owing to the seriousness of the issue, the forum enhanced the compensation from ₹2 lakh announced in December last year before hearing the matter again on the directions of the state commission.Besides the chief secretary, health, the commission has asked the health director and Mansa civil surgeon to pay the compensation within 45 days as the patient was given HVC infected blood at the civil hospital. No name was mentioned in the order.Overruling the health department’s objection, the forum stated since the patient had paid the prescribed fees for hospital admission and blood, the complainant comes under the purview of the Consumer Protection Act.A resident of Aggarwal Street in Mansa, the patient was admitted to the government hospital on December 2, 2015. He was there treated for four days for dengue and during treatment, he has infused two units of blood from the blood bank at the civil hospital.After being discharged, Aggarwal revisited the hospital with 3-4 months later certain health complications. After medical tests, he was diagnosed with HVC.Sensing something wrong, Aggarwal secured the blood bank’s record under Right to Information (RTI) to prove that he was given HVC-infected blood.Following complaints to the state authorities and media reports, then Mansa deputy commissioner tasked the assistant commissioner (public grievances) for an in-depth probe in June 2016.In his findings, the officer found serious discrepancies in the blood bank records and blood was not tested properly before issuing to the patient.The commission mentioned the district administration’s report that the blood issuing register had been cut and overwriting to conceal the fact that the patient was given contaminated blood.Health department had claimed that Aggarwal may have contracted HVC from another source after the treatment at the hospital. It tried to give a reason that the patient reported to the hospital after nearly four months of being discharged whereas he should have shown health complications within 1-2 days of being infected blood.But the commission rejected the arguments.“While examining the complainant at the time of admissions, the hospital had not reported/diagnosed any earlier history of HCV with respect to the patient complainant or his family members.”In its decision, it quoted the World Health Organisation (WHO) and union health department that “HCV is an asymptomatic disease, the symptoms of which may occur from 2-6 months. Hence, the objection that when infected blood is transfused, infection usually occurs within 1 or 2 days is also an out of place objection.”On December 2, 2016, the Mansa DC submitted the inquiry report and subsequently, the health department chargeshteed two heath officials of Mansa blood bank.On getting no feedback on further action taken in the case, the complainant approached the consumer forum in November 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-health-dept-told-to-pay-5-lakh-for-hepatitis-c-infected-blood-infusion-101638644717935.html
05-12-2021||Other||Wife of main accused in Aligarh hooch case dies||Wife of main accused in Aligarh hooch tragedy case Renu Sharma died at the JN Medical College and Hospital of Aligarh on Saturday. Renu was arrested along with her husband Rishi, the alleged kingpin of the Aligarh liquor tragedy and was in the district jail where her condition deteriorated. “As per the procedure, a judicial probe will be ordered” said Vipin Sharma, senior superintendent of Aligarh district Jail. A former block pramukh Renu was not keeping well and was shifted from district jail to hospital on November 16. She was brought back to district jail on Thursday morning where her health deteriorated again. She was rushed to the hospital where she died, jail officials said. Renu was arrested on May 29 and was sent to jail but was granted bail about a fortnight ago from High Court but was in jail because of delay in compliance of bail proceedings. Family members blamed that release of Renu Sharma was being delayed for no valid reasons. They claimed that the excuse given for delay was police verification of sureties. Renu’s family insisted on post mortem by doctors and officials from other districts. They said they would not allow post mortem till the husband and son of deceased were not released on parole. Political leaders gathered at post mortem house and the MP from Aligarh and BJP leader Satish Gautam had to face stiff opposition. Family members demanded fair probe for death of Renu Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wife-of-main-accused-in-aligarh-hooch-case-dies-101638644540201.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP in talks with Capt, Dhindsa for alliance in Punjab: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the BJP is in talks with former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to forge an alliance with their parties ahead of the state assembly polls.During an interaction followed by his keynote address at the HT Leadership Summit 2021, Shah also ruled out the possibility of farmers’ protests impacting elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, saying after the repeal of the agri laws, no other issue remains.He asserted that the BJP will once again form the government in Uttar Pradesh with a comfortable majority.Assembly elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will be held early next year.“We are talking to Captain saab (Amarinder Singh) as well as (Sukhdev Singh) Dhindsa saab. It is possible that we will have an alliance with both (their) parties. We are talking to both parties with a positive mind,” Shah said.On the farmers’ agitation, Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi showed a big heart to repeal the three farm laws.“The prime minister showed a big heart to end the farmers’ protests, (saying) OK fine, if you think farm laws are not in favour of the farmers... repealed the three farm laws. Now I don’t think any issue is left in Punjab. The elections will be fought on merit,” he said.Asked if there had been any changes in the electoral atmosphere in western Uttar Pradesh, he said the impact of farmers’ protests was even less in the state.In Punjab, the BJP will be testing waters on its own after its decades-old ally Shiromani Akali Dal parted ways with it over the issue of farm laws last year. In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP will try to return to power.Responding to a question about former BJP allies joining the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh, Shah said connecting coalitions with vote arithmetic is not the correct way of assessing elections.“Politics is not physics but chemistry. When two parties join hands, their votes will be added is not a correct assumption according to me. When two chemicals combine a third chemical is created.“We have seen in the past when the SP and the Congress joined hands and later all three (SP, BSP and Congress) came together, (but) the BJP won the elections. People are aware. Coalitions formed on the basis of vote banks cannot guide people now,” he said.The minister said the Uttar Pradesh elections are being fought under organisational in-charge and Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the political leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.“I have been to Uttar Pradesh. I can confidently say that the BJP will form a government in Uttar Pradesh with a thumping majority,” Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-in-talks-with-capt-dhindsa-for-alliance-in-punjab-amit-shah-101638644480579.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Pakhowal road ROB, RUBs’ completion pushed to March 2022||With construction far from over, authorities have extended the deadline for the rail overbridge (ROB) and two rail underbridges coming up on the Pakhowal road, from December 31 to March 2022. Initiated in December last year under the Smart City Mission, authorities had set August 31 as the deadline for the ₹120-crore project but later extended it to December 31. On Saturday, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, along with mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, conducted field inspections to review the progress of the project and directed officials to expedite the work.The project delay is set to antagonise shopkeepers on the stretch between Hero Bakery Chowk and Pakhowal road, which has been closed to facilitate construction work. Due to the closure, the shopkeepers have been struggling to make ends meet due to no or marginal footfall in the market. Over a dozen shopkeepers have also shifted their business to other areas.Commuters have also been facing a harrowing time as they have to take a detour to reach the diversion. For commuters moving towards the Pakhowal road canal bridge from Sarabha Nagar and Hero Bakery Chowk, closure of the stretch has meant taking a detour via the Shastri Nagar Railway Crossing, Model Town Extension, or Cremation Ground Road (Ishmeet Singh Road). The bad condition of Ishmeet Singh road adds to the woes of the commuters.Under the project, a ROB, 839.83 metres in length, is being constructed for the movement of traffic from Pakhowal road canal bridge to Hero Bakery Chowk. Besides, a RUB, 1,018.46 metres in length, is being constructed from the Pakhowal road canal bridge up to the Leisure Valley in Sarabha Nagar, and another RUB, 458.20 metres in length, is being constructed from Hero Bakery Chowk up to the Pakhowal Road canal bridge.One RUB will be opened by JanThe authorities stated that RUB from Pakhowal road canal bridge to Leisure Valley in Sarabha Nagar will be opened by January and the entire project will be complete by March next year.As per officials, the RUB would have been opened soon but work was disrupted for around three weeks in November due to a sewer line damage at the construction site. Earlier, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had assured that one of the RUBs being constructed from Pakhowal road towards Sarabha Nagar area, will be complete by July. The deadline was put forward to August 31 and then to Diwali. Now, the deadline has been further extended to January.December 25 new deadline for completing Malhar road project:Missing multiple deadlines in the past, the project to transform Malhar road into a smart road is now expected to be complete by Christmas (December 25). Ashu stated the work to lay underground electricity wires is going on and directions have been issued to expedite the work.With construction works going on at Ferozepur road and Pakhowal road railway crossing, traffic snarls have increased on Malhar road. The project, which started in July 2019 was to be complete by May 2022 but was delayed due to pandemic outbreak. Authorities then set September 2020 as the new deadline and subsequently moved it further.Ashu to take up matter with Railway ministerBlaming the railway authorities for the slow pace of the Pakhowal road rail overbridge and rail underbridge project, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday said he will take up the issue with union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. Ashu said that deputy chief engineer (construction division) of the Northern Railways Williamjit Singh, during a meeting in August, had assured that their part of Pakhowal Road RUB-2 (from Pakhowal road canal bridge to Sarabha Nagar) will be complete by August 31, 2021. “Construction of ROB and RUBs at Pakhowal road railway crossing was a long-pending demand of residents due to traffic jams at the crossing. However, the work is going on at snail’s pace. I will take up the matter with union minister Vaishnaw so that work can be expedited. Residents have been suffering due to the delay,” said Ashu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pakhowal-road-rob-rubs-completion-pushed-to-march-2022-101638644479533.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP alleges illegal sand mining in CM’s constituency Chamkaur Sahib||Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Saturday alleged that illegal sand mining is being carried out in chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s constituency Chamkaur Sahib as he paid a surprise visit to a village there.Chadha made the accusations after he visited Jindapur village in Chamkaur Sahib on Saturday. Terming it an “expose”, the AAP leader also accused the ruling Congress of “patronising” the sand mafiaAddressing the media, Chadha said after becoming the chief minister, Channi had said that the sand mafia should not come to him and he was not the chief minister of sand mafia. “But now, the sand mafia is running its business under the protection of CM and that too in his area,” Chadha claimed.He said as per their estimates, 800 to 1,000 trucks (tippers), loaded with sand were being taken out from the site. “Right under the CM’s nose and in his own constituency, this illegal activity is going on,” he alleged.Chadha accused the CM of wrongly transferring a forest officer. “On November 22, forest officer Rajvansh Singh had written to the SHO and tehsildar of the area informing that the of Jindapur village falls under the Forest Conservation Act where no mining activity can be carried out. On November 23, a day after the letter, the Channi government ordered the transfer of the officer. This proves that the sand mafia is working under their protection,” the AAP leader said. “Channi says the entire Punjab gets sand at ₹5 per ft, whereas the truth is that due to the mafia, people have to buy sand at ₹25 to 40 per ft,” he alleged. When contacted, Rupnagar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said: “It is a legal de-silting site.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-alleges-illegal-sand-mining-in-cm-s-constituency-chamkaur-sahib-101638644357854.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Hindu jatha to leave for Katas Raj Temples in Pak on Dec 17||A Hindu jatha (group of pilgrims) will visit Katas Raj Temples in Pakistan on December 17 via the Attari-Wagah border following the Indian government’s permission.Pilgrims from India normally visit the Katas Raj twice a year, once in February during Maha Shivratri and again in November/December.Kendrya Sanatan Dharam Sabha (KSDS) president Shiv Partap Bajaj said: “The ministry of external affairs (MEA) has granted us permission to visit Katas Raj Temples. The MEA has also informed about our visit to the Pakistan government, besides demanding the list of pilgrims who will go for the pilgrimage. 200 pilgrims can visit Pakistan.”He said: “We will send the list of pilgrims who wish to go to pay obeisance at the ancient temple in Pakistan. The jatha will cross over to Pakistan via the Attari-Wagah border on December 17. The jatha will also pay obeisance in other ancient Hindu temples before returning back on December 23.”He said they had cancelled their pilgrimage three times in the period of last two years due to the coronavirus related restrictions. “We are thankful to the governments of both the country,” he added.Under the Pakistan-India protocol on visits to religious shrines of 1974, a large number of Sikh and Hindu pilgrims from India visit Pakistan to observe religious festivals every year.Katas Raj Temples, also known as Qila Katas, is a complex of several temples connected to one another by walkways.Pilgrims leave for Shadani Darbar in PakOn Saturday, a Hindu jatha comprising 133 pilgrims crossed over to Pakistan via the Attari-Wagah border for visiting Shadani Darbar, Hayat Pitaphi in Sindh province to celebrate 313th birth anniversary of Sant Sahadaram Sahib. The pilgrims will also pay obeisance at various shrines before reaching Nankana Sahib on December 14. They will return on December 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hindu-jatha-to-leave-for-katas-raj-temples-in-pak-on-dec-17-101638644179547.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue: 11 more infections reported from Chandigarh tricity||Eleven fresh dengue infections were reported from the tricity on Saturday, with Chandigarh reporting seven cases followed by two each in Mohali and Panchkula. No death was reported from any of the three jurisdictions.After a peak of dengue infections in October, fresh cases are now ebbing daily with a dip in temperature, as the weather conditions are not suitable for aedes mosquitoes to breed in.This year, Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 3,913 and 39 have succumbed to the disease. Chandigarh has recorded 1,546 cases so far, besides three fatalities and Panchkula’s case tally stands at 902, with one death so far this year.A dengue-related fatatlity in tricity was last reported on December 2, when an 11-year-old boy and 11-year-old girl succumbed to the disease. Both were residents of Sector 70, Mohali, and admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-11-more-infections-reported-from-chandigarh-tricity-101638644178301.html
05-12-2021||Other||Lucknow: 1975 samples collected on 4th day of focused Covid sampling drive||LUCKNOW: On the fourth day of the focused Covid-19 sampling drive launched in the state capital, a total of 1975 samples were collected from chemists and hospital employees on Saturday, said health department officials. The targeted sampling drive, which aims to check asymptomatic Covid-19 cases, was launched keeping in view the rising number of Covid-19 cases in other states, they added. “On the fourth day, samples were collected from chemists shop owners, their staffers and hospital employees including front office, nursing staff at government and private hospitals,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow. “Medical store owners and medical staffers at hospitals are people at high risk of getting infected as they come in direct contact with patients and their attendants. Hence their sampling will reveal if they are getting Covid infection and are asymptomatic,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of the Association of International Doctors. Meanwhile, in the last three days, over 5000 samples were collected from students, teachers and non-teaching staff at different educational institutes. In all, report of over 4000 has come and none have tested positive. 7 new dengue cases in Lko During the day, seven fresh dengue cases were reported from different parts of the city including Indira Nagar, Aliganj, Tudiyaganj and Chandarnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-1975-samples-collected-on-4th-day-of-focused-covid-sampling-drive-101638644061032.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Broad daylight heist: ₹50 lakh looted at gunpoint from HDFC Bank in Tarn Taran||In a broad daylight heist, two unidentified armed men — one of them in police uniform — decamped with ₹50 lakh from a Housing Development Finance Corporation (HDFC) Bank branch situated on Jandiala Road in Tarn Taran city on Saturday.The bank branch is situated just 500 metres from the Tarn Taran city police station.Police said the incident took place around 3.20pm when the branch, situated in the heart of the city. Police said they were working to verify if more men were accompanying the two accused who barged into the bank.“Two persons with their faces covered entered the bank. One of the accused was in police uniform while the second sported a turban similar to the colour of police uniform. One of them entered the cashier’s cabin while the other started threatening customers and the bank staff. They fled after looting cash from the cashier’s cabin,” said a customer, who was present in the bank.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harwinder Singh Virk, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Barjinder Singh and other cops reached the spot and started investigation.The SSP said: “We are working to ascertain the identity of the accused.” The DSP said: “The guard at the bank was without a weapon. When we checked the CCTV footage of the bank we found that the cashier’s cabin was also open giving easy access to the accused.”Eyewitnesses say the accused came on a black-coloured Bajaj Pulsar motorcycle and they executed the crime within 10 minutes. Tarn Taran city police has had no permanent station house officer (SHO) for the past more than a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/broad-daylight-heist-50-lakh-looted-at-gunpoint-from-hdfc-bank-in-tarn-taran-101638643998713.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest Mohali man for transporting stolen bike||A man was arrested for transporting a stolen motorcycle to Uttar Pradesh. The accused has been identified as Ajay, a resident of Nayagaon. The matter came to light when Rajat of Nayagaon saw a motorcycle that had been stolen on November 21 from his friend, Amit, being packed in the transport area. Rajat informed Amit who told the police, following which Ajay was nabbed. Ajay told the police that the motorcycle was stolen by one Kuldeep using a duplicate key. After stealing the vehicle, Kuldeep had left for Uttar Pradesh and told Ajay to send the bike to him. A case under Section 411 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 26 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-mohali-man-for-transporting-stolen-bike-101638643997647.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege accused cremated in Muktsar, no clue of assailants||Last rites of Charan Das, who was shot dead on Friday night, were performed at his native village in Muktsar amid tight police protection on Saturday.Das was facing charges of his alleged involvement in the sacrilege of holy scripture in April 2018.After the media reports claimed that Das was a follower of Dera Sacha Sauda, the district authorities geared up to handle any untoward incident during the cremation. However, police sources and dera officials said Das had no association with the Sirsa-based sect for the last 8-10 years.Police remained clueless about the assailants and the possible motive of the crime.Muktsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sarbjit Singh remained present at Bhunder village to ensure a smooth funeral.The SSP did not respond to the phone calls.Meanwhile, Gidderbaha deputy superintendent of police Narinder Singh said the police teams are trying to get a clue about the assilants.“There was no power supply at the time of the crime. No CCTV camera was found installed in the vicinity of the crime spot. The family has also not raised any suspicion,” said the DSP.Police said Das and his sister-in-law were arrested on the charges of hurting religious sentiments in April 2018. Two months after the alleged crime, both were released from jail on bail.Harcharan Singh, a key member of the state committee of the Sirsa-based dera, said Das was associated with the dera about a decade ago. “But he or his family were not engaged with the dera activities in any manner for the last several years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sacrilege-accused-cremated-in-muktsar-no-clue-of-assailants-101638643817863.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU panel wants DUI to hold additional charge of small depts||A special panel of Panjab University (PU), constituted to look into the appointment of heads of departments whose additional charge is with dean university instruction (DUI), has recommended that the charge of small departments remain under him.Currently, DUI VR Sinha holds additional charge of University Business School (UBS), University Institute of Applied Management Sciences (UIAMS) and departments of public administration, Urdu, French, Russian and Guru Nanak Sikh Studies. The panel was constituted after Sinha requested the varsity to look into the appointment of HoDs.According to sources in the university, the panel has unanimously resolved that charge of departments like Guru Nanak Sikh Studies, French and Russian should remain under DUI as they are small and don’t have any eligible faculty members who can be appointed heads.However, regarding the major departments, the panel made different recommendations. With the matter of appointment of the head of UBS pending in the high court, the panel has recommended that the charge of the department along with the financial powers be given to any senior faculty member of the department, as a coordinator. This will be an interim arrangement. However, it will exclude those who are respondents in the court. They have also suggested that charge can be given to a faculty member of the university as well.For UIAMS, the panel suggested that the issue regarding seniority be decided at the earliest. As an interim arrangement, the panel has recommended that Nishi Sharma be appointed interim HoD.Regarding the public administration and Urdu departments, the panel has recommended that charge should remain with the DUI till a faculty member of the department becomes eligible.
05-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Man poses as gangster to extort money, held||Police on Saturday arrested a 30-year-old man for allegedly making over a dozen extortion calls to a city-based businessman by posing as gangster Kaushal between November 23 and December 1. The suspect, identified as Sachin Kumar alias Kalu, a resident of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, was arrested from Bhondsi checkpoint around 2am while he was waiting for one of his friends, police said. Police said they received a complaint on Thursday (December 2) by a businessman alleging that on November 23, he received a call from a man who introduced himself as gangster Kaushal. The caller allegedly asked for ₹10 lakh as protection money and threatened him with dire consequences, police said, adding that at least 12 such calls were made from November 23 to December 1. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they handed over the investigation to crime investigation agency of Sector 31 police that reached the suspect by tracking his mobile phone location. “The suspect knew that Kaushal was behind the bars and that he was involved in several extortion cases. He took advantage of kaushal’s name and asked the victim to watch his videos on YouTube to know how dreaded a gangster he was,” he said. Kaushal has been lodged in Hisar jail for the last one year.The suspect had asked the businessman to pay the extortion money in seven days, said police. Sangwan said during questioning, it was revealed that the suspect obtained the contact details of the complainant from the mobile phone of a relative who had rented out his land to him for his fishery business. “He thought the victim would pay money easily and would not report to police. He was keeping a watch on his movements but was not aware that a police complaint has been filed,” he said. Police on Friday registered a case against Kaushal under sections 387 (putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at Sushant Lok police station. But name of the suspect in the FIR will be changed soon, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-man-poses-as-gangster-to-extort-money-held-101638643637886.html
05-12-2021||Other||Lucknow: Youth accused of kidnapping, raping 7-year-old girl arrested||Lucknow After searching for nearly 48 hours, the Lucknow police on Saturday arrested a 23-year-old youth accused of sexually assaulting a seven-year-old girl after kidnapping her from a marriage party in a village in Banthra on the city’s outskirts late on Thursday night. Inspector in-charge of Banthra police station, Ajay Pratap Singh said that the accused was identified as Shivam Singh, who is a drug addict, and was arrested twice earlier in a theft and narcotics case in 2017. The accused, a resident of a village near the venue of the marriage party, kidnapped the girl while she was playing with other children there. Singh said that the accused was identified through a video footage of CCTV cameras installed at the banquet hall where the girl had gone to attend the function with her family on Friday morning and since then efforts were on for his arrest. He said that the accused was arrested from his hideout near Lateefnagar in Banthra. He said that the accused had been booked under charges of kidnapping, sexual assault and protection of children from sexual offences (PoCSO) act. Earlier, the police got information about the girl’s disappearance from UP112 police emergency response call center on Thursday night and recovered her from a secluded spot after few hours of combing operations. The sexual assault with the girl was later confirmed after her medical examination. Man held for sodomising six-year-old boy Meanwhile, another 25-year-old youth was arrested for sodomising a six-year-old boy here on Friday. The accused, Honey, took the boy to a secluded spot by luring to provide a kite and sexually assaulted him under Cantt police station limits on Saturday, said police. They said that the boy was undergoing treatment at civil hospital while the accused had been booked under charges of unnatural sex and PoCSO act||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-youth-accused-of-kidnapping-raping-7-year-old-girl-arrested-101638643577973.html
05-12-2021||Other||Six held for running fake call centre in Gurugram, duping US citizens||The district police on Friday busted an illegal call centre operating from a residential building in Sector 43 and arrested its six employees, including two managers, for allegedly duping US citizens of thousands of dollars, senior officials said on Saturday. The suspects, who were arrested from the call centre, have been identified as Vishal Setia, Shivam Kumar, Amit Kumar, Akshit Sharma, Sikand Thakur, and Shashank Singh, all residents of Delhi. The owner of the call centre, Deepak Kumar, and his three business partners -- Akshay, Karan, and Chirag -- are at large, said the officials. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that a police team is questioning the arrested employees to trace the owner and his business partners.The suspects used to send a voicemail to potential victims with fake pop-up error messages stating that a malware had infected their computer systems and if not rectified immediately, their personal and financial data would be compromised, the officials said.“The suspects would dupe US citizens through voicemail messages in the name of technical support and removal of virus from their laptops and desktop computers. They would take remote access to their computers through UltraViewer, and charge between $100 and $3,000 from each victim to get the computer system repaired. They would charge through gift cards and Google pay, among other payment methods,” Rao said. “The suspects majorly targeted porn websites and the pop-up messages would be displayed in full screen mode and would lock the user’s screen/browser, following which the user needed technical help,” he said.The officials said the cyber crime police got a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run from a building in Sector 43. Following which a raid was conducted and six persons were arrested from the spot, they said. A case was registered at Cyber crime police station under sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 75 of the Information Technology Act. Police said six laptops and several mobile phones were recovered from the suspects.Police said that the suspects could not provide them with the company’s registration certificate, a licence from the department of telecommunications, mode of payment and source of customers, among others. Police said that the total amount of money taken from the victims and the number of people involved in the fraud would become clear only after thorough investigations. 
05-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi to form special task force to ensure enforcement of pollution norms||On the directions of the Commission for Air Quality Management for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) is all set to form a special task force, to ensure that all pollution abatement measures are efficiently enforced in the national Capital. A senior DPCC official said as per the orders of the CAQM, a proposal for forming the special task force has been moved and is pending approval from the Delhi government. “We have moved the file seeking approval for the formation of the special task force,” said the official, asking not to be named. The CAQM, in a December 2 order, directed the formation of such a task force in Delhi and all states of the National Capital Region (NCR) to ensure that the enforcement of pollution control directions, issued by the commission from time to time, is undertaken efficiently. It said in Delhi, the task force will be headed by principal secretary or secretary (environment) and comprise member secretary (DPCC), and three technical members. But a senior Delhi environment official privy to the matter said the pollution control task force will not just comprise the members suggested by the CAQM, but will also have representatives from all government agencies that are involved in pollution abatement such as the three municipal corporations (east, north and south), public works department (PWD), Delhi Cantonment Board, Delhi traffic police etc. “The CAQM order has made a provision to appoint additional members. So, we are going to have the heads of all the agencies involved in pollution management as members. The approval for the task force should come in a day or two,” confirmed the official, asking not to be named. Delhi has been going through its worst spell of pollution since 2015, when the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) started maintaining pollution data. The average air quality index (AQI), a scale to measure pollutants in the air, in November was 376, surpassing the previous high of 374 recorded in November 2016. Delhi also recorded 11 ‘severe’ air quality days in November, which is also the highest since 2015.
05-12-2021||Delhi||Eye on 2022 municipal polls, AAP launches mega outreach campaign in Delhi||Eyeing a maiden victory in the Delhi civic body polls, scheduled to be held early next year, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday launched a mega “MCD Badlaav Campaign (Reform MCDs Campaign)” through which the Arvind Kejriwal-led party plans to enlist into its ranks at least five million people of Delhi. Addressing party workers, after launching the campaign, Delhi environment minister and AAP’s Delhi unit convener Gopal Rai said as part of the new campaign, their cadre will hit every street, lane, booth and ward in Delhi to enlist people. “The last time we contested the MCD (municipal corporations of Delhi) elections, we were contesting for the very first time and had no experience at all — we were only learning. What we learnt was that, if we want Delhi to shine, and if we want it to be more beautiful and healthier, cleanliness is of utmost importance. Which is why we are launching this MCD Badlaav Campaign. We will go to every corner in Delhi and let people know that just the way they chose Arvind Kejriwal to eradicate corruption from the Delhi government, the time has now come for them to reform the MCD. We can improve everything in Delhi — we can give free water, free electricity, we can install CCTV cameras — but when people open their doors to step out, what they see is garbage littered on streets, and that it sours the mood. We have to take on this responsibility of making Delhi a better capital city,” he said. “We have to take the lead in this fight for change. We have three months left before the elections in March. Which is why, starting tomorrow, we will be setting up day-long membership camps at every booth and mandal in Delhi. Through these camps, we will do our campaigning and people can come to join the party. Our target is to make 50 lakh people members of the Aam Aadmi Party in the coming three months,” Rai told party workers. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said regardless of whether one considers themselves a state-level leader or national level, everyone has to work at the mandal level to strengthen this campaign.“If you don’t work in your area, you will have to answer to the entire mission. No one should think that they can get away by just marking their attendance and posting a few photos on Facebook. When you do actual work in your mandal, it will be apparent.”Terming the Aam Aadmi Party “a movement”, and not just a party, the deputy CM said, “We have to change the politics of this country. We had said that we will end VIP culture, and we will end red beacons. On its first day in office in 2015, this governmen became the first in the country to put an end to the red beacon culture. It was only when people started talking of Aam Aadmi Party’s politics, the movement they had created, how the red beacons had come off vehicles that even Modi ji remembered that he too had a beacon atop his car that he needed to remove. The one thing that all of us revolutionaries have to do, is change the way politics happen and is perceived in this country, and you have already begun the task.” “When people see one of our party workers, they say “you and your party have done amazing work; you did so much for the education facilities and even made electricity free of cost”. This is what the fight is about. When a BJP worker goes anywhere in the country, what would the people say to him/her? Congress, which has been in power for the past several decades, what questions would people ask them? Would they even have anything to say?” Sisodia said. 
05-12-2021||Pune||PMC Corporator Avinash Bagwe disqualified by Bombay High Court||After the Pune small causes court, now the Bombay High Court has also cancelled the membership of Congress corporator Avinash Ramesh Bagwe for furnishing wrong information in his affidavit and nomination form during the 2017 Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) elections.Based on a petition filed by Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader Bhupendra Shedge, the Pune court had disqualified Bagwe this year. After that Bagwe had challenged the order in the High Court.Bagwe said, “We have the period of six weeks and we will file a petition in the Supreme Court against the High Court judgement to get justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-corporator-avinash-bagwe-disqualified-by-bombay-high-court-101638643161281.html
05-12-2021||Other||Two assaulted in tiff over phone charger at Gurugram petrol pump, six booked||A 33-year-old man and his friend were allegedly assaulted with iron rods at a petrol pump in Sector 31 after they asked the staff of the fuel station for a mobile phone charger on November 25, police said on Saturday. According to police, they received a complaint on Friday after the victims became fit to record their statements following which a case was registered against six employees of the petrol pump who were at large.Police said that on the night of the incident, Mukesh Sehra, a resident of Dwarka in Delhi, had taken his colleague to an ahata (open drinking place) on National Highway 8 near Sector 31 to celebrate the birth of his twin boys last month. Sehra said that he had lost his car’s keys and wanted to call a company for towing away the vehicle, but battery of his mobile phone as well as his friend’s was exhausted and they went to a nearby petrol pump and requested the staff to help them with the charger. “The staff refused and suddenly one of them started abusing us. When I objected, two more staff members came and asked us to get out of the area. When we said that we were in trouble, they became offensive and one of them got a wooden stick and an iron rod and started hitting me,” he told police. Police said Sehra’s friend, Kesang Bhutia, went to Sehra’s rescue but he was also assaulted. The victims in their statement told police that they also hit the staff to save themselves. Sehra said suddenly someone hit an iron rod on his head after which he collapsed and when he gained consciousness, he found himself in a hospital. Sehra suffered more than seven fractures and received 10 stitches on his head and is still undergoing treatment while Bhutia suffered minor injuries, police said. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “We have scanned the CCTV footage. It is clear that the employees attacked them and it seems that they were under the influence of alcohol. We are questioning other employees who were present at the spot at the time of the incident,” he said. Police said they have formed teams to trace the suspects. A case under sections 147 (riot), 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 323 (assault), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 307 (attempt to murder) and 506 (threatening for life) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 40 police station. All the suspects are on the run, said police. Police said Sehra is son of an assistant commissioner of police with the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-assaulted-in-tiff-over-phone-charger-at-gurugram-petrol-pump-six-booked-101638643159064.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||Free screening, treatment for pregnant women with hepatitis in Delhi: Jain||State health minister Satyendar Jain committed to compulsorily screen and treat pregnant women with hepatitis in Delhi for free, taking a step closer to achieve the sustainable development goal (SDG) of ending viral hepatitis by 2030, on the occasion of the 24th Hepatitis Day observed at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Science on Saturday. He assured free availability of hepatitis drugs both in public and private sector hospitals and said all mohalla clinic staff will be trained in screening and treating hepatitis. “The Delhi government is planning to screening and treatment of hepatitis B and C mandatory and free for pregnant women so that early diagnoses and treatment prevents the child from getting infected. Apart from this, we will train the staff of mohalla clinics to treat this disease, along with screening, and make sure that free medicines are available there to treat the disease at the primary level. We will devise a mechanism to provide free medicines to patients of Hepatitis B in mohalla clinics,” Jain said at the ceremony. “We will also bring hepatitis under the list of notifiable diseases of Delhi within the next few months,” said the state health minister. Vector borne diseases, such as dengue, malaria, and chikungunya, were recently added to the list of notifiable diseases in addition to Covid-19 and mucormycosis, which were notified in the course of the last two years. In addition, the minister said the government’s upcoming digital health cards, which will contain the complete health information of Delhi residents, will be used to ensure everyone in the city is screened for Hepatitis B and C at least once in their lives. “The Delhi government will integrate the test for hepatitis with its upcoming Health Management Information System, which will ensure every health card holder goes through a hepatitis test once in their lives,” he said. Jain said Hepatitis C is easily treatable with a 12 week medication course. Hepatitis B can also be prevented. The two ways by which Hepatitis B spreads is from expecting mother to a child and through blood transfusion. This can easily be prevented through early detection, he said.He assured that the government will work towards passing a law against discrimination of Hepatitis B and C patients in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-screening-treatment-for-pregnant-women-with-hepatitis-in-delhi-jain-101638643158005.html
05-12-2021||Other||UP TET paper leak case: Video footage of suspended ERA secy and printing firm owner meeting retrieved||LUCKNOW Three days before allotting question papers’ publishing contract, the suspended secretary of Exam Regulatory Authority (ERA), UP, Sanjay Kumar Upadhyay had a secret meeting with Rai Anoop Prasad, the director of printing firm that got the publishing contract, at a Gautam Buddh Nagar hotel, said senior police officials’ privy to the investigation here on Saturday. The official said that the UP police Special Task Force (STF) had retrieved the video footage of their meeting at the hotel as incriminating evidence surfaced against Upadhyay for having connivance with Prasad in violation of the norms set for maintaining security measures in publishing of question papers for UP TET, in which over 22 lakh aspirants were going to appear. He said that the work order was worth ₹13 crore for printing over 22 lakh question papers. He said the video was also shared on social media by some people after getting it from the hotel staff. The official said that the video footage confirmed that Upadhyaya and Prasad met at the hotel on October 23 and the video footage of 1.38 minutes shows them walking out of the hotel after the meeting at around 6.48 pm. “During interrogation, Upadhyay and Prasad initially denied knowing each other or meeting anywhere before issuing of the work order for printing question papers on October 26, but later confessed to have knowing each other from the past,” he emphasised. He said that the ERA secretary had given the printing job to Prasad’s RSM Finserv Ltd firm in violation of security norms laid for this purpose. As per the norms, the questions papers should be published at least 1000 km away from the examination centers and employees should not be aware about the language in which papers are printed. The official said the work was given to Prasad’s firm barely 40 km from Gautam Buddh Nagar, where many examination centers were set up. The STF had arrested Upadhyay and Prasad from Lucknow and Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, after finding their connivance in compromising process of question paper’s printing and not maintaining its secrecy. Before it, the state government had suspended Upadhyay over his negligence in the entire matter. So far, 39 people had been arrested in connection with the paper leak case while the involvement of at least 10 others surfaced in the matter. The UP STF had arrested 34 people while five others were arrested by the local police in Basti district. The state government had cancelled the UPTET-2021 scheduled on November 28 after the paper leak came to the fore following the arrests and recovery of question papers from some of them hours before the exam on November 27. A total of 19, 99, 418 examinees were supposed to write the UPTET scheduled in two shifts at 2,736 centers across 75 districts of UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-tet-paper-leak-case-video-footage-of-suspended-era-secy-and-printing-firm-owner-meeting-retrieved-101638643039029.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man held for firing at realtor’s officer, trying to extort ₹1 crore||A 19-year-old man, whom the police said was a hitman on the payroll of jailed gangsters Lawrence Bishnoi and Sampat Nehra, has been arrested on charges of firing at a realtor’s office in outer Delhi’s Narela, allegedly to frighten him into paying up extortion money of ₹1 crore, the police said.According to police, on November 17, the arrested man, Naveen Sindhu, allegedly reached the property dealer’s office along with his accomplice, Shubham, on a motorcycle. They fired at the office and also threw in a slip in which they demanded ₹1 crore in the name of the Bishnoi and Nehra gang, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj said a case was registered after the property dealer, identified by his first name as Anil, lodged a police complaint.In his complaint, Anil alleged that the night before the shooting, one of his employees received an audio clip in which a man introduced himself as the member of a gang led by gangsters Nehra and Bishnoi and demanded ₹1 crore as extortion money. Nearly 11 hours later, the firing took place at his office. Apart from four bullet casings, the extortion demand slip was also recovered by the police from outside the office.“During the investigation, CCTV camera footage was scanned and information about the suspects were gathered through informants. Sindhu, was arrested from the RK Puram area on November 26. The team conducted raids to nab the other suspects but with no success,” said DCP Bhardwaj.Sindhu’s interrogation, she said, revealed that around 8.30am on November 17, he had received a call from his associate , Rohit, who directed him and Shubham to give “a chance” to the property dealer to pay up. The duo arranged a bike and a gun and went to the realtor’s office, where they fired shots, threw in the extortion slip and sped away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-held-for-firing-at-realtor-s-officer-trying-to-extort-1-crore-101638643037737.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi:Two who robbed airport staff of his wallet at knife point arrested||The city police on Saturday said they arrested two men, who along with their associate, allegedly robbed a Delhi airport employee of his wallet at knifepoint on November 30. The wallet had ₹2,000 cash, three ATM cards, and the man’s identity cards. Police recovered the knife used in the crime along with the wallet but the cash was missing. The suspects told police that they bought drugs with the cash. On November 30, Anoop Kumar Kushwah, a staff at the Delhi airport, was returning home after work when he was waylaid on the road outside a forested area in Mehram Nagar and robbed by three men at knifepoint. “A case was registered based on Kushwah’s complaint. With the help of CCTV footage and local intelligence, police arrested Abhishek and Vijay (both identified by their first names) the next day,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma.“Abhishek was previously involved in three crimes. Efforts are on to nab the third suspect,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitwo-who-robbed-airport-staff-of-his-wallet-at-knife-point-arrested-101638642977696.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Zambia returnee in Pune who tested positive infected with delta variant not Omicron||A 60-year-old traveller who returned to Pune from Zambia has not been infected with the Omicron variant. He was one of the first six people in the state who travelled to ‘at risk’ countries and then tested positive for Covid-19. He has been infected by the Delta sub-lineage variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and not the Omicron variant, the state health department said on Saturday after the National Institute of Virology (NIV) completed the genome sequencing. The state report stated, ‘The results of the genomic sequencing of the Pune based 60-year-old male passenger’s sample who had arrived from Zambia has been obtained from the National Institute of Virology and Omicron has not been detected in the sample. Instead, a sub-lineage of the Delta variant has been detected in the sample.’Dr Pradeep Awte, state surveillance officer said, “Genetic changes/mutation in viruses is a natural phenomenon and people should not panic. The public health department appeals to the citizens that they should follow Covid Appropriate behaviour, inform the public health department if they have had an international travel history in the last month and those who have not taken Covid-19 vaccine or have had only one dose should complete their vaccination at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/zambia-returnee-in-pune-who-tested-positive-infected-with-delta-variant-not-omicron-101638642860243.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||20 counters at Delhi airport to test passengers from ‘high-risk’ countries||The Delhi International Airport Limited (Dial) on Saturday said 20 dedicated counters have been set up at the Indira Gandhi International airport for passengers arriving from ‘high-risk’ countries to facilitate a faster testing process. Airport officials said passengers who pre-book their RT-PCR/rapid antigen tests, can simply approach the counters and proceed to get tested for Covid-19 and thus save time on the registration process.The counters have been set up at the arrival piers, with a dedicated queue for passengers pre-booking their tests, officials said. Tests can be pre-booked at Air Suvidha portal on www.newdelhiairport.in, said officials, asking fliers to book their test in advance to reduce waiting time for registration.“A significant number of international passengers arriving at Delhi airport are pre-booking their rapid antigen/RTPCR tests. The number of pre-bookings has gone up ever since the latest testing norms have come into place. The dedicated counters will help ease the process further for passengers,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO of Dial. .Following new guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare on November 26, passengers from ‘high-risk’ countries, such as South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, Israel and all European countries, are now required to take an RT-PCT test on arrival at the Delhi airport, even if they produce a negative test result before boarding, or are fully vaccinated.So far, around 80% of the international passengers arriving from high-risk countries have opted for a rapid PCR test, which generates results within 45-60 minutes as compared to three to four hours taken by an RT-PCR test. “Appropriate signage have been placed at strategic locations to guide passengers to these testing facilities” said a spokesperson of Dial.According to guidelines, Dial is also facilitating a random RT-PCR test for 2% of the international passengers arriving from non high-risk countries free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20-counters-at-delhi-airport-to-test-passengers-from-high-risk-countries-101638642857815.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Narendra Dabholkar murder: defence questions complainant’s version of events||The defence counsel in the murder trial of slain rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar on Saturday cross-examined the complainant in the case claiming that there are inconsistencies in his statement recorded during the complaint and to the probe agency. Dabholkar, a noted anti-superstition activist, was shot dead on the Omkareshwar bridge in the city on August 20, 2013, while on a morning walk.In his complaint to the Pune police, police officer Navnath Rangat had said that he saw a truck pass by and then witnessed 3-4 people gathered on Omkareshwar bridge around 7:20am and upon close inspection, he found a man (Dabholkar) in a pool of blood. This statement was recorded by police inspector (crime) S Kenjale.During cross-examination, defence lawyer Prakash Salsingikar pointed our that as per Rangat’s statement of July 4, 2014, to CBI deputy superintendent D S Chauhan, he was not present at the spot, but was taking rest at the Shaniwar peth police chowky. He even called his wife from the landline of the police chowky around 7.20 am. Sometime later an aged person approached him and informed him about a man lying on the bridge in a pool of blood, the lawyer said, citing the CBI statement.The hearing was held in the court of special judge SR Navander with Special public prosecutor Prakash Suryavanshi and defence lawyers advocates Virendra Ichalkaranjikar, Prakash Salsingikar, and Suvarna Vast. The accused, Vikram Bhave, Sachin Andure, Sharad Kalaskar, and Virendra Taware, were present in court while accused Advocate Sanjiv Punalekar was exempted from being present of the court. “There are serious lacunae in the version that he is narrating in court and the statement that he has given and is signed by a senior officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI),” said Advocate Vast and she was seconded by Salsingikar, who did major part of the cross-questioning, as well as Ichalkaranjikar. In another loophole pointed out by the defence team, Rangat mentioned that two of the four people named for morning naka bandi to curb chain snatching that day were present close to the spot at Shaniwar peth police outpost. The two people present, as per Rangat were himself and head constable Ankush More. However, in a statement recorded by CBI, Rangat mentions, “When I received the information of this incident, there was no naka bandi at the bridge. I was the first police officer who reached the spot.” However, in the statement recorded by the Pune police, API Rangat mentioned that HC More and him reached the spot to inspect the crowding. In another glaring loophole that was pointed out by the defence team during cross questioning, the FIR by Pune police shows the time of registration to be 9:30am. However, in his statement to the CBI, he says that his complaint statement was recorded much after 11am. API Rangat said that he reached the police outpost of Bal Gandharv from Sassoon hospital (after taking Dabholkar’s body) at 11am after receiving directions to do so by some officer. He was interrogated by crime PI and assistant commissioner of police of Deccan division under supervision of the then joint commissioner of police of Pune and they recorded his statement which later became the complaint statement. “After some time my statement was recorded by PI Jegle in the supervision of Joint CP Singhal at the chowky. After recording my statement I was allowed to go in the afternoon at about 14.30 hours. On being asked, I state that the FIR of this case was recorded on the basis of my statement recorded by the crime PI,” reads his statement to CBI. Such loopholes were also pointed out by the defence team in the statement of a panch witness identified as Shyam Nivrutti Marne. The panch denied multiple points made in the statement in his name recorded by CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/narendra-dabholkar-murder-defence-questions-complainant-s-version-of-events-101638642797975.html
05-12-2021||Other||Gurugram’s air quality slips into ‘very poor’ zone again||The air quality in the city on Saturday slipped back into the “very poor” zone as low wind speed did not allow the pollutants to disperse. The air quality had improved to “poor” on Friday after remaining in the “very poor” category for nine consecutive days. The air quality index (AQI) of Gurugram on Saturday was 334, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), a rise from Friday’s reading of 296. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the air quality over Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in “very poor” category on Sunday and Monday, but will improve from Tuesday onwards. “The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from the northwest direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 4kmph. The average wind speed less than 10 kmph is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants,” the IMD said in a statement. The IMD on Saturday recorded the maximum temperature for Gurugram at 24 degrees Celsius (°C) while the minimum was recorded at 10°C, which is two degrees less than the season’s average. On Friday, the maximum and minimum temperatures in the city were 18.6°C and 11°C, respectively. Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert, said, “Upper atmosphere is much cleaner due to the drizzling that happened two days ago, but the pollutants are again getting collected in lower atmosphere. The low wind speed is reason for high level of pollution on Saturday. On December 6 and 7, the western disturbance can bring more rains and winds to Delhi which will help improve air quality in the region for a couple of days.” Meanwhile, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board on Saturday issued a final notice to construction sites, diesel generator set operators and other related industries to strictly adhere to pollution norms. “Final notice and warning is hereby given to all concerned who shall have to bound to comply with all such directions, failing which stringent action under the provisions of relevant rules shall be taken, besides on spot sealing of DG sets and polluting units,” said the final notice issued by Kuldip Singh, regional officer (north), Haryana State Pollution Control Board. Singh further said that the final notice was being issued to send the message to the general public that an emergency situation is prevailing in the region as far as air pollution is concerned and no violation will be tolerated. “Any violation from now onward will lead to sealing of the premises and the machinery as the situation is serious,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugrams-air-quality-slips-into-very-poor-zone-again-101638642738888.html
05-12-2021||Pune||Covid 19: 183 fresh cases and no deaths in Pune district on Saturday||On Saturday, Pune district reported 183 fresh Covid-19 cases and no deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million, out of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,061 deaths and 1912 are active cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 63 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 368,107 and the death toll stood at 6,981. Pune city reported 89 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 523,314 and the death toll stood at 9,218. PCMC reported 31 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 269,952 and the toll stood at 3,512 as no more deaths were reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 95,827 vaccinations on Saturday, as per CoWin dashboard on Saturday and in total 1,35,82,452. Out of which 82,59,399 are first doses and 53,23,053 are second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-19-183-fresh-cases-and-no-deaths-in-pune-district-on-saturday-101638642677668.html
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 2 fall prey to bike-borne snatchers||Two people in Chandigarh fell prey to motorcycle-borne snatchers in the past 24 hours. Vanshika, a resident of Rajpura, who is a BEd student, stated that two bikers snatched her purse in front of the NCB office in Sector 25 on Friday. She added that the purse contained ₹2,000 along with other important documents. Meanwhile, Avdesh, a resident of Dhanas, who works as a labourer, stated that he was going home when his mobile phone was snatched. Snatching cases have been registered in both incidents.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSOwner of Sec-26 club bookedThe owner of a club in Sector 26 was booked for operating beyond permissible hours on Friday. The accused has been identified as Aman, 28, a resident of Sector 25, Chandigarh, the owner Boulevard Club. He has been booked under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code at Sector 26 police station. 24-yr-old held with 11.2-kg marijuana A resident of Mauli Jagran was arrested with 11.2-kg marijuana. The accused, Gaurav, 24, was nabbed during a routine checking near Ritesh Dharam Kanta, Makhan Majra. A drugs case has been registered against him at Mauli Jagran police station. He was produced before a court and remanded to one day in police custody. 2 held with illicit liquorTwo people were arrested with illicit liquor in separate cases. A resident of Small Flats, Dhanas, was arrested with 15 bottles of countrymade liquor near circus ground in Sector 17. The accused has been identified as Sachin Kumar. Meanwhile, Vikram, 29, of Kishangarh, was arrested with 18 bottles of illicit liquor. Cases have been registered under Excise Act. 4 held for gambling in separate cases Four men gave been arrested for gambling in separate cases. Police arrested Munish Kumar of Model Town, Kharar, and Mohamed Saheed of Sector 25, Chandigarh, near Shashtri Market in Sector 22 and recovered ₹1,700 from their possession. Also, Salman of Burail village, Sector 45, was arrested near the ISBT in Sector 17 and police recovered Rs. 18,000 from him. Meanwhile, Vikas of Sector 49 was arrested near EWS flats in Sector 49. They recovered ₹11,060 from him. All of them were booked under Gambling Act and later released on bail. PU V-C meets Haryana CMPanjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar paid a courtesy visit to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday. Kumar told him about various initiatives taken by him during his tenure and apprised him of the upgrades in sports infrastructure and consistent high-level performance of University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences. Road mishap victim yet to be identified Even after two days, police are yet to identity a pedestrian killed in a road accident. He was hit by an unidentified car near FR light point in Manimajra near Chandigarh-Panchkula border. He was then rushed to Manimajra civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead. A case was been registered based on the complaint of constable Pardeep Kumar from Manimajra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-2-fall-prey-to-bike-borne-snatchers-101638636916444.html
05-12-2021||Pune||SPPU’s initiative to bridge gap between education and employability||PUNE At least 70 principals, training and placement officers from various colleges in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area participated in a meeting organised by Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on Saturday. The meeting aimed to give them insights about new job opportunities for students.The meeting was organised under the Smart Training and Innovation Centre (STIC) an initiative of SPPU and Pimpri Chinchwad Smart City Ltd (PCSCL) which aims at creating the workforce for the next industrial revolution Industry 4.0 in the times of Covid-19 pandemic.Industries in Smart Cities like PCMC are looking for trained professionals. The initiative would bridge the gap between education and the employability of graduates. It aims at creating employable youth, for global opportunities with industry connections at PCMC. Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, SPPU, said that students need to be sensitised about the job opportunities.“We have created the platform to keep the students updated about the latest knowledge required by the industry along with his/her graduate education. The courses selected here are going to be game-changers for the students. Principals need to sensitise students about these courses,” said Karmalkar.NS Umrani, pro-vice-chancellor and Apoorva Palkar, director, Innovation, Incubation and Linkages were also present.“University has taken the initiative to help the colleges to enhance employability of students. Education remains the link between economic stability and employability. Lifelong learning is becoming a need of an hour with current changing market dynamics with multiple career shifts. Employers are looking for graduates with additional skills along with their degree,” he said.Various courses launched for students pursuing under-graduate and/or post-graduate programmes are in the latest technologies like AutoCAD, SAP, Linux, Cloud etc. Students will get global certification from Technology Principals as well as from SPPU. The courses are offered at highly affordable prices on the STIC online platform. www.sticonline.in The courses not only focus on technology skills but also includes project, communication skills, interview preparation and so on to enhance employability. Industry experts from Persistent Systems and Synechron emphasised skills related to Industry 4.0. Industry demands more from graduates than in the past. Technology skills in demand are Cloud, Automation, DevOps, Linux, ERP etc. along with such technical skills, power skills like Critical thinking, communication, innovation, problem solving and others are becoming more critical for hiring. As skilled graduates are hard to come by, industries would welcome such initiatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-initiative-to-bridge-gap-between-education-and-employability-101638632056142.html
05-12-2021||Delhi||Woman gets ‘SEX’ series number for new scooty, reaches out to women’s panel||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has issued notice to the transport department on a complaint from a Delhi student who complained that it was embarrassing for her to drive her new scooty with the registration number, “DL-3-SEX-**’.“The commission was approached in the matter by a girl who bought a scooty recently and got a vehicle registration number which contained the term ‘SEX’. The girl informed the Commission that she was facing severe harassment due to the registration number, as people taunted and even teased her due to the same. She further said that because of all this she is facing a lot of problems in commuting and is not being able to go out for essential work,” the DCW said in a statement.DCW chief Swati Maliwal said she has given the transport department four days to resolve the case so that the student “doesn’t suffer anymore”.“It is very unfortunate that people can be so petty and abusive that the girl is having to face so much harassment,” Maliwal said.A senior Delhi transport department official said that “SEX” is an auto-generated series for vehicle registration, essentially for two-wheelers.“We have stopped registration on this series because of the sensitivity. All series for vehicles in Delhi are auto generated by the system” said the official.“If we receive requests, we can change the registration number on a case-to-case basis,” the official added after the commission took up the student’s case.The Maliwal-led commission has also asked the transport department to submit the total number of vehicles that have been registered under this series.
