07-12-2021||Mumbai||15 million yet to get a jab in state||Mumbai The state health authorities are racing against time to achieve 100% first dose coverage of the Covid-19 vaccine by the end of the year. As many as 15 million people in Maharashtra are yet to take even a single dose of the vaccine, while the state’s full vaccination or the two-dose coverage has reached 48%, which is below India’s average of 50%. The state’s target adult population is 91.5 million. By Tuesday evening, the state had administered over 120 million doses - more than 76 million people had received at least one dose and 43 million people had received both the doses, according to the CoWin dashboard. The need for vaccination has been repeatedly stressed upon by medical experts in the light of the emergence of the highly mutated Omicron variant. A pool of unvaccinated population can be a reservoir for the virus and its transmission, warned experts. “Clusters of the unvaccinated population will act as a driver of the transmission,” said virologist Dr T Jacob John. “It’s not good news if a state has a large pool of unvaccinated population, in addition to the below 18 population that is not yet eligible for the vaccines. The virus is constantly looking for susceptible hosts and such a pool can lead to a surge in cases,” he said. According to John, the state government should leave no stone unturned to vaccinate people with first doses, get people to take their second doses on time and start thinking about booster doses and vaccinations for the below 18 population. Barring three districts- Nandurbar, Nanded and Beed- all other districts have achieved first dose coverage above 70%. The threat of the Omicron variant has also driven many people to take their shots, said health officials. For Maharashtra to achieve the year-end target, the state will have to administer 625,000 first doses every day till December 31. “The pace of the vaccination has picked up since the past 10 days and we have been administering nearly one million doses daily,” said the state’s immunisation officer Dr Sachin Desai. “About 65% of the daily doses are first doses. We have directed all field health workers to keep visiting the homes of people who are yet to be vaccinated and ensure that they take the jabs. We are also setting up call centres in districts to send reminders to people who have missed out on their second doses,” he said. “People must understand that vaccines may not offer 100% protection but in case one contracts the infection, the vaccine will definitely lessen the severity of the disease,” said Dr Vasant Nagvekar, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15-million-yet-to-get-a-jab-in-state-101638901754007.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||Indira Gandhi set up the Gkp fertiliser factory that BJP closed in 2002: Congress||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) Congress claimed the Bhartiya Janata Party’s (BJP) propaganda of having inaugurated the Gorakhpur Fertiliser Factory was fake. Anshu Awasthi, a UP Congress spokesman, said: “It was the Congress government that had built the Gorakhpur fertiliser factory, but BJP government scrambled to take credit for it and is now spreading false propaganda through advertisements even as the farmers were queuing up for fertilisers and were being run over by vehicles (referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident of September 3). In 2022 UP Assembly polls people will reduce BJP to below 50 seats”. “This factory, was commissioned by the then Prime minister Indira Gandhi on April 30, 1968. It was one of the five units of the Fertilisers Corporation of India (FCI) and had employed lakhs of people directly and indirectly. But the anti-people and anti-farmer government of BJP at the centre announced the closure of the factory on July 18, 2002. Not just this, the BJP government at the centre then had closed five other fertilisers factories--in Bilki Sindri (Jharkhand), Thalchar (Odisha), Ramagundam (Telangana), Korba (Chattisgarh) and also the Hindustan Fertiliser Corporation Limited factories in Durgapur, Haldia, and Barauni--all the factories established in Congress regimes”, said Awasthi. Awasthi claimed in 2008, the Congress-led UPA-1 government had initiated the process to restart all those fertiliser factories and had even waived off loans and interest of ₹10,644 crore on them. Fact fileThe fertilizer factory of Gorakhpur was started on 20 April 1968 by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. It operated till 1990 until an accident halted the factory’s functioning. On 10 June 1990, there was a sudden leak of ammonia gas in the factory. An engineer was killed in this incident. For decades there had been demands for reopening the factory. In 2002 VRS (voluntary retirement scheme) given to nearly 2400 permanent employees||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/indira-gandhi-set-up-the-gkp-fertiliser-factory-that-bjp-closed-in-2002-congress-101638901692629.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to govt: Does religious panel have to look into minuscule issues?||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said there is no clarity as to whether the religious committee, constituted by the lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, is required to look into the removal of encroachments that are of minuscule nature, while hearing a plea over the removal of a makeshift temple at south Delhi’s Defence Colony.Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea by a resident of the area who has sought to remove the encroachment, prima facie agreed with the petitioner’s counsel who submitted that once the authorities have taken a stand to demolish a structure, a different view cannot be taken by sending the matter to the religious committee.“There is no clarity as to whether the religious committee, purportedly constituted under the orders of the L-G, is required to examine encroachment of such minuscule nature merely because certain idols are placed on the spot. There is also merit in submission by the senior counsel for the petitioner that once the respondent had undertaken before this court that steps were being taken to demolish the structure, a different view cannot be taken,” the judge said.It also asked the home department of the Delhi government to file a report in this regard, saying before passing any order, it has to peruse the file so that no untoward situation is created later on.The court directed the station house officer (SHO) of the area concerned to depute an officer for 24 hours at the site and furnish a report with details of visitors to the structure, including those who collect offerings made by passersby.Viraht Saini, a resident of Defence Colony, sought the removal of the makeshift temple in front of his property, claiming that it obstructed his right of way. The plea said during the Covid-19 pandemic, someone had built the structure illegally on the pavement of Bhishma Pitamah Marg, right in front of his house.The plea also claimed that taking advantage and shelter of the illegal construction, people gather there and resort to rowdiness and gambling.In October, the Delhi government had told the court that it will demolish the alleged encroachment.However, the court, during the proceedings, noted that the matter has now been referred to the religious committee and since the government has not given any clearance for the demolition, the counsel representing Delhi government was not in a position to state anything.The judge also pulled up the additional SHO of the area who was present in the court and said it was because of his laxity that the situation had arisen.On a specific query from the court, the police officer said it was a small structure, situated on the roadside, under a tree. He also submitted that there was no specific date to ascertain when the structure came up. He added that a “new look” has been given to the structure by painting it. “Beat constable kya karte hai? Koi bhi kisi ke niche (under the tree) kuch bhi laga lega? (What does a beat constable do? Can anyone erect a structure anywhere they want?),” the court said.The matter will be heard next on December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-to-govt-does-religious-panel-have-to-look-into-minuscule-issues-101638901516505.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Health dept paper leak: Five more including Latur health dept admin officer arrested||PUNE: The Pune police cyber cell on Tuesday arrested five persons including Latur health department’s chief admin officer for their suspected role in the Maharashtra Health Department’s recruitment exam paper leak, taking the tally of total number of arrests in the paper leak case to 11, said officials. Judicial magistrate first class AS Mujumdar with Public prosecutor (PP) Vijaysinh Jadhav later remanded the five arrested to police custody till December 11. Among those remanded to custody on Tuesday is Prashant Shankarrao Bundgire, 50, chief administration officer of Latur public health department. While Bundgire is suspected to be the main source of the leak, nine others are suspected to have been part of a chain that supplied money to him by charging anywhere between ₹ 5-7 lakh for the leaked paper, according to the police. The police are investigating when and how Bundgire accessed the question papers which are stored in a strongroom before the examination. A private company called Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL) has been given the contract to conduct these examinations. Those arrested along with Bundgire on Tuesday have been identified as Udhav Nagargoje (36), a teacher at Beed zilla parishad; Dr Sandeep Jogdand (36), medical officer at Beed mental hospital; Shyam Mhaske (38), helper at Sri hospital in Neknur, Beed; and Rajendra Pandurang Sanap (51), a clerk at rural government hospital in Bhoom, Osmanabad. The first to be arrested was Vijay Murhade from Ambad in Aurangabad, followed by Anil Gaikwad (31), Suresh Jagtap (28) Baban Mundhe (48) and Sandeep Bhutekar (38). While Jagtap is in judicial custody, all others are in police custody till December 9, according to PP Jadhav. The next one to be arrested was Prakash Misal (40) a sailor of the Indian Navy posted in Mumbai. He was produced in court on Monday and remanded to police custody till December 10. According to the cyber-crime police station officials, Dr Jogdand and Mhaske have confessed to have paid ₹10 and 5 lakh, respectively, for the paper directly to Bundgire. Nagargoje and Sanap are relatives and Sanap works in the same department as Bundgire, according to the police. The two relatives were looking for easy access to the paper for the people in their family who were aspiring to crack the Group D paper. However, Sanap is allegedly facing a previous charge of corruption in his department, and is not on good terms with Bundgire, according to the police. Therefore, Sanap and Nagargoje approached Dr Jogdand for help accessing the paper. While Dr Jogdand allegedly paid for Sanap and one candidate of his own, Mhaske formed another chain of payment to Bundgire, as per the allegations. Whereas Murhade, Gaikwad, and Mundhe formed another chain of payment through a man who is still on the run. Furthermore, once Sanap, Nagargoje, and Dr Jogdand got their hands on the paper, they allegedly tried to sell it for ₹ 6-7 lakh each, according to the police. They have all been arrested in a case registered under Sections 406, 409, 420, 120(b), and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 6 and 8 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board or other specified examination act, 1982 at cyber police station of Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/health-dept-paper-leak-five-more-including-latur-health-dept-admin-officer-arrested-101638901452471.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||CAG questions BMC over traffic study for Coastal Road works||Mumbai The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), the country’s apex public expenditure auditing body, has questioned the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) over its traffic estimates for the ambitious Mumbai Coastal Road Project (MCRP) and stated in its report that scrutiny of records revealed that a “detailed and proper analysis of traffic for Mumbai Coastal Road Project was not done”.The CAG submitted its report to the BMC in July 2021, a copy of which was accessed by HT. The CAG asked the BMC to clarify whether Metro services (existing as well as under construction) were considered while preparing its traffic study. It also pulled up the BMC stating that some of its estimations “appeared to be imaginary”.“The CAG had raised certain points in regards to the traffic study of Coastal Road project. However, we had satisfactorily responded to them. We are complying on all the points that have been raised by the CAG,” said a senior BMC official from engineering department of Coastal Road who did not wish to be named. A brief backgroundIn 2009, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) conducted a Comprehensive Transportation Study (CTS) that first mooted the need for a coastal road. Two years later, in 2011, a Joint Technical Committee, under the chairmanship of the Municipal Commissioner of the BMC, recommended a 35.60 km-long Coastal Road consisting of roads based on reclamation, bridges, elevated roads and tunnels on the western side of Mumbai. This was meant to run from Kandivli to Nariman Point. The BMC commissioned a traffic study of the Coastal Road in 2015 and started work on a 9.98 km stretch from Princess Street flyover to Worli — referred to as the southern part of the Coastal Road — in October 2018.“The Coastal Road Project is divided into two parts: the southern and northern parts. Though the report was prepared for 35.60 km, only the southern part of the Coastal Road for 9.98 km was taken up for execution by the BMC,” the report stated.Pain pointsAccording to the CAG, the BMC did not take proper consideration of the cost benefit ratio, average daily traffic report, car ownership and population growth and account for the Metro corridors in the city.“It was observed that there are works related to 15 Metro lines spanning a network of 356.972 km with 226 stations in pipeline. Out of which line-1 (11.07 km) was made operational in 2014. A total of 88.88 km of Metro network falls under the southern part of the city. It was estimated (in January 2019) that there will be a daily ridership of 4.50 lakh with an annual ridership of 12.60 crore. It was observed that MSRDC and MMRDA had considered the Metro network and its ridership while computing the traffic on the northern part of the Coastal Road,” the report said. “However, there is no specific consideration and analysis on the Metro network (southern part) as such the actual traffic which usually prefers local train services, BEST to private vehicles would opt for Metro services only as an alternative to cars/taxis. The department [BMC] was asked to clarify whether Metro services (existing and ongoing) were considered while preparing traffic study for Coastal Road Project. The actual traffic that would be diverted to Coastal Road to remove congestion from the existing roads was called in for an audit,” the CAG report stated.The CAG acknowledged that the Coastal Road would be used by fast-moving four wheelers like cars and taxis, but two and three-wheelers, which account for a chunk of the traffic in this southern section would not be able to use the Coastal Road.“Two and three wheelers account for 20% of the actual number of cars that are not allowed on southern part of this road. This indicated that the entire project was designed mainly for fasting moving vehicles as half of the traffic would be using Western Express Highway and Freeways,” the CAG noted.The CAG report called into question the BMC’s estimates. “It was observed that in main traffic report, the car ownership per 1000 population was pegged at 139 (2011), 204 (2021), and 266 (2031) and thereafter it would stabilise at 180 car ownerships per 1000 population. Further, car growth was huge during 2014-24 and 2024-34. But at the same time for corresponding years, the actual population was estimated at an average of 2% growth. These figures appear to be imaginary and the department was asked to justify the figures.” “The CAG report has raised some poignant questions regarding the Coastal Road Project. The questions challenge the justification of constructing the Coastal Road. The ridership numbers are the basis on which such mega projects are undertaken. However, now that the 10 km project is already nearing its completion, I would recommend complimenting citizens with public transportation — buses should ply on dedicated lanes on the Coastal Road. This shall increase the commuters using such costly infrastructure in its true sense,” Paresh Rawal, a public policy (Transportation) analyst, said. BMC responsesHT had previously reported that the CAG report also questioned the BMC over a sharp increase in construction cost from ₹252 crore per kilometre in 2011 to ₹1274 crore in 2018, a 405% rise. It has also raised questions over separate spends amounting to ₹200 crore in an inspection report between April 2016 and March 2020. In a press conference on Tuesday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashish Shelar said: “The CAG report has questioned the BMC on several issues ranging from over ₹200 crore expenditure towards clearing bills of contractors and consultants to the traffic study and project report prepared by the BMC for the project. The CAG has also questioned BMC as to why they have not submitted a plan on utilisation of green space that is being reclaimed to the union environment ministry? This questions the BMC’s intention on their claims to keep green space intact nearby coastal road. The BMC should come out clear by clarifying on the issue.”Responding to the allegations about irregularities, the BMC issued a statement on Tuesday.“No fraud or irregularities have been committed in the Coastal Road Project undertaken by the BMC. The allegations circulating in this regard are baseless and incorrect. BMC strongly denies all the allegations. The first allegation is no traffic analysis done and traffic study is flawed. But the draft report was published on BMC website in 2015. The DPR was finalised by M/s. Stup and E.Y. and has been peer reviewed by M/s. Frishmann Prabhu. The traffic analysis was done in the said DPR. This was also submitted to Maharashtra Coast Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) and Union environment ministry.”On the over ₹200 crore payment to contractors and consultants, the BMC said: “All payments due to the contractors are done by following due procedure as per recommendation of Project Management Consultants. As such no payment has been done to the contractors without doing the work.”On the points raised by the CAG report, the BMC said proper compliance will be carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cag-questions-bmc-over-traffic-study-for-coastal-road-works-101638901278411.html
07-12-2021||Pune||AAP alleges PMC engineers given fake diplomas, seeks enquiry||PUNE The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday demanded an enquiry of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) junior engineer recruitment process. As per PMC recruitment rules, 25 per cent junior engineers are recruited from the existing employees who have an engineering diploma. AAP’s Abhijit More said, “The PMC had published a list of qualifying employees, but 18 candidates have done their diploma from the JRN university in Rajasthan. The question is- when did the candidates get the time to attend a full-time course if they were PMC employees. There are no records of any study leave.” “When Prakash Jawadekar was the human resource minister, he had cancelled all the degrees and diplomas from JRN college on December 18, 2017. Despite knowing that, the selection committee approved all these forms,” added More. AAP members alleged that many of the candidates who were selected for the post of a junior engineer were directly relates to either the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) AAP demanded to conduct a detailed enquiry of this recruitment process and file a police complaint against those who are producing fake engineering diploma certificates. The administration did not comment on the issue when contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aap-alleges-pmc-engineers-given-fake-diplomas-seeks-enquiry-101638901276530.html
07-12-2021||Other||Magh Mela 2022: Tent city to be spread over 580 hectares this time||Magh Mela 2022 would be organised on 580 hectares of land as compared to 2021 mela which was spread on around 650 hectares. The area has been squeezed due to prolonged rainy season and the ongoing work of the second railway bridge over the Ganga.Due to lack of available land, there could also be a deduction in land allocation to religious institutions and seers for their camps, said officials.There would be five sectors in the mela area apart from an additional sub-sector (of sector number 1) which would be inhabited towards Arail side of the Sangam area. This would be called sector 1A, said officials. The Prayagraj Mela Authority has decided that in the Magh Mela-2022, ghats will be built from Shivala Marg to Qila Ghat for the convenience of devotees and Kalpawasis so that they don’t have to go far for taking the holy dip in river Ganga and Yamuna, they added. For the purpose of social distancing, there will be a distance of 10 yards between the two institutions. All the routes would be given names and 500 volunteers of civil defence will be deployed for 24 hours along with ample number of police force, watch tower, network of CCTV etc, the officials said. “In light of the ongoing pandemic, we are making all the arrangements keeping Covid protocols in mind. In fact, we have made it clear that everyone, from seers to Kalpwasis, and even visitors will have to strictly adhere to the Covid protocols if they are coming to the mela,”, said Mela Adhikari, Shesh Mani Pandey.As per the minutes of the meeting of the advisory committee of the Prayagraj Mela Authority (PMA) held recently, there would be proper facility for the health care for the devotees for which two hospitals, each of 20 bed capacity will also be built. Besides, there will also be eight first aid centers spread in the five sectors and a sub-sector of the magh mela 2022.Regarding providing security in the Magh Mela area, it has been decided that there would 13 police stations and 38 police outposts will be built in various sectors of the mela area. Apart from these, there would be 13 fire stations and the entire mela area would be watched from 13 watch towers, officials shared. CCTV cameras will be installed in these towers. The network of CCTV would also be placed in various crossings and the places of the mela area. Apart from this, PMA have also received approval for deployment of PAC, Anti-mine team, bomb disposal squad, RAF, NDRF teams etc for safe mela, they added. Police personnel will start coming for Magh Mela from December 15 and the process has begun with SP Magh Mela Rajiv Narayan Mishra taking charge on Monday. He performed Ganga Pujan and Aarti before taking charge in the Mela area. For the hygiene and cleanliness, it has been agreed to build 15,000 toilets in the mela area. Of these, there would be 1500 pre-fabricated steel toilets, 3000 tent toilets, 300 urinals, 9000 institutional toilets and 900 at government institutions.For the devotees, authorities would be constructing at least 10 ghats, stretching from Nagvasuki to Sangam. Because of these ghats, the numbers of devotees wanting to bath at Sangam would be diverted. Authorities have decided that like previous fairs, there would be two central control rooms for lost and found camp. The entire mela area would be illuminated by several high-mast and proper lighting. Installing blower or heaters in the camps would be prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/magh-mela-2022-tent-city-to-be-spread-over-580-hectares-this-time-101638901273462.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||Kashi Vishwanath temple premises being commercialised, alleges Baghel||VARANASI Congress leader and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel alleged here on Tuesday that the Kashi Vishwanath Temple premises were being commercialised in the name of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. The path leading to Maa Annapurna Temple from the Kashi Vishwanath Temple premises was being blocked. Baghel visited Kashi Vishwanath Temple and Maa Annapurna Temple and offered prayers there. Later, he addressed a press conference. Quoting Mahant Shankar Puri of Maa Annapurna Temple, Baghel said that a grand gate was promised in Vishwanath Corridor towards Maa Annapurna Temple but now three feet of path had been left. This was an effort to stop the path leading to Maa Annapurna Temple from Kashi Vishwanath Temple. Baghel alleged that several temples were demolished to create space for the KV Corridor. In the name of the corridor, the Kashi Vishwanath Temple premises were being commercialised, he said. Baghel alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP) workers were engaged in propaganda as the party’s government failed to provide employment to youths and address the problems of farmers. He alleged that the BJP made false promises to the people and failed in making any development. He said that the Chhattisgarh government had given the highest support price to the farmers and fulfilled all the promises made in the manifesto. Later, Congress leaders Ajay Rai, Shailendra Singh and city unit president Raghavendra Chaubey accompanied Baghel during a meeting with the traders in Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kashi-vishwanath-temple-premises-being-commercialised-alleges-baghel-101638901214447.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Family threatened by men on bikes in outer Delhi; police say not communal||A group of some 20 men on motorcycles allegedly created a ruckus outside a Muslim family’s house in south Delhi’s Madangir area on Monday afternoon, triggering panic among residents as they allegedly threatened the family and hurled abuses at them. The bikers were captured on CCTV cameras creating unrest and two persons were placed under preventive arrests for disturbing peace and harmony in a residential neighbourhood. No case was registered in connection with the incident, police siad.Additional deputy commissioner of police (south) Harsha Vardhan Mandava denied that the incident had any communal angle. He clarified that three of the bikers were Muslims and the motive was personal enmity. “It’s a case of enmity as the group that created the commotion suspected one Zahir of passing on information about them to the officials of the excise department. There was no communal angle,” said Mandava.According to the police, on Monday afternoon, the police control room received a call that some men carrying knives had arrived on motorcycles outside a house near Badi Masjid in Madangir and were shouting derogatory remarks at a Muslim family. All of them left before the police could reach the spot. During further inquiry, it was found that the bikers had come to threaten Zahir but he was not at home.“The local police were directed to identify them and take legal action against them,” added the additional DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/family-threatened-by-men-on-bikes-in-outer-delhi-police-say-not-communal-101638901212718.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||Expulsion of Tiwari’s kin: Fight for Brahmin votes in east UP likely to get fierce||With the expulsion of two sons and a nephew of former minister Hari Shankar Tiwari from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the fight for Brahmin votes in eastern Uttar Pradesh is likely to get fierce in run-up to the 2022 assembly election in the state. According to sources, the Tiwari family is likely to join the Samajwadi Party. If it happens, it will give a boost to SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s efforts to win the support of upper castes before the crucial assembly election. The shift of the allegiance of an influential Brahmin family to the SP will also compel the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) to redraw its strategy to win the support of the Brahmin community in the eastern UP, particularly Gorakhpur region.On Monday, BSP chief Mayawati ordered expulsion of party’s sitting MLA from Chillupar assembly seat in Gorakhpur district, Vinay Shankar Tiwari, former Lok Sabha MP, Bhism Shankar aka Kaushal Tiwari and former chairman of the UP Legislative Council Ganesh Shankar Pandey on the charges of indulging in anti-party activities. While Vinay Shankar Tiwari and Kaushal Tiwari are sons of Hari Shankar Tiwari, considered a strongman of eastern UP who enjoys considerable influence over the Brahmin community, Ganesh Shankar Pandey is Tiwari’s nephew.While Bhism Shankar aka Kaushal Tiwari had won the 2009 Lok Sabha election on a BSP ticket from Sant Kabir Nagar seat, Ganesh Shankar Pandey was the chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council when BSP government was in power UP (2007-12). They were expelled after the information that trio had a meeting with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. Before revolt of the three leaders, Mayawati showed them the door, said a BSP leader. The expulsion of the Tiwaris is likely to give a jolt Mayawati’s efforts to win the support of the Brahmin community in the 2022 assembly election. Even as the BSP faced defeat in the 2012 and 2017 UP assembly elections, the Tiwaris stood firmly with the party. However, the political dominance of the Tiwari family diminished after the formation of the BJP government in 2017 as well as with the elevation of BJP MP from Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat Yogi Adityanath as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. The traditional rivalry between Thakur and Brahmin communities is an important factor in deciding the fate of the political parties in the elections. While Yogi Adityanath emerged as the leader of the Thakur community, Hari Shankar Tiwari, who secured victory in the six assembly elections from 1985 to 2002, led the Brahmin community. Riding on the muscle power of Tiwari, the BSP maintained its presence in the eastern UP despite defeats in the successive assembly and Lok Sabha elections after it lost power in 2012. The Tiwaris mobilised the Brahmin community after the BSP launched the “Prabuddh Varg Vichar Goshti” across the Uttar Pradesh under party national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra in July this year. To counter the BSP move, the BJP, the SP and the Congress also launched campaign to win the support of the Brahmin community.
07-12-2021||Pune||Pune Mayor asks Maha Metro to start work at Lakdi pul||PUNE As the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha Metro) has disapproved the proposal for a hydraulic bridge at Sambhaji bridge, popularly known as Lakdi pul, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and others have asked Maha Metro to go ahead with the previous plan. The move comes days after stalled work invited criticism from various quarters as it threatened to delay the project, which is already behind its schedule. The Ganesh mandals objected to the height of the viaduct at Sambhaji bridge and said that it poses hindrance to the annual immersion procession. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Tuesday said, “I respect the feelings of Ganesh mandal workers. But the option given by them is not feasible as it is costly and time consuming. Considering that the project needs to complete on time, it has been decided to continue the work as per the previous plan.” Maha Metro project director Atul Gadgil said, “The Ganesh mandal representatives submitted the proposal to build a hydraulic bridge instead of the existing plan but we gave our recommendations on the same to the mayor and the decision was taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-mayor-asks-maha-metro-to-start-work-at-lakdi-pul-101638901032767.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC waits for results of genome sequencing||Mumbai After two international passengers tested positive for the Omicron variant in Mumbai on Monday, BMC is awaiting results of the samples of the other Covid positive patients with travel history from the National Institute of Virology, Pune.According to BMC, till Monday, 16 residents of Mumbai with travel history have tested positive for Covid. One of these passengers is among those who tested positive for the Omicron variant on Monday. Overall, nine high-risk contacts of these patients have tested positive. One out of these contacts tested positive for the Omicron variant on Monday.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of the civic public health department, said, “We have not yet received a response on the test results of other patients that were sent to NIV Pune, and are uncertain if they are negative for Omicron variant. We have requested NIV to release the results of these other patients, so we can determine if they are Omicron negative.”As per the data available with the BMC, until December 5, 2021, a total of 4,480 passengers have arrived in Mumbai from high-risk countries. These have been categorised by the Maharashtra government in its order of December 2, and are South Africa, Botswana, and Zimbabwe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-waits-for-results-of-genome-sequencing-101638900914025.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||High court to Lucknow police commissioner: Provide details of cases lodged against lawyers||Lucknow: Taking a serious note of some lawyers being involved in illegal activities, the Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court has ordered the Commissioner of Police, Lucknow, to file personal affidavit stating details of cases registered against advocates in the state capital along with the status of investigation and trial in such cases. A division bench of justices Rakesh Srivastava and Shamim Ahmed observed on November 30: “It appears that an organised group of advocates is indulging in extortion, money laundering and blackmailing and is creating difficulty in law and order on the court campus.” “Such a state of affairs, wherein the rule of law stands hijacked by a few anti-social elements, cannot be allowed to continue,” said the court. “In the circumstances, the police commissioner is directed to file his personal affidavit stating the details of all those cases which have been registered against advocates along with the status of investigation and trial in district Lucknow,” added the court. “The police commissioner will also revisit the cases in which the final report has been submitted and if it is found that there was some laxity in investigation and all the witnesses did not come forward due to fear of the accused persons, it would be open to him to order further investigation in accordance with law,” ordered the court. The court also ordered the district judge, Lucknow, to submit a report on cases pending against lawyers in a sealed envelope on next hearing of the case. “It further appears that a large number of cases are pending in which advocates are accused. We would like to know from the district judge as to how many cases are pending against advocates. The district judge will also submit his report giving the status of trial by the next date in a sealed cover,” said the court. The court further observed: “It has been brought to our notice that a large number of cases are pending against advocates, but nothing material is being done when it comes to investigation in such matters.” “We are informed that several advocates are indulging in land grabbing, money laundering and other anti-social activities and taking advantage of their robe to go scot free,” said the court. “It appears that the police feel apprehensive when it comes to making arrests in matters pending against advocates, and either submit a charge-sheet without accessing them or a final report,” pointed out the court. “If advocates are permitted to indulge in violence, then maintenance of peace in the society would become impossible. Advocates are the officers of the court and a few black sheep cannot be allowed to tarnish the image of the entire profession,” observed the court. The court fixed December 13 as the next date of hearing. 
07-12-2021||Pune||Road widening begins at Pune varsity road prior to construction of multilevel flyover||PUNE The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) has initiated a road widening process at University junction. The crucial stretch of 240 meters, beginning from the main gate of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) towards Shivajinagar, is being widened by removing the two-meter cycle and walking track to create an additional lane. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said the road widening of this stretch will be done in two phases, the first will be to remove median in front of Abhimanshree society. This work will commence on Thursday. “The PMC, PMRDA and the traffic division are working in coordination. We have approved removing the cycle track. We have coordinated with district administration to acquire land for further widening of this road. Most of the required land belongs to the state government. Once this process is completed the road could be widened further,” said Dinkar Gojare, executive engineer road department PMC. The construction work of multilevel flyover at SPPU square is set to begin soon and prior to that a plan for alternate traffic routes has been prepared by Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (Pumta). A detailed plan has been prepared for the traffic diversion, opening of alternate routes, broadening of the roads and relocation of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus stops. Traffic branch of Pune city police insisted on widening the road considering the three-way traffic coming in from Baner, Pashan and Aundh. “We have asked for 200 traffic wardens. We will need to have additional manpower on the road, at junctions and at T points. We will monitor traffic at university junction. Also, extra barricades, cranes and tempo are required,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police, traffic division. BOX Approved road diversions Pumta has approved 2 circular routes for traffic ease during flyover work - From Senapati Bapat chowk (on Ganeshkhind road)-Dhotre Path- Vitthalrao Tukaram Bhosale chowk- Senapati Bapat road-Senapati Bapat chowk (Ganeshkhind road). -From University chowk-Pashan road- Abhimanshri road-Baner road- university road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/road-widening-begins-at-pune-varsity-road-prior-to-construction-of-multilevel-flyover-101638900793605.html
07-12-2021||Jaipur||Congress govt in Rajasthan will fall because of infighting: BJP's Satish Poonia||Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) in-charge of Rajasthan Satish Poonia on Tuesday brushed aside allegations that the party is trying to topple the Congress government in the state led by chief minister Ashok Gehlot. He stressed that not the saffron party, but the Congress government in the northern state will fall due to infighting within the ruling dispensation.Poonia added that even if the Congress government in Rajasthan survives the infighting, people of the state will dethrone it in the 2023 assembly elections. The state BJP in-charge also showed confidence that the saffron party will register a thumping victory in Rajasthan owing to the welfare policies of the party at the Centre led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“BJP is not bringing down Ashok Gehlot government, but it will fall due to infighting, or else the people of Rajasthan will oust it from power in 2023,” Poonia was quoted as saying by PTI.The Rajasthan BJP in-charge also slammed Gehlot for his allegation that Union home minister Amit Shah is trying to topple the Congress government in the state. Poonia added that Congress should instead look at its report card while it was in power at the Centre.The BJP leader alleged that the UPA government misused Article 356 (President's Rule) over 90 times in India and even conspired to topple state governments.Poonia's remarks come after Shah also refuted allegations that the BJP is trying to destabilise the Rajasthan government. The Union minister said that the saffron party doesn't have any such intention, and also showed confidence in forming the next government in the northern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/congress-govt-in-rajasthan-will-fall-because-of-infighting-bjp-s-satish-poonia-101638899114470.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Man arrested for allegedly beating wife to death in Pune||PUNE The Pune police have arrested one man for allegedly beating his wife to death on Monday night in Pune. The deceased woman has been identified as Asma Hawari, while the arrested man has been identified as Hosif Hawari, both residents of Bhavani peth, according to the police. According to the police, the couple who have two children would often get into a fight. On Monday, when the siblings got into a fight, it in-turn led to a fight between the couple. The fight turned violent and the man allegedly beat his wife to near-death. The woman is believed to have passed away in her sleep. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the man at Khadak police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-allegedly-beating-wife-to-death-in-pune-101638900554088.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: CJM rejects plea of dead scribe’s brother||Chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Kheri, Chinta Ram on Tuesday rejected the application of Pawan Kashyap, the brother of the journalist Raman Kashyap who was among the eight people killed during the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence, alleging that his brother was murdered. Pawan Kashyap had moved the application under Section 156(3) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in the CJM’s court on November 9. In his application, Pawan had urged the court to instruct the Tikunia Kotwali incharge in Kheri to register his First Information Report (FIR) against 14 people, including union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni and his son Ashish Mishra, and investigate it. “While pronouncing the judgment on Pawan Kashyap’s application on Tuesday, chief judicial magistrate Chinta Ram rejected his application,” said senior prosecution officer SP Yadav. “The court in its judgment said the Tikunia police in its status report had informed that an FIR number 219/2021 in the case was already lodged and investigation was in progress. Hence, there was no need of a fresh FIR in the matter,” Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-cjm-rejects-plea-of-dead-scribe-s-brother-101638900552785.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||Commission awaits state nod for OBC census||Mumbai: More than five months after the state constituted a 10-member team in the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission (MSBCC) to collect empirical data on Other Backward Class (OBC) communities in Maharashtra following a Supreme Court order in March, the commission’s proposal is still awaiting the government’s nod. MSBCC officials said the state was yet to take a decision on the state-wide census proposed by them, and has instead proposed a change in the original terms of reference, seeking to limit the exercise to a sample survey. “The SC has pointed to the lack of empirical data. As the Centre has refused to conduct a caste census, the state government feels we cannot go against this policy by launching our own exercise. Hence, it is working on amending the original terms of reference given to the MSCBC in June by limiting this to just a sample survey. These revised terms of reference are awaited. However, a sample has its limitations and cannot be used to credibly establish backwardness and the ward-wise population. Thus, a legal tangle is awaiting us,” an MSBCC official who did not wish to be quoted, said. Vijay Wadettiwar, the minister heading the Vimukta Jati Nomadic Tribes, OBC and Special Backward Class welfare department, could not be contacted. The department’s principal secretary Indra Mallo said the issue was “under the active consideration of the government”. Some changes were proposed to the terms of references, she said. The SECC would have generated data about the socio-economic backwardness of various communities and helped restore political reservations for OBCs in local self-government bodies like municipal corporations, councils, Zilla Parishads and gram panchayats. At present, the Central government collects data only for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) in the decadal census and has refused to enumerate other populations in the 2021 census. The Centre has expressed its inability to share empirical data from the 2011 census with the state citing flaws in it. This would have enumerated the numbers of each caste group across religious denominations. The apex court on Monday struck down an Ordinance brought out by the state in September which granted up to 27% political reservation for OBC community candidates in local body polls, after the SC had struck down a section in the state’s law, which granted full reservation of 27% to OBCs, on grounds that it led to a breach of the 50% ceiling on reservations when taken together with existing reservations to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) candidates. On March 4, the apex court had further directed the state to conduct a “contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of backwardness of the concerned group” before deciding on the quantum of reservation to be granted to OBC communities. Following this, the state constituted an MSBCC team on June 29. The commission finalized the empirical data collection norms for a socio-economic and caste census (SECC) by July-end. The census, which was to be launched almost a century after it was last undertaken in British India, was expected to cost around ₹435 crore and cover all households. The MSBCC sent a letter to the state on July 28 also stating its infrastructure and manpower needs to conduct the survey. However, as the survey would have taken several months to complete, and a slew of local body polls are slated to be held in the coming months — district council elections in Bhandara and Gondia as well as bypolls in 4,500 gram panchayats across the state on December 21; elections in 23 municipal corporations, 27 district councils, 298 panchayat samitis, 320 nagar panchayats and nagar councils between February and December 2022 — the state passed an Ordinance to ensure political reservation, albeit in a reduced quantum, for OBC candidates. However, on Monday, the SC ordered that local body polls in Maharashtra will be held without political reservation for OBCs and said that the collection of empirical data should have been collected first. A former member of the MSCBC charged that one reason for the hurdles in the SECC was that the challenges it would pose to the established social and political order by showing that the numbers of backward groups was higher than expected. A ballpark estimate of the OBC population, based on the 1931 census, indicates that the communities account for nearly around 53% of Maharashtra’s population. In Maharashtra, OBCs are divided between 350 Hindu and non-Hindu classes (19% reservations) and Vimukta Jati and Nomadic Tribes (VJNT), which covers about 50 groups (11% quota). In 2011, the Centre had, with the help of the Office of the Registrar General of India (ORGI) conducted the SECC which studied the socio-economic status of rural and urban households and ranked households based on predefined parameters. It covered all castes and communities, including those who fell in the OBC category. However, on September 21, the Centre refused to share the data claiming it was riddled with errors. “As far as Maharashtra is concerned the analysis of SECC data pertaining to Maharashtra showed that out of the total population of 10.3 crores (103 million), population with “no caste” was 1.17 crore (11.7 million), whereas the total castes enumerated were as many as 428,677. Pertinently, as against more than 4.28 lakh (428,000) castes which have been enumerated in the SECC 2011, in the state of Maharashtra, the existing castes which are published in Maharashtra in SC, ST and OBC categories are only 494,” the 59-page affidavit filed by R Subrahmanyam, secretary ministry of social justice and empowerment, stated. “Considering the aforesaid, it is apparent that the caste enumeration in SECC 2011 was fraught with mistakes and inaccuracies. A further analysis further showed that more than 99% of the castes enumerated had a population of less than 100 persons,” the affidavit added further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/commission-awaits-state-nod-for-obccensus-101638900434111.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Three in Pune police custody for shooting builder in Katraj||PUNE Three men have been remanded to Pune police custody by a local court for pumping six bullets into a local builder, who owed them money, in Katraj on Monday morning. The deceased, identified as Sameer Shaikh alias Lalbadshah Husain Manoor, 32, is a resident of Kalubainagar locality in Phalenagar area of Ambegaon Pathar in Katraj. Along with a man named Mehboob Saifan Bulargi, 33, to whom Shaikh allegedly owed money, a minor boy claiming to be 17 years of age, and two men identified as Nilesh Sunil Kumbhar, 30, and Sufian Faiyaz Chauri, 19, were also arrested by the police late on Monday. The three have been remanded to police custody till December 14 by Judicial magistrate first class PS Jondhale. An illegal weapon was recovered from their possession, said officials. “There was a financial dispute between them, that’s true but to indulge in such violence over ₹2.5 lakh seems suspicious. It is one of the reasons we asked for custody remand. One other reason is also to identify if there was a bigger conspiracy and if other people were involved in this plot,” said public prosecutor Girish Bargaje. Manoor was shot dead while he was sitting on a red Royal Enfield Bullet in front of an eatery called Rohit Wadewale. The four men arrived on two two-wheelers and fled in the direction of Katraj dairy. Mehboob Bulargi had given a construction project to Shaikh and had paid ₹17 lakh for it. Work of ₹10 lakh was completed, and Shaikh returned ₹5 lakh through irregular payments. But Bulargi was asking for the final payment of ₹2.5 lakh which Shaikh was avoiding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-in-pune-police-custody-for-shooting-builder-in-katraj-101638900432607.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Not a walk in the park! Reduced timings irk Pune residents||PUNE Morning walkers in Pune were in for a shock when they were asked to leave the public gardens before the closing time. On Tuesday, two incidents came to light when morning walkers including senior citizens were turned away at Ahilyabai Holkar garden and Katraj Upper lake garden. Abhijit Patharde, a banker who usually visits the Ahilyabai Holkar garden said, “The staff at the garden asked people to leave the premise at 9 am citing the PMC guidelines. The timings are 6 am to 10 am and 4 pm to 7 pm. Residents’ want the parks to be opened for a longer time, however the timings have been reduced.” Many residents complained that local level staff is acting arbitrarily on opening and closing timings. “Considering the winters, the PMC should consider extending the garden timings to 11 am. The gardens are being shut early and the PMC must look into the mater,” said Avadhoot Kulkarni, a resident. Ashok Ghorpade, garden superintendent, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), “The official timings post-covid for all the gardens are 6 am to 10 am and 4 pm to 7 pm. We have not given any instructions to the gardens to close the gates early and will look into the matter.” According to PMC garden department officials, over 180 out of 204 gardens have reopened in the city. Corporator Vasant said, “I have requests from many residents to increase the timings as it would be great for senior citizens and young people to enjoy the sun during the winter but one has to follow the covid rules and also wait for PMC to take these decisions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/not-a-walk-in-the-park-reduced-timings-irk-pune-residents-101638900132462.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||People will reject BJP’s ‘politics of hatred’: Jayant||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary on Tuesday formally announced his party’s alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) and said if they came to power in Uttar Pradesh next year, the first work will be to build a memorial for “martyrs” of the farmers’ protest. Assembly polls are slated to be held in Uttar Pradesh early in 2022. Slamming the BJP government in the state for the recent leak of a government competitive examination question paper and subsequent cancellation of the test, he said because of such incidents youngsters were not getting appointments and they had to migrate and work in other places.“The BJP will get a befitting reply from the people in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year as they have understood its politics of hatred. The BJP talks of ‘hatred’ and our ‘Babaji’ (a reference to CM Yogi Adityanath) starts with Aurangzeb and ends with the ‘Kairana exodus’,” he said while addressing a joint rally with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in Dabathua village of the district. During the last assembly polls, the BJP had claimed that many Hindu families had migrated from Kairana town in fear of criminals. The claim of migration has been contested by some political parties.The RLD leader also said, “Babaji becomes angry very fast. You have never seen him smiling. He smiles only when he is with ‘bacchde’ (calves). I ask you people to free him so that he can play with his calves for 24 hours. He cannot handle government files.”Hailing the farmers’ agitation, he said, “I appreciate farmers for winning a big battle and forcing (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji, probably for the first time, to bow before them.” He was referring to the repeal of three central farm laws that had triggered a year of protests.“Our party had announced to construct the memorial in Meerut but now Akhilesh ji and I are together. The first work our double-engine government will do is to construct a memorial for martyr farmers, who died during farmers’ protest here in the land of Chowdhury Charan Singh,” Chaudhary added. He also accused BJP leaders of insulting the farmers and not uttering a single word to pay tribute to those farmers who died during their stir.“In Lakhimpur Kheri farmers were crushed. Over 700 of them died during the agitation (against the laws),” he said. During violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 this year, eight people, including four farmers and two BJP workers, were killed. Chaudhary asked people to be there in Aligarh on December 23 on Kisan Diwas for another rally. December 23 happens to be the birth anniversary of former PM and Chaudhary’s grandfather Chaudhary Charan Singh.Addressing the gathering, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav remembered Chowdhury Charan Singh, Babasaheb Dr BR Ambedkar, Ram Manohar Lohia and farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait and highlighted their contribution to making an egalitarian society. “Now, the BJP will be wiped out from the state. This time there would be sunset of the BJP forever in western Uttar Pradesh,” he said. “’Kisanon ka inquilab hoga, 2022 me badlav hoga’ (There will be revolution by farmers and change in 2022),” Yadav said.Raising the farmers’ issues, he said, “Farmers are fighting for their rights and they want that the government should listen to them. However, they were crushed under the jeep of a BJP minister and his supporters ( a reference to Lakhimpur Kheri violence).”He reiterated that farmers should be given their rights and a decision should be taken on minimum support price (MSP). The SP leader also accused the BJP of not taking decisions which were beneficial for the farmers and assured them that his alliance (with RLD) would ensure their rights. Yadav also said growing prices of essential commodities and fuel had made peoples’ life difficult. He further said RLD and SP workers would help in strengthening harmony among people and assured people if voted to power, the SP-RLD government would give relief in electricity bills to the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/people-will-reject-bjp-s-politics-of-hatred-jayant-101638899952347.html
07-12-2021||Pune||BJP protests in Pune after SC stays polls for OBC seats||PUNE After the Supreme Court on Monday stayed the local body election in seats reserved for Other Backward Class (OBC) in Maharashtra, the agitated city unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held a protest in front of the collector office on Tuesday. BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik blamed the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi for the Supreme Court’s decision. He said, “The ruling MVA government did not take efforts to prove the need of 27 reservation seats for OBC and did not document any evidence for it. The chief minister did call a meeting a few months ago, but there was no development.” However, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) blamed the Central government for same. The NCP will protest in front of Pune MP Girish Bapat’s home on Wednesday. NCP officials said that the central government needs to share the data for OBCs to the Supreme Court, however, they did not do so intentionally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-protests-in-pune-after-sc-stays-polls-for-obc-seats-101638899774709.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||No Omicron variant in Vrindavan Covid samples||Agra : Much to the relief of the health authorities in Mathura, none of the seven samples of foreign devotees sent for genome sequencing from Vrindavan contained Omicron virus. All seven tested positive for Covid -19 due to the Delta variant, common during the second wave. “We are still to get it in writing but it was confirmed by authorities in Lucknow in a telephonic conversation that there was no case of Omicron in Mathura district till date. All seven samples of foreign devotees testing positive for Covid -19 were sent to Lucknow for genome sequencing and authorities there communicated on phone that none of the seven had Omicron,” said Dr Bhoodev, deputy chief medical officer in Mathura. “All seven Covid positive cases were of Delta variant,” said Dr Bhoodev who informed that presently there were 14 active Covid cases in Mathura, including seven foreign devotees and seven Indians. Isolation period of three positive cases ended on Monday, including the woman from Lithuania who was the first to be tested positive in a Vrindavan ashram. “In all, 10 foreign nationals from an ashram in Vrindavan had tested Covid positive but samples of the initial seven cases were sent for genome sequencing. These people came from different nations, including Lithuania, Russia, USA, Spain, Switzerland and Austria and landed in India on or about November 15. They were here in Vrindavan as Krishna devotees,” said Dr Bhoodev. Out of the 10 people testing Covid positive, three returned home before their reports came. “The first of these cases surfaced on November 25 and was recorded on the Co-WIN portal on November 27. These samples were dispatched through courier to Lucknow on November 28,” the deputy CMO said. In Agra, a footwear manufacturer tested positive for Covid-19 on November 20 after returning home from Poland. Besides, a non-resident Indian from Spain tested positive last Thursday. He had arrived in India in October and was preparing to move back to Spain and got his RT-PCR test done. Dr AK Srivastava, CMO, Agra, informed that two others tested positive in Agra but had no travel history. Yet all four samples were sent for genome sequencing and the reports were yet to be received. . 
07-12-2021||Pune||Fines for illegal banners, hoardings in Pune will now be attached to property tax||PUNE Public display of commercial or political hoardings, banners and painting on the walls in non-designated areas of the city will invite a hefty fine from property owners as the Pune Municipal Corporation made amends to its advertisement policy. According to officials, if the advertising firm or the owner is unable to pay fine for an illegal hoarding, then the fine will be collected from the owner or property tax holder of that private land. Vijay Landge, deputy municipal commissioner (license and sky sign) said, “In order to increase revenue, the PMC commissioner has introduced a new provision in the 2009 hoarding policy. The fine for an illegal hoarding is ₹50,000 and ₹1,000 to 5,000 is the fine for illegal flex, banners and flags.” At present, there are 2,200 hoardings located in various parts of the city as per corporation records. According to the 2009 hoarding policy, the city is divided into four zones and the rate for putting up hoarding is ₹222 per square feet. Corporation has estimated a revenue of ₹25 to ₹30 crore per annum. However, the PMC only receives ₹ 6 crore per annum as revenue from hoarding fees since 2018. “PMC has also made a provision to regularise hoarding by paying compounding fee. As per fees for advertisement permits for hoardings- if fees are not paid within the prescribed time, a composition amount equal 25 per cent of the permit fee for delay up to three months and equal to 50 per cent for delay of up to 6 months will be payable. For delays beyond six months, the composition amount equals 100 per cent,” added Landge. PMC losing revenue due to court case The PMC does not have any information regarding illegal hoardings in the city. The PMC had floated a tender to identify these hoardings, however the agency hasn’t been finalised yet. This is because the state government has assured the Bombay High Court that the Pune hoarding association will not take any corrosive action till court gives final decision. Langde said, “The case is pending in court from 2018. Therefore, we are not taking any action on hoardings. We are awaiting a court order. After that, we will be able to depute agencies to identify illegal hoardings and charge fines for regularising the hoardings as per the 2009 policy.” Balasaheb Ganjave, president of Pune hoarding association said, “Under the ‘one nation one tax’, we have challenged corporations and the state government to charge license fees for putting up hoarding. We are already paying 18 per cent Goods and Service Tax (GST) to the government, then why should we pay another tax to corporations? We have also challenged ₹222 per square feet rate for putting hoarding in the city. “ He further said, “At present, we are paying a license renewal fee to the corporation for one year. There are more than 2,000 illegal hoardings in the suburban areas of Pune city. Corporation needs to take action but is unable to do so due to lack of manpower.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fines-for-illegal-banners-hoardings-in-pune-will-now-be-attached-to-property-tax-101638899539905.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||50 years of 1971 war: Grand welcome awaits ‘Victory Flame’ in Lucknow||As part of the ongoing “Swarnim Vijay Varsh” celebrations marking India’s victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, one of the victory flames (Swarnim Vijay Mashaals) will arrive in the state capital on Wednesday (December 8) and will remain here till Sunday (December 12). The “Victory Flame” being honoured in Lucknow is the one which moved towards the eastern cardinal direction and is on the final leg of its journey towards National War Memorial after visiting various battle fields, including those in Bangladesh.The Surya Command of the Indian Army is commemorating the “Swarnim Vijay Varsh” with a series of events from December 8 to 12. On the morning of December 9, the Uttar Pradesh government is organising a function to pay tribute to the “Victory Flame” with a grand celebration at the Vidhan Sabha.The same evening, the “Victory Flame” will be placed at Janeshwar Misra Park from 4pm to 5:30pm to enable the citizens of Lucknow to pay their tribute. The event will also include a military band and a weapon display showcasing the might of the Indian Armed Forces. In addition, for the benefit of those youth who have a passion to serve the country, an Information booth on avenues to join the army will also be established.The “Victory Flame” is also being hosted by Lucknow University and Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University on the December 10-11 before leaving for its final resting place at the National War Memorial, New Delhi on the December 12. The “Swarnim Vijay Varsh” celebrations were launched by PM Narendra Modi by lighting four victory flames which commenced their journey from the eternal flame at National War Memorial, New Delhi, on December 16, 2020. These victory flames were despatched to four cardinal directions of the country.During their travels, the victory flames visited the native places of various war heroes and battle fields to honour the memory of the sacrifices of our brave soldiers and collected soil form the respective areas which will finally be entombed at National War Memorial in a grand function on December 16.The Indian Armed Forces ensured complete capitulation of the fighting potential of Armed Forces of Pakistan in the 1971 war and effected surrender of approximately 93,000 soldiers of the Pakistani Army— the largest after the World War II. This emphatic victory immensely raised the stature of India amongst the comity of nations. The instrument of surrender was signed between Lt Gen AAK Niazi and Lt Gen JS Aurora in Dhaka on December 16, 1971.The day is celebrated across the nation as Vijay Diwas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/50-years-of-1971-war-grand-welcome-awaits-victory-flame-in-lucknow-101638899532235.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||Legal opinions divided on SC staying OBC reservation||Mumbai: A day after Supreme Court stayed 27% reservation for Other Backward Class (OBC) in local body polls, legal opinion is divided on whether the state would receive relief if it moves the Supreme Court to review its decision. Chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty held a review meeting on Tuesday to examine the options available to the government in the wake of the apex court’s order that only stayed local body elections in seats reserved for OBC candidates. The court further said that the government should have collected empirical data as before providing OBC reservation in local body elections in keeping with its order from March 4. Legal experts said that the state has little option left to restore the reservation. “The legal opinion was against the Ordinance as it goes against the spirit of SC order in K Krishnamurthy case in March this year. The Ordinance has been stayed for the state government’s failure to collate the empirical data which was like pre-condition to the reservation. Unfortunately the state government could not progress on the data even after issuing the order of the appointment of MSBCC on June 29. Even if the state government requested for the relief from the stay, the top court is unlikely to concede,” an official from law and judiciary department who did not wish to be named, said. State minister from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and an OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal however said that the state is looking to move the court for revising its order. “The three tests laid down by the court have been fulfilled and the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission has been appointed and it will start collecting the empirical data soon. We are however consulting the legal experts and will move court for revision [of the order],” he said. “The local body elections are being held in other states based on the ordinance issued on the similar lines we did. The ordinances issued by them are not stayed. We are also going to request the apex court to allow us to hold the polls as per the schedule subject to the submission of the OBC certificate later in due time. We expect the relief during the next hearing on December 13; 54% of the population of the state cannot be deprived of their political reservation just for technical reasons,” Bhujbal said. The triple tests for providing reservation are: establish a Commission to conduct rigorous empirical inquiry; specify proportion of reservation in light of the Commission’s recommendations; ensure reservation does not exceed 50 per cent of the total seats with SCs/STs/OBC quotas taken together. A government official said that collecting empirical data will take time as the state government is expected to change the terms of reference framed for the MSBCC appointed to collect the data. “We are tweaking it to keep in the spirit of the SC order in the K Krishnamurthy case. As such the empirical data needs to be collected through ‘rigorous investigation’ of the communities which are deprived from the political benefits. The collection of such data may take years together,” the officer said. He also said that the state government is expected to argue in the apex court that it has the interim data collected by the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics and the one collected by National Sample Survey Office. The data collated by Gokhale Institute was taken while when reservation was given to the Maratha community four years ago. Meanwhile, State Election Commission stayed the polls to seats from OBC quota in the local bodies which are scheduled to be held on December 21. On September 21, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government passed the Ordinance amending two laws that govern rural and municipal local bodies, after the SC on March 4 struck down political reservation for OBC candidates in local body elections. The SC had held the reservation exceeding 50% cap unconstitutional and directed the state to conduct an empirical study on the socio-economic backwardness of OBC communities before deciding on the quantum of reservation. The decision comes days ahead of polls to be conducted in 104 district council seats and 210 panchayat samitis seats in in Bhandara and Gondia, as well as 1,802 seats in 106 nagar panchyats (that govern smaller towns) and four seats in municipal corporations across the state. Another 7,000 seats from 4500 gram panchayats are also going to poll on December 21. In all, 413 seats from district councils, panchayat samitis, nagar panchayats and municipal corporations are reserved for OBCs. The SC’s Monday order is a major setback to the MVA government as OBC communities have blamed the state government for its failure to act in time. “There is a lack of coordination between all concerned departments and the key community leaders. We could not release even ₹5 crore of ₹435 crore demanded by the MSBCC to set up infrastructure and logistic for the collection of data even six months after its constitution. Karnataka had spent ₹150 crore for such collection a few years ago. All the three ruling parties will have to pay a heavy political price in the upcoming local body elections,” a senior minister who did not wish to be named, said. “The government released the funds of crores of rupees for the Maratha community, but dragged its feet when it comes to the releasing of the funds for OBCs,” Chandrakant Bavkar, president, OBC Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti, said. Hari Narke, a former member of MSBCC, said that there was lack of coordination between four departments which are concerned to the OBC reservation. “The commission has not been given manpower, funds and it has hampered the work of the commission. It is unfortunate that the ruling parties are indifferent while the Opposition BJP is acting against the interest of the OBCs.” 
07-12-2021||Pune||Yerawada Central prison commences skilled training program for inmates||PUNE The Yerawada Central prison, Pune has commenced a skilled training program for inmates with a focus towards their rehabilitation and social inclusion. The training program is being conducted through Bank of Maharashtra-Mahabank Rural Self Employment Training Institute (MRSETI) for around 100 inmates in three specific categories which includes poultry training, home appliance repair and service, mobile repair, papad making, pickle and masala manufacturing. The training programme also includes women inmates and is for ten days each. According to prison officials, the inmates selected for the said training program are scheduled to be freed in near future. While addressing the inauguration program Atulchandra Kulkarni, additional director general of police, (prison) Maharashtra, said “MRSET has taken a big leap by reaching out to organise this training program for the inmates. The programs are devised in a simple yet effective manner to help inmates start a new life after being released.” The inmates shall also be given with training certificates from MRSETI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/yerawada-central-prison-commences-skilled-training-program-for-inmates-101638899294231.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||Cabinet to discuss Omicron situation today||MUMBAI After reporting Omicron cases for three consecutive days, the state has not reported any new case of the ‘variant of concern’ on Tuesday. Maharashtra has a total of 10 Omicron cases in Mumbai, Pune and Dombivali.The state cabinet meeting scheduled on Wednesday is expected to discuss the steps to be taken in the wake of the emergence of the Omicron variant after the state reported ten cases in the last three days. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that there would be no immediate restrictions in the state. “No restrictions are likely to be imposed immediately. We are watching the situation very closely and the decision about re-imposing the restrictions will be taken by consulting with the central government and task force members,” he said.Tope said that schools should not have a problem in going ahead with their plans of reopening. The state cabinet is expected to discuss the reopening of schools as well.The state reported 699 new cases of Covid-19 and 19 deaths, pushing the state tally of Covid-19 cases to 6,639,995 and the death toll to 141,194. Mumbai clocked 189 new cases and one death, taking the case tally to 764,175 and the mortality toll to 16,352. In the last 24 hours, 99,010 tests were conducted in the state, resulting in a daily positivity rate of 0.70%. State officials said that they did not receive any Omicron-positive reports from the samples sent for testing.Maharashtra on Monday detected two more cases of Omicron, taking the tally to 10. On Saturday, the first Omicron case was reported in Dombivali while seven more were added from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad on Sunday.Meanwhile, after Mumbai, Pune logged the second-highest number of cases at 171, while Thane reported 53 cases. The state has 6,445 active cases, including the highest number of cases namely 1,668 in Mumbai; 1,031 in Thane; and 356 in Ahmednagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cabinet-to-discuss-omicron-situation-today-101638899052339.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||AU finalises list of new foundation, elective UG courses||Allahabad University (AU) has finalised a list of seven new foundation and 14 elective courses for undergraduate students that they will be able to undertake under the new National Education Policy (NEP)-2020. Though more courses could get added to this list, now UG students will be compulsorily required to pursue select foundation and some skill enhancement/ elective courses from this list while pursuing their traditional courses on the central varsity campus as soon as the four-year UG courses or five-year integrated master’s courses get introduced, say AU officials in the know about the development.“The academic council, apex decision making body for all academic affairs of the university, has already approved these courses,” said dean (research and development) prof SI Rizvi. “With the proposed implementation of the provisions of NEP-2020 from the 2023 session, the undergraduate students will have to pursue three foundation courses in the first year (two semesters) including the mandatory ones on “nation building and social service” and one being wither “English language and soft skills” or “Indian language” (Hindi/Sanskrit/Urdu) besides one more foundation course of their choice from the list,” prof Rizvi added.He said likewise four courses in two years (four semesters) will have to be compulsorily cleared by the students from the list of elective courses. The list of “foundation courses” finalised so far includes “nation building and social service”, “health, hygiene and nutrition”, “English language and soft skills”, “Indian language (anyone of the following) Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu”, “Indian culture and heritage”, “computer applications (MS word, powerpoint, excel and other common software)” and “environmental science”.Similarly, the list of “skill enhancement courses/electives” includes “mathematics for beginners”, “health, hygiene and nutrition”, “basic electronics and artificial intelligence”, “basics of human biochemistry”, “medicinal plants”, “discoveries in science”, “introduction to Indian classical music”, “basic principles of Indian Constitution”, “disaster management”, “environmental concerns and climate change”, “introduction to Indian history”, “elements of economics”, “Vedic maths” and “courses in foreign languages”.The NEP-2020 lays stress on imaginative and flexible curricular structures that will enable creative combinations of disciplines for study and would offer multiple entry and exit points and thus remove currently prevalent rigid boundaries and would create new possibilities for life-long learning.Likewise, the NEP-2020 says the structure and lengths of degree programmes shall be adjusted accordingly by the institutions so that the undergraduate degree is of either 3 or 4-year duration, with multiple exit options within this period, with appropriate certifications, e.g. a certificate after completing one year in a discipline or field including vocational and professional areas, or a diploma after two years of study, or a bachelor ’s degree after a 3-year programme.Prof Rizvi said all new courses under the NEP at AU finalised so far have multiple entry and multiple exit options. “We are also structuring our UG programmes to the four-year format. Once the new UG programme is under way, we will restructure the master’s programme also,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/au-finalises-list-of-new-foundation-elective-ug-courses-101638898932315.html
07-12-2021||Pune||No water supply to parts of Pune on December 9||PUNE There will be no water supply to Sinhgad road, Katraj, Bharti Vidyapeeth, Hadapsar and B T Kawade road on Thursday, December 9, as per the officials of the water department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The department issued a press note on Tuesday regarding the same. Aniruddha Pawaskar, PMC water department head said, “Water supply to areas that are dependent on the Vadgaon and Cantonment water treatment plant will be affected on Thursday due to urgent civil works.” The other areas where the water supply will be affected are- Vadgaon, Hingne, Anandnagar, Vadgaon Dhyari, Ambegaon Pathar, Dattanagar, Dhankawadi, Katraj, Kondhwa, Ramtekadi, Kalepadal, Mohammadwadi, Sayyadnagar, Gondhalenagar, Satavwadi, Akashwai, Vaiduwadi and Sadesatra Nali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-water-supply-to-parts-of-pune-on-december-9-101638898692220.html
07-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports another Covid cluster, this time in Mangaluru||A fresh Covid-19 cluster was reported in Karnataka after nine students tested positive for the infection on Monday, according to the state health department statement. The incident occurred in a college in Mangaluru, and the positive results arrived after a total of 173 samples were tested for the virus. The college has now been declared a containment zone.“We have sent samples for genomic sequencing to detect the variant. We have effectively isolated the hostel. Those students who have tested positive for novel coronavirus have been quarantined at the hostel. All those who are infected are aged above 18,” said deputy commissioner of Dakshina Kannada district Rajendra KV. This development comes only hours after the cluster Covid-19 cases reported in Chikkamagaluru district on Saturday witnessed a rise in the number of affected people, with 21 more students and one staffer testing positive for the virus. Following testing of 457 samples of both students and staff members in the Jawahar Navodaya School in Seegodu in Chikkamagaluru district, as many as 69 individuals, including 59 students and 10 staffers, were found to be infected with the coronavirus. Similar clusters were reported in educational institutions in Dharwad, Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Hassan and Mysuru districts, health department officials said.There has been a consistent uptick of Covid-19 clusters in the southern state, which led the state government to issue guidelines to combat the situation. According to the new norms, any area reporting three Covid-19 cases will be declared a cluster, as opposed to the earlier 10. Furthermore, both doses of Covid-19 vaccine shots have been made mandatory for people to visit apartment complexes, and if one has been marked a cluster, no one will be permitted to enter the building.The new rules hold even more significance as the state reported two cases. Meanwhile, the government has initiated action to establish a Genome Sequencing Lab in the state. The health secretary has been instructed to look into the needs of procuring the necessary equipment and experts for the purpose, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said speaking to media persons at his residence in Hubli on Tuesday.“All the districts have Covid testing labs. Genome sequencing needs expert systems and modern equipment. The spread of the new variant, Omicron, has necessitated sending test samples in suspect cases for Omicron, to genome sequence testing in NCBS. Arrangements would be made to get the test reports quickly,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-another-covid-cluster-this-time-in-mangaluru-101638898633380.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC frees rape accused as victim, her father turn hostile||The Punjab and Haryana high court has quashed the 20-year jail term awarded to a Palwal youth, who was accused of raping a minor in May 2018.The trial court had sentenced him to 20-year jail in July 2019 even as the victim and her father had resiled from their statements. The high court was hearing an appeal against that order.The allegations from the father were that his 14-year-old daughter had been repeatedly harassed by the accused while she was going to school and on earlier occasions, he had remonstrated with the parents of the appellant, who had assured him that his son mend his ways but he did not desist and on the date in question, he enticed away his daughter and raped her.However, during trial, the girl and her father both turned hostile and claimed that no rape had taken place and that the girl was a major. The father had stated that he had reduced the age of the girl at the time of her admission in school. The trial court, however, relied on the medical evidence. The trial court had further held that the oral version regarding age of the girl could not be preferred over the school record.The accused had submitted in high court that admittedly the age reflected in the school record was not based on any evidence such as birth certificate and had been entered on the statement of the father. Further, both the father and the girl had admitted that she was 19-year-old, and not 14, and that he had intentionally gotten less age recorded at the time of getting her admission in school. Thus, the school record loses its probative value.The state counsel had told court that this is a case where the victim and her father have obviously been won over and thus, have not given the correct version of events.The court, while freeing the accused, observed that the girl had admitted that it was a consensual act, and now the controversy indeed boils down to the findings regarding her age. The admissibility of a document as evidence is one thing and the probative value thereof is different, it added. “A document may be admissible but as to whether the entry contained therein has any probative value may still be required to be examined,” the court said, adding that the girl had admitted to her age to be 19-year-old. The father too has admitted. No probative value can be attached to the school leaving certificate in view of these facts, the court said quashing trial court order and freeing the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-frees-rape-accused-as-victim-her-father-turn-hostile-101638896711966.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||Aaditya Thackeray inaugurates BMC’s ₹246 cr Dahisar river rejuvenation project||Mumbai Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray inaugurated Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) ₹246 crore project for the rejuvenation of the Dahisar River on Tuesday. At the inaugural event, BMC conducted the bhoomi poojan for the project work on which is expected to begin right away.BMC is expected to complete the project within 24 months, excluding monsoon months. As per the schedule, four months namely June, July, August, and September, have been considered as monsoon.The project has at least 11 components, including the construction of two wastewater treatment facilities, sewer lines that connect the nearby settlements to these facilities, nullahs that lead to the river, waste segregation units, desludging the river bed, fence along the river, construction of open green spaces, preservation of wetlands and developing new wetlands and construction of mangrove parks.The entire project is conceptually divided into three phases: rejuvenation; to prevent entry of pollutants into the river; naturalisation, creation of a buffer and promoting biodiversity, plantation, and preservation of the ecology of the river; and preservation, which includes operation and maintenance.Taking to social media on Tuesday, Aaditya Thackeray said, “This project will begin with preventing pollutants into the stream through interception & treatment plants. One will be happy to know that we are creating open spaces across the stretch & increasing green cover, developing wetlands, mangrove parks to preserve the river’s ecology.”P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the project, said, “Work on rejuvenation of the four major rivers of Mumbai, Dahisar, Poisar, Oshiwara, and Mithi has started, with Saturday’s inauguration of the project for Dahisar river.” Meanwhile, in a meeting between Thackeray and senior officials from the civic body and the state government, a decision was taken to allot ₹61.48 crore towards construction of retaining walls in landslide-prone areas in suburban Mumbai. In a series of responses on social media, Thackeray said, “The disbursal will be as per the high-risk category for landslides studied by GSI & BMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aaditya-thackeray-inaugurates-bmc-s-rs-246-cr-dahisar-river-rejuvenation-project-101638896472130.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||HC grants pre-arrest bail to actor Sahil Khan||MUMBAI The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday granted anticipatory bail to actor and fitness enthusiast Sahil Khan who has been booked with others for abetting the suicide bid by bodybuilder Manoj Patil, crowned Mr India in 2016. After the court was informed that the sections under which Khan was booked are not applicable as Patil has survived the suicide attempt, it granted pre-arrest bail to Khan on a personal bond of ₹25,000.The single-judge bench of justice Nitin Sambre, while hearing the anticipatory bail application (ABA) of Khan, was informed by senior advocate Rajeev Chavan that the application was filed after the sessions court had rejected a similar application.Chavan submitted that his client (Khan) had no criminal antecedents and that the complaint was lodged by Patil due to some past misunderstanding and grudge between them. Chavan added that the complaint lodged by Patil was false and motivated, and that section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) had been wrongly and arbitrarily applied in the case. He told the court that the said section was inapplicable as Patil is alive.After hearing the submissions, the bench held that the provisions of section 306 could not be applied in the case and directed the release of Khan in the event of arrest on a bail amount of Rs25,000 and sureties.The complaint was lodged following Patil’s hospitalisation after he tried to take his own life with an overdose of sleeping pills at his residence in Oshiwara. Patil is said to be recovering in hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-actor-sahil-khan-101638896412045.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||Police’s election cells become active in Prayagraj range||Election cells in respective districts of the police range have become active ahead of the upcoming 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. The election cells in all the districts of the range, including Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Fatehpur and Pratapgarh, have started identifying sensitive and vulnerable polling booths besides preparing a list of persons against whom precautionary measures need to be taken before the elections.Prayagraj range comprises Kaushambi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur and Prayagraj districts. Although no major trouble or violence was reported during the last polls, there are many polling booths in the range that are considered sensitive, and incidents of scuffles and minor clashes between members of political parties have been reported in the past.IG Range Rakesh Singh said as per instructions of the election commission, election cells in the districts of the range are now active. Meetings are being held at the district level for poll preparations in which strategies for fair and free elections are being chalked out. Instructions have been given for preparing a report about each booth.Officials are making visits at booths in the district, and police have been asked to prepare a list of trouble makers, history-sheeters, anti-social elements and persons who may create disturbance and disrupt the peaceful polling process. Preventive action under 107/116 CrPC will be taken against the known and potential trouble makers to ensure that they do not disturb peace during polls.Election cells have been directed to prepare vulnerable mappings and take the help of locals and village watchmen to keep an eye on suspects and incidents of disputes and scuffles under their jurisdiction.IG Range further said that within a week, poll preparations will be in full swing and decisions will be taken regarding duty allotment. As per directions of the government, poll preparations and police action are being reviewed on daily basis, IG Range added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/polices-election-cells-become-active-in-prayagraj-range-101638896172453.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||UPTET question paper leak: Answers key prepared in Lucknow, shared on WhatsApp||So far, 39 people had been arrested in connection with the UPTET paper leak case while the involvement of at least 10 others has surfaced in the matter: Investigations into the UP Teachers’ Eligibility Test-2021 (UPTET) question paper leak case has revealed that the solvers’ gang had prepared and printed the answers key of all the sets of question papers in Lucknow and then shared it with the other gang members on WhatsApp, said police official’s privy of investigation. A police official, requesting anonymity, said the preparation of those involved in compromising question papers, solving it and preparing its key (questions with answers) in printed form suggests that the gang had received all the sets of question paper much before the exam. He said the answer key was prepared for four different sets of the question paper which had the same questions but with different serial numbers. He said the investigations have revealed that two members of the solver gang stayed in Lucknow’s Qaiserbagh hotel and managed everything from there. He said the two key gang members had reached the Lucknow hotel on November 24 itself, and thereafter they received the question papers. He said they then got all four sets of the question paper solved in written form. Later, they printed all the questions and their answers before sharing them with other members, he added. The official said the answer key was printed in a travel agency office in Lucknow. He said the agency owner and his employees were questioned in the matter, but they were not aware of the fact that it is UPTET answers keys as the solver gang members had told that it is school work of their kids. So far, 39 people had been arrested in connection with the paper leak case while the involvement of at least 10 others has surfaced in the matter. The UP STF had arrested 34 people while five others have been arrested by the local police unit in Basti district. As many as eight different FIRs have been registered in different districts in this matter. The state government had to cancel the UPTET-2021 scheduled on November 28 after the paper leak came to the fore following the arrests and recovery of question papers from some of them hours before the exam on November 27. A total of 19,99,418 examinees were supposed to take the UPTET scheduled in two shifts at 2,736 centres across 75 districts of UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet-question-paper-leak-answers-key-prepared-in-lucknow-shared-on-whatsapp-101638895331986.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Groom, family booked for demanding SUV, ₹20 lakh cash in dowry during marriage in Karnal||A groom, his father and uncle were booked for allegedly demanding ₹20 lakh cash and an SUV in dowry during a marriage function in Karnal.The Uttar Pradesh-based family of the bride called off the marriage and called police helpline 112 in the wee hours of Tuesday.The bride, in her complaint, alleged that the groom, who is in government job and belongs to Jind in Haryana along with his relatives, demanded an SUV and ₹20 lakh cash as they got agitated by not finding the SUV at the main entrance of the marriage palace in Karnal.After a high drama, the family of the bride called the police and the groom’s family agreed to solemnise the marriage. But in the morning, both the families reached Karnal’s Civil Lines police station and the bride filed a police complaint.Karnal Civil Lines police station’s officiating in-charge Ramesh Chand said an FIR has been registered against the groom, his father and uncle under the IPC.He said no arrest has been made so far and police have started investigation. On the other hand, family of the groom has refuted the allegations and said they are ready for the marriage without any dowry.Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said the FIR was registered and statements of relevant persons are being recorded. Appropriate legal action will be taken accordingly, he added.In the evening, Haryana Woman Commission also took note of the case and the commission’s officiating chairperson Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal reached Karnal.She interacted with the bride and later issued directions to the police to include Section 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/groom-family-booked-for-demanding-suv-rs-20-lakh-cash-in-dowry-during-marriage-in-karnal-101638895031833.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Centre sends proposal to SKM, farm leaders raise objections over few issues||The Union government on Tuesday sent a written draft proposal to the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s five-member committee and the farm leaders are yet to reach a consensus as they want more clarification on three demands out of six demands.The SKM will take a final call regarding calling-off the year-long farm agitation or change the way of protest at 2pm on Wednesday after holding a meeting at Singhu border.Senior SKM leader Inderjeet Singh, who attended the SKM’s meeting at Singhu, said the Union government has sent a proposal to a five-member committee of the SKM in which it answered on five of the six demands of a letter being sent by them to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 21.“The government’s proposal mentioned that they have accepted the farmers’ demands on stubble burning and amendment in the Electricity Act. We have raised an objection to the government’s proposal over a committee on the Minimum Support Price (MSP), there should be no condition on withdrawal of cases and compensation and job to kin of deceased farmers,” he said.“The proposal stated that a committee will be formed on the MSP in which agricultural experts, Union government officials, people from states, SKM leaders and other farm union representatives will be inducted; cases registered during agitation will be withdrawn once the agitation is called-off and compensation will be given to the deceased farmers’ families as per the state government’s norms. While the government did not reply on action against Union minister Ajay Mishra in connection with Lakhimpur Kheri violence,” he added.SKM leader Inderjeet Singh said they could not reach a consensus as government wants to hold dialogue on conditions.“We have asked the government to withdraw cases first and induct only SKM leaders in the MSP committee. Moreover, we want memorials of deceased farmers to be built, which was also not mentioned in the letter. We have urged the government to send its proposal with amendments and clarify our apprehensions,” he said.“Not only Haryana farm leaders but all farm activists were in favour of not calling off the agitation until cases are withdrawn. The government had betrayed people during the Jat stir in Haryana by harassing them after the compromise so we want cancellation of all FIRs first. We have called a meeting at 2pm on Wednesday to decide whether to call-off the agitation or change the way of protest,” he added.The SKM has clarified that they will not call-off the agitation until cases registered against farmers are not withdrawn. As per farm leaders, nearly 47,000 cases have been registered only in Haryana.One among the five-member committee, Yudveer Singh, said they have received a letter from the government and they will reply to it on Wednesday. “We have called a meeting of SKM leaders at 2pm at Singhu to discuss all issues thoroughly,” he added.On December 4, SKM formed a five-member panel to hold talks with the government on behalf of all protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-sends-proposal-to-skm-farm-leaders-raise-objections-over-few-issues-101638894912258.html
07-12-2021||Ranchi||‘J’khand govt undermined Guv’s jurisdiction in constituting TAC’||In a development that could further dent the ongoing tug of war over a host of issues between the Centre and Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand government, union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda has said that the state government undermined Governor’s jurisdictions in constituting the Tribes Advisory Council (TAC) and it should take corrective measures on it. Replying to a question raised by BJP MP Nishikant Dubey in Lok Sabha on Monday, Munda said he has got the issue vetted from the law ministry and is in the process of informing the state government about it. “While it is a fact that in many states the TAC is headed by the chief minister, there are other provisions wherein prior approval of the Governor is mandatory in constituting it. The Jharkhand Governor had brought this issue to notice of law as well as my ministry. We also deliberated this issue with the law ministry and we think that the Governor’s powers have been undermined. We are informing the state government to take corrective measures as per the constitutional provisions,” Munda said. The state government meanwhile said they are yet to get any communication over the issue. “We can comment only after seeing what we receive from the Centre,” said Vinay Chowbey, principal secretary to the chief minister. The Hemant Soren government on June 22 amended the Tribes Advisory Council (an advisory body that deliberate and help the government with issues related to tribes and their development in states that have areas classified under the fifth schedule of the Constitution), transferring the power of constituting the TAC from the office of the Governor to the chief minister. The state government reconstituted the TAC with the chief minister as ex-officio chairman and the state’s tribal affairs minister as the deputy chairperson. Fifteen MLAs, including three from the Opposition BJP, are also a part of TAC, besides two experts from the ST community. The Hemant Soren government has, however, maintained that the amendment has been done as per law and cited an example of Chhattisgarh where a similar exercise was done by the previous BJP government there headed by Raman Singh. The TAC chaired by the CM has also met twice ever since and the BJP members abstained from it on both occasions. The ruling JMM meanwhile stuck to its stand and justified the amendments brought by its government. “The tribal affairs minister himself said that CM chairs TAC in many states. As far as consultations with the Governor on the matters related to TAC are concerned, the state government had twice sent the file to the former Governor (Draupadi Murmu). When she did not make a decision, the government decided to amend the rules. Even later, our TAC members met the Governor seeking action on Sarna Code as recommended by the TAC,” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-govt-undermined-guv-s-jurisdiction-in-constituting-tac-101638894671892.html
07-12-2021||Ranchi||JMM slams ECI order to remove Deoghar DC||The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Tuesdaycriticized the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) December 6 order directing the government to remove IAS officer Manjunath Bhajantri from his post as Deoghar deputy commissioner-cum district election officer with immediate effect and initiate disciplinary proceedings against him.Terming the ECI as an ‘extended commission of interference’ of the Union government’, JMM principal general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “ECI has now also become an extended arm of the BJP after the CBI, ED, and Income Tax. The role of the ECI is very clear, it takes all decisions related to even civil and police administration whenever model code is in place during elections and bye-elections. But will the ECI now even decide who would be a DC or a secretary. Then what would be the role of an elected government in a democracy? We oppose this order and request the ECI not to come up with such directions in future.”The ECI order comes based on a complaint filed by BJP Lok Sabha member from Godda, Nishikant Dubey, who alleged the Deoghar district administration of registering five cases against him in connection with Madhupur by-election with a malafide intention, the ECI has also directed the state government not to post the concerned officer as DC or any other election duty without prior permission from the commission.“…to initiate disciplinary proceedings for a major penalty against Manjunath Bhajantri, IAS, DC-cum-CEO, Deoghar by issuing charge memo to him within 15 days from receipt of this order, under intimation to the Commission, and further directs that Manjunath Bhajantri, IAS, be removed from the post of DC-cum-DEO, immediately, and should not be posted as DC/DEO or any other election duty without prior permission from the Commission,” reads the order issued by Rahul Sharma, principal secretary, ECI.Vinay Chowbey, principal secretary to chief minister Hemant Soren, said the government is getting the order examined. “We are getting the order legally examined. Any decision on it would be taken accordingly,” he said.The matter pertains to five FIRS registered with five different police stations by the district administration on October 23 against Nishikant Dubey in connection with alleged model code violation during the Madhupur by-election in April. Dubey had challenged the move and approached the ECI against the DC. The ECI through the Jharkhand CEO had sought explanation from the DC, especially seeking clarification as to why the cases were registered five months after the bypoll and without giving prior information to the Commission.Bhajantri had submitted his response defending his move, citing law points including previous court judgments. The Commission, however, rejected his defense and ordered the chief secretary on December 6 to act against the DC. The department of personnel that deals with transfers of bureaucrats is with chief minister Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jmm-slams-eci-order-to-remove-deoghar-dc-101638894551840.html
07-12-2021||Patna||PMC revises rates for last rites at its crematoriums||Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday revised the rates for materials and services related to last rites at its crematoriums.The civic body has revised the rates to curb the incidents of demanding exorbitant charges from kins of deceased people at crematoriums.Patna mayor Sita Sahu released the new rate chart that will be applicable at Gulbi ghat, Bans ghat and Khajekela ghat.As per the new rate chart, 280kg of mango firewood for cremation will cost ₹2300 while the rate for electric cremation is still ₹300. The labour involved in burying woods and cremating bodies can charge ₹300, barber ₹100 and priest ₹100.On the occasion, Sahu along with senior municipal officers inspected arrangements at Gulbi ghat.She said, “We have publicised the revised rates at all three ghats for the convenience of people. Residents need not pay extra charges for performing last rites at municipal crematoriums.”A senior municipal corporation official said, “Residents can register complaints on 9334692937 regarding any incident of overcharging. The rate fixation will help in maintaining uniform charges at crematoriums and prevent overcharging by people involved in performing last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pmc-revises-rates-for-last-rites-at-its-crematoriums-101638894495389.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana gram sachivalays fail to deliver administrative services at village-level||The initiative of setting up gram sachivalays (GS) has failed to deliver on the promise of providing basic administrative services to the rural population at the local level.A visit to many gram sachivalays revealed that the buildings are now wearing a deserted look in lack of presence of officers and there was nobody even to maintain cleanliness.“On government’s directions, we had set up gram sachivalays in an existing building and made arrangements of furniture, electricity and internet in 2016. Even a schedule for the visit of officers was prepared but not even a single visit was made and this building was used only for gram sabha,” said Yuvraj Sharma, outgoing sarpanch of Khurdban village in Yamunanagar district.In most villages, residents do not know the purpose of setting up of these buildings and they were using these sachivalays for their own purposes such as marriage programmes.Praveen Kumar, ex-sarpanch of Dhanokheri village in Karnal district, said, “The work of gram sachivalays was completed in 2019 by the panchayat department, but as of now, there is no electricity connection and the building is in a poor state.A panchayat representative of Bakali village in Kurukshetra said, “In the past two-and-a-half-years, we never saw any official visiting our gram sachivalays despite having made all arrangements of internet, electricity and other basic facilities. We don’t know why the government made a promise if it could not fulfill it.”The initiative was taken by the previous BJP government in 2015, to set up gram sachivalays at 2,294 clusters by March, 2019. As per the government’s plan, the gram sachivalays were to be set up on panchayati land with an estimated cost of ₹30 lakh, including the cost of furniture and fixture.These sachivalyas were to have enough space for housing the office of panchayat members, gram sachiv and data entry operator-cum-accountant. The development and panchayats department had promised to make these village secretariats a hub of all activities to provide all basic facilities to the rural dwellers within their villages.Officials from block to district level were supposed to sit here at least once a week for timely redressal of public grievances and even a schedule was fixed for officials including halka patwari, ADO (agriculture), JE (electricity board), JE (public health), and VLDA (veterinary) to facilitate the inhabitants.As per the data available on the website of the state development and panchayats department, so far, 1,785 gram sachivalayas have been established of which, 884 village level functionaries had shifted and operationalised the rural CSC at gram sachivalayas.Maximum 150 gram sachivalays have been set up in Karnal, 142 in Sirsa, 139 in Hisar, 128 in Nuh, 118 in Kaithal, 104 in Fatehabad, 103 each in Ambal and Bhiwani, and 100 in Yamunanagar. Even after completion of two-and-a-half-years, 558 gram sachivalays were deprived of basic facilities.The exact figures of the expenditures on these village secretariats were not available as the officials said most of the gram sachivalays were constructed by the village panchayats. But in August last year, the government had released ₹3.55 crore for construction of 69 more gram sachivalays in 11 districts of Haryana, officials said.Officials have different opinion and reasons behind failure of this initiative as many blame staff crunch and some said villagers did not focus on gram sachivalyas as the tenure of village panchayats was completed in February, 2021.“Shortage of staff is a major problem to make these sachivalyas fully operational. Most district administrations and local offices of the revenue department, public health and development and panchayat department presently have only around 40% staff, how will the officials devote time for these sachivalayas,” asked a senior official of a district administration, pleading anonymity.On why most gram sachivalays failed to serve the purpose, the director general, development and panchayats, Haryana RC Bidhan said, “This might be at some places as the panchayat elections were delayed due to the pending court case and now the BDPOs have the administrative charge as the independent panchayats could focus more.”He said the work on completion of all gram sachivalyas was going on and the government’s main focus is to make these gram sachivalyas vibrant and now the furniture is being provided to village panchayats as per the requirement and CSCs are being set up in gram sachivalyas.Additional chief secretary to additional chief secretary to government, Haryana, and financial commissioner, revenue and disaster management PK Das said he will examine why the officials of the revenue department were not sitting in the village secretariats as per schedule.Reacting to the poor condition of gram sachivalays in Kurukshetra, deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said he will issue strict directions to the DDPO to make them operational with cooperation of locals.
07-12-2021||Patna||3 suspected hooch deaths in Samastipur, probe on||Three people died while the condition of one is serious due to consumption of ‘spurious’ liquor in Bihar’s Samastipur district on Tuesday, police said.According to police, the victims have been identified as Raghu Kamti (55), Shyam Nath (26), and Prabhat Bharti Mandal (27), while the other person has been admitted to the Patna Medical College (PMCH) in a critical condition.Police said that around seven people, including Kamti, Shyam, and Mandal, had consumed liquor together on December 5 in Ballipur village under Hathori police station in Samastipur district.On receiving the information, Samastipur district magistrate (DM) Shashank Subhkar and superintendent of police (SP) Manavjit Singh Dhillon reached the spot around 6.30 pm on Tuesday to probe the matter.“Mandal died in Sadar hospital while Shyam passed away on his way to the PMCH. Three others are undergoing treatment in separate hospitals. Their families said they died of diarrhoea and other complications”, said a police official familiar with the probe team.One of the bodies was cremated by the family fearing police action; while Mandal’s body was sent for autopsy. According to villagers, Manjhi community in a nearby village is involved in manufacturing illicit liquor and sale. The victims might have purchased liquor from there and consumed it.Samastipur SP said that he would be able to share further details only after getting their autopsy reports. He added that only forensic report would be able to confirm whether they consumed hooch or not. “A probe team has been constituted under the supervision of excise superintendent and we have sought a detailed report from them,” Dhillon said.This is the second suspected hooch incident in the last one week. The sale and consumption of alcohol in Bihar was banned by the Nitish Kumar government in April 2016.
07-12-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena to decide on joining UPA, Sanjay Raut says after meeting with Rahul||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut met with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi this evening and later said there cannot be any opposition front without the Congress - a big message aimed at Mamata Banerjee after her "What UPA" taunt."There has to be only one opposition front against the BJP. An opposition front is not possible without the Congress. What is the point of two-three fronts? It will benefit the BJP," Mr Raut, a Rajya Sabha MP of the Shiv Sena, told reporters.Asked whether opposition parties should sit together to discuss strategy versus the BJP for the 2024 national election, Mr Raut said: "I have asked Rahul Gandhi to take the lead on that."He added: "Who leads the front is something all parties have to sit and decide together."On whether the Shiv Sena is attempting to broker peace between the Congress and Mamata Banerjee, he remarked: "Sharad Pawar saab hai (we have NCP leader Sharad Pawar for that)."The meeting took place amid signs that the Congress and the Shiv Sena, part of a coalition in Maharashtra, might be inching towards a wider understanding.Congress sources suggest the Sena might back the party in the state elections early next year. Though the Sena has negligible presence in some of these states, like Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, the political symbolism of extending support to the Congress speaks to the surprising, newfound proximity of the two ideologically opposed parties who had struggled to come together in the first place.Two days ago, the Shiv Sena had strongly defended the Congress from Bengal Chief Minister's attacks.After meeting with Shiv Sena leaders and the NCP's Sharad Pawar in Mumbai, Mamata Banerjee had told reporters: "What UPA? There is no UPA now? What is the UPA? We will clear all issues. We want a strong alternative."The comments, suggesting that the Congress-led coalition is long past its sell-by date, provoked a strong rebuttal from the Sena in its mouthpiece, Saamna, on Sunday.Pushing the Congress out of national politics and creating an opposition grouping parallel to the UPA would only strengthen the BJP and "fascist" forces, the Sena editorial said."It is true that Mamata Banerjee finished the Congress, Left and BJP in West Bengal. But keeping Congress out of national politics will amount to strengthening the current fascist forces. It is understandable that (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi and his BJP feel that Congress should be wiped out. This is part of their agenda. But it is more dangerous when those fighting against Modi and his ideology think that the Congress should be wiped out," said the Saamna piece.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-to-decide-on-joining-upa-sanjay-raut-says-after-meeting-with-rahul-101638882117121.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Govt out to protect the big fish in HPSC recruitment scam’||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday claimed that the BJP-JJP government’s move to dismiss HCS officer Anil Nagar from the service was an attempt to bury the HPSC recruitment scam.Reacting to the decision of sacking Nagar, a former HPSC deputy secretary who is accused of corruption, Surjewala, in a statement, said Nagar was merely a pawn in the entire episode.“The government is clearly out to protect the big fish. The conspiratorial manner of restricting the entire recruitment scam probe merely at Nagar establishes a deep-rooted conspiracy to protect the real culprits,” he said.The former Haryana minister said there can be no fair investigation without sacking the Haryana Public Service Commission. “Only an investigation conducted by an SIT under direct supervision of chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court will bring out the truth,” Surjewala added.Haryana Congress leaders protest HPSC recruitment scam
07-12-2021||Patna||Lawyer shot dead in Gopalganj||A 45-year-old lawyer was allegedly shot dead by unidentified bike-borne criminals near Pokhar-Bhinda village located on National Highway-27 under the Kuchaikot police station area of Gopalganj district around 11 am on Tuesday, said police. Police suspect old enmity behind the killing of Rajesh Pandey. The murder led to protests by the victim’s colleagues on the premises of Gopalganj civil court. According to Pandey’s colleague Jitendra Choubey, who was travelling with the victim, the incident occurred when they were on their way to the court from Kuchaikot Bazar. Three miscreants on two bikes intercepted them and fired indiscriminately. Pandey died on the spot. They, however, did not harm Choubey.Locals rushed him to Gopalganj Sadar hospital where he was declared brought dead. Advocate Uday Shankar Srivastava said that the association will go on indefinite strike if the killers were not arrested within six hours. On getting information Gopalganj superintendent of police (SP) Anand Kumar and other police officials rushed to the spot and inquired about the incident. Police recovered five empty cartridges from the spot. “The forensics team has collected the evidence from the incident spot. The autopsy of the deceased will be conducted by a team of the medical board. Prima facie it seems to be the case of old enmity and threatening by some rival client,” said Anand. . 
07-12-2021||Jaipur||Class 9 girl in Rajasthan stops her wedding with SOS message to child helpline||JAIPUR: A class 9 student of a government school in Rajasthan’s Chittorgarh district approached a child helpline on Monday to stop her wedding scheduled a few days later, saying she wanted to continue going to school.Police were informed about the wedding scheduled on December 11 after a call was received through a child helpline run by Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said Kailash Chandra Soni, station house officer of Badi Sadri police station in Chittorgargh, 300km from state capital Jaipur.The girl was at school when a local police team reached her house. The 14-year-old girl, her parents and grandfather was later produced before the sub-divisional magistrate’s (SDM) office where they were legally bound under Prohibition of Child Marriage Act.The girl and her parents told the SDM that they weren’t keen on getting their daughter married but the girl’s grandfather and an aunt persuaded them to agree, police officer Soni said.The aunt was getting her son married under ‘Aata Saata’ centuries-old (exchange) practice where a family enters an alliance of their daughter only when her would-be in-laws also pledge to give their daughter in marriage to her family.Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson Sangeeta Beniwal said most complaints of child marriages received by them pertain to the ‘Aata Saata’ practice. She said instances of ‘Aata Saata’ practice have increased due to the low sex ratio in the state, which makes it difficult for men to find brides.Beniwal stressed that an increasing number of girls were, however, reaching out to the commission and district administration to seek intervention due to heightened awarness.In Udaipur last month, the commission was able to stop the wedding of a Class 7 student who was being married to a 26-year-old man under the ‘Aata Saata’ practice.
07-12-2021||Delhi||Pollution: Air quality panel orders closure of all NCR industries not using clean fuel||In a bid to combat the air pollution menace in the national capital region (NCR), the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Tuesday ordered immediate closure of all industries that have not switched over to cleaner fuels in industrial areas despite their availability.The body said violating industries/industrial units will not be permitted to operate till December 12, 2021, and the order will be reviewed thereafter for further decisions.Besides, the Delhi government said the ban on entry of trucks, barring CNG and e-trucks and those carrying essential commodities, will continue till further orders.The CAQM said there is an emergent need for preventive measures, as a matter of extreme emergency, to prevent further deterioration in air quality. “Flying Squads of CAQM will launch special drives and inspect sites to ensure compliance," it said."Strict enforcement of the commission's directions to be ensured and closely monitored by the respective state governments and government of Delhi," it said.In its official statement, the CAQM expressed concern over the 'very poor' air quality in the capital and NCR."Despite the measures taken in different sectors towards improvement of air quality in Delhi-NCR, the air quality still remains in the 'very poor' to 'severe' category," it said.According to the commission's November 11 order, all industries in the NCR having gas connectivity shall be run only on gas, failing which industries concerned shall be closed.It was also directed that all industries in NCR where gas connectivity is available shall immediately be shifted to gas and state governments will have to furnish industry-wise date of shifting.The air quality in Delhi continued to remain in the 'very poor' category on Tuesday with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) at 314, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).As per the SAFAR, the PM 10 levels were recorded at 150 in the 'moderate' category and PM 2.5 levels were recorded at 81 in the 'moderate' category.Air quality in Noida and Gurugram also remain in the 'very poor' category with an AQI of 325 and 317 being recorded in the two satellite cities, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-quality-panel-orders-closure-of-all-ncr-industries-not-using-clean-fuel-101638890542721.html
07-12-2021||Other||Nagaland: Tribal body imposes day-long bandh; writes to President for justice||A day after the mass burial of the 14 civilians who fell victim to security forces firing in Nagaland’s Mon district, the apex tribal body of the district, Konyak Union (KU), imposed a day-long total shutdown across the district on Tuesday.“We have imposed a total shutdown in our district today as a mark of respect for our fallen brothers. It will go on till 7 pm, the time our brothers were laid to rest last evening,” KU president Howing Konyak told HT. He said the shutdown was being observed peacefully with black flags flying at various locations.The tribal body has also announced a seven-day mourning period from Wednesday onwards and stated that there should be no military forces or patrolling parties during the mourning period.“For failing to abide by this decision and untoward incidents that arise during this stipulated time, they (security forces) shall be held responsible,” the KU said.“A group of 14 poor, innocent civilians lost their precious lives at the hands of the Indian Military forces. The deceased were purely villagers with no connection to any elements that may cause the slightest concern to the paramilitary forces or to the national security of India in any respect. This is an act of atrocity beyond reasoning,” the union stated in a release.It said the incident seems to be a complete failure of the intelligence source(s) and a well-calculated attempt on the innocent civilian.“The incident cannot be termed as a mistaken identity at all,” the KU asserted, rebuffing the army’s claim.The KU also wrote a letter addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind for “remedial action”. While underscoring the need for the immediate repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act 1958 from the entire north-east region, the tribal body asked for setting up of an independent inquiry under a competent investigating agency with two members from the Naga civil society inducted in the investigating team; to identify all military forces or army personnel involved in the incident and book and punish under applicable civil court; action taken against erring official(s) at “Oting Yatong Massacre” must be put into the public domain within 30 days.KU also demanded that the 37 Assam Rifles must immediately vacate Mon district on moral ground for failing to provide security to its citizens as the military forces from other states had intruded and committed the “Oting-Yatong Massacre”.Meanwhile, state government spokesperson and minister Neiba Kronu said the state cabinet was in support of the demands made by Konyak Union to the President of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-tribal-body-imposes-day-long-bandh-writes-to-president-for-justice-101638890591461.html
07-12-2021||Other||Uttarakhand man killed in accidental firing on way to attend wedding||A man died in accidental pistol firing in Kashipur area of Uttarakhand’s US Nagar on Monday night. The deceased was the former organising secretary of a local trade union.“We have handed over the deceased’s body to his relatives on Tuesday after post-mortem. We are still waiting for a complaint from the man’s family,” said VD Joshi, in charge, ITI police station, in Kashipur in the evening.Police said Nishu Arora, 24, a resident of Ghaas Mandi in Kashipur, was on his way to attend a wedding held at a banquet hall on Kundeshwari road late at night on Monday. On the way to the banquet hall, he stopped at the house of his friend Pawan Bhalla. Meanwhile, one of them started firing in the air to show off the pistol. Police said it is not yet clear who fired the shot. One of them fired two shots and the third one was misfired and got stuck in the chamber of the weapon. When one of them was examining the weapon, the weapon fired and the bullet hit Nishu’s neck. He fell down on the spot following which his friends rushed him to the LD Bhatt government hospital in Kashipur but the doctors there declared him brought dead.Police took the body into possession and sent it for a post-mortem on Tuesday. Later, they handed it over to his relatives.Joshi said, “The weapon belonged to Bhalla and we will initiate the process of license cancellation of it.”Earlier, on November 30, a 38-year-old man had been injured in Nanakmatta in a celebratory firing. Police have lodged an FIR against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhand-man-killed-in-accidental-firing-on-way-to-attend-wedding-101638889512385.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||ED questions ex-chief secy for six hours in money laundering case||Mumbai The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday questioned former Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte for over six hours in connection with the money laundering case against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. Kunte was earlier summoned by ED on November 25 for answering questions related to the probe into the allegations against Deshmukh and transfers and postings of state police officers. However, he had then informed the agency that he won’t be able to join the probe due to some important meetings. Now that he has retired from the service on November 30, he visited the ED office in Ballard estate on Tuesday morning and joined the investigation. Sources said that ED is trying to collect strong evidence against Deshmukh, whom the agency has arrested on November 2 in the PMLA case, to also prove the allegations of bribery in transfer and postings of senior police officers. Presently, Deshmukh is in judicial custody. Earlier, the ED questioned transportation minister Anil Parab and Bajrang Kharmate in this case. Kharmate’s name had cropped up in the statement of dismissed API Sachin Vaze and some other witnesses in the PMLA case against Deshmukh. The anti-money laundering agency on September 30 had also questioned Kailash Gaikwad, a deputy secretary in the home department in connection with this case. Gaikwad was part of the IPS officers transfer process. The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. Deshmukh had in the past said that the allegations against him are false. The Central agency has alleged that while serving as the Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze — who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases — collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-questions-ex-chief-secy-for-six-hours-in-money-laundering-case-101638887590869.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron crisis: 12 foreign returnees untraceable in Thane's Kalyan Dombivli area||As many as 12 of over 300 recent foreign returnees are untraceable in Maharashtra’s Thane district, an official said amid rising concerns over the spread of the new highly transmissible coronavirus variant, Omicron.Maharashtra has, so far, reported 10 cases of the new strain, the highest in the country. On Tuesday, officials of Thane district’s Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) said at least 12 people of the 318 passengers who returned from abroad are missing.Maharashtra | 12 recent foreign returnees are untraceable in Thane district's Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation area, an official of the Municipal Corporation said.Civic body chief Vijay Sooryavanshi said a search operation is on to locate them. "Some of the passengers who returned cannot be reached as their mobile phones are switched off, while the addresses that the others gave are locked up," he said.Also read | After 10 Omicron cases in Maharashtra, Aaditya Thackeray offers suggestions to CentreThe KDMC chief said a team from the health department would again visit the given addresses.Similar reports of foreign returnees have been reported from other states, including Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, in the past few days. The new variant of COVID-19 was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 25. The global health body said the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 this year.On November 26, the WHO named the new COVID-19 variant B.1.1.529, which has been detected in South Africa, as 'Omicron' and classified it as a 'variant of concern'.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-crisis-12-foreign-returnees-untraceable-in-thane-s-kalyan-dombivli-area-101638887034979.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||HC observes that Nawab Malik prima facie violated undertaking to court, asks him to respond||Mumbai The Bombay High Court (HC) on Tuesday observed that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik had “wilfully breached” the undertaking given by him to the court that he would not make statements against Dnyandev Wankhede, father of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede and his family. A bench of Justices SJ Kathawalla and Milind Jadhav directed the senior NCP leader to file an affidavit before the next hearing on December 10 explaining why the court must not take any adverse action against him for the breach of undertaking.Dnyandev Wankhede had approached the HC on Monday through senior counsel Birendra Saraf, seeking an urgent hearing. On Tuesday, Saraf submitted portions of an interview that Malik had given recently to a regional newspaper wherein he had made the alleged defamatory comments.Saraf said that though Malik had reiterated the assurance in the consent terms filed by him for re-hearing of the interim application in the defamation suit on November 29, on two instances he continued his attack on the Wankhede’s. On perusing the documents, the bench sought to know whether the statements by Malik were made in his personal capacity or as a minister. “If he has done so in his personal capacity then we will summon him here right now,” said the bench. Advocate Karl Tamboly for Malik on instructions informed the bench that the statements had been made in his capacity as spokesperson of the NCP and not as an individual. Thereafter the bench observed that prima facie it seemed that Malik has breached the assurance made before the court and directed him to file an affidavit explaining why no action of contempt of court should be taken against him for wilfully breaching the statement recorded in the order.The appeal filed by Wankhede had been filed challenging the single judge bench order of justice Madhav Jamdar in the interim application in the defamation suit filed against Malik. Wankhede had sought interim injunction against Malik from making any comments or posting anything online till the defamation suit was decided. However the single judge bench had refused to pass any order of injunction against Malik and had directed him to reasonably verify the content pertaining to Wankhede or his family before posting it.Wankhede had filed the defamation suit after Malik had posted the birth certificate of Sameer Wankhede and claimed that he was a Muslim and his father’s name was Dawood. Wankhede had claimed in the suit that the post was made by Malik as an act of revenge as his son-in-law Sameer Khan had been arrested by the NCB in January and kept behind bars for eight months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-observes-that-nawab-malik-prima-facie-violated-undertaking-to-court-asks-him-to-respond-101638887290830.html
07-12-2021||Other||Nagaland cabinet to recommend immediate repeal of AFSPA after 14 die in botched op||Amid outrage over the killing of 14 civilians in a botched Army operation, the Nagaland government on Tuesday decided to write to the Central government to repeal the Armed Forces Special Protection Act, 1958, that gives armed forces sweeping powers in disturbed areas.“We have decided to write to the government of India for the immediate repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act 1958 from the state,” a spokesperson of the state government Neiba Kronu briefed journalists after the cabinet meeting.This came a day after chief minister Neiphiu Rio has demanded the repeal of the AFSPA from the state on Monday, saying it is a draconian law and the people of Nagaland have never accepted it. He also said the implementation of the law had brought a bad name to the country across the world.Later, a state minister, Temjen Imna Along, said the state government led by CM Rio will be appealing to the Union Home Ministry to remove AFSPA from Nagaland.“The State government can only appeal, and it is up to the Central government to understand the feelings of the people of the state today. As elected representatives of the people, irrespective of party lines, we have chosen to appeal to the government of India through the right process to bring reassurance to the people of the state that AFSPA should be repealed in our state,” the minister said.Along, who is also the Nagaland BJP unit president, assured that the state BJP will also be putting up the views and sentiments of the Naga people on AFSPA to the party’s central leadership immediately.On a query of how the recent incident in Mon district could impact the ongoing peace talks, Kronu said that the core committee on Naga Political Issue is scheduled to meet on December 9 to discuss further on the matter.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is also the convener of the North East Democratic Alliance and has had parleys with the Naga peace process negotiating parties along with CM Rio, is also expected to attend the meeting in Kohima on December 9.Kronu also said the cabinet was briefed about the action taken by the government after the killing of 14 civilians and the investigation of the special investigation team (SIT) headed by the inspector general of police.The Cabinet was informed about the ground report submitted by the director-general of police, which said that the Army personnel tried to take away bodies of six persons, who were mistaken to be insurgents.The cabinet desired that the SIT formed by the latter completes its investigation and submit a report to the government within a month, Kronu said.The government spokesperson informed that among the 30 injured in the December 4 firing incident, two persons are still under critical care in a hospital at Dibrugarh, six are undergoing treatment in Dimapur and 22 have been discharged from hospital care.“Situation (in Mon district) is now under control. I have just spoken with the deputy commissioner there,” Kronu added.The state cabinet also decided to call off the remaining three days of the ongoing 22nd edition of its iconic Hornbill Festival in solidarity with the Konyak community who lost 14 young men in the firing incidents in Mon district on December 4 and 5.“The state cabinet has decided that all activities of the ongoing Hornbill Festival should be ceased in view of the demand of the mourning announced for the deceased in the firing incidents in Mon district and the demand of various civil society not to hold the activities,” Kronu said.The Hornbill Festival, an annual ten-day cultural and tourism extravaganza in which the different Naga tribes showcase their rich traditions, began on December 1.Six tribes from Eastern Nagaland-- Konyak, Khiamniungan, Phom, Sangtam, Yimkhiung and Chang withdrew from the ongoing Hornbill Festival.According to tourism department officials, the festival had 56356 visitors during the first five days this year. In 2019, the department recorded 2,82,811 footfalls to the 20th edition of the festival. Last year, the event was held virtually due to the global Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-cabinet-to-recommend-immediate-repeal-of-afspa-after-14-die-in-botched-op-101638886511920.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||32 ha of mangrove forests may be diverted for JNPT-Navi Mumbai coastal road||Mumbai The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has sought to divert just over 32 hectares of mangrove forests (equal to three-and-a-half Oval Maidans) in Raigad district for its proposed 10km six-lane coastal road from Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Uran’s Nhava village to Amra Marg in Navi Mumbai. The road will pass via the under-construction Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL). The first phase of the project will connect Amra Marg to MTHL across 7.02 km, including a 1.2km Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) link. Phase two will connect the MTHL to JNPT across 3.08 km. The total cost of the project is pegged at ₹681 crore.CIDCO’s proposal has not yet received stage-1 forest clearance from the state government and has in fact been pending for almost two years. The proposal is currently being examined by the divisional forest officer (Alibaug) who, after finalising land allocation for compensatory afforestation, will forward it to the Thane Circle office for further consideration. The proposed mangrove areas for diversion are located in Targhar, Vahal and Gavan villages.In a letter dated November 8, 2021, the DCF (Alibaug) wrote to the general manager (environment) at CIDCO stating that of the 126 hectares of land it has proposed for compensatory afforestation, a significant portion already falls under the jurisdiction of the state mangrove cell’s ‘Coastal Belt Working Circle’ and does not meet the criteria for CA. “The rules under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, say that when forest land is diverted, compensatory afforestation must be carried out on land which is currently not recognised as a protected area. We will identify an appropriate location and resubmit the proposal for compensatory afforestation,” said a CIDCO official privy to the development, adding that the project has already received coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance by the state coastal zone management authority in March 2019.“This development will especially improve connectivity between South Mumbai and the proposed Navi Mumbai airport via the MTHL bridge. In the Ulwe area, service lanes are planned in addition to the six-lane carriageway so that nodal traffic can also benefit without disrupting the journeys of those travelling to and from the airport. Existing routes in the area along National Highway 4B and State Highway 54 will also be decongested as a result of this project,” said the CIDCO official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/32-ha-of-mangrove-forests-may-be-diverted-for-jnpt-navi-mumbai-coastal-road-101638886450608.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||Orders of chief justice as master of the roster can’t be questioned: HC||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday held that as Master of the Roster, the chief justice has absolute power to assign a matter to a particular bench and the unfettered discretion cannot be called in question in any proceeding. The division bench of Justice Gautam Patel and Justice Madhav Jamdar said that it is very well settled that a litigant has the right to obtain a listing and can’t insist on listing his or her matter before a particular Bench. “To which Bench that matter should be assigned is an absolute, unfettered and untrammelled power that vests, and vests only, in the Chief Justice,” it said. The court was hearing a petition filed by eight Borivali residents, engaged in a legal battle with developer Aakar Infraprojects Pvt. Ltd. Under the administrative order of the chief justice, their matter was retained for hearing before another division bench, even after change in assignment, under which the class of matters was assigned to the bench headed by the chief justice himself. They had challenged the March 2 order of the chief justice, rejected their representation to list the matter before his bench, allowed the other bench to continue to hear the matter. Their counsel, advocate Vijay Kurle, pointed out from the Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) that after the change of Roster earlier bench can retain old matters as “part-heard” only on joint request of all the parties. Kurle submitted that though the chief justice is the master of the roster, he too is bound by terms.He maintained that no matter how wide or expansive his administrative powers as the Master of the Roster, the Chief Justice cannot deviate from the protocol. “To permit a deviation would lead to an unthinkable or chaotic situation where matters could randomly be assigned to this or that Bench without any accountability and without any transparency,” he asserted. The court, however, accepted the submissions advanced by advocate Sudeep Nargolkar, who represented the high court registry, and advocate Anuj Desai, who represented the developer, that there is no constraint on the powers of the chief justice as master of the roster and his administrative directions assigning a matter to a particular bench cannot be subjected to judicial review. “It is for the Chief Justice and the Chief Justice alone to decide whether or not a particular matter or class of matters should be taken by a particular Bench and what the composition of that Bench should be,” said the bench. The bench clarified that the requirement of adherence to roster is not only for administrative efficiency but also to guard against forum shopping and also to prevent an odd, errant Judge from wrongly keeping a matter to himself or herself. “If his authority in administrative matters of setting a roster is to be constantly called into question or sought to be restricted or trammelled because it suits a particular litigant to do so at a particular time, the entire administrative edifice would simply collapse,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/orders-of-chief-justice-as-master-of-the-roster-can-t-be-questioned-hc-101638886210533.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Marvel of science that’s gifted love and comfort||Each time I’m on a video call with my sister, our conversation is inevitably interrupted by her calls to a legion of house help. “Paani dena, Raju,” followed by an irritable “table ke peechhe kyun nahi saaf kiya, Reena?” are almost constants on every call. Under usual circumstances this wouldn’t have affected me, however, now it does. A geographical change of location has led me to transforming myself into a cook, a gardener, a cleaner in addition to a mother, a referee, and a bad cop that I already was. On hearing of my exaggerated plight, my cousin gifted me a Roomba!Now I have always been in awe of what science has enabled man to accomplish. Right from being able to gallivant to the moon to being able to communicate across the globe in seconds, science has empowered mankind to push its limits. However, the Roomba has enabled man (or woman in my case), to perch herself atop a sofa and calmly sip kahwa, while it removes every speck of dust and dirt in the house with precision that would impress the finickiest of memsaabs! Of course, every now and then it manages to get entangled in the curtains, but it promptly sends me a text on my phone, peppered with humour. I laugh as I read, “I’m stuck on a cliff, please help!” I put down my second cup of kahwa, and rush to disentangle the poor thing. As soon as it liberates itself from the endless vanes of the blinds, it gets down to business. Vroooom it goes, picking remnants on its way, going under every nook and cranny. Once it finishes its job, it goes back to the charging station, though not without informing me first. “Job completed,” it says before sashaying down and parking itself in its home charger. After relishing my tea, I go and empty its belly of muck, marvelling at it incredulously. God bless the brains of MIT. Thank you for this miracle.I have begun to cheerily greet Roomba each morning. “Aa gaye tusi?” I ask it, with great love and affection, as it goes about leaving an irresistibly clean streak in the house. Interestingly, I notice that my newfound camaraderie with the Roomba has evoked envy among my husband and children. “I chopped such fine onions the other day, I didn’t even get a thank you from you and look at the way you cosy up to the Roomba!” he says, almost accusingly. “Yes mama”, the little ones join in, “you scowl at me when I forget math tables, but you never lose your cool when Roomba foolishly entwines itself in the curtains.” Sensing the revolt, I take on a defensive tone. “But Roomba never answers me back, never delays a chore, and does exactly as I say,” I assertively side with my new friend. “Fine, we’ll be better than Roomba. You’ll see,” they announce in unison, while actually remembering to put their dishes in the sink and cleaning up after them. Well, well. The Roomba has certainly led to some healthy competition in the house. Humour aside, it feels that with all the science marvels in the world, our needs continue to remain quite primal. We all hanker after love and comfort. We crave attention from the people in our lives. With the extra hours that science helps us save, what do we do? We spend them most wisely by sipping hot cups of kahwa with our loved ones. seeratsandhu25@yahoo.com The writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/marvel-of-science-that-s-gifted-love-and-comfort-101638885130387.html
07-12-2021||Noida||Noida shopkeeper dies after angry customer runs him over rail ticket charges||GREATER NOIDA: A 30-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly running over a local mobile shop owner under the wheels of his car after a quarrel in Ecotech 1 area of Greater Noida on Monday, police said.Police said Nakul Singh, a resident of Gharbara village, and his younger brother Arun Singh, 28, allegedly killed Nitin Sharma, a 30-year-old shopkeeper in the village who sold mobile phones and also booked train tickets for local residents.Nitin’s uncle Meherchand Sharma said Nakul Singh got a train ticket booked for Jammu two weeks ago. However, later he got the ticket cancelled. “My nephew refunded the money to Nakul after deducting ₹300 as the ticket cancellation charge.”“On Monday, Nakul and Arun reached Nitin’s shop and demanded ₹300. This led to a heated argument with them,” he said. Meherchand said Nitin called him on phone and told him that the two persons were creating a ruckus.“I was reaching the spot. Nitin was standing outside his shop at that time. But the two suspects became angry and soon got into their Maruti Swift Dzire and deliberately crushed him,” he said.हत्या करने वाला आरोपी अभियुक्त नकुल गिरफ्तार, कब्जे से हत्या में प्रयुक्त स्विफ्ट कार बरामद। थाना इकोटेक-1 pic.twitter.com/VvO5tovHtHMeherchand said the suspects reversed their car 2-3 times over his nephew.Local people spotted the incident and rushed Nitin Sharma to a private hospital where he died. Nitin’s father Satveer Sharma filed a complaint against the two suspects at Ecotech 1 police station on Monday.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Greater Noida, said that a case was registered against the two suspects under Section 302 (murder) and Section 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC.“The two suspects fled the spot after the crime. On Tuesday, the police received information about Nakul’s movement in a car on a pushta road in Gharbara village. A police team reached the spot and arrested him. The car used in the crime has been seized,” said police.Sharad Kant, in-charge Ecotech 1 police station, said the suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said. Nakul Singh’s younger brother, Arun, is on the run.Nitin Sharma had been running the shop for the last five years. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-shopkeeper-dies-after-angry-customer-runs-him-over-rail-ticket-charges-101638883510066.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: A welcome stride towards making streets walkable||Pune: On November 15, 2021, an order was passed by Hon’ble Justice Najmi Waziri in the Delhi High Court. The order asks the engineers of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation to traverse the entire colony’s footpaths on a wheelchair without any aid or assistance from anyone, to test the efficacy of efforts to make the streets and footpaths user-friendly. “The constitutional guarantee of freedom of movement should not be hemmed-in by the lack of requisite civic amenities”, the order says. The concern of the high court is relevant in almost all Indian cities and has prompted the Sustainable Mobility Network of India (SUM Net) to give a call for a National Pedestrians’ Day. Pune has declared December 11 as Pune Pedestrians’ Day. Among the events planned for the day, a unique rally at the pedestrians’ plaza in Aundh would interest the honourable judge, and of course Punekars. Sugamya Aundh The “sugamya”, which means “universally accessible”, design of ITI Road, Aundh will be celebrated with the rally, in which people in wheelchairs, families with prams, and those with shopping carts and wheeled luggage are expected to participate. The street design efforts in Aundh by Prasanna Desai over the last few years have included several rounds of discussions with citizens, “Streets for People” workshops, and live demonstrations supported by Centre for Environment Education. So far about 2km of streets in Aundh have been re-designed as part of the Smart City projects and other streets have work in progress. Architect and urban designer Prasanna Desai, who has been instrumental in the Aundh street designs and the citizens’ participation efforts says, “The message of Sugamya Aundh is that all our streets can and must be user-friendly. Accessible, safe, comfortable streets are a human right.”Sugamya Aundh is part of the Pune Pedestrians’ Day, declared by the mayor, and being celebrated on December 11, Saturday, through events and refurbishment of pedestrian facilities. Vijay Kulkarni, head of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) road department, is leading the preparations for Pedestrians’ Day. “On major roads, the department is arranging to repair and clear footpaths of obstructions, trim overgrown vegetation branches on footpaths, repair subways, streetlights, and signage”, he has informed. Open street mall A central attraction will be a day-long pedestrians-only “open street mall” at Laxmi road. Punekars will be able to experience the stretch from Nagarkar Talim chowk to Umrya Ganpati as a lively space for some peaceful window or real shopping, without fear of being knocked down. PMC is requesting visitors and staff of shops and offices to avoid bringing their bikes and cars. Public transport utility Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) will arrange extra buses to help reduce traffic jams and parking woes. New pedestrian facilities At Pashan Sus road, a new cycle track and footpath have been developed by PMC as part of the “Streets for People” initiative of the ministry of housing and urban affairs. These facilities will be inaugurated on Pedestrians’ Day along with plantation at this site. The road department, with design inputs from the NGOs Parisar and ITDP, is developing safer midblock crossings including raised crossings, zebra crossings, and signage on Senapati Bapat road, and improving the footpath and junctions on Prabhat road and Gulvani Maharaj Road in Kothrud. Walking happiness index Over the past few days, students from the Aaayojan College of Architecture have been supported and guided by experts from SUM Net and NP Associates to assess eight selected streets for the safety and comfort of pedestrians. The results will be shared on December 11 and a “Walking Happiness Index” will be launched by PMC with the scores for Pune for 2021. Transport planner Pranjali Deshpande who designed the index says “Walking Happiness is a combination of the safety, comfort and pleasure of pedestrians. The index is not a technical audit. It has ten simple parameters that anyone would be concerned about while walking.” The efforts by PMC and civil society groups like Parisar and Save Pune Traffic Movement are laudable and give hope for the safety and comfort of pedestrians. There is a long way to go since Pune has around 2,000 kilometres of streets and less than 10% have been re-designed with some measure of pedestrian-friendliness. The Pedestrians’ Day is an occasion to celebrate and appreciate PMC and citizens’ collaborative efforts over the past few years and to renew the commitment to inclusive, safe streets. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-a-welcome-stride-towards-making-streets-walkable-101638880569575.html
07-12-2021||Other||Congress MLA Ravi Naik resigns ahead of joining BJP||Congress MLA and former Goa chief minister Ravi Naik on Tuesday resigned as an MLA ahead of a planned entry into the BJP scheduled for later in the evening.Naik’s exit does not come as a surprise to the Goa Congress which gave up on the politician after his sons quit the party in August 2020 and joined the BJP.It will be Naik’s second entry to the BJP having joined the party back in 2000. He served as a deputy chief minister to Manohar Parrikar after the latter engineered a split in the Goa Congress then led by chief minister Francisco Sardinha, who himself led a faction of Congress MLAs that dethroned his predecessor chief minister Luizinho Faleiro.Naik didn’t specify reasons for his resignation but said he would speak about the issue in the evening, at his planned induction. “I have resigned as an MLA. I will speak about it later in the evening,” Naik said as he exited the Goa Legislative Assembly after submitting his resignation.Naik is the third MLA in recent weeks to resign following Luizinho Faleiro who joined the TMC and Jayesh Salgaocar of the Goa Forward who also joined the BJP.Naik was widely speculated to be joining the BJP despite ‘on the record’ denials by both the Naik camp and the BJP camp who were insisting that no final decision was taken.Congress leaders said the veteran politician has been considered persona non grata for all practical purposes by the party leadership after his two sons, Ritesh and Roy, joined the BJP in August last year.Naik, a veteran politician spent a little over two years as Goa chief minister across multiple terms whilst also having served as a member of parliament for a brief term between 1998 and 1999 representing North Goa.Naik brings with him a controversial past with the mother of murdered British teenager Scarlett Keeling testifying before the trial court that Naik, who was the then home minister under the Digambar Kamat government, was protecting his son Roy Naik, who she alleged was among those who supplied drugs to her daughter.Scarlett Keeling, a British teenager, was found dead, unclothed on the Anjuna beach in Goa with the police initially saying she died of drowning.The state BJP had earlier justified Roy’s joining the BJP last year saying, it was not the same Roy they had accused in the past of being involved in the drug trade.“There are so many Roys. This is Roy Ravi Naik. Our party has never made any allegation against Roy Ravi Naik, if you have the proof, please show me. Then I will speak,” state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said in August 2020.Besides Ravi Naik, independent MLA and minister of art and culture in the Pramod Sawant cabinet Govind Gaude who was elected with the support of the BJP is expected to join the BJP in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-mla-ravi-naik-resigns-ahead-of-joining-bjp-101638878770039.html
07-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Two held for shooting at eatery owner in Manesar||The district police on Sunday arrested two men who had allegedly shot at a dhaba (eatery) owner in Manesar on September 20 after he refused to let them drink inside the shop. The suspects were identified as Rupesh alias Sonu and Ajay Kumar, both natives of Bihar, said police.According to police, the victim, Yamin Khan of Delhi, runs a dhaba near Nakhrola crossing on National Highway 48. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that a group of seven men had dinner at the eatery on September 20 and paid the bill. “Five of them came out while two others started having drinks despite the owner informing them that it was not allowed. When the owner objected, one of them assaulted him and shot two rounds and fled with their other friends standing outside on their motorcycles,” he said. The victim was hospitalised for several days, police said.“We took CCTV footage of several places and scanned the vehicle numbers, following which the two suspects were identified,” Sangwan said. The officer said police have recovered the weapon used in the crime, two mobile phones and two motorcycles from their possession. The suspects were produced before the court that sent them to 14-day judicial custody on Monday, said police.A case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act was registered on September 20 against the two suspects at Kherki Daula police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-two-held-for-shooting-at-eatery-owner-in-manesar-101638877689072.html
07-12-2021||Other||Police complaint against Faruqui show in Gurugram||A complaint was filed with the Gurugram police on Monday to cancel the show of controversial standup comedian Munawar Faruqui, which is scheduled for December 19 at Aria Mall on Sohna Road in Gurugram. Police said that Faruqui’s name was removed from the promotional posters for the show, but they will get clarity on the status of the show on Tuesday after meeting the organisers and the mall management. Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that they received the complaint on Monday and were reviewing it. “We will ensure that law and order situation is maintained and will discuss with the organisers and mall authorities regarding the complaint before taking any action,” he said. Yadav said they will deploy two teams at the spot to ensure no one creates a ruckus. “Anyone found unnecessary loitering around the show , strict action will be taken against that person. We will not allow anyone to create a nuisance,” he said. Arun Yadav, IT head of Haryana unit of BJP, who is a complainant in the case, said, “Faruqui has been continuously hurting the feelings of Hindu community at large on open platforms such as live performances and shows. We will not allow him to perform in the comedy show in Gurugram,” he said. The BJP leader said they have requested police not to give permission to the organisers for his presence in the show that can lead to disruption of peace in the city. Mubin Tisekar, founder of The Entertainment Factory, organisers of the show, said , “It was a joint decision of Faruqui and him that he should not perform for public safety as many messages were making rounds on social media and we do not want to land in any controversy.” Despite repeated attempts, Faruqui could not be reached for comment.Because of his alleged derogatory statements during shows, Faruqui’s multiple shows have been cancelled across the country in the past two months. The latest was the cancellation of his Bengaluru event which was scheduled on Sunday. After the cancellation, he wrote on social media, “Hatred won and the artiste lost”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-complaint-against-faruqui-show-in-gurugram-101638877448821.html
07-12-2021||Other||Two held for attacking man with hammer in Faridabad||A 27-year-old man on Monday was allegedly assaulted with hammers and sticks by a group of three persons in the middle of the road at Sector 21D of Faridabad. The assailants also fired at the man but he narrowly escaped, police said, adding that they have arrested two suspects for the assault. The two suspects were identified as Lalit Kumar and Pradeep Singh, both from Fatehpur Chandila village. The third suspect, identified as Sachin Kumar, fled from the spot seeing police, senior officials said, adding raids are being conducted to arrest him.Police said that the suspects and the victim, Manish Gujjar, come from the same village and had an old enmity. According to police, the incident took place around 10am at Badkhal Lake Chowk when Gujjar was on his way to meet someone near Badkhal Lake. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that the three men in a Swift car hit Gujjar’s motorcycle, after which he fell down and before he could get up, one of the suspects caught hold of him and two others shot two rounds of fire at him but he escaped. “Two of them holding sticks and a hammer brutally assaulted him for over 20 minutes,” he said. Kadiyan said some passersby tried to rescue him but the suspects threatened them with a pistol. A police control room van while crossing the stretch witnessed a crowd and stopped near the spot, the DCP said. Police arrested two of the suspects from the spot while the third fled taking advantage of the crowd, he said. Police said Gujjar was taken to a private hospital where he is undergoing treatment. He has suffered multiple fractures in his legs and sustained injuries all over his body, they said. During questioning, the suspects revealed that Gujjar on March 23 had brutally assaulted the arrested suspects’ cousin brother in the NIT area who is still bedridden, said Kadiyan. “They revealed that Gujjar had assaulted their brother with a hammer. He had received over 10 fractures,” said Kadiyan. Police said that the suspects are history sheeters and have been jailed several times for assault, attempt to murder, extortion, and smuggling of liquor cases, among others. All three suspects and the victim were out on bail, they said, adding a video clip of the Monday’s incident was widely shared on social media. A case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 323 (assault) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act was registered against the suspects at NIT police station, Faridabad, on Monday. 
07-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Construction activities continue despite ban, say residents||Residents have alleged that construction work in several colonies is going on despite a ban on such activities in the district. In the past few days, many residents from areas such as Sector 4, Sector 12A, DLH Phase 2, and Sector 65 have raised the matter on social media. “It does not seem like there is a ban on construction activities, as construction of houses is being done openly, causing dust pollution in the area,” said Deepak Bhardwaj, a resident of 12A. Gaurav Wahi, a resident of DLF Phase 2, said, “Construction activities are being carried out openly by some builders in our residential area. At least four to five houses are being constructed in DLF 2 despite a ban by the Supreme Court in the wake of deteriorating air quality in the National capital Region.” Last week, the Haryana government banned construction activities in 14 NCR districts of the state, including Gurugram, till further orders, in the wake of the deterioration in air quality in the region. On November 24, the Supreme Court reimposed the ban on construction activities in Delhi-NCR. The ban on construction activities in the NCR was lifted on November 22 in view of the improved air quality.The residents said that they have also noticed several incidents of solid waste burning in the past few days.On Sunday night, an incident of waste burning was reported from Sector 60, which is the third complaint from the area in the past two weeks, they claimed. Dharamvir Singh, a resident of Sector 87 who frequently reports about waste burning to authorities, said, “Waste burning is rampant in Gurugram, be it near Sector 60 or in our locality. If a patrolling team comes on a daily basis to our area, then they will see the clear violations of the Grap norms with waste being burnt almost every day.”  The Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures, which came into force in the NCR from October 15, include stringent action against open garbage burning in landfills and other spaces, regular mechanised sweeping and water sprinkling on roads with high dust, and strict vigilance to control any visible pollution, among others. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer (north) of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said, “We will check with the agencies concerned on these violations and what action is being taken by them. We are continuously patrolling different parts of the city and fines are being imposed for all violations. Till now, fines of over ₹1.29 crore have been issued in the region this year for violating anti-pollution norms.” Meanwhile, on Monday, the air quality in Gurugram again slipped into ‘very poor’ zone. The air quality index (AQI) of the city was 306 at 4pm on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), a rise from Sunday’s reading of 277. Neighbouring Delhi and Faridabad recorded AQIs at 322 and 310, respectively. According to forecast by the Air Quality Early Warning System, the air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in ‘poor’ category on Tuesday and in between ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-construction-activities-continue-despite-ban-say-residents-101638876488789.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||After 10 Omicron cases in Maharashtra, Aaditya Thackeray offers suggestions to Centre||A day after Maharashtra reported two new cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday offered three suggestions to the Centre, including allowing booster shots of the Covid-19 vaccine and reducing the gap between doses.Aaditya Thackeray said in a tweet he wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya with “a few suggestions that have come from various interactions with doctors and those closely observing the covid situation closely, so that we can protect our citizens in the light of newly emerging variants.”His letter also came a day after the Maharashtra Covid task force suggested restrictions on travellers and schools and public places must continue until more is known about Omicron.“To allow all those front-line workers and health care workers, who have received both their doses early in the year, a third shot at their studied desire,” Thackeray said in his letter.Also read | Mumbai registers 2 more Omicron cases, national tally at 23“In my conversations with various doctors, it seems that it may be ok to reduce the minimum age of vaccination to 15. This will enable us to cover the secondary schools and the junior colleges with vaccine protection,” he also wrote.I’ve written to Health Minister (GoI) Shri @mansukhmandviya ji, a few suggestions that have come from various interactions with doctors and those closely observing the covid situation closely, so that we can protect our citizens in the light of newly emerging variants. pic.twitter.com/XZcdXFNOYMThe Shiv Sena leader also talked about the progress of the vaccination drive in Mumbai and said 100 per cent of those eligible have been given the first vaccine shot and more than 73 per cent have received the second.Also read | Bengaluru doctor recovers from Omicron, tests Covid positive again: Report"If the gap between two doses is reduced to four weeks, just like for those applying to work or study abroad, the city will cover 100% of its population with the second dose by mid-January 2022, without asking for more vaccines or altering its delivery schedule," Thackeray also said.On Monday, authorities said two people were found infected with the Omicron variant in Mumbai and neither had any symptoms of the disease, taking the number of cases of such infections to 10 in Maharashtra and 23 across India.Also read | Omicron threat has potential to derail domestic aviation recovery: ICRAOfficials said a 37-year-old man, who arrived in Mumbai from South Africa, and his 36-year-old friend, who landed in the city from the US, tested positive for the variant in Mumbai. According to Maharashtra government officials, both the patients were vaccinated with Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine.The first two cases of Omicron were reported from Karnataka’s Bengaluru last week. So far, Omicron cases have been reported from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-10-omicron-cases-in-maharashtra-aaditya-thackeray-s-suggestions-to-centre-101638874768367.html
07-12-2021||Other||Indore bangle seller thrashed, booked for molestation gets bail from high court||BHOPAL: The Indore bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court on Tuesday granted bail to a bangle seller, Taslim Ali arrested for allegedly molesting a 13-year-old girl on August 23, a day after he complained that he was brutally thrashed by a group of men because of his religion in Indore.Justice Sujoy Paul granted him bail on furnishing a ₹50,000 bond.Government lawyer Aditya Garg said the court granted bail to Taslim Ali after seeing his past record. He has been told to appear before the trial court for the hearing in his case.Taslim Ali’s lawyer Ehtesham Hashmi said it was unfortunate that the four men arrested by the police for thrashing the bangle seller got bail in 30 days but it took him more than three months to be released on bail.In his petition for bail, Hashmi said Taslim Ali hadn’t molested the young girl but was falsely implicated after he filed a complaint against a group of men who allegedly thrashed him on August 22 in Indore’s Govind Nagar area after finding out that he was a Muslim. An FIR was registered late in the night after some Muslims staged a protest outside the Banganaga police station.The following day, Taslim Ali was accused of inappropriately touching a 13-year-old girl and arrested.The first information report (FIR) registered against Taslim Ali was filed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and IPC sections 420 (cheating) and 471 (using fake documents as real ones).Ehtesham Hashmi called the FIR levelling the molestation charge at Taslim Ali “a brute abuse of power”. Hashmi said there was no mention of the molestation charge in the widely-circulated video of Taslim Ali’s thrashing. “No one uttered anything about this charge,” Hashmi added.After the video emerged, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said Taslim Ali was using a fake identity and passing himself off as Hindu. “The man was selling bangles by changing his name. People recovered two Aadhaar cards from his possession with a Hindu name and thrashed him. But they cannot take law into their own hands, so we have registered a case against them.” Mishra said.
07-12-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC slaps notice on Nawab Malik for flouting orders on Wankhede family||The Bombay high court has expressed dissatisfaction over Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik making statements against Narcotics Control Bureau's Mumbai zonal officer Sameer Wankhede’s family despite giving an undertaking to court.The court also directed the NCP leader submit an affidavit to explain why action should not be taken against him for wilfully breaching his earlier statement of undertaking, regarding statements against Wankhede's family despite giving an undertaking in court that he won't do itThe court further said that if Malik is making statements in his individual capacity then he would be summoned.Dnyandev Wankhede, father of Sameer Wankhede, has filed an affidavit before the Bombay high court alleging that Malik has committed contempt of court as he continued to give statements against his family despite giving an undertaking in court that he won't do so.Last month, Malik gave an undertaking before a division bench of the high court that he would not tweet against Sameer Wankhede till the court hears the matter next.While hearing the defamation suit filed by Dnyandev, who has sought damages to the tune of ₹1.25 crore from Malik for allegedly making defamatory comments, the high court had said that it is "necessary to balance fundamental rights of Nawab Malik and Dnyandev Wankhede."The court earlier reprimanded Malik for not approaching the caste scrutiny committee but making allegations about Wankhede's caste certificate in media, news agency ANI reported.Sharing the death certificate of Sameer Wankhede's mother, Malik had alleged that the NCB official had forged the document. Malik alleged that there are two death certificates of Zahida Dawood Wankhede, with each mentioning different religions.Sharing both the death certificates, Malik in a tweet said, "Another forgery, Muslim for funeral and Hindu for the official document? Blessed is Dawood Gyandev."The Maharashtra minister has been continuously attacking Sameer Wankhede since the arrest of Aryan Khan in the cruise ship drugs bust case.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-slaps-notice-on-nawab-malik-for-flouting-orders-on-wankhede-family-101638872109910.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: BJP leader Shekhawat calls on Capt for seat-sharing talks||The first formal meeting between Captain Amarinder Singh and the Bharatiya Janata Party on the discussion of seat sharing for the assembly elections early next year took place on Tuesday with the BJP’s Punjab election in-charge and Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Shekhawat attending a lunch hosted by former chief minister at his Siswan farmhouse near Chandigarh. Also read: Kejriwal starts registering Punjab women for ₹1,000 transfer schemeNo Punjab unit BJP leader accompanied Shekhawat as it was one-on-one meeting with Capt Amarinder. The meeting lasted for an hour in which both the leaders are said to have discussed the joint strategy of the BJP with Capt Amarinder’s newly formed Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led Akali Dal (Sanyukt). The Capt Amarinder camp, however, claimed that it was a personal meeting between the two leaders and no discussion on seat-sharing took place. Capt Amarinder is likely to visit the national capital in the coming days to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and national party president JP Nadda to give a final shape to the alliance. According to Capt Amarinder’s aides, the former chief minister has already worked out a seat-sharing strategy in which his party will focus mainly on the rural areas. 
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal starts registering Punjab women for ₹1,000 transfer scheme||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday began registering women of Punjab in whose accounts the AAP would be crediting ₹1,000 a month if voted to power in the 2022 assembly elections. Also read: ‘Difficult to think…’: Kejriwal on ‘illegal’ mining in Channi’s constituencyAddressing a gathering that mostly comprised women at Sarai Khas village of Jalandhar district, Kejriwal said when he announced the ₹1,000 monthly grant for all women of Punjab above 18 years recently, leaders of rival political parties criticised him for promoting “muftkhoori (freebies)” and also questioned about the source of money for the scheme. “I want to tell the politicians of Punjab that nearly ₹20,000 crore is being looted by the sand mafia through illegal mining in the state every year which goes into the pockets of MLAs and ministers of the state. We will eradicate the sand mafia from Punjab and credit that money into the account of women that will cost nearly ₹10,000 crore. Still, we will save half the money that will be used in giving other facilities to people,” he said. Kejriwal was accompanied by Punjab AAP president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, former inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh and Balkar Singh, the party halqa in-charge of Kartarpur constituency of Jalandhar. “I want to tell my mothers and sisters this is Kejriwal’s guarantee and not the ghar ghar naukri card of Captain (job for every household promised by former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh). Whatever I commit, will be fulfilled,” said Kejriwal, adding that “AAP volunteers will go to every village and street of the Punjab for the registration process when the party is elected.” “There’s illegal mining going on in Chamkaur Sahib constituency of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Do you think illegal mining can go on without his knowledge? The money of illegal mining has been shared with people at the top level,” he alleged. Bhagwant Mann said that political parties had been exploiting Punjab’s natural resources for vested interests. He urged people to give the AAP a chance for better education and health facilities. 
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||HPSC recruitment scam: HCS officer Anil Nagar dismissed from service||Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officer Anil Nagar, who was recently arrested by the Vigilance Bureau for allegedly taking bribe to manipulate marks of candidates who appeared in the dental surgeon written exam conducted by the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC), was on Tuesday dismissed from service.Nagar was posted as the HPSC deputy secretary when the vigilance officials arrested him on November 18.Haryana chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal issued Nagar’s dismissal orders under Article 311(2)(b) of the Constitution. The Article empowers the competent authority to dismiss, remove or reduce in rank persons employed in civil capacities under the union or state governments without conducting a departmental inquiry.“Nagar has been placed under suspension with effect from November 18 since his arrest. There is not an iota of doubt that the defaulter has acted in the most reprehensible manner, which is not expected from a member of services,” the chief secretary’s order said.“The defaulter has exhibited grave misconduct. Such immoral activities bring severe disrepute to the state government. His continuation in service will be detrimental to public interest and discipline,” the order read.The order added that if Nagar remained posted as the HPSC deputy secretary, which is a high-level post, his associates and he could intimidate witnesses giving evidence against him.“Nagar was the custodian of all relevant records and there is no surety of sanctity of the record kept by him. Therefore, it is not possible to conduct the inquiry. The competent authority has the above reasons to believe to dispense with the departmental proceedings,” the order said.The order said search at Nagar’s residence led to seizure of ₹12 lakh cash and during interrogation he confessed that he had parked money with his associate from whom Rs. 2.10 crore cash was recovered.“Thus, ₹3.5 crore cash has been seized so far during the course of investigation. Further, a hand-written list of roll numbers of the HCS exam was recovered from Nagar’s wallet. This included the roll numbers of successful candidates. Nagar stated that he had asked for a random check of OMR sheets on pretext of verifying the correctness of the scanning and made sure that the list included the roll numbers of the candidates whose scores had to be altered,” the order said.It said interrogation of three accused has revealed that around 30-32 candidates were involved in all as per the accused (15 HCS candidates, of whom five passed, and 17 dental surgeon candidates of whom 13 had passed).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hpsc-recruitment-scam-deputy-secy-anil-nagar-dismissed-from-service-101638871388080.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||71-year-old resident of Maharashtra old age home succumbs to Covid-19||A 71-year-old resident of Matroshree old age home who was suffering from comorbidities succumbed to Covid-19 infection at the Thane civic hospital on Monday. “We lost one of our residents, which is unfortunate. The resident was a comorbid patient and couldn’t survive. Twenty more of our residents are still taking treatment, out of which four are in Intensive Care Unit,” said Ashok Patil, in charge and manager of the old age home. Twelve of these residents were at the Thane hospital and the remaining were being treated at private hospitals, officials said.At least 85 persons including old age home residents, staff and their close contacts had tested positive for Covid-19 in just five days starting November 27, when 67 residents first tested positive for the infection. A total of 17 infections among residents and staff were recorded on November 29 and one more infection was recorded on December 1, the old age home management said.The initial shock has now turned into relief with at least 66 residents of the home located at Khadavli, Sorgaon, Bhiwandi Taluka, discharged from the Thane civic hospital after recovering from the infection.Also Read: Over 100 foreign returnees near Mumbai untraceable amid Omicron scare“Throughout all these days, I realised that treating this infection on time is the only way to fight it. We are glad 66 of our residents have returned home after recovery,” Patil said. Civil surgeon of the Thane civil hospital Kailas Pawar said that the remaining 12patients from the old age home undergoing treatment at the hospital were stable. “Even after they have returned home, we will be taking care of their diet for full recovery. There are several who don’t want to eat, but we somehow convince them,” Patil said. 
07-12-2021||Lucknow||‘We will see’: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra responds to ‘astrologer’ Akhilesh Yadav||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is leading Congress’ charge in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, on Tuesday took a jibe Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, wondering if he is an astrologer. The Congress leader was referring to Yadav’s recent remarks that her party would end up with zero seats in next year’s assembly elections in the northern state, likely to take place in February-March.“Akhilesh Yadav might be an astrologer that he feels that Congress will get zero seats. We’ll see what happens,” Gandhi said, according to news agency ANI. 2 meetings took place with Congress workers on UP elections. Akhilesh Yadav might be an astrologer that he feels Congress will get 0 seats, we'll see what happens. A separate public declaration notice on women welfare in the state to be announced: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress pic.twitter.com/VrvHPJqj8SLast Friday, while on a visit to Jhansi, Yadav had said that the Congress is likely to get zero seats in the UP assembly polls. “I don’t know the role of the party in UP politics, but people will reject it,” he further said.Yadav, who was the Uttar Pradesh CM from 2012 to 2017, contested the 2017 polls in partnership with the grand old party. The experiment, however, ended in disaster, with the alliance winning just 54 seats in the 403-member assembly; while the SP won only 47 seats, Congress candidates were victorious in just seven constituencies.Further, the Samajwadi Party’s individual tally fell by 177 seats from five years earlier, as it formed a majority government in 2012, when 224 SP candidates emerged victorious.A chance meeting between Yadav and Gandhi in October led to speculations that the two parties might join hands again. However, while the Sonia Gandhi-led party decided to go alone, Akhilesh has formed an alliance with a host of parties, including Jayant Chaudhary’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and OP Rajbhar, a former ally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/we-will-see-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-responds-to-astrologer-akhilesh-yadav-101638870387393.html
07-12-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru doctor recovers from Omicron, tests Covid positive again: Report||The Bengaluru doctor, who was infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus and reportedly recovered, has once again tested positive for the virus, according to a report on Tuesday.The 46-year-old doctor, who has no foreign travel history, was among the first two people to be detected with Omicron in the country. The other was a South African national, who was quarantined and later flew to Dubai."It is true that the doctor who was infected with Omicron variant has once again tested positive for Covid-19," an official of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) told PTI.The official told the news agency the doctor is under isolation and is asymptomatic.Also read | Authorities test over 100 people who attended conference with infected manHealth minister K Sudhakar has said the doctor, working with a private hospital in the city, developed fever and body ache on November 21 and tested positive the next day. His sample was sent for genomic sequencing since he had a low CT value, which indicates a high viral load.Also read | 'Doubtful': Karnataka to probe how SA national with Omicron got negative result in 3 daysHT reported the doctor attended an international conference in Bengaluru a day before he tested positive for Covid-19. The doctor attended the international conference held between November 18 and November 20 and BBMP officials are conducting contact tracing of medical professionals who attended an international conference.Officials have been unable to trace the source of the new variant in the patient.Also read | 4 states, Delhi have Omicron cases in India, highest number in MaharashtraThe 28th annual conference of the Indian College of Cardiology was conducted in a hotel in Bengaluru and was attended by around 60 medical professionals, including the infected person. So far three people, including the doctor, who attended the event, have tested positive for Covid-19.BBMP officials have said the first case of Omicron reported in Karnataka was that of the 66-year-old South African, who arrived in Bengaluru on November 20. He tested positive for the virus on the same day, and he was isolated. BBMP reports read that none of his 24 primary contacts and 240 secondary contacts tested positive for the virus.Also read | Omicron vs Delta: Battle of coronavirus mutants is criticalMeanwhile, police have registered a case against the South African national, who is from Gujarat, for flying out without informing the authorities in violation of the quarantine norms.The management and staff of a five-star hotel here have also been booked for allowing the infected person leave without informing the health officials. They have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, PTI reported cited police officials.India has reported 23 cases of the Omicron after two more people were found infected with the latest strain of the coronavirus in Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai. Maharashtra has recorded 10 cases of Omicron, the highest in the country, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-doctor-recovers-from-omicron-tests-covid-positive-again-report-101638868414766.html
07-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka taking measures to set up more genomic sequencing labs: CM amid Omicron variant scare||Amid concerns about the spread of Omicron variant of coronavirus, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the government is taking measures to set up more genomic sequencing labs in the state. During the second wave of Covid-19, the state government had said six genome sequencing labs were being set up at Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Hubballi, Mangaluru and Vijayapura. "We have taken measures to set up genomic sequencing labs, it requires expert facilities and lab equipment. Instructions have been given to the Health Secretary in this regard," Bommai said in response to a question on increasing the number of genomic sequencing labs in the state.Speaking to reporters here, he said, "We are taking all the required measures to set up more such labs." Two cases of the Omicron infections were detected in the state last week, one is a South African national who has left the country after testing negative, while the other is a local person, a doctor with no travel history. Further, noting that there are labs in every district to do Covid-19 tests, the Chief Minister said, "In the case of genomic sequencing, it requires expert facility, and all cases are not set for genomic sequencing, now because of Omicron variant, whenever there is suspicion, we are sending samples for such a test." For higher reference samples are also being sent to National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), he said, adding there are no issues as the genomic sequencing reports are coming much quicker than earlier. As of now, labs at NCBS and NIMHANS are the only two laboratories in Karnataka that have been approved by Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) to conduct genomic sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-taking-measures-to-set-up-more-genomic-sequencing-labs-cm-amid-omicron-variant-101638866059671.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man kills his three-month-old child after altercation with wife||A man allegedly killed his three-month-old child by slamming him against a wall at his residence in outer Delhi’s Samta Vihar area on the night of December 3, according to police. The man, identified as 26-year-old Ravi Rai, killed his child after he was enraged following an altercation with his wife, said the police, adding that he was arrested from the crime scene soon afterwards. Brijendra Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north), said at 10.30pm that night, the police control room received a call about the incident in Samta Vihar’s Mangal Bazar Road locality. A police team reached the house and found Rai at the crime scene in an inebriated state. “The baby boy was taken to Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. The medico-legal case (MLC) of the child showed his skull was broken,” said DCP Yadav.The police said neighbours told them the couple had been residing in the neighbourhood for nearly a month and they could often be heard quarrelling. Rai was not employed while his wife worked in Azadpur Mandi. The neighbours told the police that on the night of December 3, the couple were heard quarrelling; and soon afterwards, the child’s mother rushed out of the house, saying Rai killed their boy. Police said they were trying to find out the reason behind the quarrel that led to the child’s killing. 
07-12-2021||Patna||Bihar: Criminals snatch cop’s service revolver||The Bihar Police on Tuesday arrested two persons for snatching the service revolver from a police constable in Katihar city on Monday evening and were carrying out raids to recover the firearm, officers said. The incident occurred when constable Rangila Ram, who was on motorcycle patrol in Laliyahi locality of the city under additional town police station, was assaulted by a group of criminals who later escaped after snatching his service revolver. The incident took place at about 9pm on Monday, officers added. The criminals, around 7 in number, reportedly fired several rounds with the cop’s service revolver in the air before fleeing.The injured constable was undergoing treatment at the district hospital. Katihar superintendent of police (SP) Vikash Kumar who reached the spot soon after the incident said, “Police have started probing the incident and all those involved in it will be arrested soon.” Also Read: 11 minors trafficked from Bengal rescued after raid on dance troupe in BiharA few years ago, villagers had snatched the service revolver of Aslam Seikh Ansari, the station house officer (SHO) of Falka police station when he tried to arrest an accused in a robbery case. However, it was recovered with the intervention of local leaders.Similarly, in the Purnia town area, miscreants had snatched the service revolver of a bodyguard of the first class judicial magistrate about two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-criminals-snatch-cop-s-service-revolver-101638860322049.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Unmasked weddings: Peer pressure or make-up woes?||To wear or not to wear a mask is the question that denizens have been pondering at weddings. And quite visibly, many wedding guests are letting go of the guard when turning up for #DilliwaliShaadi. Stating flimsy reasons such as the mask spoiling makeup and difficulties in devouring shaadi wale snacks, many are justifying their act. And some say that it’s mostly the peer pressure that’s to be blamed. But is that worth taking the risk? Ayushi Singhal, homemaker and an influencer mum based in Punjabi Bagh, says, “I’ve attended two weddings this season, and abhi tak I haven’t spotted anybody wearing a mask. With the Omicron threat looming large, it’s shocking to see guests at weddings deciding to not mask up. The main reason they say is that it’s super uncomfortable to dance and enjoy at a wedding with the mask on. But is that really worth the risk?” “Being a bridesmaid, wearing a mask at a wedding was quite difficult for me especially when running errands,” says Sanya Bachhan, an IT professional from Gurugram, adding, “I paid so many grands for the makeup and didn’t want it to get smudged... Earlier, mostly the bride and groom and their close family members used to unmask themselves for the ceremony. But now I see more and more people feel it’s OK to unmask to enjoy a wee bit since they are fully vaccinated.”“Jab ghar ke functions the toh we knew everyone is vaxxed and were fine with people removing their masks to socialise, but not at the wedding which has so many people,” says Sonam Malhotra, a ticketing executive from Gurugram, adding, “Don’t know how there’s a trust build up ki mask utarke sab ek saath baith sakte hain. Aisa karne se chehre toh pehchaan mein aa payenge, but how can you be sure to not carry back home the virus? It’s extremely risky what people are doing.” Sharing her experience, Samridhi Verma, a teacher based in Kalkaji Extension, recalls her cousin’s wedding saying, “It was a night event and enjoy karte time kisi ne bhi mask nahi pehena. And one of my other cousins who has asthma and came wearing a mask also let her guard down seeing others. It’s wrong to feel peer pressure.”Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||'Difficult to think…': Arvind Kejriwal on 'illegal' sand mining in Charanjit Channi's constituency||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday arrived on a day-long visit to poll-bound Punjab. Speaking to reporters after arriving in Amritsar, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor fired a fresh salvo at his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi, whom the AAP has accused of ‘patronising’ the sand mafia.  Also Read | Arvind Kejriwal to be in Punjab today for a day-long visit; may announce new 'guarantee'“I’ve been seeing for the past few days that illegal sand mining has been taking place in Punjab CM’s constituency Chamkaur Sahib. If it’s happening in his own constituency, it’s difficult to think he doesn’t know about it,” news agency ANI quoted Kejriwal as saying.The AAP leader further sought to know if Channi is the ‘owner’ of illegal sand mining. “Serious allegations of sand theft are against him. Punjab wants to know if he has a partnership or provides protection to others. Truth should come out. We’ll end this when the AAP comes to power. It should be probed and FIR be registered,” he said.
07-12-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh issues new guidelines amid Covid-19's Omicron variant. Check details||In wake of the detection of Covid-19's Omicron variant in other states, the Yogi Aditynatah-led Uttar Pradesh government has issued guidelines for all the districts to tackle the new strain.According to the guidelines issued on Monday, RT-PCR test on all the passengers coming to the state along with genome sequencing of all the infected patients is being carried out, reported news agency PTI.As Omicron cases have come to light from neighbouring Delhi, the administration in Uttar Pradesh is also ensuring strict vigil on the borders.A statement issued by the state government said the emphasis is also being made to further improve the health facilities in rural and urban areas, reported PTI.Also read | How can I protect myself from the new Omicron Covid variant?In the state's Community Health Centres (CHCs) and Primary Health Centres (PHCs), 19,000 beds are being increased and 55,000 beds in medical colleges, PTI quoted the statement as saying.Apart from ordering senior officials that proper arrangements be made in hospitals to deal with the new variant, the state government is also keeping a close watch on availability of oxygen, beds, laboratories, according to the statement.Also read | 4 states, Delhi have Omicron cases in India, highest number in MaharashtraAs of Tuesday, India's Omicron stood at 23 after two more people were found to be infected with Omicron variant in Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai. Cases have come to light from Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka and Delhi as well.The first cases of the variant were reported from Bengaluru last week.The Omicron variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa late last month.As per the WHO, the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 this year. The world health body has classified Omicron as a 'variant of concern'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-issues-new-guidelines-amid-covid-19-s-omicron-variant-check-details-101638845019906.html
07-12-2021||Patna||Omicron fear: Bihar private schools told to make arrangements for online classes||Amid rising concern over the new Covid-19 variant, Omicron, Bihar’s education department has asked all private schools in Patna to heighten preventative measures and strictly follow standard operating procedures to contain the spread of the coronavirus, and be ready to return to the online mode of teaching if the need arises.Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) issued a notification on Sunday evening, instructing heads of all private schools to make arrangement for online classes.Patna district education officer Amit Kumar, said, “In view of the Omicron threat, we have asked principals and directors of all private schools to make necessary preparations in advance. Educational institutions have been asked to keep online teaching and evaluation system ready as an alternative to offline mode.”“The schools must engage only those staff who have taken both doses of Covid-19 in daily operation. If any child informs about ill health, he/she must be secluded from offline classes”, he added.Also Read: 11 minors trafficked from Bengal rescued after raid on dance troupe in BiharFollowing the government’s instruction, Private Schools and Children Welfare Association (PSCWA) has already asked all its associated schools to follow the preventative measures.PSCWA’s national president Shamael Ahmad, said, “Majority of private schools have conducted online classes last year. So, they are in the position to switch over to the online platform as per the need. Similarly, almost all school staff are already vaccinated at private schools.”Last month, the state government had allowed reopening of all schools at full capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-private-schools-told-to-make-arrangement-for-online-classes-101638849521180.html
07-12-2021||Patna||11 minors trafficked from Bengal rescued after raid on dance troupe in Bihar||Police in Bihar’s West Champaran district arrested two persons and rescued ten minor girls and a boy in a raid on Sunday on a local dance troupe that had forcefully employed the minors, who had been trafficked from West Bengal, police said. “We have arrested two people and one among them is a woman who had forcefully engaged the ten girls and boy (all minors) in the orchestra troupe,” said Upendra Nath Verma, superintendent of police (SP), Bettiah. The raid was conducted in coordination with child welfare committee. Those arrested have been identified as Rambabu Singh and Puja Das. West Champaran’s Child Welfare Committee,chairperson Aditya Kumar said the search for a visually challenged beggar’s daughter from North 24 Parganas who had been trafficked from the neighbouring state with the promise of landing a lucrative job, also led to the rescue of 10 other minors. “Efforts are on to restore them with their family,” Kumar said. Also Read: Red faces in Bihar district after Covid test list includes Modi, Shah and SoniaThe raid was conducted after a National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) official wrote to Bettiah police superintendent Dharmendra Bhandari on December 3, informing that a minor girl from West Bengal was feared to have been trafficked to West Champaran and forced to perform in the orchestra troupe. Her ordeal and whereabouts were revealed when she somehow managed to call West Bengal police requesting to be rescued. She was also among the rescued minors on Sunday.“In the course of investigation, we came to know that several minors who belong to North 24 Parganas and Bardhaman districts among others, were forcefully engaged in the orchestra troupe for past several months. Their rescue was made from a running orchestra performance,” Aditya Kumar added..Police have registered a case with Srinagar Pujaha police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/11-minors-trafficked-from-bengal-rescued-from-raid-on-dance-troupe-in-bihar-101638847600848.html
07-12-2021||Mumbai||Over 100 foreign returnees near Mumbai untraceable amid Omicron scare||As concerns over Omicron, coronavirus' new and potentially more dangerous variant, grips the country, authorities in Maharashtra said 109 out of 295 recent foreign returnees in Thane district were untraceable currently.Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC) chief Vijay Suryavanshi told news agency PTI that the mobile phones of some of these people were switched off while many of the last given addresses were found to be locked.A seven-day home quarantine and a test to detect the Covid-19 infection on the eighth day have been made mandatory for returnees to KDMC limits from all ‘at-risk’ nations (identified by the Centre), Suryavanshi further told the news agency."Even if it is negative, they will have to undergo another 7-day home quarantine and it would be the duty of housing society members to ensure the norm is not violated. Marriages, gatherings etc are being watched to curb violations," he added.Also read | 4 states, Delhi have Omicron cases in India, highest number in MaharashtraMeanwhile, two people were found to be infected with the Omicron variant of Coronavirus in Mumbai, taking the total such cases in Maharashtra to 10, and 23 across the nation. According to authorities, the two people found infected with the Omicron variant in Mumbai are asymptomatic.A 37-year-old man who arrived in Mumbai from South Africa and his 36-year-old friend who landed in the city from the United States tested positive for the variant in Mumbai, said authorities.Cases of the Omicron variant have been reported from places in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka and Delhi. The first two cases of the variant were reported from Bengaluru last week.The Omicron variant was first detected in southern Africa's Botswana last month. Since then, the variant has been detected in a number of countries including the United Kingdom, Germany and the United States.The World Health Organization (WHO) has categorised Omicron ‘variant of concern’ and warned people to remain cautious.Experts are yet to determine if cases of this variant progress to the severe stage, or if vaccines would need to be reworked to combat it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-100-foreign-returnees-near-mumbai-untraceable-amid-omicron-scare-101638845334589.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to a nippier morning, air quality improves||New Delhi woke up to a nippier morning on Tuesday with the temperature at 12.4 degrees Celsius, while the Capital’s air quality improved to the “poor” category from the previous day’s “very poor”. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was likely to be 12 degrees Celsius with shallow fog expected in the morning, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The maximum temperature is expected to reach 24 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Monday was 15 degrees Celsius, which was six notches above normal for this time of the year, and the maximum temperature was 24.8 degrees Celsius, which was one notch above normal.New Delhi’s air quality was in the “poor” zone. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 271. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was 322, which was in the ”very poor” category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-a-nippier-morning-air-quality-improves-101638845500588.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||RLD's Jayant Chaudhary, SP's Akhilesh Yadav to address joint rally in Meerut||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav will share the stage on Tuesday as they will hold a joint rally in western Uttar Pradesh. The rally will be held in Meerut's Dabathua village, months ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, people familiar with the development said.Both leaders are expected to meet at the Hindon airstrip and arrive at the rally venue in a helicopter, Hindustan Times reported earlier.SP district president in Meerut said that supporters of both parties will reach the venue, spread over 30 bigha, in over 2,000 tractors and 1,000 buses to listen to their leaders. It has been learnt that party leaders have been preparing for weeks to mobilise the crowd for the rally in large numbers."People are excited for the rally, which has been given the name ‘Parivartan Sandesh Rally’ and the presence of two leaders on the dais will propagate political change,” emphasised Rajpal Singh, SP district president in Meerut.The RLD-Samajwadi Party alliance will help in redefining political and social equations following the communal riots of Muzaffarnagar in September 2013 that led to a Muslim-Jat divide on RLD’s homeground, according to political analysts. Currently, the BJP is in power in 51 out of 71 constituencies in 14 districts of Meerut, Saharanpur and Moradabad divisions.In the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party bagged 312 seats out of the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh assembly. Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) won 19 and Congress could manage to win only seven seats. This time, Akhilesh Yadav has made claims of winning 400 out of 403 seats.(With inputs from reporter)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rlds-jayant-chaudhary-sp-s-akhilesh-yadav-to-address-joint-rally-in-meerut-101638837560972.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cong doing drama over welfare promises: Capt Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday opened the office of his new party — Punjab Lok Congress — in Chandigarh, and sharpened his attack against the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government, alleging “drama” over welfare works.“They are just doing dramas. They very well know that nothing is going to happen and in just two weeks, the model code of conduct will come into force,” he said, referring to the upcoming Assembly polls. “Corruption has increased in the past two months in the state,” he added.Interacting with the reporters in Chandigarh, Singh also confirmed that talks were on with the Bharatiya Janata Party and the breakaway Akali faction led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), for a poll alliance. “Our party, Sukhdev Dhindsa’s party and BJP will have a seat-sharing arrangement. I can’t tell you the exact number... We will have an in-principle alliance,” he said.Asked whether he expected to be the chief ministerial candidate of the alliance, he said: “All alliance partners will decide on the Chief Ministerial face.”Singh quit the Congress in September this year, after his unceremonious exit as the chief minister following a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu.At the event, Singh also claimed that he was “still the number one” in Punjab politics.“I am still the number one in the state. We are getting reports from urban and rural areas of the state and there is a support building in our favour. We will do a clean sweep in the polls and form the government,” he said.
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The rooster lives on||Times change. But things remain. Just like Old Delhi’s nameless but immortal rooster.Until before the pandemic arrived in early 2020, this rooster’s world had an unremarkable routine. Everyday, Muhammed Aijaz “Chickenwale” would run his knife through some 50 chickens in his busy meat shop in Chitli Qabar Chowk, while this wooden rooster, beautifully polished, would grace a pride-of-place spot in a corner, like a drawing-room showpiece.The rooster was actually destined for Paris. Some years ago, a French student at Delhi University received it as a gift from her philosophy professor. It was meant for the student’s mother in Montparnasse, Paris, who collected wooden roosters from around the world. But the night before her departure from Delhi, the student realised that the rooster just wouldn’t fit into her luggage. She guiltily left it behind with a friend in the Walled City. He tossed it into garbage, but his neighbour retrieved it, and gifted it to the friendly “Bhai Aijaz”.And so the rooster, intended to adorn a Parisian apartment, instead passed its days at the Walled City shop, perched atop cages packed with chickens.The second pivotal event concerning the rooster took place last year in June when the meat shop’s owner died from heart failure, aged 56. The business was taken over by his son, Muhammed Shariq, but the shop never regained its pre-pandemic buzz. The young man would be seen sitting idle with a few chickens hopping inside the cages. Meanwhile, the rooster disappeared from view.A month ago, the wind of change blew again. The enterprising Shariq, who once convinced his father to turn the paan shop into a meat shop, now converted the meat shop into a grocery, and had it inaugurated by the local municipal councillor. This afternoon, the place is looking completely transformed, gleaming with a new wallpaper. The chicken cages have given way to packets of KricKket (sic) chocolates, Maggi noodles, Nihari masala… but where’s the old rooster?Shariq instantly stretches his arm towards an upper shelf. The next moment, he is holding the rooster, coated in dust, which wafts towards the street like slow-moving winter mist. The new grocer now gladly poses with his late father’s prized possession, a souvenir of lasting continuity in his rapidly changing world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-rooster-lives-on-101638837621633.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal to be in Punjab today for a day-long visit; may announce new 'guarantee'||Ahead of the upcoming Punjab assembly election, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will on Tuesday pay a one-day visit to the state, news agency ANI quoted party leader Harpal Singh Cheema as saying in an official statement issued by AAP headquarters. Kejriwal is expected to be accompanied by state president Bhagwant Mann and other state leaders during his visit.According to his day-long schedule, Kejriwal would first meet women at a program to be held at Kartarpur, Jalandhar. He will then interact with the people of the Scheduled Caste community in Hoshiarpur, Cheema said, according to ANI.Cheema said the visit is part of the party's election manifesto preparation for the assembly elections slated to be held in 2022.The AAP leader further informed that Kejriwal, during his visit, is aiming to seek suggestions from mothers and sisters about a "guarantee" of ₹1,000 per month. Kejriwal is also likely to make a new announcement for the people of Punjab, he added.Also read | AAP alleges illegal sand mining in CM’s constituency Chamkaur SahibOn December 3, Kejriwal promised free and quality education in government schools to those born in Punjab and announced to give an ex-gratia of ₹1 crore to families of the soldiers or police jawans who die in line of duty if AAP comes to power in the state. This was his fourth “guarantee” announced for the people of Punjab.“Everyone, whether poor or rich, will get quality education. We will build new schools. Delhi’s 25% budget is used on education,” said Kejriwal, during the party’s Tiranga Yatra in Pathankot.He said services of temporary teachers will be regularised and their pending issues will be resolved. “Like Delhi, I guarantee we will improve the education system in Punjab,” he said. “We will make Punjab an education hub,” he added.The Aam Aadmi Party has been campaigning hard to come to power in Punjab after retaining its rule for a second term in neighbouring Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-be-in-punjab-today-for-a-day-long-visit-may-announce-new-guarantee-101638834317838.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Holding liquor bottle package in Parl, BJP MP slams Delhi govt's excise policy||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma on Monday brandished the packaging of a liquor bottle in Lok Sabha as he hit out at the Delhi government’s new excise policy and accused chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of promoting liquor consumption among youth.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment.Verma, the BJP’s parliamentarian from West Delhi, said the Delhi government was busy crafting a new excise policy on liquor while the national capital was in the throes of a pandemic.“Kejriwal has lowered the minimum drinking age to 21. Women are eligible for discounts for consuming alcohol. Today more than 800 new liquor shops have been opened in residential areas, colonies and even in non-conforming zones,” the MP said.To be sure, while the Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22 does not mention the reduction of the legal drinking age to 21 years, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced in March that the government has decided to reduce the age bar in the new policy. A senior excise department official clarified to HT that the legal drinking age in Delhi continues to be 25 years.With the new excise policy, the state has completely exited the liquor business and has no control on discounts. Stores are free to decide and offer discounts on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/holding-liquor-bottle-package-in-parl-bjp-mp-slams-delhi-govt-s-excise-policy-101638836731245.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport warns of action against travellers flouting Omicron rules: Report||In the wake of the detection of Omicron cases in India, the authorities at Delhi airport have warned of strict action against travellers arriving from ‘at risk’ countries and not following Covid protocols. The Indian government has made a negative RT-PCR test (not older than 72 hours) and home quarantine mandatory for people coming to India from such countries.But news agency ANI quoted airport officials as saying that passengers arriving from ‘at risk’ countries are not following seven-day home quarantine rules. The officials said that many were found meeting people and visiting places."District administration and Delhi police have been asked to verify and report the status of people under mandatory home quarantine. If they are found flouting the Covid-19 protocol, then action will be taken against them," ANI quoted one of the airport officials as saying.The official further said that hotels where some of these travellers stay, have been directed to extend all possible assistance.Eleven countries have been put under the ‘at risk’ category by the Indian government. People coming from here have been directed to follow additional Covid rules. They have to submit details of their last 14 days of travel and upload them on government’s Air Suvidha portal.Additionally, they have to be under home quarantine for a minimum of seven days even if their RT-PCR report is negative. Travellers who test positive will be taken to a designated health facility for isolation.The Delhi airport also said on Twitter on Monday that testing capacity has been updated to ensure smooth flow of the international arrival process. This has been done after chaotic scenes were witnessed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) due to the new guidelines which came into effect from December 1.Delhi recorded its first cases of the Omicron variant on December 5, when a man who arrived from Tanzania was found infected. He was admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-warns-of-action-against-tavellers-flouting-omicron-rules-report-101638835950890.html
07-12-2021||Gurugram||Complaint filed against Munawar Faruqui's Gurugram comedy show||A complaint was filed with the Gurugram police on Monday asking for the cancellation of a show by standup comedian Munawar Faruqui scheduled for December 19 at Aria Mall on Sohna Road in Gurugram.Police officers said Faruqui’s name was removed from the promotional posters, but will get clarity on the show on Tuesday after meeting the organisers and the mall management.To be sure, the organisers of the show said Faruqui would not perform in the interest of “public safety.”Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said they received the complaint on Monday. “We will ensure that law and order situation is maintained and will discuss with the organisers and mall authorities regarding the complaint before taking action,” he said.Arun Yadav, IT head of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Haryana unit, who is a complainant in the case, said, “Faruqui has been continuously hurting the feelings of Hindu community at large on open platforms such as live performances and shows. We will not allow him to perform in the comedy show in Gurugram,” he said.Mubin Tisekar, founder of The Entertainment Factory, organisers of the show, said , “It was a joint decision of Faruqui and him that he should not perform for public safety as many messages were making rounds on social media and we do not want to land in any controversy.”Despite repeated attempts, Faruqui could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/complaint-filed-against-munawar-faruqui-s-gurugram-comedy-show-101638835784729.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Lockdown not on cards after Omicron case, says Delhi health minister Jain||A day after the first case of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus was detected in the national capital, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said a lockdown was not on the cards at the moment, and that the graded response action plan to combat Covid-19 will come into action if the number of cases starts increasing, as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged residents of the city not to panic.“There is no possibility of a lockdown at the moment. The graded response action plan will be implemented if Covid-19 cases start increasing,” said Jain. The plan has levels of restrictions such as closure of restaurants, malls, offices, and educational institutes as the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive – increases. Hospitals have also been asked to scale up their Covid-19 infrastructure accordingly. The graded response action plan is a mechanism similar to one used to fight air pollution.It classifies outbreak severity into four bands – yellow, amber, orange and red – with each representing a more severe outbreak and, thus, stricter curbs than the one preceding it.Private offices, malls, weekly markets and the Metro will be shut down if the test positivity rate (TPR) rises above 2%, and the city will be put under a curfew if the number breaches 5%, according to the action plan, which was approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Jain added that 27 people who are suspected to have been infected with the Omicron variant have been admitted to Lok Nayak hospital. Of them, 17 have been confirmed to have Covid-19 either through RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen Test. The results of genomic sequencing for the rest are awaited.The first Omicron case was detected in Delhi on Sunday, and so far 23 cases have been genotyped across the country.The variant was first detected in South Africa towards the end of November and has since been detected in several countries.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged people not to panic because of the variant.“The Omicron variant of the coronavirus has now entered India. We are constantly receiving news regarding patients being found in this region, that region, and even in Delhi. However, I would like to tell everyone that there is no need to panic or lose sleep over it. I am constantly monitoring the situation and progress being made to deal with the possible threat of the spread of Omicron,” he said in a digital press briefing on Monday.“I held a review meeting last week as well in relation to this, where we took account of all the necessary health facilities and their status, from beds to oxygen to medicines and all other necessary equipment. We are prepared to provide all this and other required material in sufficient quantity and on time. So there’s no need to get stressed or panic. But keep doing your part – continue social distancing and never step out without wearing a mask,” Kejriwal added.On November 30, Kejriwal held a meeting to review the state’s preparedness against Covid in case a third wave emerges in the country. Kejriwal had then announced that 30,000 Covid-19 beds are ready in Delhi, with 100 beds per ward to be arranged as and when required on a two-week notice taking the total bed capacity of Delhi to over 64,000 beds. Additionally, 6,800 ICUs will also be ready very soon. Medicine stocks are currently being added, and home isolation arrangements are being strengthened. Oxygen supply and storage is being bolstered, with extra storage facilities of 442 MT, and production of 121 MT oxygen within Delhi. Additionally, telemetry devices to provide real time oxygen tracking are being installed in all oxygen facilities. Around 6,000 oxygen cylinders have been imported and 15 oxygen tankers bought to prevent oxygen shortage, the CM then said.The Delhi government has issued a Covid helpline number – 1031, to help Covid patients during any problem. This helpline number works 24x7. It employs employees in three shifts, who can attend 600 to 700 calls.Jain added that more than 93.9% of people have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and more than 61.3% both doses. He also added that the chief minister had written to the Centre urging them to ban flights from affected countries for some time to prevent the disease from spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-not-on-cards-after-omicron-case-says-delhi-health-minister-jain-101638834575955.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: CIA arrests four with contraband injections, tablets||The Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) on Monday arrested four drug smugglers, recovering contraband injections and tablets from their possession.Navjot Singh Mahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), said, “The police recovered a total 20 drug injections of the brand Buprenorphine from their possession inside the Hyundai i-20 car that they were driving.”The arrested have been identified as Yogesh Kumar, a resident of Sohana, Gurmukh Singh, alias Mani, a resident of Faida, Harinder Singh, alias Honey, a resident of Sector-45, Burail, and Gurjinder Singh, a resident of village Bakarpur. Inspector Baljinder Singh, who is in charge of the CIA team, said that the police party had received an undercover notification about four persons carrying narcotics from Banur to Kharar in a Hyundai i-20. During their preliminary questioning, the arrested confessed about being addicts themselves, before revealing that they had been bringing the drug injections from Ambala at cheap prices to sell in Mohali and Kharar. Wazir Singh, superintendent of police (SP), said, “The main smugglers will soon be identified. The arrest of these men will help us in breaking the drug supply chain.” In a first, Chandigarh Police bust Manimajra smugglersIn a first, the district crime cell of Chandigarh Police arrested two persons, in separate instances, for possession of banned drugs. The police arrested Arun, a resident of the New Indira Colony and Roshan Ali, a resident of Samadhi Gatewith, for possessing 7 kg ganja and 500gm afeem respectively. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered at the Manimajra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-cia-arrests-four-with-contraband-injections-tablets-101638825652273.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PU revises rates of eatables in hostels; students seek rollback||Panjab University (PU) has revised the rates of eatables in the university hostels for 2021-22 academic session on the representation of contractors of mess and canteens. The university’s decision comes after the recommendations to revise the rates was made by the university panel that was constituted after receiving the representation from the contractors. The details of the revised rates were sent to the university hostels after the recommendations of the panel were approved by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. However, students have expressed displeasure over the university’s move. They said the rates have been increased and demanded the rollback. According to students, the rate for a regular meal for boys was around ₹35 which was increased to ₹40 during the lockdown and its rate has been increased to ₹43.50 now. The rate of a regular meal (mess) has been increased to ₹42 and the revised rate of the special meal (boys and girls) is ₹48 now. The revised rate for tea (readymade) is ₹10 while for coffee the rate is ₹19. The rates of a number of other eatables have been revised by the university. National Students Union of India (NSUI) PU president Nikhil Narmeta said, “First the rate of the regular meal was ₹35, then the university increased it to ₹40 and which has been again increased to ₹43.5 now. These rates are higher than any private institution and it should be rolled back.” The Students For Society (SFS) also issued a statement on Monday condemning the increase in the rates and demanded its rollback. “The mess/canteen rates are already higher and students from the marginalised sections and poor economic background find it difficult to continue their studies with such high cost of living.” Terming it an “anti-student” decision and demanding a roll back, the SFS said the decision had come at a time when the families of students are already struggling to cope up with the difficulties due to the pandemic. They also appealed to students to come forward and raise their voices against this decision of the university. University officials did not comment on the matter, however, a hostel warden said the hike was minimal and the prices in the markets had been rising. 
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh shuttler Abhishek Saini shines in Bangladesh||Local shuttler Abhishek Saini bagged laurels for the city by winning the BWF Yonex Sunrise Bangladesh International Badminton Tournament, held at Dhaka (Bangladesh), from December 1 to 5. Saini ousted Rithvik Sanjeevi in straight games 21-15 21-18 to claim the title .Earlier, in the semifinals, he overpowered a tough challenge by Kartike Gulshan and registered a comeback 17-21 21-15 21-15 victory. Saini has already won many titles in various State Championships and won gold medals in the All India inter-varsity Championships. He has also represented India in the World University Tournament. This is first time he created history by winning this Badminton World Federation approved international tournament. President, Chandigarh Badminton Association, Priyank Bharti and Surinder Mahajan, secretary, Chandigarh Badminton Association, congratulated Saini and his Coach Vivek for the fear. Mahajan, meanwhile, announced that the CBA will honour Saini for winning the gold medal.Other stories in brief1 held with 10 boxes of illicit liquor
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||50 years of 1971 Indo-Pak war: Lt Gen Tej Kumar Sapru recalls para-drop at Tangail||Captain Tej Kumar Sapru (retired as Lt Gen) was commanding a platoon at the Line of Control, Poonch, J&K, when he was informed that he was to be sent to the Eastern Front as an aide-de-camp (ADC). Fifty years later, he shares his experience of the war as he saw it, including some major victories and casualties.The Lt Gen recalls: “Maj Gen Gurbaksh Singh Gill was the GOC of the 101 Communication Zone Area (101 CZA) in 1971 on the Eastern Front. He called up the Commanding Officer to send a replacement for his ADC immediately.”He adds: “Much to my dismay, my name was forwarded for posting as the ADC. I was most unhappy to leave the battalion at that juncture, but there was no way out for me and I landed up in Shillong on November 10, 1971.”The ADC is a French term that means aide-de-camp authorised to senior field Commanders. In Army, the role of the ADC is that of a personal staff officer to the Commander, to assist him in routine personal and administrative matters.He said Gen Gill was a tough taskmaster and known to be a terror of sorts. “I by no chance was too happy being posted to his personal staff.”“What made me feel worse was that 101 CZA was not a normal regular fighting formation like a division or a corps, but primarily a static formation responsible for logistics, administration, communications, repair, supplies, provision of fuel, ammunition, etc, for the Eastern Command Theatre,” the officer said.However, on reporting at the HQ, 101 CZA, he was surprised that the 101 CZA had been involved in the training and organisation of the Mukti Bahini.In November-end as the war clouds started getting thicker, lots of trans-border actions were undertaken by the Army in conjunction with the Mukti Bahini to break the crust of the Pakistani defenses up to a depth of 1 to 3 km.The war started on December 3 evening. The 101 CZA was allotted the 95 Mountain Brigade, which was tasked to capture Jamalpur by December 9 and to be poised towards Tangail.On the evening of December 4, the 31 Baluch Company of Pakistan at the Kamalpur post surrendered to the 95 Brigade. The GOC, Gen Gurbaksh Singh Gill, took the formal surrender the next morning. However, he got critically injured in a mine blast.The para landing at Tangail and capturing the Poongli bridge by the 2 Para was another brilliant success and was a turning point of sorts. It was planned in mid-November by Gen Gill. On December 16 morning, GOC Gen Nagra sent his ADC to the GOC 36 Pak Div, Maj Gen Jamshed with a surrender message: “I am at your door and you may like to surrender.” However, while returning, he got caught up in a crossfire and died.“In spite of being the weakest force of the four main thrusts which went in, the 101 CZA was the first to reach Dacca,” he said.Lt Gen said by virtue of being an ADC, got to see and know a lot more than any junior officer would about the planning and conduct of operations in the Central Sector (from the north). “Juniors don’t get to see things from a bird’s eye view, which I was fortunate to see. Being with the GOC, I could get a fair idea of the plans and conduct of operations in the two formations,” he said.About the veteranName: Lt Gen Tej Kumar Sapru (retd)(72)Retired on November 30, 2009, as GOC-in-C of Western CommandRegiment – 4 Gorkha RiflesAwards - PVSM, YSM
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh ward number 30: Here, garbage rules the roost||Though people living in ward number 30 of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) are residing in the centre of the City Beautiful, they rue lack of maintenance of the infrastructure and public facilities. Lack of cleanliness, choked sewers, dirty drinking water, inadequate parking space and garbage dumps alongside roads are key issues being faced by the residents.For the residents of the ward, which includes Sector 41, Sector 41 (Buterla) and sector 41 (Badheri village), development works came only when elections were due in some time. Sector 41 and Buterla were earlier part of ward number 19, along with Sector 42. On entering the ward, one can easily spot garbage piles along the roadsides in parks and at marketplaces.“The area has poor sanitation and cleanliness. Sweepers often miss their duties and do not clean roads. As a result, garbage piles get accumulated at public places inviting stray animals and health issues for residents. Also, the door-to-door garbage collection is irregular in the area. Not only this, people have to pitch in their own money to maintain the public parks as the MC is making little effort in making the ward beautiful,” said Abhey Chandel, a resident of Sector 41.Residents said the parks do not have adequate lighting facilities due to which people avoid going there in the evenings.“Councillors usually prefer to carry out developmental works in their own locality and they ignore the other Sectors of the wards. The green belts in Sector 41 are not being maintained well by the MC. The parks do not have facilities like public toilets or drinking water. Besides, the Sector also lacks sanitation and we usually see garbage dumps lying on public places. The markets also need more parking space,” said Dharampal, president, Resident Welfare Association (RWA) Sector 41 D. “The lanes and streets in Buterla are poorly built due to which dirty water enters in people’s houses in the low-lying areas. Also, the area does not have facilities like parks for children. Sweepers dump garbage on the roadsides due to which stray dogs often roam in the lanes, causing inconvenience to people. The Chandigarh MC must ensure basic facilities to the people,” said Priya Sharma, a resident of Buterla. Meanwhile, people living in Badheri village of Sector 41 do not even have access to the basic amenities. People are forced to drink dirty water and live in congested dirty lanes. “Hygiene is a big issue in the area. Garbage is not cleared from roads and parks regularly. Also, lanes are poorly built due to which water gets stagnant in the rainy season. Dangling electricity wires pose a threat to commuters. Residents of Badheri village are living in a mess,” said Bharpur Singh, a local resident. 
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||16 more infected with dengue in Chandigarh tricity area||Sixteen fresh dengue infections were reported in the tricity on Monday, with Chandigarh reporting eight cases followed by five in Mohali and three in Panchkula. No death was reported in any of the three jurisdictions.On Sunday, Mohali and Panchkula had not reported any fresh infection.After a peak of dengue infections in October, the fresh cases are now ebbing daily due to a dip in temperature. This year, Mohali has recorded 3,918 cases and 39 death. Chandigarh has recorded 1,563 cases so far, besides three fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 905, with one death so far this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16-more-infected-with-dengue-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101638824812059.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cop booked for thrashing another cop in Kurali||The Kurali police on Monday booked an inspector posted at Punjab police headquarters in Chandigarh for allegedly thrashing another cop on duty. The accused has been identified as Kulwant Singh, a resident of Rania village on Morinda road.Kurali station house officer (SHO) Malkait Singh said that Kulwant and his female friend had gone to a hotel to have lunch when both got into a fight, prompting the woman to call the cops. When assistant sub-inspector Gurnam Singh reached the spot to look into the matter, Kulwant got into a verbal spat with him and later roughed him up and even tore his uniform.After this, the Kulwant fled the spot.A case under Section 353 (assaulting or using criminal force to any person being a public servant), 186 (voluntarily obstructing any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 379-B (snatching), and 323(voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Kulwant. “A police party raided his residence, but he was at large. We will soon be arresting him,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cop-booked-for-thrashing-another-cop-in-kurali-101638824631569.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Youths open fire outside club over bill clearance||A group of youths opened fire outside Tamzara Club, Industrial Area, Phase 1, Chandigarh, around 1am on Monday after an argument with the staff over bill clearance. They then fled without clearing the bill. As per the club’s manager, Rattan, the youths had ordered food and drinks. When handed the bill of around ₹7,000, they refused to pay up and started arguing with the club’s staff. One of them then took out a country-made pistol and fired in the air before fleeing the spot.The youths had come in a Fortuner, bearing a Haryana registration number, the club manager told the police.They were later identified as Virender Maharishi of Ambala City, Virender Singh of Sector 7, Panchkula, Jaideep of Yamunanagar, Aman Rana of Ambala City and Rajat Satuja of Ambala City and arrested under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The Fortuner and weapon have also been recovered.“All accused have been arrested,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. The club was operating beyond midnight hours, even though the Chandigarh administration allows these to remain open only till midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-youths-open-fire-outside-club-over-bill-clearance-101638824151533.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Traffic on Airport Road hit as truckers’ union blocks Chhat light-point||Commuters were on the receiving end as members of All India Truck Ekta union blocked the Chhat light-point, leading to massive traffic jams on the Airport Road on Monday.They were demanding the restoration of truck unions in Punjab, which were abolished by the Congress government in 2017. Though the protest started around 9am, the union members blocked the light-point around 3.30pm. District vice-president of the union, Amandeep Singh said, “In 2017, the Congress government led by Capt Amarinder Singh had dissolved all the truck unions. The step proved to be retrograde as a new syndicate has emerged, which has monopolised the trucking trade, resulting in losses to both owners as well as traders. We demand that the government led by the new CM, Charanjit Singh Channi revive the unions.” The union also demanded an increase in transport rates, stating that the truckers are already suffering due to the economic downturn. Amandeep said the next strategy would be decided as per the decision taken at the state-level, and if required, the union will intensify the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-traffic-on-airport-road-hit-as-truckers-union-blocks-chhat-lightpoint-101638823912133.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Eggs, chicken get dearer as temperatures go down||With temperatures going down in the city, the consumption of chicken and eggs has started to see a rise, leading to the rates of these items to go up, President of the Sector 21 meat market association Ashish Kumar said, “Our sales increase exponentially during winters as people prefer non-vegetarian food around this time. The supply is plenty but broiler meat, which cost around ₹170-180 a kg in November, is now selling at ₹200 per kg and is likely to rise further.” The retail rate of broiler meat is pegged around ₹220 per kg as per Ashok Nagpal, a meat retailer in Sector 21. The price for leg and chest or drumsticks, which people prefer to buy, is even higher. After Covid outbreak last year and avian influenza outbreak this January, the rates of broiler meat had dipped to around ₹150 per kg. But just before the bird flu outbreak, the rates of broiler meat had gone up to ₹240 per kg due to supply shortage. The price of eggs is also on the higher side due to the same reason. Against ₹4.5 an egg in November, the rates have shot up to ₹5.5 per egg at the Sector 21 market. The retail price is around ₹6 an egg; however, it is lower if bought in bulk. Due to scarcity and immunity-building benefits of eggs, last year, its retail price had crossed ₹8 around this period. However, as per Nagpal, the supply of eggs will increase around mid-January and the price will come down again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-eggs-chicken-get-dearer-as-temperatures-go-down-101638823131197.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area’s weekly Covid tally sees dip but experts advise caution||Tricity’s cumulative Covid-19 cases saw a 15% dip last week (November 29-December 5) as compared to the week before (November 22-November 28) though health experts say the figures are significantly higher than what was recorded in October and early November, indicating that people are showing complacency with regards to virus safety protocols. Of the 93 new cases between November 29 and December 5, 40 infections surfaced in Chandigarh while 39 were in Mohali and 14 in Panchkula. The tricity’s single-day infection tally remained in double digits on five days in the week. Mohali even logged a Covid death during this week.At the peak of the second wave in May, the tricity had recorded 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in just one month. With restrictions on public movement being put in place, the curve started flattening thereon. The weekly cases have been fluctuating ever since, but had never crossed the 100-mark, until the week ending November 28. Though the infection tally started showing an upward trend after mid-November, the positivity rate in all three jurisdictions continues to remain below 1%. In the week ending on December 5, Chandigarh had tested as many as 9,072 people for Covid-19, of which only 40 turned out to be infected, keeping the weekly positivity rate at 0.44%. In Mohali, 9,744 people were tested and 39 were found infected. The weekly positivity rate in Mohali stands at 0.40%.At 0.16%, the positivity rate in Panchkula was even lower with only 14 people testing positive out of the 8,750 tested.Mohali district immunisation officer Dr Girish Dogra said people from all age-groups are testing positive in Mohali and most of them are fully vaccinated. “The maximum cases are coming from Dera Bassi and Kharar. We have increased sampling,” he said. Dr Suman Singh, director health services, Chandigarh, said, “In UT, there are no clusters or hotspots of infection. Only family members of infected persons are testing positive. The infected people include children, youth, working class, elderly.” “Since 100% of the eligible population in Chandigarh have got the first dose of vaccine and 78% are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, all infected people are either fully vaccinated or have got one dose. The vaccination is definitely helping in controlling the severity of the infection and fatality rate as only one in 40 patients requires hospitalisation these days,” said Dr Suman, adding that complacency among people, especially in times of a new variant, can invite another surge.Senior officers from Panchkula said, “We are increasing the daily testing and requesting people to get vaccinated at the earliest. People must follow Covid guidelines to stay safe and help us control transmission.” Meanwhile, 20 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the tricity in the last 24 hours, of which 12 came from Chandigarh and eight from Mohali. Panchkula didn’t report any new case. The last time Chandigarh recorded 12 cases was on July 2, after which the single-day count remained in single digits. Also, no new fatality was reported in the tricity on Monday.The genome sequencing report of the South African returnee, who tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on November 29, is likely to be out in a day or two. The genome sequencing reports will confirm if the man is positive for the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The man, along with his wife and maid who had also tested positive later, are isolated at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and their health conditio||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-s-weekly-covid-tally-sees-dip-but-experts-advise-caution-101638822891804.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police’s SIT visits dera headquarters in Sirsa, fails to find Vipassana, Nain||The Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) on Monday visited the Dera Sacha Sauda headquarters in Haryana’s Sirsa district in connection with the 2015 sacrilege cases but could not trace the sect’s administration wing chairperson Vipassana Insan and vice-chairperson PR Nain who had earlier failed to appear before it despite having summoned them thrice. SIT head inspector general of police (IGP) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar along with other members — Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mukhwinder Singh, DSP Lakhbir Singh and inspector Dalbir Singh — collected some documents, including papers related to the working of the sect, from the administration wing of the dera. They were accompanied by nearly 15 personnel, including 10-odd men of the local police led by Sirsa SP Arpit Jain. This is the first time that the Punjab Police’s SIT visited the dera in connection with the sacrilege cases. The team also visited the purported residences of three absconding members of sect’s national committee — Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri — on the dera premises. IGP Parmar said, “We checked some residential quarters besides offices in the administration wing. The dera administration assured us that they will produce Vipassana and Nain by the weekend for recording their statements. We will wait till then. Further action will be taken accordingly.” Bareta, Kler and Dhuri are the missing link in three sacrilege incidents that sparked off state-wide protests in 2015, says the SIT. The team claims that the instructions to execute sacrilege at Bargari (Faridkot), Malke (Moga) and Gurusar (Bathinda) were given by Bareta, Kler and Dhuri to the district dera committee members after getting directions from the sect headquarters. The Faridkot police have already issued lookout notices against the three who were declared proclaimed offenders by court. Vipassana and Nain were summoned to appear at the IGP’s Ludhiana office on November 16, 26 and December 3 in connection with an FIR lodged at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot district on June 2, 2015. The case was registered after a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of the district. The two are also facing allegations of orchestrating violence in Panchkula in August 2017. On November 8, the SIT had questioned dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh for seven hours at the Sunaria jail in Rohtak district and submitted a 65-page status report in the Punjab and Haryana high court four days later. 
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana residents fume over poor-quality roadwork, call it ‘wastage of funds’||With the state assembly polls in the offing, MLAs and councillors are hurriedly commissioning developmental projects, but have failed to keep a tab on the quality of the work undertaken, which has left residents fuming over the waste of public funds. Locals say the material used to re-carpet the road in different areas, including Shastri Nagar, Model Town, Jawaddi Road, Kitchlu Nagar, and Sherpur Chowk, had started wearing down after a few days. Political leaders, including senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, have also been complaining about the alleged inferior quality of work in the past. Malhotra had submitted a complaint regarding poor roadwork in Chaura Bazar last month. Lok Insaaf Party councillor Swarandeep Chahal had alleged that inferior quality work had been done while re-carpeting the 7.5-km stretch of the Old GT Road from Sherpur Chowk to Jalandhar Bypass. The project had cost a whopping ₹11.64 crore. Chahal said,”The project had kicked off in mid-November and the material had started peeling off a few days after a portion of the road from Sherpur Chowk to Dholewal Chowk was constructed. After a complaint was submitted, the authorities have now stopped work. The MC should keep a check on the quality of work, otherwise crores will go to waste.”Balpreet Singh, a residents of Shastri Nagar (Block-B), said, “The road in our locality was constructed on November 28, but the material started wearing off the next day. Gravel is spread in the area and it seems like an inadequate amount of bitumen was used when preparing the hot-mix material. A large amount of money is spent on roads ahead of the assembly elections every five years, but no one keeps a check on quality, resulting in wastage of funds.”In mid-November, RTI activist Arvind Sharma had also submitted a complaint saying that the hot-mix material had started peeling off a day after the Ludhiana Improvement Trust finished constructing the Model Town-Jawaddi Road.Experts say two factors may be at play for the material wearing off within a few days. Council of engineers general secretary Sanjay Verma said, “The main reason is that the hot mix material may have been heated over 150°C at the plant itself. This causes the bitumen to burn and it loses its strength. The other reason can be that the material’s temperature may have dropped below 90°C, while it is being laid on the ground. The mercury is dipping ,but roads can be constructed if the temperature is above 10°C.”MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal said that with the temperature falling, road construction works are taken up only after monitoring the weather conditions. “Regular monitoring of ongoing works on and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has also written to the state government requesting third-party inspection of the roads being constructed with MC funds. If residents have an issue in this regard, they should file a complaint and corrective steps will be taken. Action will also be taken against the contractor,” said Dachalwal.Projects worth ₹270 crore approvedMunicipal corporation officials say that road re-carpeting projects worth ₹270 crore have been approved in the past year and work on them is underway. Officials had earlier landed in a soup over spending ₹212 crore on road repair and maintenance work from 2015 to 2020, as mentioned in a reply to a RTI application filed by a city-based activist. Officials, however, said that the entire amount was not spent on repairs but re-carpeting projects and other maintenance works were also included.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-residents-fume-over-poor-quality-roadwork-call-it-wastage-of-funds-101638822351080.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||After two-year wait, Ludhiana NGO offers chyawanprash to PSPCL chief engineer to jog his memory||Two years after an NGO submitted a fee with the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited to have five electric poles relocated, its members on Monday offered chyavanaprash, an ayurvedic dietary supplement, to the chief engineer to remind him about the pending project. The five electric poles were to be uprooted from the Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road. While offering chyavanaprash to PSPCL chief engineer Bhupinder Khosla, the NGO members said, “This will help the PSPSL to remember things they have long forgotten. Due to the electric polls, development work on the stretch has been affected and city residents are bearing the brunt for the same. Rahul Verma, a member of the NGO, said, “When the project was initiated at least 2,000 trees were chopped off without delay around the Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road. However, despite submitting a fee for the same, the PSPCL has not shifted the polls.” In a sarcastic dig, Verma also said that the chief engineer should also be presented a trophy for enhancing citizens’ patience. Despite repeated attempts, Khosla could not be reached. Others present on the occasion were Naresh Bansal, Vijay Arora, Satpal Singh and Jagdeep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-two-year-wait-ludhiana-ngo-offers-chyawanprash-to-pspcl-chief-engineer-to-jog-his-memory-101638822233675.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: As rebels group together, parties step-up efforts to placate them||With a grouping of rebel candidates cutting across party lines taking shape and strong prospects emerging of a photo finish in the three-cornered Chandigarh municipal corporation election results, parties are going into an overdrive to placate rebels.Around 12 rebel candidates from Aam Aadmi Party, Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party have so far indicated to put up a joint front against the three parties. They are in talks to formulate a common manifesto in addition to supporting each other on the ground. The parties fear that even in their individual capacities, the rebel candidates can hurt the victory chances of their official candidates.Only three days are left for withdrawal of names. The parties are offering higher level posts, better deals in future, and even getting Delhi-based senior leaders to call up rebels.If the rebel candidates don’t budge, the parties won’t hesitate to raise objections with the state election commission (SEC) about their nominations. On Monday, SEC scrutinised the nomination papers, and some rebel candidates had to run around to clear various objections raised by political parties to their nomination papers.Prem Pal Chauhan, a former organisational secretary of the Congress, who is now contesting as an independent candidate from ward 15, said, “A senior Congress leader on Monday offered me the post of general secretary and also cited my long bond with party so that I withdraw my candidature.”Stating that he wouldn’t budge under the party’s pressure, Harbans Singh Saini, who had been a Congress member since the ‘70s and also served as the vice-president of Chandigarh Indian Trade Union Congress (INTUC), said, “Party colleagues are being sent to convince me to withdraw, but the way the party is being run now is against its own principles.” Congress is facing nearly 12 rebel candidates in different wards. Three of its functionaries even joined the AAP as its candidates after grand old party rejected their claims to party tickets.BJP rebel candidates are also being pursued by the party to rethink their decision to contest against the party as independents. It is also facing challenge of around 10 rebel candidates.Former member national executive committee, SC Morcha, BJP, Narendra Pal Chaudhary, who is a rebel candidate from ward 26, said, “Two senior BJP leaders (Delhi-based) called me up and asked me to meet them on the nomination issue.”Chaudhary couldn’t meet them on Monday. “Later I got to know that one of the party’s candidates has raised objections on my nomination papers. All my day was spent on clearing those objections,” said Chaudhary.Meanwhile, a senior AAP leader conceded that the party is also facing a major rebel candidate challenge. “We are in constant talks with them. In some wards, a difference of 100-200 votes will decide the winner. A rebel candidate will definitely hurt in such scenario.”The pressure is starting to tell also on some candidates. After being denied the AAP ticket from Ward 4, an angry Sahil Chawar, AAP’s youth state general secretary, was gung-ho on working to defeat party’s official candidate.But after getting several calls from the senior party leaders, he is now rethinking his decision. “Local party officials and a senior leader from Delhi called me and assured me of better prospects within the party. They also said there is no point in working against the party when I worked so hard for it all these years,” said Chawar.Papers of 102 candidates rejectedChandigarh: The nomination papers of 102 candidates were rejected on Monday after scrutiny of papers.A total of 214 candidates are left in the fray. The final tally of candidates will be known after the last date of withdrawal of nominations, December 9. A spokesperson for the state election commission said, “The nominations papers of covering candidates and independent candidates were rejected. In some cases where multiple nomination papers were filed by a candidates, one was accepted and rest rejected.”Ward 19 and 21 had five rejections each, the maximum from any ward. The voting will be held on December 24. Results will be declared on December 27.
07-12-2021||Delhi||Mehbooba stages dharna at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar, says Kashmir ‘in pain’||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar here on Monday to protest the alleged repression of people of the union territory and demanded that killing of innocents be stopped immediately.The Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president said she decided to stage a dharna in the national capital as she was never allowed to register her protest in Kashmir. She said she was either detained at her house and whisked away by police every time she planned a protest.Scores of PDP workers joined her in the protest at Jantar Mantar.“Kashmir has become a prison where people are not allowed to express their opinion. They are being repressed since August 2019 and what surprises me is how the government is busy portraying that everything was hunky-dory in the valley with the help of some of the paid media,” she told reporters.In August 2019, Jammu and Kashmir special status under Article 370 of the Constitution was abrogated and the state was bifurcated into union territories.The former chief minister denied the charge that she raised questions on every police action. “Whenever there is an encounter and a militant gets killed, nobody questions but when a civilian gets killed, only then people come out and start asking questions,” she said.Carrying a placard that read “Kashmir is in pain”, Mehbooba said, “You have seen what happened in Nagaland where 13 civilians were gunned down. An FIR has been lodged immediately. Why does the same not happen in Kashmir as well? Though I do not have much hope that anything is going to come out of these enquiries but still the government is seen acting.” She alleged that corruption was at its peak in Jammu and Kashmir, local residents were being deprived of jobs and blood of innocents was being spilled on roads.“I have come here to tell the people of this country that if they don’t wake up even now, the day is not far when the nation of (Mahatma) Gandhi and (B R) Ambedkar will get converted into (Nathuram) Godse’s country and after that we all will be helpless,” she said.Several photo journalists requested Mehbooba to remove her mask for a better picture but she replied with a visible smile on her face, “if I remove the mask, I can be booked under UAPA immediately”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mehbooba-stages-dharna-at-delhi-s-jantar-mantar-says-kashmir-in-pain-101638822050891.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Withdraw ₹125-cr penalty notices: Ludhiana industrialists’ body to PSPCL||With the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) conducting raids on the electroplating and induction-heat treatment industry, the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation has demanded that the power corporation withdraw the penalty notices issued to the units, which collectively amount to ₹125 crore. Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (Fico) president Gurmeet Singh Kular and general secretary Rajeev Jain met PSPCL (central zone ) chief engineer Bhupinder Khosla and demanded the withdrawal of the penalty notices. Kular said, “Teams of the PSPCL have been carrying out raids on industrial units regarding power intensive units, and have issued a penalty notice for ‘unauthorised use of electricity. We strongly oppose the raids and request that the department issue a warning first and if the corrections are still not made then the department should issue penalty notices. Unauthorised use of electricity does not affect the revenue of PSPCL as much, and the industry is ready to pay the difference in tariff.”FICO general secretary Rajeev Jain said that the industry, particularly micro, small and medium enterprises, are already struggling for their survival due to the losses incurred due the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. During this hour of crisis, imposing raids is unjustified as it will burden the industry, which operates on a limited margin of profit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/withdraw-125-cr-penalty-notices-ludhiana-industrialists-body-to-pspcl-101638821990771.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU murder case: Chandigarh police to move court for narco test||After groping in the dark for 32 days, the Chandigarh Police is set to move court to seek permission for narco test of a suspect in the murder of Seema Goyal, wife of Panjab University (PU) professor BB Goyal.The professor’s wife was found dead at their residence on PU campus on the morning of November 4. Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “We will be writing to the court to seek permission for a narco test of victim’s husband to bring out the truth.”It may be mentioned that on the night of murder, Prof Goyal and his wife were alone in the house while their daughter had gone to a friend’s place. Prof BB Goyal had told the police that he had found his wife’s body, with her hands and legs tied up with a cloth, on the ground floor of the house around 7.30am. He told the police he had slept in another room upstairs the previous night and when he woke up, he found the main door locked from outside. Mesh removed from inside suggests forensic report Police have decided to go for a nacro test after the forensic report suggested that the mesh of the doors of a bedroom and kitchen were removed from inside. SSP Chahal added “We are getting another opinion on the forensic report as well.” “The evidence gathered so far is inconclusive and has pointed towards an insider’s job. The forensic report does not clearly state whether the mesh was removed on the night of murder. So to solve this puzzle, permission for narco test will be taken,” said a senior officer of Chandigarh police. Post murder PU enhances security The murder in one of the high-security areas on campus has prompted authorities to enhance security arrangements. A source in the university, on the condition of anonymity, stated that night patrolling has been increased since the murder. “Earlier vehicles entering the campus were checked, but now instructions have been issued to note down the registration numbers as well, especially when vehicles leave campus post 11pm. The resolution of CCTV cameras has also been increased to this effect,” said a university official. 
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt will soon make drug report public: Deputy CM Randhawa||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Monday that the state government will soon make public the report on drugs submitted to the Punjab and Haryana high court by the special task force (STF). Randhawa, who was at the Patiala central jail to attend a function, said, “ I am picking ‘thorns’ planted by former chief minister Amarinder Singh as his government kept the drug report in an envelope for four-and-a-half years.” He announced to start petrol pumps in 11 jails in the state to “raise funds for the welfare of inmates”. The minister, who also holds the home portfolio, said the state government has decided to grant amnesty to prisoners on the occasion of 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur and it would be approved soon. He honoured the winners of the 3rd Punjab Prison Olympics-2021 Games at the central jail. “The government decided to hold these games in jails to give a chance to inmates to become good citizens through sportsmanship. We should promote “functional literacy” among prisoners with ‘Sikhiya daat’. The prisoners who are remorseful shall be allowed to sit with their family members in a room and go through the process of catharsis,” he said. The prison reforms initiated under the leadership of CM Charanjit Singh Channi will transform all the jails in the next two years, he added. He announced to launch a skill development project at the Kapurthala jail on December 10 to make the inmates skilled. ADGP jails Parveen Kumar Sinha and principal secretary (jails) DK Tewari also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-will-soon-make-drug-report-public-deputy-cm-randhawa-101638821810485.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rape-robbery accused skip hearing after bail in Ludhiana, booked||After two persons accused of robbery and gang raping a woman, failed to show up for court hearings after being granted bail, the police on Monday lodged two separate FIRs against the proclaimed offenders. The accused, Suraj Kumar of Motihari of Bihar and Barjesh Kumar of Dhandhari, had been declared proclaimed offenders by the court on February 6, 2020 and January 18, 2020, respectively. They have now been booked under Section 174A (non-appearance in response to a proclamation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Focal Point Police Station. The caseOn June 5, 2018, the accused along with 10 other accomplices had robbed metal worth ₹10 lakh from a factory in Mangali village. The robbers had also assaulted the labourers and their families living on the premises. Six members of the gang, including the two proclaimed offenders, had raped the 34-year-old wife of one of the labourers, while the others held her husband captive. A case had been registered under Sections 392 (robbery), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy), and 376-D (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code against 12 unidentified robbers. Later, some of the robbers had been identified and arrested. Assistant sub-inspector Jaswant Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police have been conducting raids for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/raperobbery-accused-skip-hearing-after-bail-in-ludhiana-booked-101638821750648.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal skips SAD rally in Amarinder’s bastion||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday skipped a rally in Patiala, the constituency former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh represents in the Punjab assembly. The rally was organised by party candidate from Patiala Urban segment Harpal Juneja. A motorcycle rally was also held as scheduled. Juneja said he received message that the party president had to attend an urgent meeting in Delhi and had to cancel his visit at the eleventh hour. “Another rally will be planned in the coming days,” he said. SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said Sukhbir will address a rally in the Patiala urban constituency in near future. “We have a tight schedule and he has to cancel his visits at times,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-badal-skips-sad-rally-in-amarinder-s-bastion-101638821630530.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Militant, his associate arrested from Sopore||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday said they have arrested an active militant from North Kashmir’s Sopore town.The militant was arrested along with his associate from Ningli area of Sopore.A police spokesperson said that on a specific input regarding presence of militant at Ningli area of Sopore, a cordon and search operation was launched by the police, army and CRPF.“During the search operation, militant and his associate were challenged by the search party, however they tried to escape from the spot. But the alert search party apprehended them tactfully,” he added. The active militant has been identified as Towfeeq Kaboo of Kaboo Mohalla in Arampora, Sopore, while his associate is Bilal Ahmad Kaloo of Takiabal, Sopore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-militant-his-associate-arrested-from-sopore-101638821510458.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt in a deep slumber: High court on drug probe||Chandigarh The high court on Monday said the Punjab government has been in a “deep slumber” and wondered why it has not acted upon on findings in drugs cases. The current dispensation, on its part, squarely blamed Captain Amarinder Singh-led previous government for not pursuing drugs cases in a speedy manner, and admitted before court that there was no embargo for the government to take “action” in these cases.Supreme Court lawyer Dushyant Dave and state’s advocate general DS Patwalia told a high court bench that they have advised government to take “action”.At one point when they termed previous government’s response to the cases as “lazy”, the high court bench of justice AG Masih and justice Sandeep Moudgil observed that state had been in “deep slumber” and it wondered why it has not acted upon.The court was hearing a 2013 petition on drugs menace in Punjab. The issue before the court right now is to whether sealed cover reports lying with it are to be opened or not. The reports are on the role of high-profile politicians and police officials in drugs cases. But no substantive hearing has taken place on the issue since mid- 2018, when the last set of reports was filed. Fresh trigger came in August 2021 when Navkiran Singh, an intervener in the matter, filed an application demanding that sealed cover should be opened and state be directed to take action.Prior to this, Punjab’s stand has been that sealed cover reports have been filed before court and any action pursuant to the reports is to be taken after same are opened and on court’s directions.“I have been saying all along, there was no impediment from court to act on reports. The previous advocate general was of the view that ethically, we should wait for court order. Now the new advocate general and SC lawyer have said there was no embargo from the court in taking action. Even now the court says we also wonder why the state did not act,” Navkiran Singh said after the hearing. Now the matter stands adjourned for Thursday, when court will again take up the matter of opening of sealed cover reports.No relief to MajithiaShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia got no relief from the court on Monday. His counsel, senior advocate, RS Cheema reiterated that Majithia be made a party to the case as his image was being tarnished by his political opponents by linking him to drugs cases. His political opponents were targeting him only for reaping political benefits when the Vidhan Sabha elections are just round the corner, Cheema said specifically naming deputy chief minister, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. However, court did not issue notice on his application nor passed any other order.The court made it clear that it was not concerned about “individuals” and what was happening outside the court. It is a public interest matter and court would proceed with it in larger public interest, the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-in-a-deep-slumber-high-court-on-drug-probe-101638821451755.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will contest from Amritsar North assembly seat, says AAP’s Kunwar Vijay Pratap||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and former inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh on Monday said he will contest the upcoming Punjab assembly elections from the Amritsar North constituency.His party, however, is yet to make any announcement in this regard. Addressing a press conference following an event in Gurdaspur, Kunwar Vijay said, “It was decided the very first day that I will fight from Amritsar North. A formal announcement will be there, but there is no confusion.”Former BJP minister Anil Joshi, who recently joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), represented the Amritsar North segment twice before he lost to Congress’ Sunil Dutti in the 2017 polls. On Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s protest outside AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arwind Kejriwal’s residence, he said, “It will be better if Sidhu protests outside his own CM’s house. Sidhu should get his promise on the eradication of drugs implemented by the state government. If he gets the issue of drugs resolved then we will feel that he really is sympathetic to the cause of Punjab. Even his own government is not listening to him.”Slamming former CM Amarinder Singh, the AAP leader said, “He never came out of his farmhouse during his tenure of four-and-half-years as CM. If the BJP does enter into an alliance with him, it will be an indication that the national party has no leader and agenda for Punjab. People will reject such an alliance. Amarinder in 2017 announced that that was his last election. It will be unfair if he contests once again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-contest-from-amritsar-north-assembly-seat-says-aap-s-kunwar-vijay-pratap-101638821450462.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Covid patients’ samples return negative for Omicron variant||The samples of coronavirus patients sent for genome sequencing in the face of threat from the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus have returned negative so far, officials of the health department said on Monday. An official, who wished to remain anonymous, said the patients were found to be suffering from the delta variant of the virus. However, some genome sequencing reports are still pending. The nine people, who tested positive on December 5, were neither NRIs nor did they have a history of international travel. The patients are from different parts of the district and are suffering from symptoms typical of the coronavirus disease. They have been quarantined.Meanwhile, one more person tested positive for Covid on Monday. The district has, so far, logged 87,681 infections, of which 85,544 patients were able to recover, and 2,111 have succumbed. There are, at present, 26 active Covid cases in the district, of which 21 are under home isolation, four are admitted at private hospitals and one patient is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital.Three more down with dengue fever (BOX) 
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||J&K Covid situation: In past 4 months, November saw maximum cases, deaths||In the past four months, November was the worst in terms of Covid deaths and cases in Jammu and Kashmir, shows the compilation of the daily pandemic data issued by the government. According to the statistics, the union territory recorded 4,603 Covid cases and 44 deaths in November, marking an increase of 63% in infections and 340% in fatalities in comparison to October. October had seen lowest numbers of 2,819 cases and 10 deaths since March this year when the second wave of pandemic had hit. From 90 average cases per day in October, the infections increased to 153 on an average in November. Similarly, TPR rose to 0.32% in November as compared to 0.20% in October, 0.27% in September, and 0.23% in August. TPR in November is marginally lower than July’s 0.329%, when the second wave of Covid was tapering off. If TPR is below 5%, it indicates that the infection is under control in the community. Prof Dr Mohammad Salim Khan, head of the department of community medicine at Government Medical College, Srinagar, and nodal officer for Covid, said there was a mild spike by the October end, which continued in November owing to social gatherings and weddings. “There were violations of social distancing norms during the wedding season in Kashmir. Hence cases increased to some extent by October end. It was a mild spike,” he said.Kashmir contributed a substantial number of Covid cases and deaths than the Jammu division. The Valley has reported 84% (3,884 infections) of the total 4,603 cases in November in J&K. And of the 44 deaths in the union territory, the Valley saw 35 fatalities due to the virus. In Kashmir, Srinagar has been consistently adding majority of the cases to the tally. Khan said the Covid-related hospital admissions have also witnessed an increase, but the overall positivity rate in decreasing now. “Hospitals beds in SMHS and chest diseases hospitals have been occupied to some extent, but there has been a decrease in positivity rate now,” he added. The overall active cases shot up by 80% in November in the UT, increasing from 902 on October 31 to 1,625 on November 30. The data reveals that on an average, 47,817 tests were conducted daily in November as against 43,482 in October. As many as 49,374 average daily tests were done in September, 53,359 in August and 56,719 in July. Total 19.85 lakh vaccine doses were administered in November. Since September, the vaccination drive has been quite rigorous. Around 85 lakh doses – first or second – have been administered collectively in the months of September, October and November. Two deaths, 108 Covid cases in J&KJammu and Kashmir on Monday logged 108 fresh Covid infections and two deaths. Of the total cases, 86 cases were reported in Kashmir and while the Jammu division saw 22 infections. One death was reported each in Kashmir and Jammu divisions. As many as 17 districts saw single digit or zero cases. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 151 with active cases reaching 1,661. The recoveries reached 3,33,771, prompting the recovery rate to mount to 98.18%. The overall cases in J&K stood at 3,37,915 and the death toll was 4,483.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-covid-situation-in-past-4-months-november-saw-maximum-cases-deaths-101638821151599.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||2 held with stolen motorcycles and illegal pistol in Ludhiana||Two men were arrested with stolen motorcycles and an illegal pistol on Sunday. Acting on a tip off, the police arrested the bike-borne accused, Gaurav Kumar and Kulwinder Singh of Sihala village of Samrala, while they were crossing the Canal Bridge in Majri village. The accused admitted to have stolen the motorcycles from different parts of the city when they failed to produce the registration papers for their vehicles. A .32-bore pistol was also recovered from their possession when they were frisked. Sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh said they are questioning the accused to find out where they procured the weapon and what was their motive. A case was registered under Sections 379 (theft), 473 (making or possessing a counterfeit with intent to commit forgery), and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-held-with-stolen-motorcycles-and-illegal-pistol-in-ludhiana-101638821150431.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will soon approach Centre for opening of trade with Pakistan via Attari: Punjab CM Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced that he would soon write to the central government and meet Union home minister Amit Shah to press for opening trade with Pakistan via the integrated check-post (ICP) at Attari “to boost the state’s economy”. In his address during the 15th Edition of the Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX) in Amritsar, Channi asked that if trade can be carried through sea then why was it not being allowed via the land route. Acceding to the demand of the PHD Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Channi announced that the foundation stone of a convention centre for PITEX over an area of 10 acres would be laid within a week for carrying out activities to promote trade and industry in the region.Underlining the significance of the cross-border trade, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu described Amritsar as Asia’s biggest mandi. “It will open new avenues of prosperity for Punjab as trade and business activities can be carried with 34 countries,” he said.State medical education and research minister Raj Kumar Verka and Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla were also present on the occasion. CM dedicates five chairs at GNDUAt Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, chief minister Channi dedicated five chairs after Valmiki, Bhai Jaita (Baba Jiwan Singh), Kabir, BR Ambdekar and Makhan Shah Lubaana. Addressing the gathering, he said the ‘Punjab Model’ of his government was based on ensuring quality education and employment opportunities for all.“Our government has already set the wheels in motion to bail out the universities from financial crisis,” he said.He, however, asked the university administration to evolve a viable mechanism for reducing fees of various courses. Sidhu said it was the Congress that gave Punjab its first scheduled caste CM since independence. “This is a revolutionary step in line with the Constitution,” he added. ‘Punjabis will give Kejri a befitting reply’Addressing a rally in Ranjit Avenue locality of the city, Channi said the Punjabis will give a befitting reply to the arrogance of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for what he called “challenging their dignity and honour by making derogatory remarks against our daughters and sisters”. He also accused former CM Amarinder, Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal and the BJP of “clandestinely harming the state’s interests with an eye on the forthcoming assembly polls. The three were hand in glove and would continue to pursue their politically motivated agenda in future too.Earlier, Channi announced a sports complex after fourth Sikh master Guru Ramdas in the Amritsar North constituency. An internal cricket stadium will be named after Sidhu’s father Bhagwant Singh Sidhu, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-soon-approach-centre-for-opening-of-trade-with-pakistan-via-attari-punjab-cm-channi-101638820975362.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal: Missing trekkers found dead near Dharamshala||Police rescuers found the bodies of two trekkers on Monday, a week after they went missing in the foothills of Dhauladhar mountains near Dharamshala. The deceased have been identified as Naveen Kumar, 44, a resident of Dari and Harsimaranjeet Singh, 34, of Gurdwara Road locality.Dharamshala station house officer (SHO) Rajesh Kumar said prima facie, it appears they died after falling from a cliff. However, the police are exploring all possible angles, he added. Their bodies have been brought to Dharamshala and the autopsy will be conducted on Tuesday. The trekkers had left Dharamshala towards Thatharna on a bike on November 29. Their family members had lodged a missing person’s complaint after the duo didn’t return home. A search operation was launched thereafter. They were last seen at Thatharna by some locals and from their phone call details, police found out that they were planning to scale 4,550-metre-high Kundli pass and cross over to Chamba. The police had sent a ground rescue unit towards Kundli pass both from Dharamshala and Chamba side and a helicopter sortie was conducted by the Indian Air Force as well.It is worth mentioning that after back-to-back tragedies in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts involving trekkers in September and October, the Kangra district administration had banned trekking on mountain passes of 3,000m and above on November 11. Kangra has around a dozen mountain passes across the Dhauladhars, which are widely used by shepherds to cross over to either side with their herds. In recent years, trekking activities through these passes have increased.Previous mountain tragediesSeptember 12-13: Three trekkers die near Manimahesh Lake in ChambaSeptember 24-25: Two trekkers die and 15 others rescued at Khamengar Pass in Lahaul-SpitiOctober 18-19: Seven trekkers die after being caught in a snowstorm over the Lamkhaga Pass bordering UttarakhandOctober 25: Three trekkers die in a snowstorm on Buran Pass while trekking from Rohru to Sangla in Kinnaur; seven rescued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-missing-trekkers-found-dead-near-dharamshala-101638820850497.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||SC disposes of plea against appointment of Prashant Kishor as Punjab CM adviser||The Supreme Court on Monday said a plea filed against the decision of the Punjab government to appoint poll strategist Prashant Kishor as an adviser to former chief minister Amarinder Singh in the rank of a cabinet minister “does not survive for consideration” as the poll expert has resigned from the post.“The expert has himself resigned on August 4, 2021, as an adviser to the chief minister,” said a bench comprising Justices S K Kaul and MM Sundresh in its order while disposing of the appeal filed against the decision of the Punjab and Haryana high court.Kishor had resigned as Singh’s principal adviser, saying he was taking “a temporary break from an active role in public life”. He had managed the Congress’ successful campaign in the 2017 polls and devised programmes such as “Punjab Da Captain” and “Coffee with Captain” to drum up support for the party during the polls.The top court was hearing an appeal filed by Labh Singh, a retired boxing coach, and Satinder Singh, an advocate, who had contended that Kishor is an expert in organising elections and is assisting parties in various states. The appeal had stated that the appointment of Kishor as principal adviser in the rank and status of a cabinet minister at the cost of public money is not permissible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-disposes-of-plea-against-appointment-of-prashant-kishor-as-punjab-cm-adviser-101638819889894.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Amarinder, BJP to discuss seat sharing formula||The first formal meeting between Captain Amarinder Singh and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to cement an alliance ahead of the Punjab assembly elections will take place on Tuesday, with Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat likely to attend lunch at the former chief minister’s farmhouse near Chandigarh.According to senior BJP leaders and the former CM’s close associates, Shekhawat — who is the election in-charge for Punjab — is likely to discuss the possible seat sharing for the alliance between the saffron party, Amarinder’s newly formed Punjab Lok Congress and Akali Dal (Sanyukt) led by Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa. Also read: ‘Winnability sole criterion for Punjab Lok Congress ticket’On Saturday, Union minister Amit Shah had stated that talks were on between the three stakeholders. Even Amarinder confirmed the same while opening his party office in Chandigarh on Monday.However, this will be for the first time that the BJP and Amarinder will sit across the table to formally discuss their election strategy and seat-sharing formula. BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh is likely to accompany Shekhawat.It is learnt this will be a crucial meeting ahead of Amarinder’s proposed meeting with Shah and BJP national chief JP Nadda, in which the seat-sharing formula will be given the final shape.According to a few close aides of Amarinder, he has already worked out a seat-sharing strategy in which his party will focus mainly on rural areas. The BJP is likely to stake a claim to at least 45 seats, including all 23 seats from which it used to contest in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), revealed a senior party functionary.
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Congress in dilemma as it’s Bajwa vs Bajwa in Qadian||After dropping hints of his return to the political landscape in Punjab over the past couple of days, Rajya Sabha member and former state Congress chief Partap Singh Bajwa made it official on Monday by announcing that he will be contesting the upcoming assembly elections from his home turf Qadian.The seat is presently held by his younger brother Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, who just four days back staked his claim by organising a show of strength.“The party high command wants me back in the state politics and has given the green signal,” said Bajwa while talking to media as he kicked off meetings with his supporters at Qadian on Monday. “I will contest the assembly polls from my home seat Qadian. I will like to spend rest of my life with my people.”By throwing his hat into the ring, Bajwa Senior has not just put a question mark on Fateh Jung’s fate, but also thrown wide open the already two-cornered contest between chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for the top post if the party manages to win the assembly elections. “Apart from working with four chief ministers in Punjab as a minister, I have been a member of Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha. This is rarest of the rare honour that I have got. I will bring my experience that I gained while being on various key posts in New Delhi as well as Punjab for the betterment of the state,” said Bajwa.Stating that he wants to change the “destiny of Punjab”, Bajwa said: “I can contribute towards bringing a second green revolution here, since I am a member of the standing committee on agriculture. My party always gave me the opportunity to speak first in the Parliament on behalf of the Opposition on the issue of farm laws. I am very proud of it.”I am here to stay, says Fateh Jung“The contest will be within the Congress, none else, as no other party is in a position to compete with us,” he said, on being questioned about his main contender in the polls.When asked about the fate of his younger brother, he said, “Only God knows it.” Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was the chief guest in the rally held by Fateh Jung at Qadian last Thursday, had backed him, stating: “Fateh will win from his constituency with a huge margin.”However, Bajwa, who once represented erstwhile Kahnuwan assembly segment that was largely subsumed by Qadian during delimitation about a decade ago, stayed away from the rally. On Monday, the younger brother skipped the meetings addressed by Bajwa. Bajwa’s wife Charanjit Kaur had also remained the MLA from Qadian from 2012 to 2017. Meanwhile, without naming his elder brother, Fateh Jung said: “I am here to stay. The Qadian people elected me with an overwhelming majority. I served them for five years. How can someone who has not been here for the past 12 years barge in and stake claim to the party ticket. I organised a massive rally on Thursday last week with 50,000 people. The state party president (Sidhu) was also there and asked the people of Qadian to reelect me. People responded to that call overwhelmingly.” Earlier, Bajwa had started his political activities in Batala and announced to contest the polls from there, but got a jolt after Amarinder Singh, who he had backed in the feud with Sidhu, resigned from the post of chief minister in September.With a change of guard, his two loyalists were removed as chairmen of the Batala Improvement Trust and market committee, days after he got them appointed to these posts. He ended his political activities in Batala with immediate effect. Meanwhile, responding to a query regarding Amarinder’s possible alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party, Bajwa said: “If Captain could not keep on riding a horse, who will let him ride on it again?”
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress spokesperson Baliawal quits party, slams Sidhu||Accusing Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of “anti-party” and “anti-government” activities, Pritpal Singh Baliawal, state unit spokesperson and kisan wing in-charge for Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, resigned from the party on Monday. In the resignation letter sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Baliawal stated that the Congress could have again formed the government in Punjab in 2022 under the leadership of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and former state unit president Sunil Jakhar, but she chose Sidhu. “Now Sdhu is putting a blot on the image of the government by uploading tweets against the state government. It has become very hard to defend his anti-party and anti-government remarks and his ties with Pakistan,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-spokesperson-baliawal-quits-party-slams-sidhu-101638819532942.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Punjab registers one more death, 24 test positive||Punjab on Monday registered 24 fresh cases of Covid-19 while one patient has succumbed to the virus in the past 24 hours. The state’s positivity rate for the day stood at 0.1%. Among the fresh cases, maximum eight cases were detected in Mohali and three each in Jalandhar and Patiala. With these fresh cases, the state’s total tally of positive cases has reached 6,03,509 while 333 remain active.With 47 patients being discharged after recovering, the number those cured has reached 5,86,565. Till now, 16,611 people have lost their lives due to the virus in the state. Awareness vans flagged offIn view of the current Omicron threat as well as to ward off any possibility of third wave, deputy chief minister OP Soni flagged off five awareness vans from Chandigarh to ensure vaccination in Punjab. Referring to the ongoing vaccination drive, Soni said around 1.66 crore (80.46%) people have received their first dose and 79 lakh have been administered both the doses. On Monday, 1,14,960 doses of vaccine were administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-punjab-registers-one-more-death-24-test-positive-101638819531298.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress names poll teams in Punjab, does a balancing act||The Congress on Monday made key appointments in its election team for the coming assembly elections, seeking to bring on board all leaders in its faction-ridden Punjab unit.Party president Sonia Gandhi named former state president Sunil Jakhar as chairman of the campaign committee, Rajya Sabha member Ambika Soni as chairperson of the election coordination committee, and Partap Singh Bajwa as chairman of the manifesto committee.The party also nominated Jakhar as a member of the screening committee, which will pick candidates; the other members of the panel are Ajay Maken, its chairman, and Chandan Yadav and Krishna Allavaru.Harish Chaudhary, in charge of state affairs, Navjot Singh Sidhu, state party head, and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi as legislative party leader have been named as ex-officio members of the screening panel. The appointments were announced in a statement signed by Congress general secretary KC Venugopal.Jakhar was upset after the September reshuffle when Channi was made chief minister. Jakhar was among those reported to be in the running to replace Captain Amarinder Singh but the party made a surprise pick, Channi. The head of the party’s Punjab unit, Sidhu, whose appointment set the stage for Singh’s exit, was also reported to be in the running.“It is to be seen how the leaders, particularly Sidhu and Jakhar, who have been opposed to each other, will coordinate particularly at the time of declaration of candidates for the elections,” a party leader said on condition of anonymity.The upcoming weeks will be an acid test of the party’s ability to keep its flock together, especially when Amarinder has floated an outfit to contest the polls along with the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Akali Dal’s breakaway faction. 
07-12-2021||Mumbai||Supreme Court stays OBC reservation Ordinance||Mumbai: A fortnight before the district council elections in Bhandara and Gondia as well as the bypolls in 4,500 gram panchayats across the state, the Supreme Court on Monday stayed an Ordinance that would have permitted up to 27% political reservation to candidates from Other Backward Class (OBC) communities.The top court passed the order while hearing two pleas, including one assailing the provisions of an Ordinance that permitted political reservation to OBC candidates uniformly throughout Maharashtra in the concerned local bodies.“The State Election Commission shall desist from proceeding with the Election Programme already notified in respect of reserved seats for ‘OBC category only’, in the concerned local bodies,” a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar said, but made it clear that the election process for the other seats would continue.On September 21, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government passed an Ordinance amending two laws that govern rural and municipal local bodies, after the SC in March struck down a section that granted 27% political reservation for OBC candidates in local body elections. Since the state also provides reservation to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (SC and ST) candidates, the 50% cap on reservation was often breached. The SC had held that this was unconstitutional and directed the state to conduct an empirical study on the socio-economic backwardness of OBC communities before deciding on the quantum of reservation.The SC bench on Monday observed that the reservation granted by the Ordinance could not be implemented unless a Commission was set up, and data was collected regarding the adequacy of representation in each local body. “That is the first step which ought to have been done,” the bench observed.The state set up a 10-member Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission (MSBCC) in June to conduct the survey, but the survey is yet to begin. In July, MSBCC sent a letter to government listing out manpower, infrastructure and budgetary needs to conduct the survey, estimating that a budget of ₹435 crore (subject to revision) be permitted.OBC communities form a crucial chunk of the electorate for all three ruling parties — Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) — and the MVA coalition government cleared the Ordinance with an eye on upcoming local body elections slated for December 21 and between February and December 2022.Ruling party leaders said that they would need to find a way out of the conundrum. NCP leader and state minister Nawab Malik said that the state government will study the ruling. “We are of the opinion that the elections should not be held without the quota to OBCs. The Ordinance was issued with intent of keeping it intact. We will study the order and take steps required. The (Opposition, Bharatiya Janata Party) who are basically against the reservation in the country are fuelling the entire dispute to keep the issue burning. They are pretending to be in support of the backward classes, but are actually against reservation.”“The state government is not serious about OBCs or Marathas. The MVA government did not provide adequate resources to the Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC) to collate the empirical data as ruled by the apex court. Had the government begun the process of empirical data, the SC perhaps would not have stayed the Ordinance. This is a conspiracy of the ruling parties to keep the OBC away from the political reservation for next five years. BJP would not allow the elections to the local bodies to be held without the quota,” said Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil.Chandrakant Bavkar, president, OBC Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti, said that the MVA government should take the responsibility of the ruling. “The MVA government and its leaders are entirely responsible for the ruling. The MVA government constituted MSCBC in March but did not provide it resources, manpower or funds in last six months. The commission is currently defunct for various reasons.”The top court on Monday stayed the notifications issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) in November reserving up to 27% of the seats for OBC candidates in district council, nagar panchayat and gram panchayat elections.“Ten out of 53 and 13 out of 52 seats in Gondia and Bhandara councils respectively are reserved for OBC candidates. We will have to stay the elections only for those seats until the final order given by the apex court next week. The bodies can be formed in these district councils without holding polls for OBC seats as the required number of members to elect their chairman is two third of the total strength,” an official from the SEC said.The apex court observed that the state government brought the Ordinance without following the triple test laid down in Vikas Gawli versus State of Maharashtra case.The counsel appearing for Maharashtra told the bench that the provision in the Ordinance is in conformity with the decision of the apex court and it is only providing for reservation to the category of backward class citizen up to 27 per cent.Observing that it is “not impressed” by this argument, the bench said that without setting up the commission and collating contemporaneous empirical data to ascertain the extent of reservation required to be provided local body-wise, it is not open for the SEC to provide reservation for OBC category despite the statutory provision in that regard.“That is only an enabling provision, but to be given effect to only on complying the triple test. The first step of collating empirical data has not been completed so far,” it said.The triple tests are: establish a Commission to conduct rigorous empirical inquiry; specify proportion of reservation in light of the Commission’s recommendations; ensure reservation does not exceed 50 per cent of the total seats with SCs/STs/OBC quotas taken together.On March 4, the SC struck down the 27% reservation to OBC candidates under the Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act (1961) on the grounds that it resulted in a breach of the 50% cap on reservation. Amid the uproar by the OBC communities over the quashing of the quota, the MVA government amended the legislation alongside another — the Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for Zilla Parishads, Panchayat Samiti and Gram Panchayats — to ensure up to 27% reservation in the forthcoming elections.Between February and December 2022, the state will see elections in 23 municipal corporations, 27 district councils, 298 panchayat samitis, 320 nagar panchayats and nagar councils.
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Acknowledge martyrdom of farmers, Harsimrat urges Parliament||Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday demanded from the Parliament acknowledgement of the martyrdom of 800 farmers, who died during the course of the anti-farm law agitation, tributes and compensation to their families. The former minister, who had quit the Union cabinet in solidarity with the protesting farmers, also demanded that the minimum support price (MSP) should be fixed for all crops and made a statutory right. Speaking to mediapersons outside the Parliament on Monday, she said, the farmers laid down their lives while participating in a peaceful and democratic movement in the larger interest of the farming community: “The House should express solidarity with this cause and also regret the hardships the farmers had to undergo to get their just demand for repeal of the three agricultural laws accepted by the central government.” Harsimrat also stressed that the central government should give legal shape to MSP and ensure all crops were purchased, be it by the government or private agencies.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier, as head of a committee, championed the cause of making MSP a statutory right and the government should not delay accepting this demand,” she added. She demanded that all false cases registered against farmers in Delhi, as well as other states of the country, be withdrawn: “All this should be done speedily so that farmers can call off their agitation and return home.” She further said if the Centre had listened to the Shiromani Akali Dal earlier and not passed the three farm laws, 800 precious lives could have been saved. Also, by not listening to its alliance partner, Harsimrat said, the BJP had also spoilt its image and earned the wrath of the farming community. Answering a query, she added that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal should first implement the promises he was making in Punjab in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/acknowledge-martyrdom-of-farmers-harsimrat-urges-parliament-101638819175316.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Army Chief Naravane speaks on advances in warfare at Punjabi University||Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane visited Punjabi University on Monday to attend a national seminar commemorating 50 years of the 1971 Indo-Pak war.Addressing the seminar, organised by the department of defence and strategic studies, General Naravane spoke about the changed course of warfare due to developments in strategy, structure and defence technology. He motivated young officers and students to take up active leadership roles while being innovative in their approach, and adopt an adaptive and versatile outlook to achieve cognitive dominance.Lt Gen HS Panag (retd) lauded the sacrifice of Indian defence personnel, who laid down their lives in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, which also saw the liberation of Bangladesh. Stating that the country was indebted to the martyrs, he asked students to further contribute by taking up academic research for better evaluation of the 1971 war.Another key speaker, Lt Gen JS Cheema (retd) gave a detailed account of the strategic and tactical developments along the Eastern Theatre during the course of war, and critically examined the Shimla Agreement that took place in the aftermath of the war.Lt Gen BS Grewal discussed with students the ground developments that took along the western border as well as the naval and air operations undertaken by Indian forces to neutralise the Pakistani offence. He gave first-hand information about the incidents that took place along the Poonch and Chamb areas of Jammu and Kashmir, and discussed the strategic significance of the Shakargarh Bulge and how India managed to tackle the area diligently.Vice-chancellor Dr Arvind highlighted the role of emerging technologies in relation to warfare and security. Meanwhile, head of the department Umrao Singh shared that the university was proud that the Chief of Army Staff was pursuing a PhD from it in defence studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-chief-naravane-speaks-on-advances-in-warfare-at-punjabi-university-101638819174229.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Stuck at Attari border for 70 days, Pakistan woman names newborn Border||Stranded at Attari border for over two months for want of documents, Nimbu Bai, 35, a Pakistani Hindu, has named her newborn son Border.“My son’s name is Border. We gave him this name because he was born along the border,” said Nimbu Bai. But since the birth of her son on December 2, she and her husband, Balam Ram, have been struggling to return to Pakistan with their five children, as their latest was born in India and does not have the required documents.The couple was among 99 Pakistani Hindus, who had been stuck in Attari for over 70 days due to lack of necessary documents. Many of them had come to India on pilgrimages to Haridwar and Jodhpur before the lockdown in March last year, while some came in 2018 and overstayed their visas. While the rest of them managed to return to Pakistan on Monday, the couple and their five children will have to wait longer till the infant’s documents are readied.According to Punjab Police’s protocol officer Arun Pal, when Nimbu went into labour, she received help from women in Attari. “On Monday, all the other Pakistani Hindus crossed over to Pakistan via the Wagah border, except the newborn and his family. The Pakistani officials have refused to accept the baby without the necessary documents,” he added.Among the pilgrims, another Pakistani citizen, Lagya Ram, had named his son “Bharat” when he was born in India in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stuck-at-attari-border-for-70-days-pakistan-woman-names-newborn-border-101638819172864.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Postal ballots for voters above 80 years, disabled, Covid patients||With an aim to encourage maximum voter turnout in the upcoming Punjab Assembly Elections, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has allowed voters 80 years and older, persons with disability (more than 40%) and Covid-positive patients to cast their votes via postal ballots. Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju, in a media briefing on Monday, said of the over 20 million electors in the state, over 5 million were aged over 80, while over 1,34,000 fell in the disabled category.“We encourage voters with disability and those who are 80 years or older to cast their votes at polling stations. But ECI has also provided postal ballot facility in case their health doesn’t permit them to visit the station,” he said, adding that people with disability (PwD) can also avail of pick and drop facility to reach the polling booths. Raju said special arrangements, including voting priority, were being made to encourage NRI voters, who had Indian passports. Around 1,50,000 volunteers from NSS, NCC and Bharat Scouts and Guides had been engaged to facilitate electors, he added. Also, to encourage third-gender voters to cast their votes, ECI has coined the slogan “Mahila, Purush Atte Transgender, Loktantar Vich Sab Barabar (female, male and transgender, all are equal in democracy)”. The Punjab CEO also launched 30 mobile vans, equipped with LED and audio system, to create voter awareness.A special summary revision campaign is already underway to enrol eligible voters in various categories, including service voters, PwD, transgender and young voters.On the requirement of security forces during the elections, Raju said they had received a demand of 700 companies from the district heads, however, the final requirement will be sent after a review. He shared that the state government had allocated a sufficient budget of ₹340 crore to conduct the elections. Deputy election commissioner (DEC) Nitesh Kumar Vyas on Saturday had held a virtual meeting with all deputy commissioners-cum-district election officers (DEOs), police commissioners and senior superintendents of police to review the poll preparedness in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-postal-ballots-for-voters-above-80-years-disabled-covid-patients-101638819171550.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Recruitment of assistant professors: After HC stay on hiring, Punjab orders inquiry into ‘paper leak’||After the Punjab and Haryana high court recently put a stay on the recruitment of 1,091 assistant professors in Punjab government colleges till December 13, the state government has also ordered an inquiry into allegations of paper leak.Minister of higher education Pargat Singh has directed principal secretary Krishan Kumar to carry a minute inquiry into the complaints received from applicants.The process to recruit assistant professors, being carried out after 19 years, hit a legal roadblock after applicants moved the high court. The civil writ petition alleged that the question papers of Punjabi and mathematics were leaked well before the exams were conducted from November 20 to 22.Punjabi University, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, were assigned the task to set paper for humanities and science subjects, respectively. The examination centres were also set up in both these universities. The result of examinations was declared on November 28.The petitioners alleged that “research scholars and students of professors who set the examination papers were favoured and they cleared the entrance test”.In its interim decision, the court ordered the Punjab government that “appointment, if any, shall be subject to the final decision of the petition”.Pargat said he had called the advocate general on Tuesday to discuss the legal matters pertaining to the case.“We have already stalled the recruitment process for Punjabi subject for which the department received complaints of paper leak. For other subjects, the legal team will put forward its case in court,” he said.The minister added that the inquiry had been ordered to ensure that the examination was conducted in a fair manner.“The principal secretary has been asked to submit the report at the earliest. If found guilty, the defaulters will face stringent action,” he said.‘No question of paper leak’Meanwhile, in its statement, Punjabi university ruled out any discrepancy in holding the said examination. Dr Gurpreet Singh Lehal, the coordinator for the Punjabi exam, said a highly confidential process was followed for setting the question paper. “A panel of nine experts from five universities from Punjab and other states was formed to create a database of 600 questions. Each expert independently created their set of questions and no expert was aware of the other eight’s questions. The task of creating the final question paper was accomplished by randomly selecting 100 questions from the question bank through a computer program,” he said.He added that there was no question of leakage of the questions by the subject experts, as no one knew the final questions selected by the computer program.On Saturday, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal had demanded an immediate inquiry in the alleged multi-crore assistant professor recruitment scam, claiming that not only were all the rules and procedures set aside to recruit the chosen ones after leakage of exam papers, but crores also changed hands. 
07-12-2021||Gurugram||Namaz row: Hindu, Muslim groups propose new sites||The district administration on Monday said they have received a proposal from Hindu and Muslim groups recommending that the Friday prayers should be held at 12 religious sites and six other places instead of the current 20 designated sites. Officials aware of the matter said that the proposal was submitted jointly by members of Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti and Gurugram Imam Sanghathan led by Khurshid Rajaka, who is also the national convener of Muslim Rashtriya Manch. However, another Muslim group, Gurgaon Muslim Council, said it did not agree with the arrangement.In the last three months, right-wing groups in the city have opposed and tried to disrupt Friday prayers in sectors 47, 12, 37 and Sirhaul village -- sites designated by the district administration for Friday prayers. However, the Hindu groups have maintained that namaz should not be held at public places, and instead be offered at only mosques. “We are moving towards resolution of the issue, and on Monday evening members of Hindu and Muslim groups submitted the proposal in which they have agreed to resolve their differences by mutual agreement. We will examine the proposed sites, and feasibility of the proposal, and implement it after it is found acceptable to the stakeholders. It will be ensured that sentiments and interests of every community are safeguarded,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram.Rajaka said they have submitted that Friday prayers may be offered at 12 religious places that include mosques and Waqf Board properties located “away from population”. However, the location of these sites and mosques was not specified in the proposal. “We want to ensure peace and brotherhood among people. We have requested the district administration that six large sites be allotted where prayers can be offered without hindrance, and we are ready to pay rent for them. Praying at public places is not allowed as per the Constitution and no government will permit either Hindus or Muslims to do so. We want to find a middle path and resolve this matter,” said Rajaka. However, the Gurgaon Muslim Council said they did not subscribe to the proposal put forward by Gurugram Imam Sanghathan. Altaf Ahmad, spokesperson for the Gurgaon Muslim Council, said that the Muslims of Gurugram reject any such agreement, and added that a press conference would be held on the matter on Wednesday.“We are getting reports that right-wing group, Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, has once again colluded with Muslim Rashtriya Manch which got some maulanas (clerics) along with them and conspired to state that ‘Juma namaz’ (Friday prayers) will not take place at any open places in Gurugram approved by the administration since May, 2018,” Ahmed said. The members of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti said they have been demanding that the prayers should be held only at religious places and not in public spaces. “The Muslim community has put forth this proposal, and we endorse it as it will ensure prayers are offered only at religious places. The six open sites sought by the Muslim community would also be located away from residential pockets,” said Rajiv Mittal, spokesperson, Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti. On November 5, Hindu groups held a Govardhan Puja at a designated namaz site in sector 12A, and a havan was organised at another site in sector 37, to disrupt Friday prayers. 
07-12-2021||Noida||1 arrested after raid in Khora Colony to arrest suspects in street crimes||Noida: A 25-year-old man was arrested and four others were detained from the Khora colony in Ghaziabad on Sunday night during a joint raid conducted by Noida, Ghaziabad and Delhi police teams to nab suspects involved in street crimes in the region, officials said on Monday.Police conducted the joint search at 26 places in Ghaziabad’s Khora colony, which shares boundary with Noida and Delhi, on Monday after receiving a tip that some people involved in street crimes had been staying in Noida’s Khora colony, said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida.“200 police officers conducted the joint operation, ‘Operation Prahar’, at 26 places in the Khora colony for nearly three hours, and arrested a suspect — identified as Sachin Rapper — and detained four others,” Singh said, adding that it is much easier to get a rented accommodation in these areas. “Property owners do not verify the tenant’s background a lot of times. So, these miscreants carry out such crimes in neighbourhood areas and escape to the densely populated area. They often live in crowded areas and keep a low profile.”Sachin is wanted in a case of loot in Noida, said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Noida. “We are also interrogating the four suspects detained. We have made a dossier based on their interrogation details, and also identified other suspects involved in street crimes. We also recovered some motorcycles without number plates from the Khora colony during the Monday search... A police team will routinely conduct similar enforcement exercises there,” he said.Abhay Kumar Mishra, deputy superintendent of police, Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram, said that this was the third such operation in Khora Colony this year. “Several such miscreants live in this colony as it is densely populated. So, we conducted a joint search here. The Noida police team is interrogating the suspects at present,” he said.Dhiraj Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Ghazipur police station in Delhi, said, “Our police team also conducted the search as the suspects also commit such crimes in Delhi.”According to the Noida police, officers hold meetings with its counterparts in Ghaziabad and Delhi to share information and criminal records of wanted suspects on a daily basis, to improve the law and order across the national capital region (NCR). The Noida ADCP said that nearly 20 to 25 street crime cases are reported in the city every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/1-arrested-after-raid-in-khora-colony-to-arrest-suspects-in-street-crimes-101638818210685.html
07-12-2021||Lucknow||17 school girls in Muzaffarnagar served khichdi laced with sedatives, molested: Police||MEERUT In a shocking incident, 17 girl students of Class 10 were allegedly molested after being served khichdi laced with sedatives in two private schools of Purkazi area of Muzaffarnagar when they were called there for practical classes and made to stay overnight on the campus to complete their studies, said police. The incident occurred on November 20 and came to fore after the pradhan of Kamhera village brought it to the notice of SSP (Muzaffafarnagar) Abhishek Yadav on December 4 through a WhatsApp message.SSP Yadav deputed police officers to verify the charges and conduct an inquiry. After seeking complaints from two parents, the SSP sent SHO of Purkazi Vinod Kumar Singh to the police lines as punishment. “He was sent to police lines on charges of delay in initiating action in the case,” said CO Krishan Kumar, adding that two parents had given their complaint in this regard and a case under Section 354 of the IPC and Pocso Act had been registered against the two school owners.The case was registered against school owners on the basis of the complaints given by two parents, said police. “One of them has been arrested and raids are being conducted to arrest the other accused,” said Kumar. Investigation was in progress to verify the charges as parents of 15 girls had not given any complaint so far. The parents alleged that the girls were called to the schools for practical classes and later asked to stay over to complete the practicals. “They were served intoxicated khichdi and molested,” they added.All the girls belonged to poor families and were allegedly threatened of dire consequences, if they shared the incident with their families. Later, a few girls informed their parents. Thereafter, the village pradhan approached the SSP. Meanwhile, coordinator of Astitva organization, Arpit, said he also came to know about the incident and their team would go to meet the families of the girls on Tuesday. Astitva is an organisation that works for issues related to women and girls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/17-school-girls-in-muzaffarnagar-served-khichdi-laced-with-sedatives-molested-police-101638817970274.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 25-year-old arrested for selling pirated copies of NCERT books online||A 25-year-old man was arrested in Delhi for allegedly selling pirated copies of school books through online platforms.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rajesh Deo said his team arrested the main suspect, Abhishek Sachdeva, a resident of Shahdara, on Saturday, on the basis of the information given by Manoj Jain, the owner of the printing press in outer Delhi’s Mandoli where the pirated books were published.According to police, around 5,000 pirated books and National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) printed material valued at around ₹35 lakh were recovered along with printing paper with watermark of NCERT and the latest offset printing machines during the raid in September.“During interrogation, Jain had disclosed that he was printing pirated books of NCERT on behalf of his acquaintance Sachdeva who had supplied the paper and material to him for printing books,” the DCP said.“The NCERT books have always been in huge demand owing to excellent content. Further, the Ministry of HRD has made efforts to make NCERT books mandatory for CBSE affiliated schools... As a result, there was a sudden rise in demand for the NCERT books. Unscrupulous elements exploited the situation by getting printed pirated books and hooked in sellers by offering them higher profit margin. This is when information was received that a publication unit involved in printing of pirated NCERT books is operating in the trans-Yamuna area. The offset unit was publishing pirated NCERT books for various subjects of classes 6-12. A team was immediately formed to crack the case,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-25-year-old-arrested-for-selling-pirated-copies-of-ncert-books-online-101638817909624.html
07-12-2021||Pune||PMC stays construction work around SPPU main building||PUNE The building construction department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given a stay order on ongoing barricading work around the main building of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). For the last few weeks, the entire main building premises has been closed with barricading of iron grills, gates and stone. It was opposed by several student organisations as the university building is a ‘heritage building’ and needs permission from the PMC building construction department to do any development works around it. As per the notice sent by the PMC building construction department division 6 to SPPU on December 3: “As per the application given by the university for compounding and barricading work around the main building of the university, permission was given on certain terms and conditions. While under section 8 of these terms it was necessary to take the permission to do any development around the heritage building and till that time work cannot be started. As there was no permission taken by the building construction department, it is instructed to give a clarification in this regard and till that time work should be stopped.”Kamlakar Shete, a student and vice-president of Yuvak Kranti Dal, a student organisation, said, “The barricading around the main building is done to stop students and citizens going around the main building area and so we have opposed it. The first right on university and its buildings is of students and we along with other student organisations oppose it strongly. In fact, university should spend funds for the development of student-related works and not to barricade heritage buildings like this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-stays-construction-work-around-sppu-main-building-101638817789835.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Passengers complain of poor facilities at second entry gate of Pune railway station||PUNE It has been daily hurdle for hundreds of passengers traveling through a second entry gate at the Pune railway station, from the Raja Bahadur Mills road. Passengers are facing several difficulties while boarding or when exiting from this side of the station. The main entry gate is closed, and the road is full of potholes, with no proper arrangements for auto. Toilets are closed. Despite repeated complaints to the railway administration no corrective measures have been taken. “I traveled from Pune railway station two weeks ago and wanted to board a train in the evening. As it was convenient for us to go through the second entry gate, we arrived there. First the road was jam-packed when we entered, then there were potholes on the road due to which it was difficult to walk and most importantly, the elevator was not working so we had to carry our luggage on the stairs,” said Vipul Alekar, a passenger. Woman passenger Surekha Malpani said, “We a group of women traveling from Pune railway station and were waiting at the second entry gate for our other relatives to come. There are public toilets but they are closed. For women especially its very difficult. And then an elderly woman had to walk through all the across the FOB to a platform to use the toilet.” Karan Makwana, another passenger said, “There is a huge space which is barricaded at this second entry gate premises, where autos can be parked and is closer to the main FOB going towards the railway station. Also the big entrance gate is closed and the side lane road is for outgoing vehicles. As there are no wardens or police to monitor the vehicles, vehicles come randomly from any side and it creates traffic congestion.”This second entry gate was started in a bid to ease the burden on the main entrance of the Pune railway station. Pune railway division spokesperson Manoj Jhawar said, “There are development works going on at the second entry gate and the potholes are regularly repaired. The main entrance was closed due to the pandemic and when things normalise it will open again. Same with the toilets on this side of the station. If passengers demand, then they will be opened up for public use.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/passengers-complain-of-poor-facilities-at-second-entry-gate-of-pune-railway-station-101638817730316.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Civic polls effect? Delhi govt, civic bodies say no parking hike anytime soon||Hike in parking fee — a measure mandated by the Delhi government’s own parking policy of 2019 and also as an emergency step in the graded response action plan (GRAP) to curb air pollution— will not happen in Delhi anytime soon, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Monday, even as the city is choking on the worst spell of pollution in at least six years. “It is true that parking rates in Delhi will not be increased anytime soon. The parking policy otherwise mandates a steep hike in parking charges in Delhi to discourage the use of private vehicles and promote public transport. But, keeping in mind the severe financial hardships faced by people owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi government has decided against any hike as of now,” Gahlot told Hindustan Times. At least three officials from the Delhi government and municipal corporations said the reason for deferring a hike is not just the pandemic. “The municipal body elections are around the corner— it will likely be scheduled for sometime in April. Hence, parking fee will not be increased anywhere in the city because it is a politically sensitive matter,” said an official, on condition of anonymity. A steep hike in parking fee has been mooted by transport and pollution experts as a deterrent to discourage the use of private vehicles, which will help lower vehicular emissions, one of the major local pollution sources in Delhi. As per the Supreme Court mandated GRAP to tackle air pollution, the municipal corporations should have already increased the parking fee by “three or four times” across the city as air quality has remained in the ”very poor” category (AQI 301-400) for several days now, including on Monday when it was 322. But, there has been no change in parking rates. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said the municipal body is not planning to increase the parking fee either under the GRAP measures. “We have no proposal for increasing the parking fee before us. The provision to increase the parking fee to deter usage of vehicles does not make sense. If a person own car worth ₹30-40 lakh, they will have no problem in paying ₹40-50 extra,” he argued.The national capital has 3.3 million four-wheelers and 7.3 million two-wheelers. Nearly 500 new cars are added every day to the city registers, the government figures show.To discourage the use of private vehicles, the Delhi government, on September 25,2019, notified the Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Places Rules, 2019. As per the policy, new parking rates were to be fixed by the base parking fee (BPF) committee, headed by the transport commissioner. In October 2019, the BPF committee, which has officials from the government and the municipal corporations, came up with a formula that could make parking a car in a popular area such as Connaught Place (CP) for a 10-hour workday cost as much as ₹1,000.The panel suggested that the base fee for four-wheelers be ₹10 per hour and ₹5 per hour for two-wheelers. While the proposed minimum rate may appear less than the existing fee of ₹20 and ₹10 per hour for the two categories, the base fee was supposed to be multiplied depending on four parameters— parking spot, duration, location, and time of day. For instance, the committee “recommended that the multiplication factor based on location of the parking may be varied from 1 to 3, which will be decided by the civic agencies after careful consideration of the location”, read the report prepared by the BPF committee. Areas such as CP, Lajpat Nagar and Karol Bagh, which record heavy traffic, were to be in the most expensive bands.These recommendations were to be approved by the apex monitoring committee, headed by Gahlot. However, it was kept in abeyance and HT has learnt that in a review meeting held on October 22, the minister made it clear to the committee that there shall be no hike in parking fee until further orders. In December 2018, the government’s transport department had approved a sharp increase in one-time parking charges on new vehicles. But days later, Gahlot directed the transport commissioner to withdraw the order.Leader of the house in south corporation, Inderjeet Sehrawat, said parking fee is not likely to be increased any time soon. “The rates were last increased by four times in November 2017 as a part of action plan to combat the deteriorating air quality. The hike remained in effect between November 9 to 16 that year,” he said. A senior official from SDMC said the fourfold hike was found to be unproductive as people started parking outside designated parking areas, defeating the purpose behind the hike. While issuing the rate hike withdrawal order, the south MCD stated that as a result of the rate hike, “chaotic traffic conditions had occurred and traffic jams were reported from many areas, though a considerable portion of the authorised parking areas remained vacant.” ----With inputs from Paras 
07-12-2021||Pune||All seven Omicron positive patients in Pune report mild or no symptoms||PUNE As of Monday evening, Pune district reported seven confirmed cases of the Omicron Covid variant, and none have reported any severe symptoms, but only mild symptoms like fever and cough. Of the seven, four who were eligible for the vaccination were fully vaccinated with the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI)-approved vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin. Of the seven, three who are minors also include a 1.5-year old girl child and a seven-year old girl, both of whom have also not reported any symptoms and are stable. A patient was found positive for Omicron in Pune through routine surveillance. He visited Finland from November 18-25, 2021. He was tested owing to mild fever on November 29 and was found Covid positive. He has taken both doses of Covishield vaccine and is completely stable without any symptoms. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer at PMC said, “The man is aged 47 and has not reported any comorbidity and the 25 samples that we collected from his close contacts includes the residents of the building he lives in. The domestic help and others who had come in contact with him have also tested negative. Although he did have a fever which is why he went for a test, as of now he is stable and is under institutional quarantine as per the protocol issued by the state government.” In case of six who tested positive for the Omicron variant in Pimpri- Chinchwad, only one woman who is 44-years old had reported mild sympotms like coughing, while the other five did not report any sympotms. Dr Laxman Gofane, senior assistant medical officer said, “All these patients are being treated at the Jijamata Hospital in Pimpri-Chinchwad and are stable. Even the 1.5-year old girl child and the 7-year old girl, both of whom are not eligible for vaccination, are stable and have not reported any symptoms. They have been admitted at the hospital as per the state protocol. We had sent all 16 samples for genome sequencing which includes three of whom had returned from Nigeria and others who are close contacts, We have got the results of 10 while six are awaited.” Although the new variant, Omicron, is considered to be highly transmissible, study on its severity continues. The country-wide presentation which was made by the central health ministry and shared with state officials states: “As of December 3 Epidemiologic studies are underway to understand if Omicron is more transmissible (eg, easily spread from person to person), compared to other variants, including Delta variant. As far as the severity of the disease is concerned, preliminary data suggests an increase in the rate of hospitalisation in South Africa, but this may be due to increasing overall numbers of people becoming infected, rather than a result of specific infection with Omicron. The initial reported infections were among university students — younger individuals who tend to have more mild disease — but understanding the level of severity of the Omicron variant will take days to several weeks. All variants of Covid-19 can cause severe disease or death, in particular for the most vulnerable people, and thus prevention is key.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/all-seven-omicron-positive-patients-in-pune-report-mild-or-no-symptoms-101638817553936.html
07-12-2021||Pune||MSRTC strike keeping rural students from attending schools, colleges||PUNE For Ganesh Nanaware and his friends its been difficult to reach their junior college for the last few days, as they are dependent on the ST bus service, which due to an ongoing strike of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) are off the roads; especially those connecting rural areas. Thousands of students from schools and colleges in Pune district travel to schools and colleges by ST buses on student concessions, or even a free service by the MSRTC. Now after Diwali, almost all schools and junior colleges in rural Pune have begun offline classes. “My junior college is at Nasrapur and I stay at Alande village in Bhor taluka. We go by ST bus to school, but for the last few days I have had hardly attended class as someone from my family has to drop me to college,” said Ganesh, a Class 11 student. Another student, Reshma Chavan from Maval taluka said, “I have not gone to school for a single day after the Diwali vacations and it is the same with my other friends in the village. It is an important year, Class 10, and we need to attend school, but my father won’t allow me to go alone and he cannot private transportation. I take notes from my friends who attend school and hope this MSRTC strike ends soon and we can go back to school.”Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic,aAt least 1,200,000 students traveleed daily by ST buses across Pune district. The bus service was efficient and used to run in the interior parts, so students were able to go to schools and colleges. “Currently there is very less attendance in school after the Diwali vacation. The main reason is the MSRTC workers strike and subsequently, the closed ST bus service. Daily, around 10 to 15 students come to school in a class of 50 students. So we have to take both online and offline classes for students who cannot attend school,” said Prakash Dhawade, principal of a private school and junior college in Junnar taluka, Pune district. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We are aware about the situation and how students are suffering as they cannot attend offline classes. Its entirely a state-level decision and we hope MSRTC workers end their strike soon. Alternate arrangements of private tourist buses and vehicles have been made by the state transport department, so on major routes these buses are running. Now MSRTC workers are also joining work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-strike-keeping-rural-students-from-attending-schools-colleges-101638817495901.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||1984 riots: Sajjan Kumar charged with two murders in Saraswati Vihar||New Delhi: A Delhi court has charged former Congress MP Sajjan Kumar for the murder of a man and his son in west Delhi’s Saraswati Vihar during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, saying that prima facie he was not only “a participant of the mob but also led it”.The family members of the deceased -- Jaswant Singh and Tarun Deep Singh -- had alleged that a mob led by Kumar burnt the two men alive on November 1, 1984. They alleged that Kumar “instigated and abetted the unruly mob”. The complainants also alleged that the mob also set their house on fire.Kumar is currently lodged in a city jail after his conviction in another murder case related to the riots. On Friday, additional sessions judge MK Nagpal said his view regarding Kumar’s participation “is much stronger and the allegations, along with material, gives rise to grave suspicion”. The order was made available on Monday. The court charged Kumar with murder, rioting, unlawful assembly, arson, attempt to culpable homicide, dacoity, voluntarily causing hurt, and causing mischief and robbery.The judge, however, dropped the charges of attempt to murder, saying that there was no such common intention of the mob to kill the victim, as some participants of the mob itself had taken away or dragged the female victims to a nearby house for shelter and to save them from being killed by the crowd.The court, however, added section 308 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), saying that the injuries suffered by the three female victims prima facie appear to have been inflicted with blunt objects, and with an “intention or knowledge that if their death was caused as a result thereof, then the accused and every other member of the above mob would have been guilty of the offence of culpable homicide”.The court also dropped charges of destruction of evidence against Kumar, and directed him to appear on December 16 to complete further procedures.The first information report in the case was registered on September 9, 1985 on the basis of an affidavit by the complainant. During the investigation, the police filed a final report before a magistrate court. The case was directed to be sent as untraced (case in which a closure report is filed) in 1994 after the court held that evidence collected by the investigating officer was not sufficient to initiate prosecution against any particular person.In 2015, a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT), constituted by the central government to reinvestigate the cases of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, decided to reopen the case.The SIT was formed, the team re-examined 293 cases which were closed by the Delhi police. Of the 293 cases, the team filed closure reports in 233 cases, citing lack of evidence. In 52 cases, the team filed reports in which the victims or the accused were not traced and started a probe in eight cases. Of the eight cases, the police filed a charge sheet in five and Kumar was named an accused in three cases.Earlier, on December 17, 2018, the Delhi high court set aside Kumar’s earlier acquittal in one of the cases and convicted him for murder, rioting and provoking a mob. The case relates to the killing of five Sikhs in Raj Nagar part-1 area in the Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November 1 and 2, 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.
07-12-2021||Kolkata||TMC team headed to Nagaland returns from Kolkata airport, says Sec 144 imposed in Mon||KOLKATA: A five-member team of the Trinamool Congress ordered to travel to Nagland by party boss and Wet Bengal chief minister chief minister to speak to the families of civilians killed over the weekend returned from the Kolkata airport after learning that prohibitory orders have been imposed in Mon district in Nagaland, 300km from state capital Kohima, TMC leaders said. “After we reached the Kolkata airport and were about to take a flight to Jorhat, from where we had plans to head towards Mon, we came to know that the district administration has issued prohibitory orders. We came to know that movement of all vehicles, barring emergency ones have been restricted and we won’t be allowed to go there,” TMC member of parliament Prasun Banerjee said.The team comprising four Trinamool Congress parliamentarians including Prasun Banerjee, Sushmita Dev, Aparupa Poddar, Santanu Sen and former Mizoram advocate general Biswajit Deb, was scheduled to head for the north eastern state to speak to the families of the victims. Poddar, who tweeted two photographs of the TMC team at Kolkata airport to take the flight, called the prohibitory order “another act of subversion of rule or (and) law & democracy”. She alleged the order under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure was designed to bar the TMC delegation travelling to ground zero of the botched up security operation.Protests erupted on Sunday after 14 civilians were killed by army soldiers who appeared to have mistaken them for militants in Nagaland’s Mon district. The Mon district administration imposed a curfew in the town and prohibited movement of all non-essential vehicles in the district. Entry into the district was also prohibited and mobile internet services were suspended in the region, a district official said. An Indian army statement said it “deeply regretted” the incident and its aftermath, adding that “the cause of the unfortunate loss of lives is being investigated at the highest level and appropriate action will be taken as per the course of law.” Banerjee’s prompt direction to party leaders to reach the Nagaland district came against the backdrop of the Trinamool Congress’s efforts to expand its footprint beyond Bengal.While it has already landed in Tripura and Goa, it has become the largest opposition party in Meghalaya on account of 12 Congress legislators, including former chief minister Mukul Sangma, switching sides and joining Mamata Banerjee’s party.Elaborating the party’s expansion plans, Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee recently said the Trinamool plans to set up working units in at least 15 states within the next one year.As part of this effort, Mamata Banerjee’s party sent a delegation of five TMC MPs - Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Sushmita Dev, Abir Ranjan Biswas, Pratima Mondal and Dola Sen – to meet families of farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh.Banerjee also sent her emissaries to meet the farmers at Singhu border in Delhi when they were protesting against the three contentious farm bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-team-headed-to-nagaland-returns-from-kolkata-airport-says-sec-144-imposed-in-mon-101638817429628.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro to deposit ₹1,000 crore in escrow over arbitration case with Rinfra||The Delhi high court on Monday permitted the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to deposit ₹1,000 crore in an escrow account within 48 hours, towards the arbitral award of around ₹4,600 crore that was won by a consortium headed by Reliance Infrastructure Limited, which previously operated the Delhi Airport Express Line.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta told justice Suresh Kait that DMRC would be able to pay only ₹1,000 crore to Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited (DAMEPL), a subsidiary of Reliance Infrastructure Limited, as the Delhi Metro was facing a “financial crunch” and undertaking a “sudden liability” would impact the public interest.The SG also offered to take over any bank debts of the subsidiary — to the extent of the award money ( ₹4,600 crore, as per DMRC calculations).Mehta said authorities were working on a solution, adding that as per their calculation, the amount liable to be paid was approximately ₹5,000 crore, way lesser than the DAMEPL’s claim of ₹7,163 crore. “We are working out possibilities….Even if we have to pay, we may have to borrow (from banks). If it can be looked into, we can take over your (DAMEPL) debt (and) we will take care of the banks. DMRC can take over the debt and we will deal with the banks,” Mehta said.The court was hearing DAMEPL’s execution plea for the arbitral award won against the Delhi Metro.The DAMEPL terminated the concession agreement in October 2012, citing a failure of the DMRC to cure defects in the structure supporting the Airport Metro Express Line. DMRC invoked the arbitration clause in its contract with the consortium.As per the contract signed on August 25, 2008, the DMRC was to carry out the civil works, excluding the depot, and the balance, including the project system works, were to be executed by DAMEPL, a joint venture of Anil Ambani-owned Reliance Infra and a Spanish construction company Construcciones Y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles.In 2017, the arbitral tribunal awarded damages to Reliance Infra, a ruling that was upheld by a single judge bench of the Delhi high court in 2018. Later, in 2019, a division bench of the high court set aside the award after which Reliance Infra approached the Supreme Court.In September this year, the apex court set aside the division bench judgment of January 15, 2019, and upheld the arbitral award in favour of DAMEPL, saying there was a “disturbing tendency of courts setting aside arbitral awards”. In November, the Supreme Court also dismissed the DMRC’s plea seeking a review of its judgment.On Monday, senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, appearing for DAMEPL, argued that the DMRC must first deposit 50% of the total award amount with the court.Mehta said it was “not possible” for DMRC to deposit half the awarded amount. “Anything beyond ₹1,000 crore, we may have to borrow from the banks,” he said. The court then directed that the DMRC deposit ₹1,000 crore in an escrow account within 48 hours and asked the counsels for DAMEPL and DMRC to take instructions on the final payable amount under the award. The case will next be heard on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-deposit-1-000-crore-in-escrow-over-arbitration-case-with-rinfra-101638817371630.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of martyrs honoured on 50th anniversary of Indo-Pak War||To commemorate 50 years of India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 Indo-Pak War, the 3 PB Girls Battalion of NCC Ludhiana organised a felicitation ceremony at Kundan Vidya Mandir on Monday to honour the next of kin of the bravehearts who made the ultimate sacrifice for their country.This programme was attended by commanding officers and officers of different units of NCC Gp HQ, Ludhiana, NCC Officers, PI Staff and 200 cadets from different schools and colleges of the district.Suresh Kumar Pathak, brother of EAP-3 SK Pathak and Talwinder Singh, nephew of LWTR Harnek Singh, were felicitated during the function.The programme started with the lighting of the lamp and paying of floral tribute to the bravehearts followed by patriotic song, skit and dance by NCC cadets. The programme culminated with the singing of The National Anthem.In his address, Colonel Aman Yadav, Commanding Officer of 3 Punjab Girls, Ludhiana, acknowledged the sacrifice of our valiant soldiers and their near and dear ones and urged the cadets to remain vigilant and leave no stone unturned to ensure the safety and security of our motherland. He said that the sacrifice made to secure the frontiers of the country was the greatest of all.‘Superheroes still fresh in our memories’Ludhiana Though the brave hearts had attained martyrdom 50 years ago during the 1971 India-Pakistan War after a Pakistani Submarine had destroyed INS Khukri at the coast of Diu in Gujarat, but the kin stated that they are still with them and considered superheroes by many generations.Suresh Kumar Pathak, 64, younger brother of EAP-3 SK Pathak, said that he was merely 13-year-old when his elder brother attained martyrdom.“I still remember my elder brother was on leave for his marriage. Soon after, while we were still celebrating, he received an emergency message and left the house to join duty. Around 22 days after that, he attained martyrdom,” said Suresh. He runs a grocery store in Dhandhari and said that his elder brother had joined the navy after completing his engineering diploma.A gate in memory of the martyr has been installed at the main entrance of the village. For 25 years, they used to organise village sports tournaments in his memory. But, as the city was developed and the grounds were turned into colonies, the tournaments were discontinued. “Even the children of the village know about him very well and feel proud,” he added.Talwinder Singh, nephew of LWTR Harnek Singh, said that it was an honour for him to attend a function to remember the sacrifice of his uncle.Harnek Singh was 21-years-old when he had attained martyrdom. Talwinder stated that his uncle was unmarried when he laid down his life in the 1971 war and a statue has been installed at Pabbian village near Chaukimann in his tournament. Also, a kabaddi tournament is organised in his memory every year. Talwinder’s father is an ex-Army officer who told him stories about his uncle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kin-of-war-heroes-honoured-on-50th-anniversary-of-indo-pak-war-101638817369857.html
07-12-2021||Other||Minor girl sexually assaulted in Sonbhadra, 4 arrested||VARANASI A 14-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by four persons, including a teenager, on the outskirts of a village in Renuka Par area under Obra police station of Sonbhadra district on Sunday evening, police said. All the four accused had been arrested and the girl was sent for medical examination, said a senior police officer. The officer said that kin of the girl informed that the she was on her way to the field when the four accused dragged her to a secluded place and sexually assaulted her. “A case has been registered in this regard against the four accused under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on a complaint filed by the girl’s family,” the officer added. Superintendent of police, Sonbhadra, Amarendra Prasad Singh and additional SP Vinod Singh inspected the spot on Monday, and instructed the cops to take strict action against the accused after thorough investigation into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-girl-sexually-assaulted-in-sonbhadra-4-arrested-101638817256810.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Finland and Nigeria not part of Central government’s ‘at risk’ countries’ list||PUNE With seven confirmed cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, Pune now has the highest number of such cases in the state, however, all these cases have been reported from the countries not on the “at risk” list. The central health ministry had earlier included only three countries, but now it has been revised to include a total of 11 countries. The list still does not include Finland and Nigeria from where the persons with Omicron had returned. While passengers returning from these 11 countries are subject to RTPCR tests twice and home quarantine, for other passengers a sample of two per cent of randomly selected samples would undergo RTPCR tests. Back in March of 2020, when Pune reported the first Covid case on March 9, a Pune resident had come from Dubai. It took another 8 days for the administration to include Dubai and the UAE on the ‘high risk’ list, despite the fact that at the time, of the 33 confirmed Covid-19 cases that the state had recorded, 18 had a travel history to the UAE, or had a close contact with one who had travelled to the UAE. On April 6, the state government issued a letter to all the health officials in the state with regards to testing international passengers, which revised the list of ‘at risk’ countries from three to 11. This includes South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, Israel and also the United Kingdom. As per the revised guidelines, travellers arriving from these nations are subjected to post-arrival RTPCR tests. Positive travellers are isolated in a separate facility and a sample is sent for genome sequencing. If positive for Omicron, strict isolation and treatment protocol is on, till the person tests negative, while the passengers who do test negative have to be under home quarantine for seven days and retested on day eight. If negative, they will be then allowed to self-monitor for the next seven days in home quarantine. For other passengers, the guidelines state that 2% of passengers from international flights will undergo a RT-PCR test on arrival. They will be allowed to leave after giving the sample. If they do test positive, then the samples would be sent for genomic surveillance and treatment would begin as per standard protocol. If negative, then they would be advised self-health monitoring for the next 14 days. However, without adhering to the list of at-risk countries and focusing on only those passengers, the district administration team got in contact with all the travellers who came from various countries and took their samples for RTPCR tests. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant health officer said, “We have found the Pune Omicron positive case through field surveillance which includes testing and tracing over 433 international passengers who came into the city before the restrictions could be put into place. Of these, 220 have already been tested for RTPCR, of which only two tested positive for the infection. The rest of the reports are pending and as we get more information we are testing more. In fact, we have no one on our list of the 433 international travel returnees who have come from one of the three at- risk countries mentioned by the state government. All of them were from random countries.” Senior assistant medical officer Dr Laxman Gofane said, “We had about 138 travellers who had returned from various countries of which 86 have been tested. Of these, seven tested positive for the infection and nine of their close contacts have tested positive as well. The rest are negative. We are testing all passengers who have returned from international travel irrespective of the country that they have come from.” The timely intervention of the team helped report early cases of Omicron among people who had come into the city before the restrictions could be put into place. All these positive patients are currently institutionally quarantined. Pune city Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Despite the fact that the person has no symptoms and has been fully vaccinated we have even RTPCR tested all the residents in the building in which the person was living. We collected a total of 25 samples and all of them tested negative for the infection which is reassuring.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/finland-and-nigeria-not-part-of-central-government-s-at-risk-countries-list-101638817255277.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up police for failing to install CCTV cameras in Chandni Chowk||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Monday pulled up the state police for failing to install over 300 CCTV cameras in the Chandni Chowk area and warned that it will seek answers directly from the city police commissioner if the work is not completed at the earliest.Noting that the police’s affidavit, on the action taken to clear unauthorised vendors, was silent on the installation of CCTV cameras, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the court’s directions were falling on deaf ears and directed police to positively take necessary steps before February 28, failing which it said Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana will be asked to present himself before the bench.“This is only to get the job done, otherwise it’s falling on deaf ears. Let somebody come and explain. It’s not dawning on you. Today you are not even able to tell us if you have moved your little finger to do anything about this. What steps have you taken since the last date on this aspect? Have you taken a single step? It’s not somehow seeping into your minds that this has to be done. What do we do? We are compelled to pass these orders. We don’t like to call all these high ranking officers here. And we dare say, when we pass these orders, everything will start moving. These officers will also wake up,” the bench remarked.The court was hearing a plea by Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal seeking direction to the authorities to remove illegal hawkers and vendors from the no-hawking and no-squatting area in Chandni Chowk, which has recently undergone redevelopment.On November 10, the Delhi Police had sought a week’s time to seek and report instructions on installation of CCTVs and removal of encroachments.The police filed an affidavit highlighting the steps taken to remove illegal but the court noted that there was no mention about the installation of CCTV cameras.Senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli, appearing for the petitioners, said that the order for installation of CCTVs was passed in 2019. The court asked the police to take immediate steps in this regard and also said that anybody encroaching upon public space must be removed. It further asked the municipal corporation to prepare a street vending plan. “Anybody and everybody who is encroaching upon must be removed, our directions are very clear. We are not asking you to carve out any exception for the members of the petitioner association. You (North MCD) are not understanding the problem. If you take up a (street vending) plan, this situation can be defused. So first set the ball rolling and formulate a plan,” the bench said.“All of you are making a complete mess on this law, I don’t know what is happening,” said justice Sanghi, while listing the issue of removal of illegal hawkers on January 20.The court directed that experts be nominated from Shahjanabad Redevelopment Corporation, School of Planning and Architecture, and IIT Delhi immediately without any delay in the matter relating to preparation of the street vending plan.It also asked Delhi Police to take steps for removal of encroachers and illegal vendors from the area and directed the police and North MCD to continue with their anti-encroachment drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-pulls-up-police-for-failing-to-install-cctv-cameras-in-chandni-chowk-101638817130901.html
07-12-2021||Pune||15.6 mn in state yet to take first Covid vax dose; 8.5 mn due for second dose||PUNE Maharashtra has 15.6 million people in the state who are yet to take their first dose of the Covid vaccine. Also, as of December 4, 8.5 million people who took their first dose of Covishield are yet to take their second due shot of the vaccine and 1.26 million are yet to take the second shot of Covaxin. Pune accounts for the highest number of second dose beneficiaries due for Covishield. The state government has now written to the districts which have reported the least number of beneficiaries taking the vaccine like Thane, Nashik, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar, Nanded and Solapur where the number of first-dose beneficiaries is due even though the vaccination process was started months ago, to use call centers and other mechanisms to call beneficiaries to come forward and take the second shot, and also to increase first-dose vaccination. The state and central government had set multiple deadlines earlier to ensure that 100% of the eligible population gets their first shot of the vaccine, first by Dussehra and then by November end. However, even as of December 4, of the 91.4 million eligible beneficiaries, 75.9 million have got the first shot, which means 15.6 million are yet to take their first vaccine. Some of the districts which have the highest number of beneficiaries who have not yet taken the first dose include Thane (1,517,864), Nashik (1,247,277), Jalgaon (963,616), Ahmednagar (925,758) and Nanded (922,498). Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary has written to the district collectors stating, “About 1.55 crore persons are yet to receive even the first dose of Covid Vaccine. This number is very huge and equal to the eligible population in some of the smaller states in our country and it being a very large cohort can generate critical mass and drive a third wave of Covid. Number of remaining beneficiaries who are yet to receive the first dose is enclosed. Field officers are requested to please take steps to cover these beneficiaries at the earliest. Particular attention is requested to Thane, Nashik, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar’ Nanded and Solapur Districts, where this number is very large.’ Although in Pune more than 98% of the eligible beneficiaries have got the first dose, the district also has the highest number of beneficiaries awaiting to get their second dose, as over 1.21 million people who took the first shot and are eligible to get the second shot have not taken the vaccine. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “Yes, it is true that we have the highest number of beneficiaries due for their second dose and we are working on it. Most of these beneficiaries are due in urban areas. We have launched a door-to-door vaccination scheme to increase our coverage. If people do not come forward, then we may have to take stern steps but as of now we do not have any such plans and we should not spell it out. There could also be an issue of data entry which also needs to be checked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/156-mn-in-state-yet-to-take-first-covid-vax-dose-8-5-mn-due-for-second-dose-101638817129753.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU scientists win multiple awards for their research papers||Faculty members and students from department of livestock products technology (LPT), College of Veterinary Science (COVS), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, bagged seven awards for their research work at the 10th conference of the Indian Meat Science Association (IMSA) and International Symposium on Monday. The conference on “holistic approach to the meat food quality and safety in continuum from farm to fork” was organised by the department of LPT, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel University of Agriculture and Technology, Meerut (UP).Om Prakash Malav and Rajesh V Wagh, assistant professors, were conferred with “Best Paper Awards” for their research work on “development of dog biscuits incorporated with chicken liver powder” and “optimisation of SOP for the ultrasonic extraction of bioactive compounds,” respectively. Mehak Jandyal, PhD scholar, won two “Best Paper award,” while Ishani Parmar, MVSc student bagged first prize and Rushikesh Kantale, PhD student clinched third position in poster presentation for their research work. Vice-chancellor of the university, Inderjeet Singh, complimented the winners for their achievement. He added that processing of meat and milk into health oriented and value-added products will increase the income of farmers and budding entrepreneurs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadvasu-scientists-win-multiple-awards-for-their-research-papers-101638817010641.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Omicron in Pune: Parents have mixed feelings about schools reopening||PUNE The question of schools reopening remains moot as the Omicron variant of Covid has been found in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Parents have a mixed response about the decision to reopen. Earlier, the reopening of schools was delayed till December 15 by local authorities due to the threat of Omicron. Pratibha Shinde from Dhayari said that worldwide, pre-primary and primary schools are functional. “Students from preprimary and primary should start with their offline classes. The learning loss of students from this age group is tremendous. We will not see the effect now, but later when these children grow, we will see the effect,” said Shinde. “In fact in London, secondary and higher secondary schools were continuing online, whereas primary school was offline. There should be a system in India wherein students are safe in offline school as well. In my opinion, schools should start offline as soon as possible. Newer variants are likely to come again. Everytime they do, we cannot confine the children to the home. Young kids are facing a variety of issues like mobile addiction and mental health problems. These can be addresses only if schools reopen offline,” said Shinde. She added that as malls and offices are opened now, schools should reopen too. “Many parents are in a fix about where to leave their children while they go to office. We are reopening malls and office nows. So schools should be reopened, where all Covid protocols are taken care of. Children’s safety is most important, but closing schools is not the answer,” said Shinde. Milind Telawne, another parent from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) said that schools can continue to function online. “This would be better as students are not vaccinated. If any student tests positive, who will take the responsibility for the child’s safety. Also, internationally online education system has been working since the pandemic began. Now, the State government should focus on providing good online education to students by generating good content,” said Telawne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/omicron-in-pune-parents-have-mixed-feelings-about-schools-reopening-101638816949690.html
07-12-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Magh Mela-2022 to be held on a smaller scale due to Covid-19 scare||PRAYAGRAJ: The Magh Mela-2022, which is all set to begin from January 14/15 next year with the holy bathing of Makar Sankranti, may be held on a smaller scale than its previous editions due to the strict government measures to minimise the possible spread of coronavirus. However, Prayagraj Mela Authority (PMA) is determined to ensure that seers, pilgrims and devotees visiting the fair get best of the facilities, said officials. With the aim of better management of facilities, the PMA has entrusted the responsibilities to high-ranked officials this time around. In this process, perhaps for the first time an IAS official—Sheshmani Pandey—has been made the Mela Adhikari of the annual religious fair and administration is even mulling over a proposal for appointing SDM ranked officials for each sector of the tent city, informed a senior district administration official aware of the development. The arrangements in Magh Mela 2022 are expected to be managed on the lines of Kumbh and Mahakumbh. “The need for senior officials to be placed as sector in-charge of the different sectors of the Magh Mela along with other department comes in wake of the fact that there is a dearth of senior officials in the PMA,” said the official. In past, barring Kumbh and Mahakumbh, a SDM ranked officer had been made the Mela Adhikari while gazetted officers used to overlook the sectors. Now, as Paush Purnima, the day when the month long Kalpwas would begin on January 17, authorities have expedited the work pertaining to providing various facilities to the pilgrims coming for camping in the mela area. Meanwhile, the Mela Adhikari inspected different ongoing preparatory works at the mela area on Monday. Works like construction of the pontoon bridge, levelling of ground and checking erosion of the banks are being taken up on high priority by the mela administration. “We have ensured that the two important pontoon bridges will be completed by December 15 while the rest will be ready by December 31. Moreover, the uneven ground, besides the vast bank of river Ganga is being levelled so that seers and Kalpwasi gets ample land to put up their tents in Mela area,” said the Mela Adhikari, Shesh Mani Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-magh-mela-2022-to-be-held-on-a-smaller-scale-due-to-covid-19-scare-101638816837425.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU zonal youth fest: Folk dances steal the spotlight on Day 3||As the Zonal Youth and Heritage Festival ( Zone-B) entered its third day at GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, on Monday; performances of students in traditional dance forms enthralled the audience.The programme started with a formal welcome of all the guests and the audience by Pargat Singh Garcha, principal of the college. Gidha, folk dance and heritage crafts such as bagh, phulkari, dasuti/cross stitch, crochet work, pakhi, along with knitting, mehendi designing, creative writing and handwriting competitions were the highlights of the day.Ludhiana’s district Education officer of secondary school education, Lakhvir Singh, was the chief guest while Inderpal Singh, PU senator, professor Gurmeet Singh, PU senator and professor PS Bhogal, Arya College, Ludhiana were guests of honour. Lakhvir Singh urged the students to participate in cultural activities along with academic events for their holistic development. President of college governing council, Manjit Singh Gill, said that it was a matter of great pride that the college was hosting the youth festival. He also congratulated the principal, faculty and the students of the college for hosting the event successfully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-zonal-youth-fest-folk-dances-steal-the-spotlight-on-day-3-101638816834512.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Despite light rain, air quality remains very poor||The air quality index (AQI) remained in the ‘very poor’ category -- increasing from 305 on Sunday to 322 on Monday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin -- despite light showers in the Capital early Monday morning.The Safdarjung observatory, which is considered representative of Delhi, received 0.8mm of rainfall till 8.30am on Monday, while Ayanagar received 1.2mm.While an improvement in air quality is forecast in the next 24 hours, the IMD has also predicted a drop in temperatures, with the minimum expected to return to single digits by the weekend, and the maximum dropping to 21-22 degrees Celsius (°C) as cold north-westerly winds start blowing from Tuesday.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 24.8°C on Monday, one degree above normal, and the minimum was recorded at 15°C, six degrees above normal.IMD scientist RK Jenamani said while the minimum temperature tends to rise under the influence of a western disturbance, wind direction will once again change to northwesterly from Monday night and Tuesday morning, bringing colder winds towards Delhi. “There has been snowfall in the higher ranges and these cold winds will now blow towards Delhi, bringing a drop in both minimum and maximum temperatures. We can expect cold day-time temperature by the end of the week too,” he said.According to IMD’s seven-day forecast, Delhi’s minimum temperature will start hovering around 9-10°C range from Wednesday onwards, and the maximum temperature is expected to drop to 22°C by Sunday.Gufran Beig, project director and founder at the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), said wind speed will be good on Tuesday too, which will increase ventilation, but warned that the drop in temperatures will reduce the mixing height and have a negative impact on dispersal of pollutants.“Wind speed will remain good but AQI may remain in the ‘very poor’ range for the next few days,” he said.Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said as per forecasts, air quality could improve to the “poor” or “moderate” categories in the next two days as surface winds pick up.“However, as we approach peak winter, minimum temperatures are likely to drop gradually leading to a more stable atmosphere and low mixing height. This will trap pollutants closer to the surface, resulting in ‘very poor’, and occasionally ‘severe’, air quality levels,” she said.IMD’s forecast shows Delhi is expected to record shallow fog on Tuesday morning, with the maximum and minimum hovering around 24°C and 12°C, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-despite-light-rain-air-quality-remains-very-poor-101638816769473.html
07-12-2021||Other||Mega vaccination drive today with focus on second dose coverage||With focus on the second dose coverage, the district health department has decided to conduct a mega Covid-19 vaccination drive on Tuesday, said officials. The department has not set any particular target for this drive, but has directed the health workers to ensure that maximum possible second doses are administered, the officials said. On Tuesday, the vaccinations will take place at 130 sites across the district, along with door-to-door vaccination at 125 locations, the officials said, adding special morning and evening sessions will also be conducted at two slum clusters near Badshahpur. Normally, vaccinations take place at around 80 sites daily across the district, the officials said. The first dose vaccination coverage has crossed 100% as several people from other districts and a migrating population have also been vaccinated in the district, they said. In Gurugram, 1,803,656 people are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Our purpose for this drive is to ensure that all those who are yet to receive the second dose and are being continuously tracked by the department get vaccinated at the earliest. We have already vaccinated 91% of the eligible population with both doses, and are trying to achieve 100% vaccination as soon as possible.” On Monday, 14,595 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Gurugram, with 4,773 given the first dose and 9,822 the second dose. So far, over 3.91 million doses of vaccine have been administered in the district. 740 international travellers being monitoredMeanwhile, the officials said that 740 international travellers from 12 high-risk countries are being monitored in Gurugram. The district health department is also planning to increase testing for better surveillance as different states have started reporting cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19. In the past 24 hours, 4,002 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the district, according to the bulletin issued on Monday by the district health department. “We are trying to maintain an average of testing 3,500 samples daily, and samples of international travellers are regularly being sent for genome sequencing also. Our staff are also calling every international traveller daily to check if they have developed any symptoms. Besides, they will also make physical visits on every third and sixth day of a week to these travellers as part of the monitoring process,” said Yadav. The officials also said that none of the international travellers have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district so far. On Monday, Gurugram reported 18 fresh cases of Covid-19, along with 10 recoveries. The active Covid-19 case tally in the district now stands at 86, of which 78 are under home isolation and eight patients are hospitalised, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mega-vaccination-drive-today-with-focus-on-second-dose-coverage-101638816709602.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||PRTC calls for indefinite strike across Punjab from today||Public bus service is expected to remain suspended with the Punbus/Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) contractual employees union announcing a statewide indefinite strike from December 7 onwards. They are protesting against the Punjab government over regularisation of employeesAs per the information, the operations of over 200 buses will be impacted at the city bus stand due to the strike, of which public will bear the brunt. Station supervisor Kuljit Singh Sodhi said the permanent staff will remain on duty and try to run over 25 buses on important routes with more passengers. Meanwhile, the government is in talk with the union to resolve the issue.District president of the contractual employees union, Shamsher Singh, said, “The government has failed to fulfil our genuine demand for regularisation, due to which we have been forced to announce indefinite strike across the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prtc-call-for-indefinite-strike-across-punjab-from-today-101638816655452.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Genome sequencing of 10 cases awaited in PCMC||PUNE With six people tested for the Omicron Covid-19 variant in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits, authorities have shifted their focus to increase the percentage of vaccinations and ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour, which will be monitored on priority. “Around 48% of the population in Pimpri-Chinchwad have completed both doses of the vaccination. Currently, we are not issuing any new orders for Covid regulations, but the focus is on covering more people with both doses of the vaccine,” said Rajesh Patil, commissioner, PCMC. “In the last few months, we returned to a normal routine and Covid norms like wearing a mask, and maintaining social distance are not being followed seriously. Now again, it will be monitored strictly. If the situation demands, new orders will be issued in the coming days,” added Patil. In PCMC limits, 138 people have come kin from high-risk countries since Saturday. There have been 86 people subjected to RTPCR tests, of which six were detected with Omicron, while the genome sequencing report of 10 is still awaited. “Five of the six tested for the Omicron variant are asymptomatic, while only one was symptomatic. For those coming from high -risk countries a 14-day quarantine is compulsory,” said Patil. PCMC is currently not considering a sero survey. “The sero survey will be decided on the basis of the booster dose, at this stage we have not thought about it. Discussion about the sero survey is going on,” said Patil. New order on mass gatherings soon Amid the Omicron threat, PCMC officials are considering a new order on mass gatherings. “We will be coming out with a new order on mass gatherings which will be restricted to reduce the risk of the Omicron variant,” said Patil. Covid vaccination in Pimpri-Chinchwad 48%: Both doses 88%: First dose||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/genome-sequencing-of-10-cases-awaited-in-pcmc-101638816589740.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||PAU teachers’ association president’s hunger strike enters Day 6||Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO) president and Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU) teachers’ association leader Harmeet Singh Kingra’s hunger strike entered its sixth day on Monday.He had started the hunger strike in support of the demands of university and college teachers seeking implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission of Punjab.According to members of the association , Kingra’s condition was stable, but his blood pressure had dropped in the morning and is being monitored.They said that Kingra’s health is deteriorating, but he will continue the hunger strike. Moreover, the students of the university have also joined the protest now. From now, two students of the university will observe a single day hunger strike to mark their support and encourage the protestors.Sources said that the cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu have approached Kingra so that his demands can be discussed with the government.On the other hand, contractual employees continued to stage a protest outside PAU’s Thapar Hall on Monday. These employees are protesting for the past seven days and demanding regularisation of old employees and a hike in salary.Meanwhile, a delegation of DPL and contractual employees also met PAU vice-chancellor DK Tiwari to end the impasse. However, the talks are still on as both the parties could not reach a consensus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-protest-intensifies-kingra-s-hunger-strike-enters-day-6-101638816471013.html
07-12-2021||Other||Varanasi: Tripura girl, her father arrested for involvement in NEET solver gang||VARANASI Two more persons, including a man and his minor daughter from Tripura, were arrested here on Monday, for their involvement in the NEET solver gang, police said. Commissioner of police A Satish Ganesh said that Gopal Biswas and his minor daughter, residents of Tripura, were arrested on Monday. “During interrogation, Gopal Biswas admitted that he approached Pradipta Bhattacharya and Mrityunjay Devnath of Tripura, who promised to get his daughter passed NEET exam with the help of NEET solver gang kingpin Nilesh alias PK and gang member Dr Osama Shahid. The deal was settled for ₹50, 00, 000. Biswas deposited ₹5 lakh in advance in the bank accounts of Pradipta, Mrityunjay and Nilesh aka PK,” Ganesh said. CP said that Gopal revealed that the exam form was filled by mixing the photo of his daughter with Julie Kumari, who was a student of BHU. On September 12, Julie was giving examination in place of Gopal Vishwas’s daughter in Sarnath. Julie along with her mother was later arrested.Gopal Biswas was produced in a court and sent to the district jail in judicial custody while the minor girl was produced in a juvenile court and sent to the government observation home, Barabanki. Both were called to appear in the courts in connection with the case on Monday.So far, 13 people including, Julie Kumari, Babita, Dr Oshama Shahid, Abhay Kumar Mehta, Vikas Mahato, Raju Kumar, Nilesh aka PK, Ritesh Kumar, Tapan Shaha, Kanhaiya Lal, Kranti Kaushal and the father-daughter duo, have been arrested in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-tripura-girl-her-father-arrested-for-involvement-in-neet-solver-gang-101638816470539.html
07-12-2021||Gurugram||DCCDL gets US LEED zero water certification for DLF Cybercity, Gurugram||Realty major DLF on Tuesday said its rental arm DCCDL has received US Green Building Council's LEED zero water certification for water conservation in its commercial buildings at Gurugram, Haryana.DLF Cyber City Developers Ltd (DCCDL), which is a joint venture between DLF Ltd and investment firm GIC, has been awarded the USGBC'S LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Zero Water Certification, a company statement said.The company has achieved LEED Zero Water for 13.8 million square feet in DLF Cybercity, Gurugram.DCCDL, in its buildings at Cybercity, conserves more water through recycling and alternate sources than actual consumption in the 13.8 million square feet commercial properties.LEED Zero Water Certification recognises buildings that achieve a potable water use balance of zero over a period of 12 months.The certificate has been given by USGBC's Green Business Certification Inc."The LEED Zero Water certification bestowed on DCCDL – has elevated us to the global leaderboard for environment and sustainability practices," said Sriram Khattar, Managing Director, DLF (Rental Business)."This certification is given after achieving LEED Platinium Rating by the US Green Business Council. This reiterates our commitment to our stakeholders and the ecosystem we operate in," Khattar said.DCCDL is now the world's first project owner to exceed one million LEED Zero certified gross square feet of space. This also makes DCCDL the global leader in LEED Zero Water, the statement said.“Our engineering and technical teams are committed to water conservation. We have been implementing innovative solutions to reduce the usage of freshwater by implementing water-efficient technologies which, maximises the usage of recycled water and also generates alternative sources of water,” said Gautam Dey, Executive Director (Engineering), DLF.DLF Group has 215 million square feet of development potential across the residential and commercial segments.The DCCDL has a commercial portfolio of around 34 million square feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dccdl-gets-us-leed-zero-water-certification-for-dlf-cybercity-gurugram-101638815711650.html
07-12-2021||Other||SP made Azamgarh a stronghold of criminals: Yogi to Akhilesh||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday visited Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav’s Azamgarh Lok Sabha constituency where he launched projects worth several crores and accused the Samajwadi Party of making Azamgarh a ‘stronghold of criminals’. “By making Azamgarh, a stronghold of criminals, the Samajwadi Party created a crisis of identity in front of the youth here. When professional criminals and mafia used to live, there was fear in the minds of the poor and businessmen as they didn’t know whose house will be seized by which mafia,” the CM said. “The BJP government ensured action against criminals and mafias and ensured development,” the chief minister said. After laying foundation stone of 32 development projects worth ₹76.14 crore, the chief minister also advised Akhilesh Yadav to get vaccinated. “The SP chief used to call corona vaccine as the vaccine of BJP and Modi ji. Even ‘abbajaan’ has been vaccinated and now he too should get himself vaccinated because corona’s new variant (Omicron) has arrived. May be, after getting himself vaccinated, he will start speaking the truth,” the chief minister said. After distributing certificates of various schemes among the beneficiaries the chief minister accused the Samajwadi Party leader of neglecting his constituency. “We had visited Azamgarh thrice during the corona period to inspect medical and other facilities here and if people were getting proper care and treatment. BJP office bearers and workers were engaged in service of the people but Azamgarh MP was absent. He was nowhere to be found. During the first wave, when I asked about the local MP I came to know that he had gone to England. During the second wave, I was told that he had gone to Australia. The people of Azamgarh did not elect him to go to Australia and England,” the chief minister said. “Though SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav was the MP from Azamgarh when there was a SP government in the state. But development was confined only till Saifai. Azamgarh remained backward and mafia’s wealth increased under SP’s rule. People like Azam Khan used to harass Dalits,” the chief minister said. “Today, the opposition feels the pain if bulldozers run on the properties of mafia. He alleged that when the opposition parties were in power, the food grains of the poor were eaten. The poor did not get anything. People lived in an atmosphere of fear,” he said. After Sagri, the CM also visited Lalganj area in Azamgarh and inaugurated 37 development projects costing 122.43 crores there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sp-made-azamgarh-a-stronghold-of-criminals-yogi-to-akhilesh-101638816413795.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Centre should be strict with international passengers: Ajit Pawar||In light of seven cases of Omicron, the new Covid variant being reported from Pune district, deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar said that centre should adopt a strict approach towards international passengers coming into various states. Of the seven Omicron cases, six patients are from Pimpri-Chinchwad and belong to one family. Three of the six returned from Lagos, Nigeria, on November 24. Pawar said that the state government is closely monitoring the situation. “Central government should adopt a strict approach towards patients who are coming from outside (abroad) in various states. It should be checked at international airports whether rules are being followed or not,” said Pawar. Last week, the centre pulled up the Maharashtra government for imposing additional restrictions on international and domestic passengers. After a letter was issued by the Union health secratary Rajesh Bhushan, the state government revised its norms. Currently, South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe are categorised as high-risk countries by Maharshtra. The state government has clarified that the restrictions imposed by the government of India from time to time shall act as minimum restrictions to be imposed on all international and domestic air passengers. “Last year, in the month of March, a couple came from Dubai infected. Then their driver got infected and Covid started to spread. Now as well, only one or two patients have been found positive for Omicron in the various states. Now the close contacts of the family have also been found to be infected by the variant,” said Pawar. Pawar also asked the Union health ministry to clear the air about this new variant and take a concrete decision on a booster dose. Pawar said: “There are different thoughts expressed on this variant. So, WHO and the Union health ministry should clear the stand on it. Many who have taken two vaccine doses have been found infected with this variant. So, do we need a booster dose? Many doses are available now. A decision should be taken about this as soon as possible at national level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-should-be-strict-with-international-passengers-ajit-pawar-101638816349409.html
07-12-2021||Pune||85 fresh Covid positive cases on Monday; no deaths||PUNE As per the authorities, Pune district reported 85 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours on Monday. No Covid deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 523,436 Covid cases and 9,218 deaths till Monday. PCMC has reported 270,006 cases so far and a total of 3,512 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 368,176 total cases so far and 6,982 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 1,161,618 Covid cases. Of this, 1,139,676 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 20,062 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 1,880 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 811 patients were discharged on Monday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,487,593. The recovery rate in the state is 97.72%.The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/85-fresh-covid-positive-cases-on-monday-no-deaths-101638816115653.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Dagadusheth Ganpati Trust president Ashok Godse passed away||The president of the Shrimant Dagadusheth Halwai Ganpati Trust Ashok Godse passed away due to prolonged illness on Monday at 6.45 pm. He was 65 years-old and is survived by wife, one daughter and one son, both of whom are married. He has been undergoing treatment at Sassoon Hospital for liver cancer for the past two weeks. He was working through the trust for about 50 to 55 years. He has been the chairman of Shrimant Dagadusheth Halwai Public Ganpati Trust since 2010. He was also the director of Suvarnayug Sahakari Bank. He was instrumental in the successful organization of the trust activities||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dagadusheth-ganpati-trust-president-ashok-godse-passed-away-101638815930920.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Emergency services hit as resident doctors’ strike enters day 10||The nationwide strike by the resident doctors at government hospitals associated with medical colleges entered its tenth day on Monday, with medics in many big hospitals in Delhi such as the Ram Manohar Lohia and Safdarjung boycotting emergency services.The doctors have been protesting delays in conducting NEET-PG counselling, which has resulted in not only medical students losing out on a year but also understaffed hospitals.The resident doctors started by boycotting work at the out-patient clinics followed by all routine services including care of admitted patients and planned surgeries. Doctors from across hospitals took out a march on Monday demanding “justice”.The agitation is going on in the backdrop of cases of the new Sars-CoV-2 omicron variant being detected across the country. So far, Delhi has confirmed one case with 27 others suspected to have the infection being in isolation at Lok Nayak hospital.The NEET-PG examinations that usually take place in May were delayed because of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country. The exams were finally conducted in September, but the counselling was postponed because of a batch of petitions in the Supreme Court demanding reservation for candidates.The health ministry had initially assured the doctors that all documents relating to the case that were to be submitted by the government would be given by December 1 and there will be efforts to fast-track the hearing. A delegation of doctors met the union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, but decided to continue the strike until the government issues a written assurance.“He (the health minister) mentioned that the ministry of health and family welfare will try to get the case regarding NEET-PG 2021 counselling, and the case pertaining to reservation policy delinked to expedite the process. He, however, informed that since the matter is sub-judice, he had limited role to play and asked the RDA (resident doctors association) to call off the agitation based on the verbal assurance. The RDA representatives informed the health minister that the agitation will continue till a written assurance is given,” read a letter by the resident doctors of RML hospital.At Safdarjung hospital, director general of health services Sunil Kumar urged the doctors to call off the strike.A meeting of all state representatives was held on Monday evening and the doctors decided to continue the strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiemergency-services-hit-as-resident-doctors-strike-enters-day-10-101638815929653.html
07-12-2021||Pune||Two held, 2 on the run in kidnapping case in Pune||The Pune police arrested two men for kidnapping and assaulting a 22-year-old eatery owner from Dhanori on Saturday afternoon. The two arrested have been identified as Abhijit Datta Pakhre (24) and Shrishailya Somnath Mhaske (20) both residents of Munjoba Vasti in Dhanori area of Pune. Two more accused are on the run, said officials. A complaint in the matter has been lodged by a 22-year-old man who owns a breakfast snack handcart in the area. A group of four men allegedly asked the eatery owner for a monthly extortion cost in exchange of no trouble from them. When the complainant refused, they kidnapped him from his house and took him to a place near Hadapsar in a car, according to the complainant. The men allegedly assaulted him and threatened to repeat the assault if he failed to pay the money, according to the complaint. A case under Sections 363, 387, 452, 324, 506, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Vishrantwadi police station. Assistant police inspector Sachin Nikam of Vishrantwadi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-held-2-on-the-run-in-kidnapping-case-in-pune-101638815690229.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||In first Delhi riots case conviction, man held guilty of setting house on fire||New Delhi: In the first conviction in the Delhi riots cases, a Delhi court on Monday held a 25-year old man guilty of setting on fire a 73-year old woman’s house in Gokalpuri during the communal violence that erupted in several localities of north-east Delhi in February last year.Additional sessions judge (ASJ) Virender Bhat convicted Dinesh Yadav alias Michael, for being a member of an unlawful assembly, rioting, rioting armed with deadly weapon, house trespass, robbery and mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house. The maximum punishment under these sections entails a jail term of up to ten years.The court fixed December 22 to pronounce the sentence. “It is great to share that the first conviction order has been issued today in respect of north-east riot cases,” the PRO office of the deputy commissioner of police (DCP)/North-East said.A detailed copy of the order was not uploaded on the website of the district court till late Monday evening. Yadav was arrested in June 2020, and the charges in the case were framed on August 1, 2021. There were 12 prosecution witnesses who were examined during the trial.According to the prosecution, Yadav was an “active member of the riotous mob” and took active participation in vandalising and setting on fire the house of a 73-year-old woman named Manori on the night of February 25.The woman, who was the complainant in the matter, alleged that a mob of around 150-200 rioters attacked her house when her family was not present, and looted all the articles including their buffalo.Earlier, in July, a city court passed its first judgment in the riots cases, and acquitted a man accused of rioting, unlawful assembly, and dacoity. Accused in two cases, that were being probed by the local police, were given clean chit by the court even before the trial started.Communal clashes broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, after a standoff between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and opposers got out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-first-delhi-riots-case-conviction-man-held-guilty-of-setting-house-on-fire-101638815689319.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up cops, asks if there was a ban on housing Tablighis from abroad||The Delhi high court on Monday ordered the city police to state on affidavit whether there was any ban on the Indian nationals in housing foreign Tablighi Jamaat members when they had come on valid passports and visas.Justice Mukta Gupta came down heavily on the Delhi police for not giving proper details related to the cases after the counsel, representing the city police, said that they were not aware about the dates when the foreigners had entered the premises in question.“If there was no notification, everybody was free to live and when suddenly lockdown was imposed, people were static wherever they were. You have to find out that once lockdown was imposed, thereafter (if) the persons were moving here and there and had visited these places even when there were prohibitions,” said Justice Gupta.The judge also said that “instead of half baked replies”, it should give proper details for the court to pass the order.“The problem is there is no investigation done in the matter,” the court remarked.The court was hearing a bunch of pleas by 60 Indian nationals seeking to quash the FIRs registered against them for giving shelter to the foreign Tablighi Jamaat members during the pandemic in 2020.On Monday, the court directed the deputy commissioner of police (Central) to file a detailed affidavit in the case. It also asked the police to inform whether the petitioners are also facing charges in the main FIR related to the Tablighi congregation.The matter would be heard on January 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-pulls-up-cops-asks-if-there-was-a-ban-on-housing-tablighis-from-abroad-101638815389329.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Striped hyena spotted in Asola Bhatti sanctuary after three years||A striped hyena was spotted at the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary (ABWS) on Friday, in what is reportedly the first sighting of the animal in the park since 2018, when wildlife officials found its pug marks there. Sohail Madan, centre manager, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) at Asola, said the animal was captured on one of the 22 camera traps inside the sanctuary. “There has been indirect evidence of a striped hyena in 2018 and 2017, when we found pug marks, but this is the first photographic evidence of the animal in a long time,” said Madan.The cameras were installed inside the park in March this year as part of the census of all mammals inside the sanctuary. The census aims to cover the mammalian diversity inside the sanctuary which is spread across an area of 2,782 hectares.Nisheeth Saxena, chief wildlife warden, forest and wildlife department, confirmed the sighting and said that the animal is likely to have come from the Aravalli belt in Haryana. “Over the last few years, we have been observing striped hyenas and their pug marks during the winter. This year too, one such hyena has been captured on a camera trap. It is possible that there were more,” he said. Experts said striped hyenas are nocturnal omnivores and can survive on small mammals, insects and fruits too. They said these animals typically prefer a scrub forest, which the Aravalli landscape offers.Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park in North Delhi said hyenas are scavengers and can live close to human settlements. “They are scavengers, and the Indian hyena is generally known to not live in packs. We have seen them survive close to human settlements where there is plenty of waste, including carcasses and meat that gets dumped with garbage,” said Khudsar. He said the sighting of the animal was a good sign for the animal habitat.Amit Anand, deputy conservator of forest (south), said striped hyenas have similar food habits as the golden jackal, which is found in large numbers at Asola. “The animal was last seen around 2015 in the Dera Mandi area. It is found across the Aravalli hills, but sightings on the Delhi side are rare,” he said. In September, the camera traps at the sanctuary also captured a leopard, spotted barely 250 metres away from the office of the DCF (south).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhistriped-hyena-spotted-in-asola-bhatti-sanctuary-after-three-years-101638814429371.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi assembly panel gives Kangana more time to explain hate posts||Actor Kangana Ranaut has sought more time to appear before the Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee over her alleged hateful posts on social media, the panel’s chairperson and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha said on Monday.She was summoned to appear before the panel on December 6.“She has cited some personal and professional reasons for her non-availability today [Monday]. She has sought a fresh date for her appearance before the committee to aid and assist it in its ongoing proceedings. The revised date of her appearance before the committee will be decided later,” Chadha said. On November 25, the committee issued a notice summoning Ranaut to depose before the panel on December 6 based on complaints it received for an alleged offensive and derogatory social media post by her. While issuing the notice to the actor, the committee in a statement said complaints claimed that Ranaut, in an Instagram story, labelled the Sikh community as “Khalistani terrorists”.Chadha had said Ranaut’s posts have “caused immense agony, distress and gravely hurt” the religious sentiments of people from the Sikh community. He said it could potentially Iead to a situation of disruption of peace and harmony in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-panel-gives-kangana-more-time-to-explain-hate-posts-101638814190402.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to organise plays on Ambedkar||The Delhi government will organise plays on the life of Dr BR Ambedkar, the chief architect of the Indian Constitution, next month “to spread his teachings”, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday.Making the announcement in a digital press briefing on Mahaparinirvan Divas, which marks Ambedkar’s death anniversary, the CM said, “To spread his teachings and to let everyone know about his inspiring life, the Delhi government will organise a mega play from January 5 at the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium. The play will be shown about 50 times, each will be free for the public. The play will be of international standards. So, I request all of you to watch it once it starts next month.”“We are celebrating the 75th year of Independence. I want every child and adult to know about the life of Ambedkar ji. At that time he was the first Indian to have a doctorate, and he had not one, but two doctorate degrees, both from abroad. He was also the chairman of the seven member drafting committee of the Constitution of independent India. He also contributed to eradicating the social scourge of untouchability in India,” Kejriwal said.The musical play will be based on Ambedkar’s life, his thoughts, his ideas and ideology and will have the most famous artists and experts take part in it, the government said in a statement, adding that they are preparing a 100-feet wide stage and setting up a production of international standards. The entry will be free to all so that each and every child can watch the show and seek inspiration from his life.“If I say that Babasaheb was the most educated person in the history of India, I don’t think I will be making any erroneous statement. I have never heard or read about anyone who had devoted themselves to education more than he did... He did one doctorate from America, one from England. And that too when he came from a very underprivileged background. When he was studying abroad, there was a time when his grant was put on hold so he had to drop everything and come back. He could only go back after somehow making monetary arrangements for his education. It is so tough for one to get admission in universities abroad even today and then there was Babasaheb who managed to get two doctorates in his time and became the first Indian to do so. He was very fond of reading and in fact even knew nine languages,” Kejriwal said.He had a personal library named Rajgir that boasted 50,000 books and was perhaps the largest in the whole world, the chief minister added.The Delhi government is already running the Jai Bhim Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana to extend quality education to the underprivileged, the statement read.“The Kejriwal government has taken a resolve to uplift the downtrodden sections of the society. In that direction, it has made sure that all students from the SC/ST/OBC/EWS society get support for taking up higher education and pursuing professional careers under the Jai Bhim Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana. Under this scheme, meritorious students belonging to SC/ST/OBC and EWS categories receive free coaching from private institutes for competitive exams such as JEE, NEET, CLAT, civil services, banking, railways, SSC among others. If a kid from a family earning less than ₹8 lakh per annum is talented, they no longer have to face the hurdles of poverty. The Kejriwal government provides them free coaching. The Kejriwal government also provides a stipend of ₹2,500 to the beneficiary students so that they do not face problems in their commute,” the government statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-organise-plays-on-ambedkar-101638813710129.html
07-12-2021||Delhi||79% of returned DDA flats located in outer Delhi’s Narela: Union minister||About 79% of the total flats returned by allottees of the past four Delhi Development Authority (DDA) housing schemes are located in north Delhi’s Narela.In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs Kaushal Kishore also said that the land-owning agency has put on sale 56,932 flats since 2014.“…about 15,500 flats have been returned/surrendered and have remained unsold so far. 79% of total surrendered (returned) flats are located in newly developed Narela sub-city,” the junior minister said.One of the three planned sub-cities in the national capital, the area, where the DDA has planned large scale housing projects, lacks essential services like transport and water supply.The junior minister informed the upper house of Parliament that the flats were returned as: they are located in remote locations; the cost of the flats is high and size small; and the area has no Metro connectivity.“In order to improve the saleability of these flats, DDA has undertaken various remedial measures including improvement of transport infrastructure, construction of Urban Extension Road-II (UER-II), permitting amalgamation of flats, allotment on first-cum-first-serve basis and some concession to the purchasers,” the minister informed.According to a senior DDA official, the land-owning agency will come out with a new housing scheme to dispose of these 15,500 flats. “The housing scheme was approved in the authority meeting, chaired by Delhi lieutenant governor, recently. We will launch the scheme by December end,” said the official.In a bid to ensure that these flats are sold out, the DDA has decided that the returned flats will be sold at old rates.A majority of the flats are in the Lower Income Group and Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category and a bulk of the flats were returned by allottees of the 2017 and 2019 scheme, said a DDA official requesting anonymity.Past schemesUntil 2010, the DDA has always received an overwhelming response to its housing schemes. In 2010, over 16,000 flats, located in Dwarka, Narela, Rohini and Mukherjee Nagar, among others, were put on sale for which DDA received close to seven lakh applications.In 2014, the land-owning agency had put on sale over 25,000 flats, mostly in Lower Income Group category located in Narela and Rohini. The DDA received close to a million applications for these flats. But due to reasons including the small size of the flats, its location and lack of transport connectivity, close to 12,000 were returned by allottees mostly in Narela.Since then, DDA has launched three housing schemes and relaxed the norms allowing amalgamation of flats, but it has not been able to generate a good response.In 2019, DDA launched a housing scheme with close to 18,000 flats (mostly for LIG and EWS categories). But due to tepid response, it had put only 10,294 flats on sale of which it could sell 8,438. Even then, nearly 5,000 flats were returned by the allottees.“We have now proposed a Metro corridor in the area for which funds will be given by the DDA. We are also trying to redevelop the area by making a proper plan for effective utilisation of vacant plots in the area to bring in more economic activity which will result in housing demand,” said a senior DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/79-of-returned-dda-flats-located-in-outer-delhi-s-narela-union-minister-101638813349084.html
07-12-2021||Other||Tension prevails in Nagaland following death of 14 in botched security op||Hundreds of mourners joined Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio to pay their last respects to the 14 civilians shot dead by security personnel during a botched operation and confrontation with local villagers during the weekend.Hundreds of mourners joined Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio and defied curfew to to pay their last respect to 14 civilians shot dead by security personnel during a botched operation and confrontation with the local villagers on Saturday and Sunday.|#+|An elite military commando unit shot dead six coal miners returning to their homes in Mon districts of Nagaland state on Saturday, believing they were targeting insurgents.Army has said the miners were killed after they laid an ambush following “credible intelligence” of an armed insurgent group moving in the area.Another eight people were killed by troops when they were confronted by a furious crowd, with a soldier also killed and three army vehicles set ablaze.Hundreds of locals carried the victims’ coffins to the helipad ground in Mon district headquarters to conduct prayers, as a curfew imposed on Sunday afternoon was lifted partially during the three-hour public funeral. Curfew was lifted specifically for the localitty where the funeral was held, deputy commissioner Mon Thavaseelan K told HT.On Monday, for the second day, solemn street protests and candle-light marches were held across the state for the victims. A police officer described the ground situation as “tense but under control”.A six-hour ‘bandh’ (shutdown) called by Naga Students’ Federation (NSF) to protest the killing passed off peacefully, despite minor skirmishes between students and security forces in some places.Speaking to reporters, NSF president Kegwayhun Tep and general secretary Siipuni Ng. Philo said the shutdown was to protest the shooting down of civilians and in solidarity with the family of victims.“The sole purpose of this bandh was to display our grief, our anger and our sentiments ... Naga people are free people and we have every right to defend what we have,” they said.During the six-hour bandh, the NSF also put up banners and placards some of which read, “We stand in solidarity with our Naga brethren – The innocent civilians who were brutally killed at Oting village, Mon district”, “Nagas have every right to live in peace”.In Mokokchung district, the Ao Students Conference condemning the “massacre of innocent civilians” held a silent procession demanding justice and revocation of AFSPA.Besides, the six-hour shutdown call of NSF, other civil societies and tribal bodies also imposed bandh in the respective areas with Dimapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries enforcing total bandh in Dimapur for 12 hours and Lotha Hoho imposing band in Wokha district.Addressing a mass funeral service held in Mon for the 14 victims, Rio said the state continues to be declared a “disturbed state” every year due to the vexed Naga political issue and insurgency.On the killing of the 14 civilians, Rio asked people to have faith in the state government and said the special investigation team (SIT) will probe every angel and action will be taken under all the accused. He assured that protection under AFSPA will not apply for the first time.“The army has admitted that they made a mistake and the whole world is watching the developments,” he said.The chief minister also mentioned that the commander of the army’s 3 Corps headquarters had personally asked him to convey to the Naga public that the army will also be conducting a proper inquiry into the shooting and punishment will be given.Rio said the sacrifice made by 14 innocent Konyak-Naga brothers will never be forgotten and December 4 and 5 will remain black days for all Nagas.He said this while referring to the decision of Konyak Union (the apex tribal body of the district) which had declared to observe these two days as “Black Day” every year. The Konyak Union had termed the shooting incidents an atrocity beyond reasoning and a deliberate crime against humanity.The CM also announced ₹5 lakh as ex-gratia to the victims’ families and added that the Central government will give ₹11 lakh. He assured a government job to each to the victim families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tension-prevails-in-nagaland-following-death-of-14-in-botched-security-op-101638807768752.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Not a single house sanctioned, Punjab’s Barnala, Fazilka score zero against PMAY-G target||The district administrations of Barnala and Fazilka in Punjab failed to sanction even a single house under the Union rural development ministry’s Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) till December 6 and thus achieved zero per cent target, revealed the Physical Progress Report for the financial year 2021-22. While Barnala was given a target of 559, Fazilka was asked to sanction 551 pukka houses.Also, Sangrur achieved 0.2 % target by sanctioning only 1 house against the target of 568. Besides, the Rupnagar district, where chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s constituency Chamkaur Sahib falls, achieved 0.6 % target by sanctioning mere 3 houses against the target of 478. The Muktsar district topped the chart by sanctioning the maximum 1,562 houses against the target of 4,309 with 36.2% score. However, the Patiala district was on the top in terms of percentage achieved against the given target, as it sanctioned 817 houses against the target of 1,008 with 81.1% score. Under the scheme, ₹1.20 lakh is given to a beneficiary living in a kutcha house in a village in three installments along with 90-day labour for constructing a pukka house.Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union state committee member Harbhagwan Moonak said that the PMAY-G is not being implemented in villages of Sangrur district even as underprivileged people have been living in miserable conditions. “The poor want to submit applications but sarpanches and other panchayats members do not listen to them,” he said.Barnala additional deputy commissioner (development) Amit Bamby said that he recently assumed the charge but has held a meeting in this regard. “The district performed poorly under the scheme but we are working on it. Our performance will improve shortly,” added Bamby.Sangrur ADC (D) Rajinder Singh Batra said, “We are going to sanction 8 houses for the beneficiaries. I have directed all block development and panchayat officers (BDPOs) to clear all cases. We are on the job and the target will be achieved,” added Batra.Physical Progress Report (2021-22) till Dec 6DistrictFixed target Number of houses SanctionedPercentage scorePatiala1,00881781.1%Muktsar4,3091,56236.2%Rupnagar47830.6%Sangrur56810.2%Barnala55900.0%Fazilka55100.0%
07-12-2021||Bangalore||101, including 90 students, test Covid positive in Karnataka school; samples to be sent for genome sequencing||As many as 101 people, including 90 students, in a school in Karnataka's Chikkamagaluru district have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding to the already existing cluster of infections in the area amid the spread of Omicron in the country, officials said on Monday.Their samples will be sent for genome sequencing to find out if anyone has been infected with the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus, Chikkamagaluru district health officer (DHO) Dr SN Umesh told news agency ANI.Also Read | One more Covid-19 cluster in Karnataka as 9 college students test positiveAs many as 69 people, including 59 students and 10 staff members, in the Jawahar Navodaya School in Seegodu were initially found to be positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. According to the latest update, the number has now risen to 101 after 21 more students and one staffer tested positive for coronavirus.Following the discovery of mass-scale Covid-19 positive cases, the district health officer said the school will be sealed and remain shut for the next seven days.Also Read | As Omicron enters Delhi, CM Kejriwal urges people not to panic but 'wear masks'A total of 457 samples were collected from the school, of which, 69 tested positive the first time. On Monday, the figure went up and now 90 students and 11 staff members from the educational institution have been found to be positive for Covid-19.Karnataka has been combatting several Covid-19 clusters amid the Omicron threat. On Sunday, a new cluster was identified at a private nursing school in Shivamogga called Nanjappa Institute of Nursing Sciences in which as many as 29 students tested positive for the virus. Shivamogga deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar said most of these students are asymptomatic and that the hostel premises have been sealed.To better tackle the situation, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai announced a set of rules for cluster management. According to latest guidelines, if an area confirms three cases of Covid-19, it would be declared a cluster. Furthermore, both doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been made mandatory for visiting apartment complexes, and if a building has been declared a cluster, no outsider will be permitted to enter. The state government has classified schools, colleges and hostels in one cluster, and apartment complexes in another.Also Read | Area with 3 cases cluster, jabs must for parents: 5 new Karnataka Omicron rulesThis comes as India's Omicron tally climbed up to 23 on Monday after two cases of the new variant of Covid-19 were detected in Mumbai. The Maharashtra health department said that both the patients do not have any symptom and are currently admitted to Seven Hills Hospital. With this, Maharashtra's Omicron tally has reached 10.Also Read | Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Karnataka minister says will close schools if neededOn Sunday, 17 cases of the strain were reported, with nine being from Jaipur and seven from Maharashtra. On Saturday, one Omicron case was reported from Maharashtra's Thane. Karnataka has reported two cases of Omicron so far.Meanwhile, samples of nine people in Punjab's Ludhiana have been sent for genome sequencing after they were found to be positive for coronavirus on Sunday. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat told Hindustan Times that none of the patients is non-resident Indians (NRIs) or have a history of international travel, and their symptoms are typical of the virus.India has issued revised travel guidelines for international arrivals that include mandatory quarantine and RT-PCR test. The country has also deferred the resumption of international flights from December 15 onwards. However, unlike a host of nations, including the US, Canada and Japan, India is yet to impose travel bans on affected countries in southern Africa due to the Omicron Covid-19 variant's discovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/amid-omicron-threat-90-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-karnataka-school-101638789060721.html
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy snowfall brings life to standstill in HP||Two national highways among 131 roads closed, most of them in Lahaul and Spiti district; Rohtang tunnel also shut after heavy snow  Heavy snowfall in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh since Sunday night has brought life to a standstill, particularly in Lahaul and Spiti district. A total of 131 roads, including two national highways and the Rohtang tunnel, have been blocked for traffic due to the inclement weather. The maximum of 124 roads are closed in Lahaul and Spiti district. Atal Tunnel, Rohtang (ATR) has been closed for traffic as a foot of snow has been recorded at the North Portal and Sissu. The South Portal of the tunnel has also got snow. The Gramphu to Losar stretch of National Highway 505 is blocked too. Ninety power distribution transformers, including 58 in Lahaul and Spiti, have been hit due to the snowfall, causing the suspension of power supply in the remote areas of the district. Lahaul and Spiti superintendent of police Manav Verma said people should avoid travelling till the road is cleared by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO). Snowfall in Kufri, Pangi valley ATR North Portal, Koksar and Sissu got 1.5ft snowfall that is still continuing, while Darcha got 12 inches of snow and Keylong eight inches, Udaipur four inches, Tindi and Losar two inches each and Kaza one inch of snow. The 3,978-m high Rohtang Pass got 2.5ft snowfall. The remote Dodra Kwar in Shimla district got 1ft snowfall, Chopal 2-3 inches and Kufri, Narkanda, Rohru and Khara Pathar experienced light snowfall. Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Monika Bhutungru said people have been advised to drive cautiously as road conditions are slippery due to mild snowfall in the morning at Chharabra and Kufri. “Traffic is through but slow,” she said, adding that a rescue team from Dhali police station is overseeing operations. Famous tourist resort Narkanda also experienced season’s first snowfall. In Kullu, Jalori Jot experienced about 2ft snow. There was also snowfall in Solang nullah and Gulaba while Manali town experienced snowflakes. The remote Pangi valley in Chamba district got 1-2 inches of snow, while Triund, the trekkers’ destination, overlooking Dharamshala also received the season’s first snowfall. Rain in Manali, Chamba and Keylong The middle and lower hills experienced moderate to light rainfall. Manali was the wettest with 24mm of rainfall, while Chamba got 23mm, Mandi 17.2mm, Keylong 15mm, Bhunter 14mm, and Palampur 12.4mm rainfall. Other parts of the state also received light rainfall. The fresh spell of snow has led to maximum temperatures plummeting by several degrees. The minimum temperatures were 2-3 degrees above normal. Keylong was the coldest place in the state with a night temperature of minus 3.4 degrees Celsius followed by minus 1 degree C in Kufri. Kalpa recorded a low of minus 0.2 degree C, while the minimum temperature in Manali was 0 degree. State capital Shimla saw a low of 5.1 degrees Celsius, while Dalhousie recorded a night temperature of 2.6, Dharamshala 7.8 and Palampur 7 degrees Celsius. 
07-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: North MCD draws ₹515 crore plan to curb road dust||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has formulated a five-year, ₹515-crore pollution mitigation plan that includes relaying unpaved roads in areas such as the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, a freight hub, and buying more mechanical sweepers -- steps that are primarily aimed at curbing dust pollution in the areas managed by the civic body.Last month, a study of air quality across 39 monitoring stations in the capital by Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) showed that the top six areas that recorded worst air quality between November 1 and 8 were under the North civic body. Overall, 16 of the 39 areas came under the North MCD.The north civic body maintains the largest geographical area in the city (604.54 sq km out of 1484 sq km) among the three municipal bodies.A senior civic body official who is aware of the plan said that the corporation plans to buy equipment such as mechanical sweepers, anti-smog guns and road repair machines worth Rs25.44 crore.The official explained that the funds for the project will be managed through urban development fund (that is given by the central government) and money received under the national clean air action plan. “We have assessed our needs in terms of the area that needs to be covered and we will need more mechanical road sweepers, anti-smog guns and road repair machines,” a second official who oversees the anti-pollution drives said.The official said that the North MCD plans to procure six mechanical road sweepers, 12 truck-mounted anti-smog guns, 6 CNG trucks mounted anti-smog guns and one automatic road patch repair machine. The north corporation currently operates a fleet of 18 mechanical road sweepers and 128 water sprinkling tankers.Dust remains one of the key pollution components in Delhi. A study by the IIT Kanpur has shown that dust from roads, digging and agriculture accounts for the highest suspended particulate matter sources in Delhi, contributing 38% of PM2.5 and 56% of PM10 in Delhi. It is estimated that more than 131 tonnes of dust is generated everyday in Delhi with construction sites, loose soil, road dust and poorly maintained roads being some of the key contributing factors.The mitigation plan, a copy of which has been seen by HT, incorporates the need for upgrade and maintenance of 15 decentralized waste management facilities and existing machinery/equipment over the next five years.Some of the most dust pollution prone areas include Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar Phase-2, Kailash Park, Manohar park, Moti Nagar, Kirti Nagar, Ram Nagar and several unpaved stretches in Narela region, civic officials said.With close proximity to the Sanjay Gandhi transport Nagar, Alipur has emerged as a new pollution hot spot, the first official explained.“Under phase-2 of the project, ₹58.5 crore revamp of Sanjay Gandhi transport Nagar has been proposed. A, B, C block and phase 1 are being covered in the on-going phase for which funds have been received from central urban development fund and work orders worth ₹50.33 crore have recently been issued,” the official added.Chhail Bihari Goswami, the leader of the house in North MCD, did not comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-north-mcd-draws-rs-515-crore-plan-to-curb-road-dust-101638726874365.html
