08-12-2021||Other||Gurugram air enters ‘moderate’ zone for first time in 41 days||Spelling a wave of relief for the residents, the air quality in Gurugram on Wednesday improved considerably and entered ‘moderate’ zone after 41 days, with favourable wind speed aiding dispersion of pollutants. The city’s average air quality index (AQI) at 4pm on Wednesday was 185, according to the Central Pollution Control Board, an improvement from Tuesday’s reading of 248. The city had last witnessed ‘moderate’ air quality on October 28 with an AQI of 182. Experts said that the improvement in air quality was due to increased wind speed and cyclonic depression over the Bay of Bengal. Neighbouring Faridabad district also recorded ‘moderate’ air quality on Wednesday, while air quality in Delhi was in the ‘poor’ zone. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. “Due to a depression over Bay of Bengal, the entire passage got cleared where air along with pollutants was getting stuck in lower atmospheric zones. The western disturbance over the Himalayan region also helped. With clear sky, the lower atmospheric air got warm, which helped the pollutants rise and with higher mixing depth, the air quality improved,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert. However, the relief is likely to be short, as according to the weather bulletin issued on Wednesday by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality is likely to remain in ‘poor’ category till Monday and deteriorate marginally on December 14. On Thursday, the predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from northwest direction of Delhi with wind speed of 4kmph with mainly clear sky and shallow to moderate fog in the morning, the bulletin said, adding that the wind speed is likely to increase to 6-8kmph on Friday. Meanwhile, Gurugram on Wednesday recorded a maximum temperature of 24.7°C, which was one degree above normal, and minimum temperature of 10°C, which was three degrees above normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD, said, “As per predictions, the minimum temperature is likely to drop by 2-3 degrees in the plain areas over the next three days, but we are still recording temperatures higher than normal. A cold wave situation is likely to happen only when temperatures fall, while moderate to shallow fog is likely at isolated places in the state. Due to the drop in temperature, air quality is also likely to get affected.” According to the weekly forecast of IMD, Gurugram is likely to witness generally cloudy sky on Sunday, which IMD officials said is an impact of light western disturbance, but rain is not predicted. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer (north Gurugram) of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board did not respond to calls for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-air-enters-moderate-zone-for-first-time-in-41-days-101638988042855.html
08-12-2021||Other||Lucknow: Priyanka Gandhi promises 40% job quota, another perks for women in manifesto for UP assembly polls||Lucknow: The All India Congress Committee general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday released a special manifesto for women, promising to grant 40% quota in government jobs and several other benefits to women, if the party wins the 2022 Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. The Congress had already announced to allocate 40% of the party tickets to the women candidates in the election. Releasing the manifesto for women- ‘Shakti Vidhan Mahila Ghoshnapatra’ at the UP Congress Committee office here, Priyanka said the women manifesto has been divided into six parts- Swabhiman (self- esteem), swavalamban (self- reliance), shiksha (education), samman (respect), suraksha (security) and sehat (health). Announcing a host of promises for women, Priyanka said that the businesses giving 50% jobs to the women would get tax rebates as well as other assistance, the 50% of the ration shops would be managed and run by the women, the women self- help groups would get loan at an interest rate of 4%. Besides these, women would get free bus travel in the state-run buses and they women would get three cooking gas cylinders free every year. The Congress had already announced to give smartphone to the girls enrolled in 10+2 and scooty to the girls enrolled in the graduation courses, she said. Claiming that the Congress party has been a champion of women cause, Priyanka said Congress gave the country first women Prime Minister, first women President and first women chief minister to Uttar Pradesh several years back, while USA recently elected a woman vice-president. “The Congress women manifesto will also put pressure on the rival political parties to take women empowerment seriously. The women have been participating in the politics yet their empowerment remains a distant dream. The party ensured power to the women in the panchayati raj, Congress leader Sonia Gandhi has expressed commitment for reserving 33% seats in the Parliament for women. The party manifesto- Shakti Vidhan is a document for women equality, justice, freedom, dignity and self-respect,” she said. Priyanka said, “The Congress wants check on the atrocities and exploitation of the women by empowering them. The Congress wants participation of the women in the politics. The party has finalised candidates on 100 assembly seats. Of them, 60 are women and 40 are male candidates.” The women manifesto was not drafted in a room but the members of the manifesto committee under the chairmanship of senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid visited several districts and held talks with various groups before drafting the manifesto, she said. “A help line will also be set up at the state level as well as in the districts to assist the victims of domestic violence, sexual exploitation and destitute. Hostels will be constructed for the working women in 25 cities of UP, assistance in the employment will be given to them who were affected due to Covid-19, besides the ASHA and Aganbadi workers will get monthly remuneration of ₹10,000 each month,” she claimed. The manifesto also promises that 40% of the works in MNREGS would be reserved for women, a special department for the training and employment of handicap women, and a special employment exchange for women would be set up. Besides a course on reproductive rights, sexual education and child marriage for girls above 14 years and ₹1,000 monthly pension to old women and widows. As per the manifesto, a woman chaupal will be set up in each gram panchayat and poor families will get free internet service, a sports academy will be set up for women, the 25% posts in the state police force will be reserved for women and a woman constable will be posted in each police station, a special commission will be set up for women and a legal cell will be set up in each district for free legal aide. The women manifesto also focuses on the health of women. The women patients will get ₹10 lakh assistance from government for treatment, along with strengthening the primary health centres (PHC) and community health centres (CHC), the Congress government will set up Health Shakti Centre managed by women in each PHC. Replying to a question, Priyanka said, she does not require a certificate from chief minister, Yogi Adityanath about her faith and belief. Whatever be the result in the assembly election, the Congress women manifesto will pave way for women empowerment in Uttar Pradesh. The Congress will release the main election manifesto within two weeks, she said. 
08-12-2021||Pune||Former Pune mayor Ankush Kakade calls for meet to discuss traffic fines||PUNE As the fines for traffic violations have been increased by the Maharashtra government, acting on a suggestion by the Central government, Former mayor Ankush Kakade has called for an all-party meeting to discuss the issue. Kakade said, “It is good to have strict rules for traffic violations, but the proposed violation fines are beyond the capacity of common citizens. Many times, violations are accidental and not intentional, but police harass the common people.” Kakade added, “Many citizens call various activists after getting caught by the police. To discuss the issue a meeting has been called to take a stand.” This meeting will be held at Sane parking lot in Narayan peth on Thursday, December 9 at 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-pune-mayor-ankush-kakade-calls-for-meet-to-discuss-traffic-fines-101638986904142.html
08-12-2021||Lucknow||About 20K BTech seats vacant in colleges affiliated to AKTU in UP||About 20,000 B Tech seats remained unoccupied in the engineering colleges affiliated to Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University this year. Against a total of 1,09,000 seats, 89,616 candidates took admission and 19,384 seats left unoccupied.“There are multiple reasons for such large number of vacant B Tech seats. Poor faculty and poor placement of students. Barring government colleges and a few private institutions in NCR region, colleges hire substandard and under qualified teachers on nominal salary. Hence the quality of B Tech education has suffered a major blow, an official said who do not wish to be named.The University, however, claims that the admission percentage in session 2021-22 has increased as compared to 2020-21. This time, a total of 89,616 students have taken admission in undergraduate level courses till the last date of admission till November 30. And there are about 1,09,000 seats in undergraduate level courses in about 763 affiliated institutes of the university, said AKTU vice chancellor, Prof Vineet Kansal.Last year, there were 1,38,000 seats and 75,684 students took admission, which was 55% of the total seats. This year 82% seats were occupied, said university official.There are two ways to get admission to the university. One is through counseling and other is through direct admission. This time 19,057 students took admission through counseling and 70559 students took direct admission.This time the attitude of the students towards the affiliated institutions of the university has been positive. Over the years, facilities like centralized placement and innovation have been provided by the university to the students, which has changed the attitude of the students, said AKTU vice chancellor.To ensure quality technical education, a campaign for NBA accreditation has been run by the university. As a result of this, 74 branches of 33 affiliated institutions have got accreditation, said AKTU spokesperson, Ashish Mishra.To improve students’ strength, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) has now started the exercise to facilitate all its engineering and management colleges to apply for the Ministry of Education’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings.AKTU vice chancellor Prof Vineet Kansal has also issued a letter and instructions to the affiliated institutions to participate in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) as it will help institutions to understand about their shortcomings and work on those areas so they may improve on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/about-20k-btech-seats-vacant-in-colleges-affiliated-to-aktu-in-up-101638986902694.html
08-12-2021||Pune||FMAI oppose new rules imposed on students going abroad for medical education||PUNE In a bid to oppose rules set up by the National Medical Commission (NMC) for students who want to pursue medical education abroad, the Foreign Medical Association of India (FMAI) held a press conference in Pune on Tuesday. Due to these NMC regulations, children from middle-class families will not be able to become doctors, FMAI members claimed. “We are protesting and the NMC should immediately reverse this decision. This rule is likely to be a major obstacle. It’s a kind a conspiracy with their future,” said Dr Sudarshan Gherde, president of the FMAI. He further said, “The new rules will affect around 10,000 students seeking medical education abroad every year. It is a conspiracy to prevent ordinary students from becoming doctors. The World Health Organisation (WHO) is one of the world’s leading institutions for medical education abroad. The NMC should not impose such oppressive rules on world-class education.” “Another issue is that if the NMC Act 2019 was passed on December 30, 2019, then how is it possible to issue a notification on November 18 this year? While NMC will be conducting ‘Next One’ and ‘Next Two’ examinations for students studying abroad, the question is, why insist on 54 -month course and medium of language as English. The NMC should answer whether a doctor with 54 months of medical education will be good and a doctor with 48 months of education will be uneducated. The NMC should regulate medical education in India and control unregulated donations. However, the right of students to get cheap medical education abroad should not be taken away,” said Dr Gherde. Box Rules for obtaining a permanent doctor’s licence in India after studying abroad have changed 1) Half in India and half outside India; or half in Russia, such a degree will not be accepted in the Philippines 2) Medical degree abroad should be for 54 months. 3) Twelve months internship should be done from the same foreign university from which you have learned. 4) Medical degree abroad should be in English medium. 5) If the university you are attending in a foreign medical university is WHO- approved, then you will need permission from MCI / NMC and Government of India. 6) All subjects mentioned in Schedule One should be in foreign medical university. 7) Twelve-month internship is required after coming to India 8) All government, private and deemed university and college students studying abroad, and in India, will have to take a board exam called National Exit Exam (NEXT) to get a licence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fmai-oppose-new-rules-imposed-on-students-going-abroad-for-medical-education-101638986667111.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Two injured in gas cylinder explosion in Pune||PUNE Two people have been seriously injured after a gas cylinder exploded at Jambhulkar chawl in Pimple Gurav on Wednesday. Both of the injured are undergoing treatment at Sassoon hospital. Sunil Tonpe, senior police inspector, Sangvi police station, said, “Ramesh Manaram and Kumar Dilip Sukaram were illegally filling gas a commercial cylinder with gas from a domestic cylinder. Due to a gas leak, an explosion occurred.” The blast was so intense that the windows of the house were shattered and the walls on one side were smashed. The door of the house also flew off. “A case will be registered against the accused. If the tenant is not registered with the police station, a case will be registered against the landlord,” added Tonpe. Due to the very small lane, fire brigade personnel faced a lot of trouble. The vehicle was stopped 700 metres away and two firemen reached the spot on two-wheelers then. “We are also looking at the illegal gas filling angle. If the practice continues then major action will be taken against the landlord,” added Tonpe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-injured-in-gas-cylinder-explosion-in-pune-101638986489024.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Autos allowed, public toilets to open at Pune railway station||PUNE Two days after HT exposed how passengers are facing several difficulties when accessing the Pune railway station from the second entry gate on the Raja Bahadur mills road, railway officials have inspected the site and begin to make the necessary changes. An important change made by the Railways is that autorickshaws are now allowed inside a section close to the foot overbridge (FOB) just outside this entrance, allowing passengers easier access to the station. On Tuesday, senior railway officials inspected the entry gate. “As train operations have started and we are looking at the increasing number of passengers, this second entrance to the Pune railway station is an important one. Our railway officials checked passenger-related amenities. Accordingly, autos which were earlier waiting outside on the road are now been allowed to stand in the circle-road area nearby the FOB. This will help passengers arriving to carry luggage and easily get an auto from the FOB,” said Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson, Pune railway division. The main entry gate on this side of the station also has an internal road full of potholes and the public toilets built here are currently closed. “While the public toilets here will be opened once the tender is given. Also, the potholes on this road were checked and the repairing will be carried out soon,” added Jhawar. After the statewide lockdown was eased and restrictions were normalised, daily train operations from the Pune railway station increased gradually. Daily, at least 100 train operations are carried out from the station with a passenger footfall of over 30,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/autos-allowed-public-toilets-to-open-at-pune-railway-station-101638986307679.html
08-12-2021||Pune||New research says early intervention important for premature infants in neonatal ICU||PUNE Parents with preterm babies who are at risk of intelligence and physical disability should seek intervention as early as three months, revealed a recently published study. The research conducted on 245 high risk preterm babies and 245 normal babies from Maharashtra by an Ahmednagar-based pediatrician, Dr Suchit Tamboli revealed that early intervention can improve motor skills and intelligent quotient of the child. The paper ‘Predictive Value of Developmental Quotient at Three Months in Determination of Neurodevelopmental Outcomes at One Year in High-Risk Neonates’, was recently published in the international journal Medica for clinical medicine. It was found that a significant reduction in mental developmental delay was observed in both high risk newborn babies by 35.1 per cent and low-risk groups by 35.1 per cent by early intervention. Likewise, motor development delay has also significantly decreased in both groups by 32.9 per cent and 41.9 per cent respectively, as per the study due to early intervention. Speaking about the research, Dr Tamboli, shared that during the study, high-risk, low-risk and healthy babies were included in the sample of 490 children. “After 12 months of monitoring the child and using intervention through the children’s mothers, it was seen that the number of children with mild mental disability quotient were reduced significantly. In newborns with severe symptoms, the number was again reduced,” said Dr Tamboli. He further added that Hypoglycemia or low blood sugar level at birth can also cause scholastic backwardness among kids. “If the blood sugar level at birth is less than 50, children can develop scholastic backwardness at school. Hence blood sugar of the child should immediately be checked and corrected if needed,” he added. Speaking about physical disability among newborns, 8.2 per cent of newborns with severe symptoms were reduced to zero per cent in 12 months. “Preterm infants discharged from Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) were a high-risk group of neurodevelop-mental disablement that can exhibit improvement by early intervention. High-risk babies need developmental assessment and regular follow up. Indian standardised stimulation programs given since birth, considering mother as therapist improves the developmental outcome of high-risk newborns,” said Dr Tamboli. Dr Ram Dhongade who works with Sant Dnyaneshwar Medical Education Research Centre at Pune and researcher with this study said that for neurodevelopment of high-risk infants, occupational therapy should be carried out. “There should be physical movement and occupational therapy, physiotherapy and speech therapy for the child till the development of the child is complete,” he said. Box Head: Improving survival and well-being Strap: During the study, high-risk, low-risk and healthy babies were included in the sample of 490 children Abnormal Mental Quotient Preterm baby At 3 months– 56.4 % At 12 months –19.2 % Low birth weight At 3 months – 15.4 % At 12 months – 14.4 % Abnormal Motor Development Quotient Preterm baby At 3 months – 71.8 % At 12 months –26.9 % Low birth weight At 3 months — 67.2 % At 12 months – 25.6 % Source: Research Paper ‘Predictive Value of Developmental Quotient at Three Months in Determination of Neurodevelopmental Outcomes at One Year in High-Risk Neonates’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-research-says-early-intervention-important-for-premature-infants-in-neonatal-icu-101638986063904.html
08-12-2021||Gurugram||Woman's body found hanging from tree on Ambala-Jagadhri highway: Police||The body of a middle-aged woman was found hanging from a tree on the Ambala-Jagadhri highway near Ambala Cantonment in Haryana on Wednesday, police said.The body of the unidentified woman has been kept in the mortuary of the Ambala Cantonment civil hospital, they added.Police said they were informed about the body hanging from a tree near a school on the Ambala-Jagadhri road.No complaint regarding a woman gone missing has so far been filed in the area, police said, adding that the deceased seemed to belong to a migrant family.SHO of the Ambala Cantonment police station Anil Kumar said a case has been registered and the matter is being investigated, adding that all the police stations in the nearby areas have been informed.No injury mark was found on the body, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/womans-body-found-hanging-from-tree-on-ambala-jagadhri-highway-police-101638985232692.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Fall in mercury levels worsens air quality in Pune||As night and day temperatures in the city continue to remain on the lower side, Pune’s air quality index has deteriorated from satisfactory to moderate. With most parts of the city showing moderate air quality, Bhumkar chowk in Wakad reported very poor air quality on Wednesday with the air quality index (AQI) at 303 as per System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). Weather department noted that the night temperature is likely to fall further in the next few days. As per Safar, air quality is likely to deteriorate from moderate to poor on December 8. Along with Bhumkar chowk, Nigdi also reported poor air quality on Wednesday. As per Safar officials, high-risk individuals should avoid longer or heavy exertion outdoors. Dr BS Murthy, director, Safar and scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), said that the overall air quality in Pune city was moderate on Wednesday. “As the temperature decreases there is mixing of layers leading to pollution rise. Other parts of the city like Lohegaon, Kothrud, Shivajinagar, Katraj, Hadapsar, Alandi, Bhosari and Pashan have reported moderate air quality on Wednesday,” said Murthy. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), night temperature on Wednesday was 14.3 degrees Celsius whereas the day temperature was 28.7 degrees Celsius. According to officials at the weathers department, as of Wednesday, there is a feeble western disturbance seen through mid tropospheric westerly. This trough is likely to have an eastward movement thus bringing a fall in minimum temperature by 2 to 4 degrees Celsius. “Under this western disturbance, we expect that parts of Rajasthan will experience a cold wave till December 11. In Maharashtra, which includes all four subdivisions including Pune, the forecast is that the minimum temperature will report a fall of 2 to 4 degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fall-in-mercury-levels-worsens-air-quality-in-pune-101638985708321.html
08-12-2021||Pune||17 doctors register with Pune RTO, medical certificates from other docs not valid||PUNE Only 17 doctors have registered with the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) to provide medical certificates to people for renewal of driving licences. The RTO had extended the deadline for registrations to October 30, as not enough doctors registered The Pune RTO has now made it necessary for applicants to get the medical certificate only from these registered doctors for the driving license work. Medical certificates from any other doctor will not be accepted and their driving license work will not be processed. “We have got registrations of 17 doctors till now and the deadline for its registration has got over. Applicants for the driving license will now have to get the medical certificate only from these RTO-certified doctors only and medical certificate from other doctors will not be allowed,” said Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer. As per the new set of rules given by the state transport department, any doctor who wants to register with the RTO for license related works on board, he/she needs to visit RTO office for getting authentication done. Then they will be provided with an user ID and password to access the Sarathi portal for work. Whereas the verified doctors of RTO could upload the medical certificate of the applicants once they apply for license related works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/17-doctors-register-with-pune-rto-medical-certificates-from-other-docs-not-valid-101638985522621.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Joint director held in health dept recruitment paper leak case||PUNE Mahesh Botle, Joint Director (Non-Technical), National Health Mission in Mumbai was arrested from Mumbai by Pune police cybercrime cell in the health department paper leak case. “We are bringing him from Mumbai tonight (Wednesday). He was part of the team that set the paper and took it in a pen drive and passed it on to Prashant Badgire. Badgire sold it further (for a premium),” said Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cyber-crime cell and Economic offence wing (EOW) of Pune police. Prashant Shankarrao Badgire, 50, chief administration officer of Latur public health department was remanded to police custody till December 11 along with 4 others on Tuesday by a local court in Pune. With the arrest of Botle, the number of people arrested in the case has risen to 12. This investigation is happening in light of a statement issued by the state health department that there was no leak in the examination. The state health department had issued this statement in light of the complaints raised by aspirants. This is the second such case in which insider government officials have turned out to be the main source of paper leaks. While in one case the source was identified as a mid-level Indian Army officer, in the current case it is a joint director who was setting the paper, said officials In both the cases, the recruitment examinations are not of officer-level recruitment but that of entry-level staff - soldier in case of army exam and posts like lab assistant, ward boy, midwives, etc in case of health department. However, in wake of the army leak investigation, a leak was also detected in the officer-cadet recruitment exam held by Services Selection Board, said officials. Lieutenant Colonel Preetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi was found to be the mastermind in the paper leak case. Bedi was posted in Delhi and was the 12th arrest in the case along with two Major-rank officers, some serving civilian staff, retired staff members, and private coaching class owners. The information was provided to the Pune police by the military intelligence officials in time for the scheduled examination on February 28. The police worked on the tip and the exam was cancelled after which two separate cases were registered by the police. The joint operation revealed that question papers of the common entrance exam for recruitment of general duty soldiers were being sold for ₹4-5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/joint-director-held-in-health-dept-recruitment-paper-leak-case-101638985342530.html
08-12-2021||Bhopal||MP mega vaccine drive: Over 1.2 million jabbed against Covid today, CM lauds feat||More than 1.2 million people were administered a dose of the Covid-19 vaccine during a mega vaccination campaign in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, the first of the three such drives announced this month to achieve 100 per cent vaccine coverage in the state.As of 8pm, 12,57,915 people were inoculated with the shot during the day, according to the state’s directorate of health services.According to data from the Co-WIN dashboard at 10.25pm, 12,94,516 doses were administered in the state. Overall, 9,23,58,688 doses, consisting of 5,15,25,179 first doses and 4,08,33,509 second doses, have been administered across the state so far. Indore continued to top the list of districts with the maximum inoculations with 56,61,410 doses of the vaccine administered so far.Also read | India reports 8,439 new Covid-19 cases, 23.7% higher than yesterdayChief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan congratulated the people of the state for what he hailed as “record vaccinations” on the day. “The public participation model has been important in the achievement of the state,” Chouhan’s office quoted him as saying.The state government has set itself a target of administering both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to the entire eligible population in the state by the end of this month (December 31).The next similar campaigns will be held on December 16 and 22, the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.Meanwhile, 14 people tested positive in the state for the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours with no report of fresh fatalities. The total confirmed infections rose to 7,93,288 and the death toll stood at 10,529, according to a report by news agency PTI. The state currently has 140 active cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-mega-vaccine-drive-over-1-2-million-jabbed-against-covid-today-cm-lauds-feat-101638983782855.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Covid-19: Pune sees 231 new cases and four deaths on Wednesday||PUNE As of Wednesday Pune district reported 231 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million out of which 1.14 million have recovered, 20,067 deaths and 1,669 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 86 thousand doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 76 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 368,298 and the death toll went up to 6,985 as three more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 107 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 523,619 and the death toll went up to 9,219 as one more death was reported. PCMC reported 48 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 270,103 and the toll stood at 3,513 as no more deaths were reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 69,296 vaccinations on the day as per CoWin dashboard on Wednesday and in total 1,38,87,402. Out of which 83,65,313 are first doses and 55,22,089 are second doses. A total of 633 sites saw vaccination out of which 487 were govt centres and 146 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-pune-sees-231-new-cases-and-four-deaths-on-wednesday-101638985106488.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Pune airport authority asks 4,670 passengers to undergo RTPCR test in wake of Omicron||PUNE The airport authority in Pune has submitted a list of 4,670 passengers who have returned from various countries and now have to undergo an RTPCR test in the wake of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19. Of the 4,670 passengers who came into Pune, 3,228 are from Pune city, 681 from PCMC and the rest are from cantonments and rural areas. The district administration is now calling up all the travellers and testing them for Covid-19. The Pune Municipal corporation (PMC) has, till date, tested 370 people, two of whom tested positive for the Covid-19, of which one was confirmed to be infected with the Omicron variant. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer at PMC said, “We have got this fresh list only and out of the total 3,228 passengers who have come into the city after foreign travel, we have already tested 70 and two tested positive. We are now calling up all these residents and setting up a time as per their convenience so that our team can go and collect samples from them. It will take another 2-3 days to get all these passengers tested. They have travelled to various countries and had come into the city between November 28 and December 4. They include people who came from at-risk as well as other countries. While most of them might have gotten tested at the airport itself, we will still need to test them on day seven after arrival as per the state protocol.” If any of these residents test positive for the infection, then their samples would be sent for genome sequencing and their contacts will be traced and tested to arrest the chain of infection. As per the state government passengers arriving from the 11 at risk countries have to undergo mandatory RTPCR test post arrival and if tested negative they are advised to stay in home quarantine. Seven days after the day of arrival the passenger would again be subjected to a RTPCR test. The new guidelines have been put in place in the wake of the Omicron variant which has been identified as a variant of concerns as it is highly transmissible. As of Wednesday, there are 10 Omicron confirmed variants in the state, one each in Kalyan and Pune city, six in PCMC and two in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-airport-authority-asks-4-670-passengers-to-undergo-rtpcr-test-in-wake-of-omicron-101638984926265.html
08-12-2021||Pune||100% vaxxed with first jab in Pune||PUNE Almost 11 months after the city saw its first vaccine shot being administered, the district’s entire eligible population, as per an estimation based on the 2019 voters’ list, has received a first shot of the vaccine under its Covid-19 inoculation drive. As per the population estimation for 2021, Pune district has a population of at least 11.35 million, of which 8.34 million are eligible to get the vaccine shot as they are above the age of 18. Of the 8.34 million, 3.36 million have got their first shot of the vaccine as of December 8, which exceeds the 100% mark, according to the Central government’s CoWin dashboard. Officials said this may include people from neighbouring districts who took the vaccine in Pune during the initial period, when registrations were mostly online and doses were in short supply. They may have replaced numbers for those from the hilly areas of Pune district who have not yet received their first shot. With this, Pune district becomes the second in the state after Mumbai to ensure 100% vaccination of all eligible beneficiaries with at least one shot of the vaccine. Mumbai achieved the feat on November 13 when the eligible adult population of 9,236,546 got their first shot. Pune, however, also has the highest number of beneficiaries due for their second shot of the vaccine. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) chief health officer Dr Suryakant Devkar said, “Pune city has vaccinated more than 100% of its estimated eligible population almost 20 days ago, but we kept all our Covid19 vaccination centres running in full swing as we kept getting beneficiaries coming in who may be coming in from rural areas or from the neighbouring districts as well.” Although the records may state that everyone in Pune district is vaccinated for first dose does not necessarily mean every eligible adult has been inoculated as some voters registered in Pune may have returned to their native places during restrictions. At the same time, those not registered in Pune but living here may also have got their jab. A senior officer at the Zilla Parishad pointed out that the target for vaccination in Mumbai was 9,200,000, 400,000 less than the number of voters. Mumbai has vaccinated 9,600,000 persons, roughly equal to the number of voters in 2019. On the other hand, Pune district had 7,600,086 lakh voters in 2019 and a target of 8,300,000. “We have vaccinated 600,000 people more than the number of voters in 2019. Nearly 500,000 people are those who live in Mumbai, but are registered as voters in Pune’s villages, especially in hilly regions such as in Maval and Khed, as per reverse migration data during lockdown. Now the challenge for us is to find those beneficiaries,” said the officer, requesting anonymity. While Pune is a major vaccine manufacturing centre considering that Serum Institute of India (SII) is producing Covishield doses here, the district also has the highest number of people who refuse to take the second dose. As of December 4, Pune district has over 1.22 million people who took the first dose almost 84 days ago but have not turned up at the vaccination centres to be fully vaccinated. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh did hint at stern steps like a mandatory double vaccination certificate to avail some facilities to ensure that people take both the shots which is essential. “There is no question of vaccine shortage as of now. But people are still not turning up in large numbers at the vaccination centres to take their second dose. The state government has suggested that we start call centre services and call up all those people who are registered when they took their first dose and follow up on them for the second dose. There could be issues with data updation as well. However we have also launched a door to door vaccination scheme to provide easier access to vaccination,” said Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/100-vaxxed-with-first-jab-in-pune-101638984626420.html
08-12-2021||Mumbai||First Omicron patient discharged on birthday||Kalyan The 33-year-old unvaccinated Dombivali man, who was the first to test positive for Omicron variant in the state, was discharged from the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation-run Covid Care Centre on Wednesday. Since his test results came back negative, the authorities decided to discharge him on Wednesday, which was incidentally his birthday as well. “It was his birthday on the day of his discharge. He can be with his family on this day,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC said that he will be in home isolation. 
08-12-2021||Pune||HICA urges to not use illegal mosquito repellent incense sticks to reduce health risk||PUNE The Covid-19 pandemic has increased respiratory issues leading to partially, or in some cases, fully damaged lungs. Health professionals across the globe are already engaged in controlling this on-going crisis. The Home Insect Control Association (Hica), a non-profit industry body promoting safe use of household insecticides in India, has urged people to stop buying or selling mosquito repellent incense sticks (agarbattis) in the state, as a majority of them are illegal and do not have necessary certification/licences. As per recent government data, 116,991 cases of dengue have been reported across the country in the last one month. States like Maharashtra, Haryana, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and New Delhi have seen a sharp increase in the cases. Jayant Deshpande, honorary secretary, Hica, said, “At a time when respiratory issues are occurring frequently, we strongly urge people to stop or avoid using mosquito repellent incense sticks. Most of them available in the market are illegal and have potential to damage consumer health.” According to people in the industry, these sticks are sold cheap and have a visible drop-down impact on mosquitoes, yet are illegally made and sold without proper licenses and permissions from the relevant government departments. Illegal and spurious incense sticks/agarbattis available in the market are laced with unapproved harmful chemicals (insecticides/ pesticides). This can cause health issues such as asthma, bronchitis, reactive airways disease and other respiratory ailments. Basic checks on safety parameters which is mandatory for all home insecticide products are not carried out by these manufacturers producing the illegal agarbattis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hica-urges-to-not-use-illegal-mosquito-repellent-incense-sticks-to-reduce-health-risk-101638984502468.html
08-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC to get kit for faster Omicron detection||Mumbai Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has procured S-gene detecting RT-PCR kits for faster detection of the Omicron cases. The absence of the S-gene can be a marker indicating that the variant can be Omicron.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of the civic public health department said, “We have already procured these kits in some quantity. These will be used at the BMC-run Kasturba and KEM hospitals.”A senior civic official said, “This will not replace the genome sequencing method, which undoubtedly identifies the variant present in the sample. These RT-PCR kits will only be used for faster detection.” A total of 5,036 international passengers have arrived in Mumbai from high-risk countries until December 7, according to data from BMC. Of these, 24 passengers and nine high-risk contacts have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-get-kit-for-faster-omicron-detection-101638984262408.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Serum Institute of India’s executive director Dr Suresh Jadhav passes away in Pune at 72||Dr Suresh Jadhav, Serum Institute of India’s (SII) executive director passed away in Pune following a brief illness, his family members said on Wednesday. Jadhav, 72, was suffering from renal inefficiency and cancer, his family said. Associated with SII since 1979, Dr Jadhav mainly looked after manufacturing and quality control at the company. “The @SerumInstIndia family and the Indian vaccine industry has lost a guiding light, with the passing of Dr. Suresh Jadhav. My prayers are with his family during these trying times and I thank you all, for your condolences,” said Adar Poonawalla, Serum Institute of India’s (SII) chief executive. Dr Jadhav was instrumental in setting up the vaccine manufacturing process at Serum’s Manjri unit near Pune where the company is producing the Covishield vaccine. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, executive chairperson of Biocon Limited, in her condolence message said the biotech world has lost an irreplaceable stalwart. “Shocked to learn of the untimely demise of Dr Suresh Jadhav Executive Director of @SerumInstIndia - The Biotech world has lost an irreplaceable stalwart RIP. Om Shanti,” she tweeted. According to Serum officials, Dr Jadhav was active in the company till recently. World Health Orgainsation’s (WWHO) chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan also offerred her condolences on the demise of Jadhav. “Very sad news. Exceptional lifetime contributions to vaccine development with huge impact on lives saved. May his soul Rest In Peace @adarpoonawalla @SerumInstIndia@GaviSeth@gavi,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/serum-institute-of-india-s-executive-director-dr-suresh-jadhav-passes-away-in-pune-at-72-101638984022946.html
08-12-2021||Pune||After AAP seeks probe, PMC to conduct inquiry of junior engineers promotions||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will conduct an inquiry into promotions given to junior engineers recently, after allegations made by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). AAP spokesperson Abhijit More claimed that 25per cent of junior engineers recruited having engineering diplomas most of which are allegedly fake; also, a maximum number of junior engineers are from Rajasthan. PMC’s vigilance officer Rajendra Muthe said, “We will conduct an inquiry and inspect all the documents. If found guilty, the administration will take necessary action. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol has instructed the inquiry.” Mohol said, “I asked the administration to conduct an inquiry. If it is found that any candidate does not having the educational qualifications, action will be taken.” PMC recruited junior engineers recently and published a list of candidates that had qualified. AAP members alleged that many of the candidates who were selected for the post of junior engineer were directly related to either the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). AAP’s More said, “The PMC had published a list of qualifying employees, but 18 candidates have done their diploma from the JRN university in Rajasthan. The question is, when did the candidates get the time to attend a full-time course if they were PMC employees. There are no records of any study leave.” “When Prakash Jawadekar was human resource minister, he had cancelled all the degrees and diplomas from JRN college on December 18, 2017. Despite knowing that, the selection committee approved all these forms,” added More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-aap-seeks-probe-pmc-to-conduct-inquiry-of-junior-engineers-promotions-101638983602398.html
08-12-2021||Patna||Jharkhand: Cong appoints turncoat MLA Pradeep Yadav as deputy leader of CLP in assembly||The central leadership of the Congress on Wednesday appointed senior legislator Pradeep Yadav, who joined the grand old party after splitting from JVM (P) after the 2019 assembly polls, as deputy leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) in Jharkhand assembly. Confirming the development, Jharkhand Congress chief Rajesh Thakur said, “Pradeep Yadav is a senior politician, a five-term legislator and a former minister. The party has appointed him as deputy to the legislature party leader Alamgir Alam.”A former minister and member of Lok Sabha, Yadav represents Poraiyahat in Godda district in Santhal Pargana division, had joined Congress after the 2019 assembly elections along with other senior legislator Bandhu Tirkey, after JVM (P) was merged by its leader Babulal Marandi with his former party BJP. Marandi had suspended both Yadav and Tirkey from the party before merging with BJP. Yadav and Tirkey had then claimed that they represented the real JVM (P) and they joined Congress. While the merger of JVM (P) was ratified by the Election Commission of India(ECI), both sides are facing charges under anti-defection law in the court of assembly Speaker. However, the Congress leadership has been promoting both the turncoats in the organic ideational set up. Before Yadav’s elevation, Tirkey was made the working president of Jharkhand Congress, raising eyebrows among a section within the party.The BJP described the appointment as ‘double standards’ of the ruling Congress. “The ruling dispensation has problem in recognising leader of opposition status for our legislature party leader Babulal Marandi, but the Congress has no issues appointing Pradeep Yadav, who was labelled an unattached MLA by the Election Commission, as their deputy leader in the assembly. This shows their double standards in public life,” said Jharkhand spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jharkhand-cong-appoints-turncoat-mla-pradeep-yadav-as-deputy-leader-of-clp-in-assembly-101638982702487.html
08-12-2021||Patna||Bihar: Former RJD MLA arrested under SC/ST Act||Former RJD MLA from Barhara Saroj Yadav was arrested from Kajichak village situated under Barhara block late Tuesday evening in a case lodged under the SC/ST Act against him, Bhopjur superintendent of police (SP) Vinay Tiwari said.Shambhu Sharan advocate of the former MLA said that Yadav was produced before the first ADJ-cum-special court for SC/ST Act cases late Tuesday evening and he was sent to judicial custody.According to police, based on a complaint lodged by the former MLA’s bodyguard Satyendra Kumar, Barhara police lodged a case lodged a case under the SC/ST Act and under different sections of IPC (Indian Penal Code)against the leader on November 17. Kumar who was posted as the former MLA’s bodyguard since April 17 this year, in his complaint before the Barhara police, alleged that on November 5, a murder was committed at Funha, and the road was blocked following the incident . Yadav reached the spot and allegedly abused the administrative officials present there. While returning to his village in Keshopur, the former MLA again abused senior administrative officials, to which the bodyguard protested. When Yadav reached his house, he allegedly abused the bodyguard and also assaulted him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-former-rjd-mla-arrested-under-sc-st-act-101638982582314.html
08-12-2021||Lucknow||BJP launches cleanliness drive ahead of KV Corridor inauguration||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Wednesday, launched ‘Divya Kashi, Bhavya Kashi (divine Kashi, splendid Kashi)’, mega cleanliness drive across the state, ahead of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor (KV Corridor) inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi on December 13. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev launched the campaign from Ram Janki temple in Lucknow as the party cadres followed suit across the state. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya participated in the campaign in Bijnor, state general secretary Ashwani Tyagi and in charge of the cleanliness campaign, did so in Meerut. Another party general secretary Govind Narayan Shukla participated in the campaign in Barabanki. UP BJP secretary Amit Valmiki said the cleanliness campaign would be run in all the 1918 divisions of the state. “This campaign would continue till December 12, the eve of the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Valmiki said. “All party lawmakers and cadres are to assist in this cleanliness campaign timed with KV Corridor inauguration, a grand event during which Kashi would sparkle,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-launches-cleanliness-drive-ahead-of-kv-corridor-inauguration-101638982462858.html
08-12-2021||Patna||SVU raid at 3 properties of excise official in Bihar||Acting on a disproportionate assets (DA) case lodged on Tuesday, sleuths from the special vigilance unit (SVU) on Wednesday conducted raids simultaneously at three places of Excise Superintendent East Champaran Avinash Prakash, and recovered assets and investments disproportionate to his known source of income, officials said, adding that the DA case was lodged against the officer for collecting assets illegally in connivance with liquor mafias.Additional director general of SVU Nayyar Husnain Khan said that simultaneous searches were conducted at three places including East Champaran, Khagaria and Patna after warrants were issued by the Court of Special Judge, Vigilance, Patna. Around 150 personnel including SVU officials and witnesses were mobilized for the search operations.“At the time of search at Khagaria, a palatial building and JCB machine were found”, Khan added.The raids were still on while filing of the report. Sources indicate that more movable/immovable properties in the name of Prakash or in the names of his family members could be unearthed during further investigation. Prakash, a resident of Rajendra Nagar in Khagaria and currently residing at Chhitauni in East Champaran, amassed huge properties including farm houses in Khagaria as well in Patna besides two JCB machine and an Innova car. The SVU detected two passports, 15 passbooks, three insurance policies, three flats on the name of his wife and a plot on the name of his father. SVU officials disclosed that the tainted officer moved his cash and gold ornaments before the raids. The sleuths also recovered a currency note counting machine besides plot documents from his house. In his farm houses, he ran a cowshed and tree plantation centre. . According to the SVU sources, the officer became infamous in the recent past for working against the guidelines of the government regarding the liquor prohibition policy. 
08-12-2021||Mumbai||Politicians’ kin vie for plum positions in Indian Youth Congress polls||They were launched over a decade ago as an ambitious exercise to bring in much-needed internal democracy in the organisation and give a leg-up to young blood in the ranks. However, the internal elections to the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) in Maharashtra have yet again seen the dominance of dynastic politics, with the kin of established leaders vying for organisational positions. Kunal Raut, the son of state energy minister Nitin Raut, is contesting for the position of president, and so is Sharan Patil, the son of former minister and incumbent Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) working president Basavraj Patil. Also in the contest is Aniket, the son of former Navi Mumbai deputy mayor Ramakant Mhatre. Mhatre is a supporter of public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan and minister of state Vishwajeet Kadam. Shivani, daughter of minister Vijay Wadettiwar and Abhijit Chavan, grandson of former minister Madhukarrao Chavan; are in contention for the general secretary’s post. The election process - which includes nominations, enrollment of voters, and polling - was launched on November 12 and will be completed on December 12. This is being done through an online, app-based system. So far, over 1.4 million voters have been enrolled. In a break from convention - where the party leadership nominated office-bearers of the IYC and National Students Union of India (NSUI) - the Congress in 2008 launched internal elections at the behest of senior leader Rahul Gandhi. Since 2011, the internal elections in Maharashtra have seen Vishwajeet Kadam, the son of former minister (late) Patangrao Kadam, being elected as president for two successive three-year terms. While Satyajit Tambe, the nephew of revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, is the present IYC Maharashtra president. He defeated Amit, the son of former minister Subhash Zanak, and Kunal Raut. Zanak, an MLA from Risod, and Kunal were appointed as vice-presidents. These polls saw allegations of rigging. Other nominees in the fray have alleged that established leaders are using the machinery and resources at their disposal. “The elections were launched to ensure that youngsters from common families can enter politics. However, the motive has been hijacked by the kin of politicians who are at times misusing the official machinery to enroll voters from educational institutions and exercise their franchise in bulk,” said an aspiring candidate. However, Sharan, the leader of the opposition in the Osmanabad zilla parishad (ZP) and district Youth Congress chief, said that he is committed to strengthening the organisation and promoting fresh blood. “We are elected because the people support us… (however) the organisation also includes youth who lack a political background, but are doing good work,” he said, when asked about the charges of dynastic politics. Meanwhile, Kunal Banerjee, who is the election commissioner for these polls, said that he has not received any formal complaints about such malpractices thus far. He added that the results of the polls are likely to be announced early next year. The three candidates garnering the highest number of votes for the position of president will be interviewed by the IYC leadership and one of them will be selected as the president, with the other two being appointed vice-presidents. So far, three politicians from Maharashtra have helmed the IYC nationally, namely, Gurudas Kamat (1987 to 1988), Mukul Wasnik (1988 to 1990), and Rajiv Satav (2010 to 2014).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/politicians-kin-vie-for-plum-positions-in-indian-youth-congress-polls-101638982102742.html
08-12-2021||Lucknow||Bareilly refinery incident: Condition of four workers remains critical, magisterial probe ordered||A day after three workers at an edible oil refinery were killed, after allegedly being exposed to poisonous gas while cleaning a tank, the Bareilly district administration announced a magisterial inquiry into the matter on Wednesday. “The investigation will focus on the condition that led to the accident and those responsible behind it if any. The investigation will also focus on providing help to the workers currently in hospital,” said Manvendr Singh, district magistrate, Bareilly. Four other workers, who entered the tank, have also been hospitalised, and their condition remains critical. According to district administration officials, the accident occurred while cleaning a tank of the effluent treatment plant located inside the refinery situated in the CB Ganj area of Bareilly. “Prima facie, it appears that the laid down procedures for cleaning the tank were not followed. This resulted in the accident. We got the area checked by experts, and there is no danger of more poisonous emissions,” said the DM. Three workers, including Vijay Pal, Neeraj Yadav and Yasin Khan, all in their twenties, were killed in the accident. The trio was first to enter the tank. Meanwhile, the management of the factory has assured district officials of providing assistance for medical care to those injured. The factory management is also in talks with the families of the deceased workers to finalise the amount of compensation. Officials from the labour department also visited the refinery and questioned some people of the management. The labour department officials are trying to ascertain whether the required training was given to the workers tasked to clean the tank or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bareilly-refinery-incident-condition-of-four-workers-remains-critical-magisterial-probe-ordered-101638981982353.html
08-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Omicron tally stands at 10||Mumbai For the second straight day, Maharashtra did not report any Omicron cases on Wednesday. So far, the state has 10 reported Omicron cases, which are from Mumbai, Pune and Thane districts. As the state government awaits results of the 52 suspected Omicron samples, the state government is going to discuss key issues, including booster dose, vaccination of those below 18 years, and stricter guidelines on air travel, with union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday preparing to tackle the imminent increase in cases. Health minister Rajesh Tope will participate in the video conference with the union health minister and health ministers of all the states and Union Territories on Thursday morning. Tope said that the government is going to seek approval for the booster dose for the healthcare workers and frontline workers, and also demand vaccination for children between 12 and 18 years, as the schools and colleges in the state have largely resumed physical classes.The minister further said that as the new variant of concern has spread in 54 countries, they would seek guidelines from the Centre on air travel. “Mumbai is an international financial hub and in the meeting, it would be discussed that since it has spread in 54 countries, then what should be done about flights. We are awaiting their guidelines on this,” he said, and further added, “We have never sought a ban on flights, nor do we intend to make any such request.”Tope further said that the state will follow strict screening at the airports in Maharashtra to contain the spread of Omicron, especially from the passengers that arrive from at-risk countries. “Tighter screening is the strategy for us. We are strictly following testing, tracing and tracking. In terms of surveillance, we are tracing and tracking high-risk contacts and low-risk contacts,” he said. Meanwhile, Tope added that the state government will decide to lower the rates of RT-PCR tests at the airports. He said the revised fares would be brought down from ₹5000 to around ₹2000- ₹3000.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in the cabinet meeting on Wednesday directed officials to boost the vaccination across the state. Tope said that all guardian ministers have been directed to push the second dose in their district as well as carry out initiatives to get people to get the first dose. Ahead of the meeting with the union health minister on Thursday, chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty held a meeting with all district collectors and divisional commissioners over the handling of Omicron as well as preparations on health infrastructure. The health minister reiterated that there is no need for any immediate curbs in the state as the number of cases is low. “We are not thinking about any curbs at this point. There is no need so far as the number of cases is 10 now. We are focusing on vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said. Tope also said that the schools must continue to operate as planned. “There is no need to shut schools as of now. The health department, education department, and paediatric task force have given a go-ahead for schools to reopen. Definitely, children are infected by Omicron [in other countries], so, Covid-appropriate behaviour must be followed. If the Centre gives a go-ahead for booster and vaccination for children, we will give preference to that as well,” he said.As per the data of the health department, 46,590 passengers, including 7,930 from South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe, have arrived at Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur airports from December 1. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Maharashtra added 893 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 6,640,888. Maharashtra also reported 10 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 141,204. The state’s active case count stood at 6,286. Mumbai added 260 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death in the last 24 hours.
08-12-2021||Patna||‘Botched’ eye surgeries: Victims seek CM’s help||Recuperating at Shrikrishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) at Muzaffarpur with one eye removed and cataract in the other, the victims of alleged “botched up” surgery on Wednesday made a fervent appeal to chief minister Nitish Kumar to come to their rescue and save them from a bleak future staring at them. 48-year-old Parmila Devi, a resident of Jamalabad Tola near Ahiryarpur in Muzaffapur district, told HT over the phone, “I used to supplement the income of the family by working as daily wager. Life is no more the same. God knows how things would be managed with scant vision left in the other eye.” “We definitely pin our all hope on CM Nitish Kumar. If my words are reaching the leaders in the corridor of power, our CM sir must extend all possible help and ensure safe cataract surgeries are conducted in the future,” said Devi, a mother of six children including four girls.However, Harendra Razak, a resident of Phulwariya in Vaishali district is shuddered at the thought of cataract surgery on his other eye. “Never in my life again. Let death bring succour for me. The only expectation from the chief minister is to provide us some help so that we could keep our heart and soul together,” said Razak, exuding the common refrain of the victims. As many as 12 out of 17 people, - whose eyes had to be removed owing to panophthalmitis (severe eye infection) after they along with others underwent a cataract surgery at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital on November 22, are undergoing treatment at SMKCH. When contacted, Dr. Babu Saheb Jha, superintendent of SKMCH stated the condition of the patients are stable. “None of the 12 patients undergoing treatment has been discharged yet. They are responding well to treatment,” said Jha.Besides the patients in SKMCH, woes of those undergoing treatment at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) are no less either. Living in penury at the fag end of his life, 90-year-old Md. Sagir Ahmad, underwent surgey for cataract hoping he would be able to manage to maintain his personal hygiene and relief himself on his own. “Now we have believe that he is rendered bed- ridden permanently. Our leaders must sit in peace, brood over the matter, probe their heart and decide as to how such patients could be helped,” said Md. Samshad Alam, son of Sagir Ahmad, who is undergoing treatment at IGIMS at Patna.Alam said that the possibility of his father getting back his eyesight is negligible. “The effort being made by the doctors is to do away with the need to remove his eyes,” said Alam, based on the feedback of doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/botched-eye-surgeries-victims-seek-cm-s-help-101638981447388.html
08-12-2021||Lucknow||Woman beaten up, paraded half-naked in Sonbhadra village||A woman in her mid-thirties was beaten up and paraded half-naked in a village under the Raipur police station area of Sonbhadra district on Tuesday, police said. The incident happened over a trivial issue of setting paddy straw on fire in the village, the police added. After the video of the incident went viral on social media, police swung into action and arrested one of the four accused.According to locals, the woman is said to be mentally ill, a police officer said. She had set a villager’s straw on fire on Tuesday. When the owner of the straw came to know about it, he reached the bank of the river outside the village where the woman was taking a bath.The officer said that the straw owner dragged the woman out, beat her and brought her to the village in the same condition. Accompanied by his three companions, the straw owner paraded her half-naked in the village, the officer said. When the superintendent of police, Sonbhadra, Amarendra Prasad came to know about the incident on Tuesday evening, he directed the Raipur police station in charge to take immediate action. Police said one of the four named accused had been arrested and search was on for the rest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-beaten-up-paraded-half-naked-in-sonbhadra-village-101638981442697.html
08-12-2021||Lucknow||UP pharmacists to go on two-hour work boycott from Thursday||Demanding wage revision, over 7000 pharmacists working in different government hospitals and health facilities will abstain from work for two-hours from Thursday.“The work boycott will begin from 8 am in urban areas and 10 am in rural areas,” said Sunil Yadav, executive president of the Diploma Pharmacist Association, Uttar Pradesh that has over 7500 member pharmacists. These pharmacists are posted at district level hospitals, medical colleges, community health centres and primary health centres and are engaged in drug distribution and at many places work in injection room to administer injectable drugs and vaccines. “We have asked pharmacists deployed at emergency wards not to abstain from work. But others will hold demonstration during the two-hour work boycott,” said Yadav. Yadav said the pharmacists are demanding wage revision, right to prescribe drugs, creation of new posts and standardisation of their work. Posts of pharmacists are less against the guidelines and at some places no pharmacists are deployed, he said. “Drug distribution is significant work as incorrect dose taken by patients can actually do more harm than benefit,” said Yadav. For the past one week pharmacists in the state have been working with black badges during their duty hours at the health facilities. “We had held protests at office of chief medical officer in all districts and handed over memorandum to officials. We had announced that work boycott will begin if our demands are not met hence we are compelled to intensify our stir,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-pharmacists-to-go-on-two-hour-work-boycott-from-thursday-101638980602594.html
08-12-2021||Ranchi||J’khand announces ₹50k relief to kin of Covid victims||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday announced monetary help of ₹50,000 to the family of each of the over 5100 persons who died of covid-19 in the state. State’s health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta said the government has allotted ₹26.26 crore fund to the 15 districts in proportion to the victims registered respectively. As per the state health department, 5133 persons have officially died of Covid-19 in the state, with Ranchi district leading the list with 1585 deaths followed by East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) 1043 deaths. “All deputy commissioners have been directed to take the onus and get the money distributed. These amounts would be transferred to the bank accounts of the victims’ family members or dependents. This is a small gesture to share the grief of the victims,” said Gupta. The health minister said family members of the victims could apply for compensation with the circle office or online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-announces-50k-relief-to-kin-of-covid-victims-101638980243971.html
08-12-2021||Patna||Wedding in the family, tweets Tejashwi Yadav’s sister. Engagement tomorrow||PATNA: Bihar’s leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, considered the most eligible bachelor in the state’s politics and beyond, will marry his long-time friend, Rajshri, people close to the family said on Wednesday. The engagement ceremony is scheduled to take place in the national capital Delhi on Thursday, and the wedding early next year.The first announcement of 32-year-old Tejashwi’s wedding came from his elder sister Rohini Acharya on Twitter.Father Lalu Prasad Yadav and his wife and former chief minister Rabri Devi, who have been staying with their eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha MP, Misa Bharti, are already in Delhi A person close to the family said the wedding was being tentatively expected to be set for February next year.“I believe, once the engagement is over, the wedding date will be finalised,” senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) lawmaker Bhai Virendra said.The engagement ceremony is planned to be mostly a family affair. Only a small group of RJD leaders close to Lalu Yadav Prasad or Tejashwi are said to have been invited.Tejashwi Yadav, who tried his hand at a career in cricket - he did get into Delhi’s under-19 cricket team - before following his father’s footsteps, first campaigned with his father in the 2010 assembly elections when he delivered his public address.Tejashwi, Lalu Prasad Yadav’s youngest son had a flair for it. He contested his first assembly election in 2015 from Raghopur in Vaishali district, went on to be the deputy chief minister from 2015 to 2017 with Nitish Kumar as his boss. He was declared the RJD-led grand alliance’s presumptive chief minister for the 2020 polls.Not much is known about the bride or how the alliance was fixed except that she hails from Rewari in Haryana and the family lives in Friends Colony, an upmarket locality in the capital. RJD leaders said Rajshri’s family have business interests and is not into politics.Back in 2016 when Tejashwi Yadav circulated a WhatsApp number where people could complain about roads and highways - he was the road construction minister - many assumed that it was his personal number and flooded the account with marriage proposals. Bihar officials said there were 40,000-plus messages for Tejashwi, many of them marriage proposals, and only a few thousand to complain about roads.Tejashwi Yadav did then let it be known that he left it to his parents to decide on his wedding. Two years later, in 2018, Tejashwi said he could consider getting married only after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “You know, one should have the time for a honeymoon too, but where’s the time for that until the elections?” he told reporters in 2018.
08-12-2021||Lucknow||Recruitment of assistant teachers on cards before UP polls||Within days of Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Services Selection Board (UPSESSB) seeking details of vacant posts of trained graduate teachers, post graduate teachers and principals in government-aided secondary schools of the state as a precursor to initiating a recruitment drive, preparations have also begun to hire assistant teachers in government-run high schools and intermediate colleges before the 2022 UP assembly polls.The importance of the move can be gauged from the fact that a fresh recruitment is going to start after a gap of around three-and-a-half years. Earlier in June 2018, the commission had started recruitment on 10,768 posts of LT Grade teachers. However, during that time a large number of posts remained vacant due to lack of suitable candidates.Now, additional director (government) Anjana Goyal has directed all joint directors of education to make available detailed information of vacant posts of assistant teachers (LT Grade). In a missive dated December 6, 2021 sent to officials, Goyal has instructed them to provide the details through e-mail by December 10 so that the same could be sent to Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) for undertaking the recruitment process, said a senior state education department official.The missive, a copy of which is with HT, marked “very important” makes plain that as per the orders of the additional chief secretary (secondary education), this information is to be provided to the UPPSC immediately.The missive concedes that complete service details of teachers working in boys schools and girls schools cadre are not available in Directorate of Education and with transfer of more number of female teachers in boy’s schools through online and offline transfer in last two years, situation in various schools had changed and due to lack of clear information cadre wise/reservation wise details of teachers working in these institutions it was posing a challenge for the officials to prepare details regarding vacancies at the directorate level.Earlier, according to the information received from the district officials, the requisition (information about the vacancies) was sent to the UPPSC on behalf of the Directorate of Education for recruitment against the vacant posts. But objecting to some points, the commission had sent it back to the directorate. This has prompted additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla to once again direct officials to update the details.“The information regarding the vacant posts has been sought on the prescribed proforma so that the cadre wise, subject wise and reservation wise vacancies in Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Education (Trained Graduate Category) Male/Female cadre can be prepared and sent to the commission. The information of assistant teachers working in DIETs or District Institute of Education and Training as well as those working on deputation has also been sought separately on the prescribed format,” said another official aware of the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/recruitment-of-assistant-teachers-on-cards-before-up-polls-101638980184976.html
08-12-2021||Patna||Tejashwi set to get married, ring ceremony in New Delhi on Thursday||After a long wait, the leader of the opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, is all set to tie the knot with his old-time friend Raj Shri, hailing from Rewari, Haryana. The engagement ceremony will take place on Thursday in New Delhi, according to close aides of the Lalu-Rabri family. The official confirmation of the engagement of Tejashwi was made by his elder sister Rohini Archarya on her official Twitter handle on Wednesday. There is no confirmation about the marriage date yet. Tejashwi’s marriage has been a subject of speculation for long as he is considered one of the most eligible bachelors belonging to Bihar’s top political families and heir apparent to ailing RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Prasad along with his wife and former chief minister Rabri Devi is staying at the residence of their eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha MP Misa Bharti. Sources said Tejashwi’s would-be wife has been a long time friend of the Yadav scion and lives with her family at present in Friends Colony in New Delhi. Party insiders said Tejashwi would be in-laws do not have any political background and have business interests. The RJD insiders said the entire Yadav family, including Lalu’s daughters, their husbands, elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, close relatives and a few top party leaders, would be attending the function. RJD’s senior MLA Bhai Virendra said the ring ceremony of the young RJD leader would be taking place tomorrow but refrained from speaking about the wedding date of the Yadav scion. “We do not know about the wedding date. I believe, once the engagement is over, the wedding date will be finalised,” he said.
08-12-2021||Patna||Tenth phase of Bihar panchayat polls records 63.90% voting||The tenth round of panchayat polls on Wednesday recorded a poll percentage of 63.90% at 11,398 polling stations spread across 53 blocks in 34 districts for a total of 24,816 posts in the three-tier rural local bodies. The State Election Commission (SEC), in a press statement, said 186 persons were arrested for flouting election rules and six vehicles were seized. The SEC statement also said 2953 candidates were declared uncontested, of which the highest number of 2852 were nominees for the post of ward members. There were a total of 93,725 candidates in the fray, of which 42,953 candidates were male while 50,772 were female. The panchayat election will conclude on December 12 with the final round of 11 phase polls, which began on September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tenth-phase-of-bihar-panchayat-polls-records-63-90-voting-101638979822038.html
08-12-2021||Lucknow||‘Lal topi’ remark shows BJP leaders are scared: Akhilesh||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said that the leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were gripped by the fear of ‘lal topi’ (red caps). The ‘lal topi’ reference by Akhilesh came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a veiled swipe at the red cap wearing Samajwadi Party leaders and cadres, during his rally in Gorakhpur on Tuesday. “Lal topi means red alert for the state,” Modi had said. Yadav countered Modi’s jibe by saying the ‘lal topi’ remark showed that BJP leaders were now scared over their political survival. The former chief minister alleged that the BJP leaders, who vow in the name of Indian culture, appear to be unaware that the colour of Lord Hanuman and the sun was also red.“Red is an important colour that fills up people’s lives. Our blood is red too, but those wearing ‘black caps’ won’t be able to understand this as their thinking is narrow,” he stated in a press release. Accusing the BJP of going back on its commitments made to farmers and the masses, he said, “The BJP has now thrown its promises made ahead of the 2017 UP polls into the dustbin and is currently engaged in misleading the masses through fake or misleading statistics and advertisements.” Yadav said the BJP had forgotten that the opposition plays a key role in a democracy. “The BJP has become so frustrated that it is stooping so very low and trying to malign the opposition. The personal attack on opposition by top leaders of the ruling establishment is shameful,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lal-topi-remark-shows-bjp-leaders-are-scared-akhilesh-101638979521951.html
08-12-2021||Lucknow||Omicron casts shadow on tourism, UP vacationers in wait-and-watch situation||LUCKNOW After being among the worst hit sectors during the first and second wave of the Covid-10 pandemic, the tourism and hospitality industry had somewhat seen a recovery following a drop in cases and high vaccination numbers. But the recent cases of Omicron (new variant of SARS-CoV2) have given a jolt to the industry with many tourists cancelling their travel bookings for New Year and Christmas bash abroad, said tour operators.“People are yet to cancel their tours to Dubai, Maldives and other countries. But they have put their bookings on hold stating that their travel plans will depend on the severity of the Omicron variant. Recently, a few bookings for Austria and Germany were cancelled because these destinations are closed since November 22 due to the spread of the virus,” said SMA Sheeraz, president of Travel Agents Association, India (UP and Uttarakhand Chapter) and MD of Sheeraz Tours. He said the cancellation of international travel operations from December 15 due to Omicron had stopped new travellers from booking tickets while the number of inquiries dropped by 20%. “There is a ray of hope for tour operators as people are still booking tickets for domestic travel. Tour operators would have done robust business had Omicron cases not surfaced now,” said Sheeraz.Director of Civica Travels, Sunil B Sataywakta, echoed similar views, saying, “Everything is on hold for now. Those who have booked tickets want to wait and watch. We feel the situation will be clear in a week. Protocols are changing constantly, which also affects our business.”“After the long lockdown in 2020, the hospitality sector had started coming back on its feet. This season when cases were dropping, we had good bookings for Dubai and other destinations. Even queries for chartered flights to Thailand were coming, but things have changed after the Omicron scare. We are lesser inquiries and most of the bookings are put on hold. It all depends on how things shape up in the next 10 days,” said Manish Arora of Arora Tours and Travels. 
08-12-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case against Param Bir Singh: Court refuses bail to two inspectors||MUMBAI The Mumbai sessions court on Wednesday rejected the bail applications of police inspectors Nandkumar Gopale and Asha Korke, both of whom were arrested in the extortion case registered against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh at Marine Drive police station. Additional sessions judge Deepak L Bhagwat rejected their bail pleas.Advocate Aniket Nikam, who represented the police officers, pointed out that two other accused in the case, Sunil Jain and Sanjay Punamiya, had already been granted bail by the court and Param Bir Singh was protected by the apex court and therefore, bail should be granted to Gopale and Korke as well. Nikam submitted that there were no call data records to prove that the meetings took place and that there was no technical evidence. The theory that the state criminal investigation department (CID) was alleging that Gopale and Korke demanded money from their own seniors to leave the accused was simply unbelievable. Nikam further pointed out that the complainant, Shyam Sunder Agarwal, was a notorious person and had several cases registered against him.Shekhar Jagtap, on behalf of the state CID (investigating agency), opposed Gopale and Korke’s bail pleas on grounds that despite being public servants, the accused had indulged in criminal activities.In July 2021, the Marine Drive police registered an FIR against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, DCP Akbar Pathan, ACP Shrikant Shinde, and other police officers. The police arrested Punamiya, a resident of Marine Drive, and an associate, Jain, both of whom got bail in the case. The case was registered for cheating, criminal breach of trust, forgery and criminal conspiracy.Punamiya and Agarwal were partners in several projects at Gorai, Borivali and Bhayander but parted ways in 2011. As per Agarwal, Punamiya used his links with Param Bir Singh to extort funds after the duo fell out. According to the FIR lodged by Agarwal, Punamiya registered cases against him using his influence with Param Bir Singh.The Thane police arrested Agarwal in 2017, after which Punamiya sent an associate Manoj Ghatkar to offer a settlement. Ghatkar threatened them and asked them to pay ₹20 crore or face charges under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). Agarwal paid ₹9 crore and even handed over a plot at Bhayander to Punamiya’s associate, Jain.In 2021, when Param Bir Singh was the Mumbai police commissioner, Punamiya filed another complaint at Juhu police station about the threats. The police raided and confiscated Agarwal’s Vile Parle office but nothing was brought on record. Inspectors Gopale and Korke, and DCP Pathan also demanded money from Agarwal. DCP Pathan even threatened to arrest Agarwal if he failed to pay Param Bir Singh and Punamiya.On March 30, Punamiya allegedly forcibly obtained Agarwal’s signature on some property documents. Agarwal paid ₹15.5crore by cheque to Punamiya at the DCP’s office where he was taken forcibly, and also paid money to the DCP and ACP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-against-param-bir-singh-court-refuses-bail-to-two-inspectors-101638976461563.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Nashik man arrested for duping 90-100 loan seekers from Pune||PUNE A man from Nashik has been arrested by the Pune police for duping at least 90-100 people of around ₹6.4 lakh, by falsely promising them loans. The arrested man was identified as Shirish alias Om Dnyandev Kahrat (38), a resident of Bhavani road, Nashik. The police are looking for one other person in the case. The transactions happened between September and December through online transactions. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 28-year-old resident of Katraj who is among the loan hopefuls who were duped. The complainant claimed that the accused established an office in a building in Kharadi. The accused took money from the complainant as well as the witnesses under false pretext of loan procedures. However, once the money was sent, the expected loan was not granted to the complainant as well as witnesses. A total of ₹6,41,500 was lost by 90-100 people, according to the police. A case under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Protection of Depositors’ Interest in Financial Establishments Act was registered at Chandan nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nashik-man-arrested-for-duping-90-100-loan-seekers-from-pune-101638976102516.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Electrician killed in hit-and-run on Mumbai-Bangalore highway||PUNE A truck driver has been booked for causing the death of a 24-year-old electrician who was riding pillion with his friend in a hit-and-run along the Mumbai-Bangalore highway at Katraj on Monday night. The deceased was identified as Subhash Ramlal Mahato (24), a resident of Unnatinagar in the Kondhwa-Budrukh area of Pune. Mahato was riding pillion with a friend when the truck driver, while trying to overtake on a slope, rammed into them near RM Dhariwal college,. He was riding pillion with his friend called Hrushikumar Singh who has escaped unscathed from the accident, according to the police. “They are both electricians. They were going home to Kondhwa from work around 10pm when the accident happened. The truck rammed into them and they fell. Mahato was carrying a sack which probably got stuck and increased the impact when he fell on his head,” said police sub-inspector Janardan Holkar of Warje police station. A case under Sections 279 and 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 132(1)(c), and 119/177 of Information Technology Act was registered at Warje police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/electrician-killed-in-hit-and-run-on-mumbai-bangalore-highway-101638975981451.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Two arrested for smuggling whale vomit in Pune||PUNE Two men were arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch Unit 1 officials on Tuesday for smuggling a material believed to be Ambergris, or “whale vomit”, into Pimpri-Chinchwad. One person is on the run in the case. The arrested men have been identified as John Sunil Sathe (33), a resident of Magarmala area along Nashik road and Ajit Hukumchand Bagmar (61), a resident of Ravivar Karanja in Nashik, according to police inspector Varsharani Patil of Unit 1 of the Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch, who is also investigating the case. The police seized 550 grammes of the substance believed to be whale vomit, that and Bagmar and another unidentified person couriered to Sathe. The estimated cost of the seized material, according to police, is ₹1.1 crore. The men are suspected to have been attempting to sell the material. Possession and sale of Ambergris is prohibited under the Wildlife Protection Act. “After further interrogation about the material, Sathe told us that the material was sourced from Ajit Bagmar and that its sale was slated for tonight (Monday night) and in order to sell it, he had come to the Moshi area of Pune,” read a statement by Unit 1 of the Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch. After Sathe’s arrest on Monday, the police team went to Nashik to arrest Bagmar who later told them that a third accused had sent it to him by courier. A case was registered under Sections 2(16)(c)9, 39, 44, 48(a), 49(b), 57, and 59 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 at MIDC Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-smuggling-whale-vomit-in-pune-101638975861470.html
08-12-2021||Mumbai||At least 45 cars damaged in fire at BMW service centre||At least 45 cars including several BMWs were charred when a BMW service centre-cum-godown in Turbhe MIDC, Navi Mumbai, was gutted in a fire in the early hours of Tuesday. According to a senior fire officer from the MIDC, the fire broke out at around 5.25am in the four-storey building (ground-plus-three with a basement) and went on for more than seven hours before the officials managed to bring it under control. The fire was doused at around 1pm. There were no injuries in the incident. The exact loss of property is still being assessed. A fire officer from MIDC said, “The security officials of the building spotted the fire on the first floor and informed us. Ten fire tenders from Vashi, Koparkhairane, Turbhe and MIDC were sent to douse the fire. Around 32 cars were totally damaged. A majority of them were BMWs. Other high-end cars numbering between 13 and 18 were also partially damaged.” A fire officer said that the internal firefighting system of the building was not on auto mode when the accident occurred and its battery was also down. Had that been on auto mode with a running battery, the fire would not have been so massive, he said. BMW officials will conduct an audit to ascertain the extent of damage. “The exact reason behind the accident has not been understood yet. An electric short circuit is suspected to have caused it. We are not sure how many of these cars were new or used. We are still assessing the damage,” said a fire official. Representatives from the service centre were unavailable for comment. 
08-12-2021||Pune||Congress’ Kanhaiya Kumar will address party workers in Pune on Thursday||PUNE Congress leader Kanhaiya Kumar will address members of the party’s city unit at Congress Bhavan on Thursday, as part of the valedictory function of the 17th Seva-Kartavya-Tyag week. State Congress chief Nana Patole, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, and Maharashtra minister Amit Deshmukh will also be present.“The city unit of Congress is preparing for the forthcoming elections of the Pune Municipal Corporation. Many functions are being organised to encourage party workers ahead of the polls. There will be a rally at Congress Bhavan on December 9, when Kanhaiya Kumar will address workers,” said senior party leader Mohan Joshi Joshi added that the Congress has not taken any decision on inking any pre-poll alliance. “The city unit will hold discussions with local leaders and provide inputs to state leaders to take a decision on alliances. We will accept and abide by the decision taken by local leaders,” he said.Kanhaiya Kumar, according to party leaders, will speak on ‘Save Democracy, Save Country’. The Congress, which ruled PMC till 2007, currently only has nine corporators in the civic body and it is trying hard to regain lost ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/congress-kanhaiya-kumar-will-address-party-workers-in-pune-on-thursday-101638975203179.html
08-12-2021||Mumbai||32 ha of mangrove forests may be diverted for JNPT-Navi Mumbai coastal road||Mumbai The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has sought to divert just over 32 hectares of mangrove forests (equal to three-and-a-half Oval Maidans) in Raigad district for its proposed 10km six-lane coastal road from Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Uran’s Nhava village to Amra Marg in Navi Mumbai. The road will pass via the under-construction Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL). The first phase of the project will connect Amra Marg to MTHL across 7.02 km, including a 1.2km Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) link. Phase two will connect the MTHL to JNPT across 3.08 km. The total cost of the project is pegged at ₹681 crore.CIDCO’s proposal has not yet received stage-1 forest clearance from the state government and has in fact been pending for almost two years. The proposal is currently being examined by the divisional forest officer (Alibaug) who, after finalising land allocation for compensatory afforestation, will forward it to the Thane Circle office for further consideration. The proposed mangrove areas for diversion are located in Targhar, Vahal and Gavan villages.In a letter dated November 8, 2021, the DCF (Alibaug) wrote to the general manager (environment) at CIDCO stating that of the 126 hectares of land it has proposed for compensatory afforestation, a significant portion already falls under the jurisdiction of the state mangrove cell’s ‘Coastal Belt Working Circle’ and does not meet the criteria for CA. “The rules under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, say that when forest land is diverted, compensatory afforestation must be carried out on land which is currently not recognised as a protected area. We will identify an appropriate location and resubmit the proposal for compensatory afforestation,” said a CIDCO official privy to the development, adding that the project has already received coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance by the state coastal zone management authority in March 2019.“This development will especially improve connectivity between South Mumbai and the proposed Navi Mumbai airport via the MTHL bridge. In the Ulwe area, service lanes are planned in addition to the six-lane carriageway so that nodal traffic can also benefit without disrupting the journeys of those travelling to and from the airport. Existing routes in the area along National Highway 4B and State Highway 54 will also be decongested as a result of this project,” said the CIDCO official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/32-ha-of-mangrove-forests-may-be-diverted-for-jnpt-navi-mumbai-coastal-road-101638974541600.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Participation of sangat shrinking in all gurdwaras: SGPC chief||Harjinder Singh Dhami, 65, the newly elected president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the apex Sikh body that is responsible for the management of gurdwaras in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and the Union Territory of Chandigarh, says he is a sewadar (servant) of the community who takes everyone along. Once a chela (follower) of Gurcharan Singh Tohra, today he is his one-time arch rival Parkash Singh Badal’s loyalist. “Sometimes, you have to take positions according to the need of the hour,” he says candidly in an interview in Amritsar. Excerpts: Q: How do you see Tohra’s protégé being on two top SGPC positions, after his death? It is rightly said that we were with Gurcharan Singh Tohra sahib once, but now we are closer to (Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh) Badal sahib now. There were many groups in the Akali Dal. Amid this factionalism, Badal sahib blessed me. He is a big leader of the Panth and has always honoured me. Now, I am with him and his son Sukhbir Singh Badal. We remain firm on the stand and are not men who shift our loyalty. Why did you support Tohra in the Badal-Tohra feud in 1999? Sometimes, you have to take positions according to the need of the hour. Yes, I supported Tohra sahib. However, Sardar Parkash Singh Badal was president of the Akali Dal when I was allotted a ticket in the SGPC general house elections in 1996. Then, Tohra sahib became president. I was taken into the executive committee. When one works with the president in this core panel, proximity with him is natural. Secondly, Tohra sahib was not an ordinary president. He was an institution in himself. I was inspired by his personality. So, associating my name with him was certain. However, Sardar Badal showed a lot of affection, too. Thanks to him, I remained chairman of the Hoshiarpur Improvement Trust from 2009-12. I am called the ‘chela (follower)’ of Tohra Sahib, but I will also be glad if I’m called ‘chela’ of Badal sahib. SGPC has not got an influential chief like Tohra so far. Jathedar Tohra had his own stature. He had a big skill. He along with Badal sahib devoted their whole life to the Panth. They are tall personalities having their own ways and we cannot copy them. The presidents elected after Tohra sahib, have tried to keep the SGPC system in order. It’s said that the “envelope culture” for the presidential election is the biggest hurdle in restoring independence of the top office.It’s not like that. I don’t blame the media overall, but it also spreads wrong perceptions. We have an organisation that has a head. In an organisation, no one can act on his/her own. We are elected on the ticket of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Its president first hears all SGPC members who, then resolve to authorise the SAD president to choose the gurdwara body chief from among them. If the members are asked to choose the president on their own, they won’t be able to do so due to lack of agreement. It is said the SGPC president is under political pressure. Going by my experience as working on key posts previously, I would say that at least I did not face any such pressure. It was due to lack of any pressure that we have punished all corrupt persons in the SGPC so far. How were the SGPC president and other office-bearers elected before the introduction of ‘envelope culture’? Meetings of members were held at that time too, prior to the poll session of the SGPC general house. The decision on the next president was taken at these meetings. Which are the major challenges before you as SGPC chief? When any system suffers from stagnation, it takes time to bring it back in order. Like the rest of the world, the pandemic has been a setback. Our main resources of revenue are donation, assets, commercial outlets and the interests of the money deposited. Yet, Guru Ghar has a crunch of nothing and all problems will be fixed. Today is the age of information technology. The negative use of social media has damaged the SGPC, which is another challenge. How are the SGPC’s ties with Panthic bodies since they allege restrictions by the gurdwara body? The SGPC represents the entire Sikh quam (community) and is basically a management body. Leaders of all other organisations also visit us. Yes, the SGPC personnel, including the task force, are forced to act stringently when anyone acts unruly or violates the maryada on the premises of Sri Darbar Sahib. If anyone comes to pay obeisance here, nobody stops him or her. For example, the Sarbat Khalsa-appointed parallel acting jathedar of Akal Takht Bhai Dhian Singh Mand comes here and returns peacefully. Who stops him? Members of other organisations, including Dal Khalsa and the Mann group also come. We have never restricted them. Is the SGPC facing a credibility crisis? Decreased participation of devotees at events is an example. The participation of the sangat (community) is shrinking in all gurdwaras. This trend is not only limited to SGPC-managed gurdwaras. Secondly, this statement is not fully true. People have attended functions in big numbers, such as the celebrations of the SGPC’s 100th foundation day. Actually, people don’t have enough time to sit in the gathering these days. What is your resolve while serving as chief of the SGPC? This is a sewa (voluntary service). The SGPC president is not a leader, he is a sewadar (servant). The Guru has given me an opportunity of rendering this sewa. I pray that He blesses me with success. 
08-12-2021||Mumbai||Antilia explosives scare: Bombay high court cancels stay on Naresh Gor’s bail||MUMBAI: The Bombay High Court on Wednesday set aside a special NIA court’s stay order on grant of bail to cricket bookie Naresh Gaur who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran.Gor was accused of providing five SIM cards obtained on the basis of bogus documents to the alleged prime conspirator, Sachin Vaze, who is believed to have used some of these SIMs to communicate with other accused involved in killing the Thane trader.Gor will be released as soon as the bail conditions are set and jail procedures for release are completed. Gor, the first accused to be granted bail in the twin cases, approached the high court after the special NIA judge AT Wankhede granted him bail on November 20 but issued a second order on the request of NIA staying its decision. NIA wanted time to appeal against the bail order but did not file the petition.Senior advocate Shirish Gupte and advocate Aniket Nikam, appearing for Gor, told justice Sandeep Shinde that once the special court granted bail to Gor on merits, it was not open for the judge to stay its own order. During arguments in the high court, justice Shinde’s primary point to the NIA was whether a trial court judge has the power under section 309 (power to postpone or adjourn proceedings) or any other provision of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to stay his own order. The high court also asked what was the status of Gor’s detention after the stay of the judicial order.On December 7, while responding to the court’s query, additional solicitor general Anil Singh and advocate Sandesh Patil appearing for NIA, sought to justify the special court’s stay and said that Gor’s petition was not maintainable as he had the remedy of appealing against the trial court’s order.On Wednesday, justice Shinde struck down the special NIA court’s order staying bail granted to Gor and also rejected NIA’s request to stay the operation of the high court order. The reasoned order will be available in due course. Gor was arrested in March 2021 and has been in jail after his interrogation was over. He first applied for bail in August 2021 but it was rejected on the grounds that the investigation was still continuing and the charge sheet was not filed.In September 2021, after the NIA filed the charge sheet, Gor filed another bail request claiming that he was not aware of the larger conspiracy in the case and was being made a scapegoat at the behest of Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-explosives-scare-bombay-high-court-cancels-stay-on-naresh-gaur-s-bail-101638961401308.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cherry on top: Language of love transcends all species||“What is that?” My friend pointed towards the left. We were walking back from school. A dog was barking at something on the ground and was ready to attack whatever it was. We shooed the dog away and went closer to see what his object of interest was. It turned out to be a nest that must have fallen out of the tree. There was a newborn squirrel in it. It was so young that it had not even opened its eyes. “What do we do with it?” I asked. “How do I know,” my friend said. “I’ll take it home,” I decided. “Your call.” He was as nonchalant. So, I picked up the nest with the resident in it and gingerly carried it home. We are a family of animal lovers. The baby squirrel ignited parental instincts in my parents. Mom demonstrated to me how to feed the baby with a cotton wick dipped in milk. Dad got hold of a shoe box and made a house out of it. The baby was named Cherry. Cherry was painstakingly fed with the wick every couple of hours and was caressed by all family members. After a few days, she opened her eyes. Cherry looked at the faces and hands that had been feeding her and providing warmth. We were family and she immediately accepted us to be her siblings or whatever. Soon Cherry was cautiously venturing out of her shoe box. We would pick her up and place her on a shrub in the courtyard. She seemed confused initially, but was soon exploring the area and making joyful sounds. There were many other squirrels in the trees, but it was only Cherry who would come and climb on to our family members in the courtyard. Cherry started learning new tricks. Whenever we needed to feed her or just wanted it to be with her, dad would stand near the trees and whistle. Immediately, Cherry would appear and climb onto him. Our Alsatian took to Cherry as a family member. He would bark and chase away other squirrels, but Cherry could eat from his bowl. Cherry always returned to her shoe box house in the evening. We fed her fresh food whenever we had our meals. One day, I saw our Alsatian barking at something under a tree. I went to check. Cherry was lying there on a side. Her eyes were closed and she was breathing heavily. The dog looked at me and kept barking and wagging its tail as if asking me to do something for Cherry. I caressed her and tried to ascertain the reason for her distress. There were no external injury marks or other clue. Suddenly, she stopped breathing. We were all shocked. With a heavy heart, we buried her. We did not have the courage to remove her house. Cherry was there in our life for one year. It was a unique experience. She cemented our belief in the fact that the language of love transcends all species. gsbattu@gmail.com The writer is a Patiala-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cherry-on-top-language-of-love-transcends-all-species-101638960920622.html
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court frames charges against man who pointed gun at policeman||A Delhi court has framed charges against Shahrukh Pathan, the man who had pointed a gun at a policeman during the deadly riots that rocked northeast Delhi last year, saying that it was not an ordinary case of an individual or a group committing an unlawful act. Images of Pathan pointing a gun at Delhi police’s head constable Deepak Dahiya were widely circulated on social media. He was arrested on March 3, 2020 and is currently lodged in Tihar jail. On Tuesday, additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat charged Pathan with attempt to murder, assault, and obstructing public servants in the discharge of duty under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act.The court also observed that it hadn’t witnessed riots of this nature since the deadly Sikh riots in 1984. The court noted that there was a prohibitory order under section 144 of the CrPC issued by the DCP (Northeast) and there was a violation also of section 188 of the IPC. The court also framed charges against Shamim and Abdul Shehzad, both co-accused, for being part of the rioters who were led by Pathan, saying they were rioting at the time of the gun-pointing incident. The Delhi court noted that both the accused have been identified through CCTV footage and by witnesses. The court also charged another accused, Ishtiyak Malik, saying that even if there was no footage showing him rioting, he cannot be absolved of the crime. The judge said that he was in constant touch with Pathan, as evident from his call records, adding that his mobile phone location was the same as that of Pathan. “This factum of the location or the presence of the accused Ishtiyak Malik @ Guddu at the place of riots where weapons are being brandished, and firing done at head constable Deepak Dahiya and others by accused Shahrukh Pathan with whom he was in continuous touch and shared the location of riots, is enough for framing charges against him, “ the court said.Additionally, the bench charged one Kaleem Ahmed for harbouring Pathan in Kairana, Uttar Pradesh, after he escaped following the incident during the riots.“On the basis of material on record, I am of the opinion that there are sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused persons namely Shahruk Pathan, Shamim, Abdul Shehzad and Ishtiyaq Malik @ Guddu have committed offences under sections 147, 148, 186, 188, 353, 307 of the IPC... section 149 of the IPC, and accused Shahrukh Pathan has also additionally committed offence under sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act, while accused Kaleem Ahmed committed offence under section 216 of the IPC,” the court said. Pathan, through his counsel, had earlier argued that he only intended to scare the policeman and not kill him.Communal clashes broke out in northeast Delhi in February 2020 after a tense standoff between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and its critics went out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.
08-12-2021||Mumbai||More than 40 BMW cars charred in service centre fire||More than 40 BMW cars were charred and several more were partially damaged when a BMW service centre cum godown in Turbhe MIDC in Navi Mumbai was gutted in a fire that raged over seven hours after it broke out at around 5.30 pm on Tuesday. While there were no injuries, the total loss caused to the property is being assessed, officials said. “As many as 40 cars, majority of which were BMW make, were charred in the fire which broke out in the workshop of the luxury car company in Turbhe. Some non BMW high-end cars owned by the employees of the company were also gutted in the fire. Ten fire tenders from Vashi, Kopar Khairane, Turbhe and MIDC were dispatched to douse the fire,” a fire department official said on condition of anonymity. Also Read: Mayor objects to BJP MLA’s comment, women’s commission takes suo moto cognisanceThe fire was doused by 1.00 am on Wednesday. The officer quoted above added, “We are not sure how many of these cars were used or new cars. We are still assessing the damage. The reason behind the fire is not yet clear.” 
08-12-2021||Dehradun||2-day astro-tourism ‘party’ starts at 2,500m in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli||In a first of its kind initiative to promote astronomy tourism in Uttarakhand, a two-day “Astro Party” started in the Benital area of Chamoli district at a height of 2,500 metres on Tuesday with visitors engaged in activities such as stargazing, constellation hunting, sky observation, identifying planets and learning astrophotography. Organised by Chamoli district administration in collaboration with Gurgaon based Starscapes Experiences Pvt Ltd, the event is part of the vision to develop specific themes for tourism in each one of the state’s 13 districts. Chamoli, needless to say, has decided to develop Astro-tourism and is promoting Benital as an “Astro Village” Paul Savio, co-founder and chief executive officer of Starscapes said Astro-party is an event where people can have a multitude of astronomical experiences ranging from identifying planets, constellations, stars, different cosmic phenomenon, learning Astro-photography, how to make sun-dials and so on. “On the first day, around 50 visitors attended the Astro-party. As it is a very remote place, we are hoping more people will turn up in such events in future. With telescopes, our six resource persons including an expert on Astro-photography were there,” he said According to officials of Starscapes, Benital with its low light pollution and minimal human activities offers an undisturbed view of the night sky, making it an ideal location for viewing celestial bodies and promoting Astro-tourism. Also Read: Congress condemns ‘attack’ on Yashpal Arya, holds state-wide protestsSavio said with travel and tourism slowly picking up in the last few months, tourists are looking for quaint and minimally populated locations that can offer offbeat experiences. “Given this trend, Astro-tourism has seen a newfound interest among travellers and tourists. People are opting for activities such as stargazing, viewing of the moon and other planetary objects, astrophotography and other activities that give voice to their curiosity about the universe. This trend is definitely here to stay, and it may become the next big travel trend in the country” he added. Founded in 2015 by astronomy aficionado Ramashish Ray with Paul Savio joining him as co-founder and CEO in 2019, Starscapes has set up two observatories in Uttarakhand, one is situated at Bhimtal in Nainital district and another at Kausani in Bageshwar district. 
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s temperature likely to drop to 10°C; air quality remains in ‘poor’ zone||New Delhi is likely to see shallow fog on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), with the minimum temperature likely to drop to 10 degrees Celsius. The forecast says the mercury could go up to 24 degrees Celsius later in the day.Tuesday’s minimum temperature was 11 degrees Celsius while the maximum was 25 degrees Celsius. On the pollution front, New Delhi’s air quality remained in the “poor” category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) was 236 at 7am. The AQI was in the “poor” zone on Tuesday as well. The union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said, “The AQI indicates the upper end of ‘poor’ air quality. For the next four days [December 7-11], winds are likely to be moderate, increasing the ventilation of pollutants. Minimum temperatures are likely to drop gradually. With mostly clear sky conditions during the day time... the net effect is that air quality for the next four days [is] likely to improve gradually, but [remain] in the ‘poor’ category.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-temperature-likely-to-drop-to-10-c-air-quality-remains-in-poor-zone-101638932117239.html
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Is it a cab? No, it’s a food stall!||He gave up his career as a cab driver. But his white cab remains a necessary element of his new career. Vikas Sharma started his pavement lunch stall two weeks ago. The cab is the stall. Its boot is the food counter.The menu is always the same - three gravy-based dishes of rajma, chhole and karhi, along with plain boiled rice. The signature dish is karhi, for that is the name of the stall - Radhe Radhe Sharmaji Karhi Chawal Wale.A cloth banner printed with this name is draped across the length of the cab, and it is in direct view of pedestrians here in Anand Vihar, a short walk from the interstate bus terminus.“These days, cab-driving doesn’t fetch much earning,” says Mr Sharma. Based on his experience, he says the coronavirus pandemic and ride-sharing companies have directly hurt the earnings of independent drivers like him. However, the switch to catering wasn’t virgin territory for him “because I’ve previously dabbled in this line”.Now a passerby pauses, looks at the banner, appears to be in two minds, then timidly asks for a plate of karhi chawal. Mr Sharma nods, picks up a disposable bowl, fills it up with boiled rice over which he pours two or three ladles of karhi along with two pakoras. He sprinkles garam masala on the serving and tops the dish with sliced onions. The customer moves towards the side and begins his lunch.This stretch of Anand Vihar is crammed with food carts targeting the bus terminus crowd. Mr Sharma’s establishment is unique in serving substantial home-style meals. The rest of the stalls are doling out chhole bhathure, parathas, kulche and Maggi noodles.A cab driver’s work is extremely hectic, Mr Sharma says. But his life as a food stall entrepreneur remains equally hectic. Every morning he gets up at four to prepare the dishes at his home in Bhopura. “My wife contributes equally to the cooking,” he says, urging that her name not be shared publicly. The dishes are ready by 9am, and he opens his stall an hour later. This being early days of the new venture, Mr Sharma cannot confirm it to be a success yet, “but all the dishes get over by the time I leave for home [at 4pm].”And now another man slows down. He, too, asks for karhi chawal.The stall is situated next to a shopping mall, right in front of a shelter for homeless people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-is-it-a-cab-no-it-s-a-food-stall-101638923243746.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Dubai returnee tests Covid +ve , dept to send sample for genome testing to Delhi||Four people, including an international traveller from Haibowal, tested positive for the coronavirus on Tuesday. As the patient had recently returned from Dubai, his samples were collected for genome sequencing test to test for the Omicron strain of the virus, but could not be sent in due to a protest by National Health Mission (NHM) employees. It has been decided that the sample will now be sent to Delhi to get the results at the earliest. The genome sequencing reports received so far have returned negative for Omicron. However, some genome sequencing reports are still pending.As per department sources, around 1,002 international travellers have arrived in Ludhiana since November 26, but none of them have tested positive for Covid. The department is preparing a list of NRIs who have returned from Omicron-hit countries for contact tracing. Sources say 50 of the NRIs have not been traced so far. The district has, so far, logged 87,685 infections, of which 85,547 were able to recover, and 2,111 succumbed. There are, at present, 27 active cases in the district, of which 23 are under home isolation and four are admitted in private hospitals.Lone dengue case One more dengue case was reported in the district on Tuesday, taking the case count to 1,818 cases. Around 1,337 cases were reported from the city alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dubai-returnee-tests-covid-ve-dept-to-send-sample-for-genome-testing-to-delhi-101638911958448.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Passengers a harried lot as transport staff goes on indefinite strike in Ludhiana||Passengers at the city bus stand had a harrowing time after Punbus and PRTC contractual employees went on an indefinite strike on Tuesday as part of their statewide protest seeking regularisation of jobs.Around 150 public-run buses, including roadways and PRTC, were stabled at the city bus stand due to the strike, leaving the public with no option but to flag down private buses. Women, who enjoy free travel in public buses, had to shell out fare. One distressed passenger, Ravi Sharma, who was accompanied by his wife, mother and sister-in-law, said, “It is unfair that now women passengers will have to pay for their travel. We had planned to go to visit the Mata Chintpurni Mandir and have been waiting for a government-run bus to Hoshiarpur as we would only have to pay fare for one person, and the rest of my family can travel free of cost. While announcing free travel for women, the government should also ensure that public buses remain operational.”Pvt buses overcharging: Commuters Uncertainty over when the bus services would resume left both officials and passagers flummoxed. A passenger, Vishal, said, “The enquiry counters were unmanned and no one seems to know when operations will resume. Private bus operators, who are enjoying their monopoly, have increased the fare by ₹10 to ₹20. The public will have to bear the brunt for this deadlock between the government and contractual employees.” Meanwhile, authorities said that efforts were made to provide relief to passengers by playing buses on a few routes with the help of permanent staffers.Station supervisor Kuljit Singh Sodhi said, “Around 25 public sector buses were being run on busy routes such as Chandigarh, Moga, and Jalandhar. However, the services were still affected at large. The state government is working to resolve the issue with the employees’ union.” FIRs no deterrentDespite FIRs being lodged against unidentified employees for shutting down the bus stand for two hours during an agitation on December 3, employees in large numbers went on strike and staged a protest against the state government outside roadways workshop at the bus stand on Tuesday.Punbus/PRTC contractual employees union district president Satnam Singh said,”We are not afraid of any action being taken against them as out fight is for a genuine demand. The strike will continue until our demand are fulfilled, which include regularisation of employees, and addition of more buses under the roadways department. Authorities are also trying to pressure employees by threatening them with departmental action.” On December 4, unidentified transport workers had been booked for shutting the bus stand for two hours, which resulted in alleged harassment to the public.State joint secretary of the Union Shamsher Singh said they have not even been able to provide education and health facilities to their families due to meagre salaries. Different employee and farmer unions have also extended support to the statewide protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/passengers-a-harried-lot-as-transport-staff-goes-on-indefinite-strike-in-ludhiana-101638911715025.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Man mowed down near DMCH hostel||A day after a speeding car mowed down an unidentified person on Rajpura Road near Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), the police on Tuesday registered a case against the unknown driver. The reckless driver had also rammed his car into three other vehicles parked on the road, before fleeing. Station house officer, sub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh, said that the car belongs to a resident of Rishi Nagar. “ We are trying to trace the person who was driving the car at the time of the incident. The victim’s body will be kept in the mortuary for 72 hours for identification. Shopkeepers in the area say that the victim used to roam the area, but no one knew his name or other details.” The incident had taken place on December 6 while the victim was crossing the road. Bystanders say the accused was driving at high speed and lost control of the vehicle after hitting the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-mowed-down-near-dmch-hostel-101638911413240.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Gold loan firms, banks told to install CCTVs, security devices||In a bid to bolster security at financial institutions, the police sent out a reminder to gold-loan companies, banks, and similar establishments to install night vision CCTV cameras that provide a clear view of the road in front of the branch, entry and exit points, the reception desk, and other sensitive areas with a storage of up to 30 days and adequate power backup. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) Dayama Harish Omparkash directed the institutions to conceal the network video recorders (NVRs) and digital video recorders (DVRs) and the UPS so that they are not damaged. He also asked them to ensure that there was provision of remote recording and storage of footage, maybe at a regional office or headquarter of the company, for any eventuality.“The management will be responsible for installation and smooth functioning of burglar alarms in the branches. The alarms should be separately operable by the branch manager, cashier, and any other official of the branch from their seats. The alarm should be linked to the head offices, who are to immediately contact the police control room,” he said. “A BSNL landline phone with an auto-dialer should also be installed in the branch. As soon as the alarm goes off, a teleprompter should automatically inform the police control room of suspicious activity. Security staff should be properly verified, and names and phone numbers of all visitors should be entered in a register,” the JCP said. On October 30, an alert security guard at Muthoot Fincorp Gold Loan’s Sundar Nagar branch in Ludhiana had shot dead one of the four robbers who had tried to rob gold and cash. The robbers had also shot the manager of the branch in his right shoulder.Spa, massage centres told to maintain recordsTo deter illegal activities at spa and massage centres in the city, the JCP has asked proprietors to maintain proper records, including a copy of the photo identity cards of all customers. In the orders issued under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the JCP also directed them to ensure that all their foreign staff working has a work visa and not a tourist visa.Besides, closed-circuit television cameras are mandatory at entry, exit, and reception points and the recordings must be kept for 30 days, he added. He also asked the owners to ensure that there is no secret entry or exit passage and to get their employees verified at the nearest police station. Action will be taken against centers where liquor, drugs, hookah, and other intoxicants are served to customers.Schools asked to deposit list of bus drivers, other staffThe JCP also ordered schools to deposit a list of staff, including drivers and conductors of school buses with their photographs, to the police station concerned. “Verification of staff is essential for the safety of children,” he said. The commissioner of police has also ordered educational institutions, factories and other establishments to deposit record of gardeners, drivers, watchmen and other employees, who live inside the premises, to the police station concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gold-loan-firms-banks-told-to-install-cctvs-security-devices-101638910933265.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||21 days on, 3 held for heist at e-money transfer facility in Ludhiana||Twenty-one days after six men robbed an e-money transfer facility on Sua Road in the Focal Point area and injured its proprietor and his family, the police arrested three of the accused on Tuesday. The arrested accused are Bobby Singh, 29, of Patiala, Salinder Mishra, 32, of Lakhimpur Kheri, and Sunil Kumar, 24, of Bihar. An illegal .315 bore countrymade pistol, two motorcycles used in the crime, five cartridges, ₹1.05 lakh, a laptop and three debit cards were found in their possession.It has emerged that the accused had also burgled two electronic shops in Raikot and Kanganwal, and had made away with mobile phones, LCDs, home theatres and other gadgets. Nineteen packed mobile phones, two LCDs and two home theatres were also recovered from the three accused. Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police had been clued in to the identity of the accused while scanning through CCTV footage. Sunil Kumar had carried out a reconnaissance of the shop before hatching a plan to rob it. “The accused had bought the illegal weapon from Uttar Pradesh. One of the bikes used to execute the crime had been stolen from a commuter near Dhillon Colony, Kanganwal, while the other had been stolen from Alamgir,”said Bhullar, adding that the accused had gone their separate ways after dividing the spoils of their loot. The three other accomplices have been identified, and a hunt is on for their arrest. On the revelations of the accused, the police have also arrested two shopkeepers – Ashok Masih of Model Town, a scrap dealer, and Ashok Kumar of Giaspura, who runs a mobile phone shop – for buying stolen articles from the gang.The commissioner of police also honoured the police team that cracked the case. Criminal record Two of the arrested accused are history sheeters. While Bobby Singh, a school dropout, is facing trial in five cases, including burglary and possessing stolen articles. He had been released on bail after six years.Salinder Mishra, who has only studied till Class 12, is facing trial in three cases. including hatching a conspiracy of robbery and burglary. He was bailed out on September 10 after spending two-and-a-half years in jail. Sunil Kumar is illiterate and has no criminal record, Bhullar said. The case (BOX) On November 15, six men had targeted the money e-money transfer facility and had decamped with ₹5.8 lakh, and a laptop after injuring the proprietor Navneet Kumar Srivastva. When his wife, Amrita Nanda, intervened, the accused opened fire on her. One of the bullets pierced her thight, while the splinters of the bullets hit their toddler, Vartika. While fleeing, the accused had left one of their motorcycles on the spot. Another motorcycle used in the crime was later found abandoned on the road.The Focal Point police had lodged an FIR under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) , 395 (punishment for dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Arms Act against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/21-days-on-3-held-for-heist-at-e-money-transfer-facility-in-ludhiana-101638910754658.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Inspect wealth of all ministers, HSSC chairperson: Naveen Jaihind||Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) former Haryana president Naveen Jaihind on Tuesday sought an inspection of the wealth of all state ministers and Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) chairperson Bhopal Singh Khadri.He made this demand while addressing press conferences in Ambala and Yamunanagar, where he targeted home minister Anil Vij and education minister Kanwar Pal, challenging them to take an oath of Gita that there has been no corruption. “I will gherao the state assembly on December 17 and deliver cow dung and urine to all ministers. There are 30 lakh unemployed youth in the state and there are five lakh vacancies,” he said.He also asked the Haryana Police to make public the names of ministers who were involved in the ‘scam’ as revealed by commission’s deputy secretary Anil Nagar during his remand. Nagar, who was arrested by the state vigilance bureau last month, was dismissed from services by Haryana governor on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inspect-wealth-of-all-ministers-hssc-chairperson-naveen-jaihind-101638910575856.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Five Chandigarh residents fall prey to online fraudsters||The cyber crime investigation cell of Chandigarh Police has lodged five separate cases of people losing money to online fraudsters. Aryan Grewal, a resident of Sector 11, said he received a call from a person identifying himself as Pankaj Kumar Pandey on November 12. On the pretext of sending him some money for his brother’s knee operation, the caller sent him a link. When Grewal clicked it, money was deducted from his Google Pay account. In three similar transactions, on pretext of returning the amount, the caller duped Grewal of ₹1.09 lakh and blocked his number.Ruchika of Sector 29 told police that her father was duped of ₹40,000 in a similar manner after a person sought his Google Pay details after posing as their tenant wanting to pay rent. Meanwhile, Kirandeep, a resident of Sector 21, lost ₹13.31 lakh after being duped by a man she met online on Instagram. He claimed to have sent her a gift, after which Kirandeep received a call from a person identifying himself as a customs officer. She was told to pay customs duty to claim the gift and ended up paying the amount in different instalments by December 3. Jyoti Rani, a resident of Sector 20, alleged that an unknown person cheated her of ₹16,171 in the online sale of a toy, while Preetika Gill of Sector 35 was allegedly duped of ₹58,827 on pretext of online sale of garments via an Instagram account on December 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-chandigarh-residents-fall-prey-to-online-fraudsters-101638910213267.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Anurag Thakur to campaign for BJP candidates on Dec 10||Ahead of Chandigarh municipal elections, Union cabinet minister and senior BJP leader Anurag Thakur will be campaigning for the party in the city on December 10. Thakur is among the star campaigners of the party, which is looking to tap into the strong voter base of Himachalis in Chandigarh. The Himachal tradition-centric event will be held in Sector 25 and also feature popular regional singer Karnail Rana. BJP candidates after relieving from the scrutiny process started canvassing on Tuesday. Mayor Ravikant Sharma held a series of nukkad meetings in Sector 22 while Prince Bandula from Ward 13 started his campaign by cleaning green belts and roadsides. Unit president Arun Sood inaugurated the election office of Bharat Kumar from Ward 31 in Kajheri, while former BJP state president Sanjay Tandon inaugurated the office of Sunita Dhawan from Ward 18. Ravinder Pathania from Ward 29 also started electioneering.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) inaugurated its election office in Daddumajra in the presence of workers, party’s co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra and state president Prem Garg. Chhabra said the AAP has given opportunity to one of the best and capable youths to contest MC elections in all 35 wards. Party’s state incharge Jarnail Singh in a press conference earlier said, “The Congress had filed a complaint with the election commission against the AAP’s election symbol, a broom. It is clear how much fear is there in the Congress as ours is the only party which has changed the people of the country and the state by freeing them from the corrupt politics of traditional parties.” Meanwhile, former Haryana chief minister and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Hooda came out in support of party candidate from Ward 2 Harmohinder Singh Lucky and said, “The BJP has failed everywhere, be it Chandigarh or Haryana.” He said, “Chandigarh, the proud capital of Punjab and Haryana, has lost its sheen which can only be restored by the Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-anurag-thakur-to-campaign-for-bjp-candidates-on-dec-10-101638909913205.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales: PUTA members protest delay in implementation||The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) on Tuesday expressed concern over the pending implementation of the revised UGC pay scales as per the seventh pay commission by the Punjab government. Members of PUTA held an hour-long dharna on the varsity campus on Tuesday to mark their protest as a part of statewide agitation of university and college teachers, who are pressing for the implementation of the revised pay scales. PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “The deafening silence on the part of the Punjab government on these genuine issues of teachers is indeed worrisome as it remains unmoved even by the statewide education bandh being observed by all universities and college teachers under the banner of PFUCTO for the past one week.”He urged the heads of institutes, including V-C of Panjab University, to support the cause of teachers and impress on the Punjab government to notify the UGC pay scales as per the seventh pay commission without any further delay. The teachers are demanding the immediate implementation of revised UGC pay scales and withdrawal of the decision of the Punjab government to delink the scales of teachers of universities and colleges from the UGC.Former PUTA president Ronki Ram said, “Despite the candid assurances given by Punjab chief minister and finance minister, the grievance has still not been addressed. The UGC pay scales are not alms for teachers but these are their right.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugc-pay-scales-puta-members-protest-delay-in-implementation-101638909793603.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali mayor starts road repair work in industrial phases||Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Tuesday started the work of laying a premix on major roads in industrial areas of Phase 8A and 8B. Senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal and deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present at the spot. Sidhu said the work of installing premix on all roads in Phase 8A and 8B at a cost of ₹3.2 crore would be completed in a few days. He said the industries were a major source of revenue for Mohali MC, but as this neglected area was under PSIEC, the MC could not carry out development works here. Sidhu said the entire infrastructure of the area would be strengthened. Mohali Industries Association president Anurag Aggarwal said the new team formed in Mohali MC under the leadership of Sidhu was taking up development work in the industrial sector. It may be recalled that the entire region had been lagging behind in terms of infrastructure and for the first time, development work is being carried out by the Mohali municipal corporation here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mayor-starts-road-repair-work-in-industrial-phases-101638909553182.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two lives snuffed out in Panchkula hit-and-runs||Two men died in separate hit-and-run accidents in Panchkula, police said on Tuesday. The FIRs in both the cases have been registered at Panchkula’s Sector-7 police station. The victims are Sukhwinder Singh, 45, of Zirakpur and Rajesh, 24, a resident of Pinjore. Gurwinder Singh told the police that his elder brother Sukhwinder worked in a private company in Parwanoo and had left office on his bike on Monday night. “Around 10.30pm, I got a call informing that my brother’s bike was hit by a speeding truck on the Shimla-Zirakpur highway,” he said. Gurwinder said his brother was taken to the civil hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. The FIR has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unidentified truck driver. In the second case, complainant Kishan Kumar from Pinjore said that on Sunday, he, along with Rajesh, was returning from a village in Panchkula. “Around 11.45pm, a speeding tanker hit our vehicle. We both suffered severe injuries and rushed to a hospital, where doctors pronounced Rajesh dead on arrival. The tanker driver fled from the spot,” Kishan, who is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital, mentioned in his complaint. The FIR in this case has been registered under sections 279, 304-A and 337 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-lives-snuffed-out-in-panchkula-hitandruns-101638909373451.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||2 killed, 25 injured as vehicle falls into gorge in Chamba’s Bharari||Two persons were killed and 25 injured when the pick-up truck they were travelling in skidded off the road and plunged into a gorge at Sarol nullah near Bharari in the Chowari subdivision of Chamba district on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Arti Devi and Asha Devi. The victims were on their way to Saraiyan village to attend a condolence meeting on the death of a relative. Most of the passengers were women. After receiving the information about the mishap, the district authorities rushed rescue teams from the Chowari police station and Bakloh to the spot and pressed ambulances into the services. Local people also helped in the rescue operation. As per the district emergency operation centre, the vehicle was carrying a total of 27 people. So far, two casualties have been reported. The injured were rushed to the Chowari Civil Hospital from where seven critically hurt were shifted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Chamba. Police said prima facie the driver lost control of the wheel on a sharp curve. The exact reason will be known after investigation. A case of rash and negligent driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered against the driver and statements of injured were being recorded. Chowari Sub-divisional magistrate Bachan Singh said the kin of the deceased have been given ₹20,000 immediate relief and the injured were given ₹10,000. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur also expressed grief over the loss of lives in the accident. He prayed for peace to the departed soul and fast recovery of injured. 5 shops gutted near Dalhousie Five shops were gutted after a massive fire broke out at Goli village in the Dalhousie subdivision of Chamba. The fire broke out around 3 am. A dhaba owner came to know about the fire and woke up the people in nearby houses. Police teams and fire engines were also rushed to the spot. It was a wooden structure and fire spread rapidly. Firefighters had a tough time controlling the flames. A short circuit is said to be the reason behind the fire. A dhaba, a tent house shop, mobile repair shop, sweets shop and a hardware store were gutted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-killed-25-injured-as-vehicle-falls-into-gorge-in-chamba-s-bharari-101638909313274.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||UT adviser seeks report on shorter route to airport from Chandigarh||UT adviser Dharam Pal on Tuesday directed the deputy commissioner and chief engineer to submit a report on an alternative shorter route to the international airport from Chandigarh. The adviser has given 10-day time to the committee, which will submit its report after field study and assessing the ground situation. Pal said, “We will discuss the report with other stakeholders, including Punjab and Haryana, if the land required for shorter route falls under their jurisdictions.” Currently, Chandigarh residents have to take about 14km detour via Mohali to reach the airport. Before the construction of new international airport, the distance from Tribune Chowk to the previous terminal was 2.7km. Now, people have to travel 14.52km from the Tribune Chowk to reach the airport. In the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031, another proposal of road connectivity to the airport has been given from Sector 48 (Purv Marg) through Jagatpura village, which will be about 4.7km from Tribune Chowk, thereby reducing the distance by 10km. The UT administration’s proposal to construct a tunnel for an alternative shorter route to the airport in Mohali was junked in the Northern Zonal Council meeting held in September 2019.The administration was pitching for the Centre’s help and contributions from Haryana and Punjab to construct the ₹1,200-crore underground tunnel connecting Chandigarh directly to the new airport terminal in Mohali. The proposed route was to cut down the distance for people commuting to the airport from Chandigarh and Panchkula by 10km. But both Haryana and Punjab hadn’t supported the proposal. This was also not agreed upon by the Indian Air Force authorities. ‘Simplify estates policies’In a meeting to review the functioning of the UT estate office on Tuesday, Dharam Pal stressed on resolving the issues pending at the level of Chandigarh administration at the earliest and further directed to follow up with the ministry of home affairs regarding the pending issues. Some important issues such as conversion of leasehold to freehold properties in case of commercial and industrial plots, review of fee for additional FAR to educational, social, religious and cultural institutions, renewal of lease of LPG godown and petrol pump sites and misuse/building violation charges were discussed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ut-adviser-seeks-report-on-shorter-route-to-airport-from-chandigarh-101638909013266.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Gang of pickpockets busted at Punjab Lok Congress office launch||Pickpockets had a field day during the inauguration of former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s party office in Sector 9, Chandigarh, on Monday. Chandigarh Police have arrested three men, including Sanjeev Khanna of Mundi Kharar in Mohali, who was apprehended while feasting on snacks during the inauguration. His two accomplices, Rajesh and Sahil of Ludhiana were arrested on Tuesday. Police have recovered five stolen mobile phones from them Party leader Shashi Vardhan from Khanna had reported theft of three mobile phones from the Punjab Lok Congress office during the inauguration. Police said that gang, comprising half a dozen men, had reached the venue in a Hyundai Verna. It was Sanjeev who nicked mobile phones of party members and guests and handed them to his accomplices, said police. The thefts came to light after Shashi, soon after meeting Capt Amarinder Singh, found his phone missing. On checking the video footage of the event, and found Sanjeev pulling out the mobile phone from guests’ pockets when they were greeting Amarinder. The party workers then spotted Sanjeev feasting on samosas. On being questioned, he said that he was a party worker. In the meantime, police were informed and he was handed over to cops while his other accomplices fled. Police later arrested Sahil and Rajesh from Ludhiana. “The accused are members of a gang operating from Ludhiana. They target religious and political functions to steal valuables. Three have been arrested, while the other accused have been identified,” said Charanjit Singh Virk, DSP (central), Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhgang-of-pickpockets-busted-at-punjab-lok-congress-office-launch-101638908906606.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh dodges Omicron scare, for now||The 39-year-old Chandigarh man who had tested positive for Covid-19 on returning from South Africa last month is not infected with the new Omicron variant, the UT health department said on Tuesday, after receiving the genome sequencing report of his swab samples from the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi.The man, a resident of Sector 36, had tested negative on his arrival at the airport on November 21, but was found positive in the retest on November 29 even as he had remained quarantined at his house. His wife and child had also tested positive, while three other family members and contacts tested negative.“The test reports revealed that the man is infected with the Delta (B.1.617.2) variant of concern, and hence he is not infected with the Omicron variant,” Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, adding that his wife and child are also infected with the Delta variant. Dr Singh said the health department has also traced the family’s infection history and found that the child was the first to develope symptoms. “Since the man had returned from a high-risk country, he became the primary case. All three are isolated at hospital and are have a good health condition. We will conduct their repeat test on December 8, and will send them home if the results come negative,” she said.The World Health Organisation has warned that the risk related to Omicron (B.1.1.529) strain is “very high”. First detected in South Africa, the “highly divergent” strain has been spreading globally at a high speed with around two dozen cases detected across five states in India till Monday.The Delta variant, another “variant of concern” that has spread in more than 85 nations , is seen as the major reason behind the second wave in Chandigarh. Over 90% of the genome sequencing reports received by the UT health department since June have confirmed its presence. “As Covid-19 has many variants with higher chances of transmissibility, people are requested to get vaccinated at the earliest as it is the only key to controlling the infection severity,” said Dr Singh. Tricity records first death this monthMeanwhile, a 52-year-old woman from Nayagaon, Mohali, succumbed to Covid-related complications at the PGIMER on Tuesday. It is the first death due to the virus in the tricity this month. The previous death took place on November 30, also of a Mohali resident. Meanwhile, 16 new cases were reported in the tricity in the last 24 hours, of which eight surfaced in Chandigarh, seven in Mohali and one in Panchkula. As far as active cases are concerned, there are 65 in Chandigarh, 55 in Mohali and 15 in Panchkula, taking the tricity’s total to 135.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-dodges-omicron-scare-for-now-101638908905154.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC election: 45% candidates are aged below 40||Nearly half the candidates in the fray in the Chandigarh municipal elections are below the age of 40.Of 214 candidates whose nomination papers were approved by the State Election Commission, 95 are aged between 21 and 40 years. The percentage of these young candidates, which stands at 45% at present, could change after December 9, the final date for withdrawal of nominations.Aged 22, the two youngest candidates are Akansha, who is contesting from Ward No. 16 on the Bahujan Samaj Party ticket, and Rohit, who is the Samajwadi Party nominee from Ward No. 20.Moved by the poor condition of slum areas in the city, Akansha, a BSc (medical) final-year student at the government college in Sector 11, decided to contest elections. “I am working for the education of slum children in Sector 25 for some time now. I want to do more for them. Also, even basic amenities are missing in the city’s slums; people are forced to drink sewage-mixed water,” said Akansha, who has declared assets worth ₹30,000. “If other candidates have money I have ideas and sincerity.”Ward No. 3 (comprising Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 26) and Ward No. 16 (Sector 25, 25 West and Bhaskar Colony) have maximum number of young candidates, at six each. In Ward No. 16, reserved of SC women, all six candidates are below the age of 40. In Ward No. 3, six out the nine are aged below 40.Other wards where young candidates dominate are Wards No. 4, 9 and 15 with five each, and Wards No. 6, 8, 14, 20, 21, 25, 29 and 33 with four each.After Independents, AAP has most youngest nomineesAt 29, Independents make up most of the young candidates. Varsha, 25, contesting from Ward No. 16 is the youngest among them.Fighting its first municipal elections, the Aam Aadmi Party has filed the highest number of young candidates. Of the 35 in the fray, 19 are aged below 40. Most of them are first-timers, with Neha, 25, who is contesting from Ward No. 19 the youngest.Both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and the main opposition party Congress have fielded 11 each in the young category. The BJP’s youngest candidate, Usha, 27, is fighting her first election from Ward No. 16. Congress’s youngest nominee is also 27-year-old:Sachin Galav from Ward No. 13.The oldest candidate in the fray is from the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Aged 75, Jangi Mukhiya is in the fray from Ward No. 29. The ward also has other two most aged candidates in the fray: Jagjeet Singh Kang, 68, of the Congress, and the party’s rebel candidate Harbans Singh, 67. 
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cycle thief escapes from lockup in Chandigarh||In a major embarrassment for the Chandigarh Police, a cycle thief on Tuesday escaped from their custody after apparently slipping through the bars of the lockup, which according to sources is a first-of-its-kind incident in the city.The incident took place at the police station in Sector 39 in the wee hours, said police. The accused has been identified as Divesh Gupta, 27, of Balongi in Mohali. He was arrested on Monday for allegedly committing a string of thefts of costly bicycles from outside houses in southern sectors. With his arrest, police claimed to have recovered 13 stolen bicycles. The thefts had taken place from outside houses in Sector 56, Sector 38 (West) and other areas bordering Mohali. Police said he used to sell the stolen bicycles at lesser prices to make easy money. He was arrested following a tip-off. After his arrest, Divesh was produced in court and remanded to one-day police custody. He was lodged in the lockup of the police station in Sector 39. Floor found dug upSources in the police said that he managed to slip through the bars sometime between 1:30 and 2 am. He had apparently bent the rusted bars. Even the floor near the bars was found dug up by about half a foot, said sources.Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh, Kuldeep Singh Chahal visited the police station in the morning and examined the lockup. ASP (South) Shruti Arora, who accompanied him, has been tasked with conducting an inquiry to find how the suspect managed to escape and identify the erring officials, stated a police release.Three cops on dutyThe lockup is under CCTV surveillance, and officers are scanning its footage to identify the erring officials, said sources. They said there were three cops on night duty at the police station: two constables, including a woman, and a home guard volunteer. A case under Sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful appre­hension) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the police station. “Erring police officials are being identified and strict action will be taken against them. Police teams have also been dispatched to nab the accused,” said Chahal.In October this year, two cops were booked after an undertrial, accused of heinous crimes such as sexual assault and kidnapping, escaped on being taken for treatment to the PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cycle-thief-escapes-from-lockup-in-chandigarh-101638908901466.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh teen held for doing stunts in Jaguar car at Sector-9 market||A college student was arrested for performing stunts in his luxury Jaguar car in the parking lot of the upscale Sector 9 market in Chandigarh, police said on Tuesday. The youth has been identified as Samyak Kapoor, 19, who resides in Sector 18 and is pursuing bachelors in business administration from Jindal Global University in Sonepat. His father Sachin Kapoor is an industrialist who deals in spare parts of vehicles. According to police, constable Parveen Kumar was patrolling the area near a nightclub at Sector 9 when he saw a Jaguar car, bearing a Maharashtra number, enter the parking area around 9pm on Sunday. The car was being driven rashly and the person behind the wheel was performing stunts, posing danger to both people and parked vehicles, said police. When the constable tried to stop the car, the driver allegedly sped away. The next day, police apprehended Samyak and impounded his car. A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Sector 3. The accused was later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-teen-held-for-doing-stunts-in-jaguar-car-at-sector-9-market-101638908900089.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||1971 War: Navyman who took part in bombing of Karachi harbour||It was his life’s toughest period. It was his life’s most exciting period. Thirty years after he slept with explosives under his mattress, Capt Arvind Kumar (retd), 71, vividly remembers his role in the bombing of Karachi harbour in 1971 during the Operation Trident, the success of which has led to December 4 being celebrated as Navy Day. For Capt Kumar, the journey in the armed forces started at the age of 20, when he joined the Navy after passing out from the Rashtriya Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, in Uttarakhand. After a year’s training in Mumbai, war broke out. And on December 4, 1971, a group of around 30 young midshipmen were rushed to the Eastern front. “Indian Navy ships Nirghat, Nipat and Veer fired their Styx missiles and sank Pakistan Navy ships Khyber and Muhafiz and it boosted our morale,” says Capt Kumar, recalling that night’s devastating offensive.Capt Kumar was deputed on INS Brahmaputra, with around 150 naval officers on it. “Captain Subimal Mukherjee had been giving our officers regular instructions regarding the targets. On March 8, we got the information that the Indian Army has attacked Karachi and there were apprehensions that Pakistan will attack Mumbai in retaliation. INS Vikrant was deployed to seal the escape route of Pakistani troops. Tactically, we started moving from East to West.”‘We were really excited & ignorant’The veteran says he still remembers those moments: “We used to move in a convoy of around eight ships, and aircraft above us. We used to throw explosives in the water suspecting Pakistan submarines. We were really excited and ignorant. I had put explosives under my mattress, so that nobody should take them without my permission. Now, I realise, it was a big blunder of my life as they could have exploded.”With the success of Indian naval operations in East Pakistan, the Indian Navy subsequently commenced two large-scale operations: Operation Trident and Operation Python. “These operations were focused on West Pakistan, the start of formal hostilities between India and Pakistan,” says Capt Kumar. To conduct successful operations against East and West Pakistan, India sorely needed to avoid a two-front war situation. Indian troops from the China border were needed in the West on the Pakistan border. “It is here that the Soviet Union came to our help, but Sri Lanka and the US were supporting Pakistan,” he says. “Also, due to the heavy presence of the Indian naval force on the Eastern front, Pakistan threat was very less. One thing we realised during the war was that Pakistani troops were cowards. During the conflict, East Pakistan’s naval ports were left defenceless as their Eastern Command had decided to fight the war without the navy. Faced overwhelming opposition, the navy planned to remain in the ports when the war broke out,” says the veteran.The Operation Trident, which saw the bombing of Karachi harbour, is considered to be one of the most successful operations in modern naval history, with no casualties being sustained by the Indian forces, he says. “I still remember, on December 16, 1971, 4.13 pm, Pakistan’s Rear Admiral Mohammad Shariff surrendered his naval command to Vice-Admiral Nilakanta Krishnan, commander-in-chief of the Eastern Naval Command… In world history, for the first time in any war, there was the massive surrender of 93,000 Pakistani troops in Bangladesh,” recalls Capt Kumar, who retired in March 1990 as commander of the executive branch.
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Temperature drops amid cold winds from hills||Snowfall in the surrounding hilly areas has led to a dip in temperature in Chandigarh as well. The minimum temperature stood at 9°C on Tuesday, four notches below 13°C recorded on Monday. It could further drop to 7°C in the next few days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “As Chandigarh is located at the foothills of Himalayas, any snowfall leads to cold winds blowing towards the area. Temperature will drop further in the coming days,” said an IMD official.Meanwhile, even the maximum temperature saw a drop from 23.9°C to 22.6°C and is expected to remain in the same range in the next three days.MORE NEWS FROM TRICITYCovid awareness van flagged off in MohaliMohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur on Monday flagged off an Covid awareness van. She said under ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign, the van will visit various places in the district to create awareness and added that the vaccine for Covid was completely safe and everyone should get it without any fear. City shuttler shines in SpainLocal shuttler Varun Sharma won doubles silver medal at the Senior Masters World Championships held from November 28 to December 4 in Spain. He paired with Andhra Pradesh’s Raghvan to claim the second position in the 35 years’ age category. The Indian pair lost to a former Olympian team in the title clash. Thailand’s Boonsak Ponsana and Jakrapan Thanathirat overpowered Sharma and Raghvan 21-12 21-12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-temperature-drops-amid-cold-winds-from-hills-101638908897338.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Another theft from car after smashing glass||In ninth such incident in Chandigarh in the past six weeks, thieves fled with items kept in a parked car after smashing its windowpane in Sector 26 on Monday.Jaskiran Kaur, a resident of Sector 33, told police that she had parked her Hyundai Accent car opposite Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration while going to pick up her child from school when the crime took place.When she returned one of the side windows had been smashed and her two bags containing cash, jewellery and documents were missing. A case has been registered. Mechanic duo held for stealing silencersTwo mechanics who work at the motor market in Manimajra and are addicted to drugs have been arrested for a string of thefts involving car silencers in the past six months. Identified as Amir Khan and Amit Sharma, both 22, they are residents of Daria village. Police said they have stolen silencers from cars parked in Sectors 11, 15, 22 and Manimajra multiple times in the past six months.They were arrested at a naka in Sector 23. Police also impounded the stolen Activa they were riding on.Woman foils snatching bidA snatcher was arrested after a woman foiled his bid to steal her mobile phone in a Sector-27 park, Chandigarh Police said on Tuesday. Shiny Rana of Sector 19 said she caught the snatcher, but he managed to free himself. She said she raised an alarm following which few passersby caught him. The accused is Varinder Golu of Sector 28, who worked at Pal store in Sector 27. Golu, who again managed to flee, was arrested later and sent to judicial custody. Two held with 12gm heroin, illegal liquorA 26-year-old man, Salim, 26, of Mauli Jagran complex was arrested with 12.43 gm heroin on December 6, police said. A case under NDPS Act was registered against him.In another case, one Ajay of Kishangarh was caught with 83 quarters of countrymade liquor. He was later released on bail. Two arrested for gambling The crime cell of Chandigarh Police arrested one Sadhu Paswan of Shastri Nagar while gambling in Sector 26 and recovered ₹21,010 from his possession. He was released on bail. One Tinku, 28, of Ram Darbar was also arrested under similar charges. The police recovered ₹1,240 from his possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhanother-theft-from-car-after-smashing-glass-101638908895976.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cattle the major hassle in Ward 31||Despite a blanket ban, cattle are reared in this ward with impunity, leaving other residents hassled by related issues such as flies, poor sanitation, and road accidents. The ward comprises Kajheri village, Sectors 52 and 61 and surrounding colonies near Mohali border. The residents of Sector 61, which is very much a part of the smart city Chandigarh, feel alienated owing to the lack of basis facilities, such as a dispensary, library or for that matter even a PIN code, for which they have to depend on Mohali. The liquor vend in the market witnesses a lot of rush, as people not just from the city but also Mohali throng to buy alcohol that is less costly in Chandigarh.Vinit Singh Chauhan, president, RWA, Sector 61, says: “We are paying the price of staying on the border. In the evening, there is a huge rush at the liquor vend. People can be seen drinking in public, making it difficult for women to go to the market.” He adds: “We face a lot of issues in courier deliveries. Despite being a smart city, Sector 61 does not have a PIN code and residents are using the code of Mohali.” AB Gera, a member of the RWA, Sector 61, says: “We feel left out, as no one seems to be interested in development of our sector. There is no dispensary, no sampark centre, no library or even public place for recreation.” Ram Rajput of Sector 52 says, “The Chandigarh administration has a blanket ban on rearing cattle but despite this people have made huts in an open area in Sector 52 and are rearing cattle. No concrete efforts have been made to ensure that cattle do not come on roads. Despite raising the issue repeatedly, no action has been taken.” Suresh Kumar Thakur, another resident of Sector 52, says: “Road work has not been done though at some places recarpeting was done as the elections approached. A dispensary had been opened, but there is no staff.” The residents of Sectors 52 and 61 also complain that the area councillor, Chanderwati Shukla, went “missing” when the area saw a surge in Covid-19 cases. Denying that, Shukla says: “I have delivered more than what was promised. The issue of stray cattle still remains unresolved as people are rearing the animals. I have a number of times taken up the matter, animals have been impounded as well, but soon they are back on streets. Road work has been done; there are only small pockets where it is yet to be completed.” Know your ward Localities: Sector 52, Sector 61, Kajheri village, Kajheri Colony, EWS LIG Colony, Transit Camp, Karsan Colony Pandit Colony, Gwala Colony and Majdoor Colony Reserved for SC candidates Voters: 22,700 Key issuesIllegal rearing of cattle and slaughter houses Mushrooming of hotels and guest houses, leading to illegal activities Broken roads and overflowing garbage dumps Local voices Stray cattle can be seen roaming on the road and leading to accidents. No efforts have been done to check the menace. Vishal Sharma, Sector 61 People are rearing cattle on public land. Illegal slaughter houses are operating and meat is sold in unhygienic conditions. Narinder Pathania, Sector 52 Overflowing garbage dumps are a common sight. These have become breeding sites of mosquitoes and flies. Darshan Singh, Sector 52 Cattle are being reared illegally in the area. People keep food for stray cattle on roadsides, which leads to accidents. Ranjodh Jamwal, Sector 61 
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Former scribe arrested in threat call case||Police on Tuesday arrested former journalist Sanjiv Mahajan, already in jail in a property grab case, in connection with a fresh case registered against him for threatening the prime witness in a murder case. Mahajan was brought to court in response to production warrants and formally arrested, after which he was sent to judicial custody. The police had sought his five-day remand, but court denied it. Meanwhile, Mahajan has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, seeking quashing of the fresh FIR.Mahajan, who worked in a Hindi daily, was booked on November 23 for allegedly making a phone call and threatening the prime witness to a Jind man’s murder, which took place in the parking of the old district courts in Sector 17 in 2019. Mahajan had allegedly made the call from an acquaintance’s phone on being taken to court in the property grab case.Police have also moved an application seeking Mahajan’s voice samples to match them with the call recording submitted by the complainant. Meanwhile, Mahajan’s counsel Rajesh Sharma moved an application on his behalf seeking directions to the jail authorities to get him vaccinated against Covid-19. The application says Mahajan is suffering from asthama and has ulcer in his digestive track, and thus is a high-risk person. “The court has issued directions to the jail authorities to get him vaccinated,” said SharmaThe other application, moved in the HC, was taken up by the bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan on Tuesday and posted for hearing on December 13. Mahajan has claimed that he is a victim of vindictive attitude of police, whose senior officers have created a false story and manipulated a complaint against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhformer-scribe-arrested-in-threat-call-case-101638908893057.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration reinstates 178 NHM employees||The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday decided to reinstate the 178 terminated National Health Mission (NHM) workers after they met UT adviser Dharam Pal and agreed upon withdrawing the court case. During the meeting with the UT adviser, the terminated employees expressed their sincere apology and promised that such conduct will not be repeated in the future. The staff requested that the orders for termination of contractual appointment be withdrawn, their contractual employment be counted without any break in service and the intervening period of absence be regularised with leave without pay. They assured that they would like to continue as contractual employees under NHM and do not opt for the option of being outsourced employees on DC rates. “After a detailed deliberation, the UT adviser accepted the demands of the NHM staff, but on some conditions. The adviser said that employees will have to submit a written request accepting the mistake. Also, they will have to voluntarily and unconditionally withdraw the pending court case on the issue and submit a copy of the withdrawal petition,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg. He added that the salary under NHM cannot be equal to the DC rates because of the lesser working hours, better leave and other service conditions. However, the department may separately consider appropriate revision of the salary under NHM, but till then, the employees will have to work with previous pay scale, Garg said. The NHM employees have filed a case — ‘Niranjan Kumar and others versus Union of India and others’ — in the Punjab and Haryana high court, hearing of which is due on January 12, 2022. At least 500 NHM employees, working under the UT health department as doctors, paramedical staff and managerial employees including nursing officers, pharmacy officers, auxiliary nurse midwives, lab technicians, dental technicians and other Group-4 staffers, had been drawing salaries lower than the approved minimum wages since 2013. In August, over 300 NHM workers had gone on indefinite leave to press their demand for equal wages for equal work. Following their continuous protest, the UT administration had given a written assurance of a salary hike. The department had then offered revised working conditions for them against the salary hike. However, the services of the NHM workers were terminated on October 28 after they went on a strike without giving prior intimation.Meanwhile, Amit Kumar, general secretary of the NHM union, said, “We will take back the court case and join the duties immediately after getting written assurance from the UT administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administration-reinstates-178-nhm-employees-101638908773156.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 54 new Covid infections, 2 deaths; Shimla reports highest cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 54 fresh Covid-19 infections on Tuesday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,27,684 while the death toll mounted to 3,838 after two patients died of the contagion. The highest 15 cases were reported from Shimla, 13 from Kangra, 12 Una, five from Hamirpur, four from Solan, three from Mandi and two from Bilaspur. The active cases dropped to 736 while the recoveries have reached 2,23,093 after 92 people recuperated. In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is the worst hit among all 12 districts logging 52,058 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 31,996 cases and Shimla with 27,982 cases. TRACKER Total Cases: 2,27,684Recoveries: 2,23,093 Deaths: 3,838Active: 736||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-54-new-covid-infections-2-deaths-shimla-reports-highest-cases-101638908724678.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Freezing nights, sunny days in Kashmir; Srinagar receives rains, snow in Gulmarg||All the weather stations in Kashmir recorded zero or sub-zero temperatures during the night while the sun was shining during the day on Tuesday.For the second night in a row, the snow resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded -7°C, the coldest place in the Valley this season so far.In south Kashmir, the mercury dipped to -4.8°C at the mountainous resort of Pahalgam in Anantnag district.The summer capital Srinagar witnessed - 1.4 °C while it was - 1.2 °C in Kokernag, - 1 °C in Kupwara, - 0.2 °C in Qazigund and 0°C in Khanabal.However, the sun was shining for the second day on Tuesday in the capital Srinagar providing reprieve to the people reeling under chilling temperatures and power outages.“The clear skies and sunshine have broken the day’s chill which is causing the night temperatures to dip below zero. However, there are bouts of cloudiness also which prompts the temperature not to dip sharply,” said meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir.He said after December 10 the night temperatures will dip further owing to clear dry skies.“For the next few days, clouds would be covering the sky for certain brief periods,” he said.Weather conditions improved in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday after a day of light rains and snow in the union territory and Ladakh.In Kashmir, Gulmarg had witnessed the coldest night of the season as mercury dipped to -7 °C following the light snowfall in the meadow on Sunday.Srinagar had received rains on Sunday while snow fell on mountainous areas like Gulmarg in north Kashmir and Shopian in south Kashmir. Some areas of Jammu were hit by hails. Moderate snowfall was also reported at Kargil, Zanskar and in the higher reaches of Leh.Director of J&K’s meteorological department Sonam Lotus said on Monday that there is a possibility of light rain and snow around December 8 and 9 at some places.“Rest, the weather will remain mainly dry. Overall, no significant weather change is expected for the next 10 days in both UTs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/freezing-nights-sunny-days-in-kashmir-srinagar-receives-rains-snow-in-gulmarg-101638908723055.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Anurag Thakur to launch Himachal’s new sports policy on December 11||Union minister of youth affairs and sports Anurag Thakur will launch Himachal Pradesh’s new sports policy on December 11. The new sports policy aims at promoting raw talent on merit and making sports associations more professional, Himachal Pradesh youth services and sports minister Rakesh Pathania said on Tuesday. Pathania said he had submitted the draft policy to Anurag and he has suggested some changes in it, which is being done. “The biggest change we tend to bring is to make the sports association more professional. For this we have proposed that people who are heading sports association but don’t have sports background must make way to the professional people,” said Pathania. “It is my appeal to them that they should leave so that a person with a sports background could be roped in,” he added. Pathania said before this there was no proper sports policy in the state. The policy which was in place said nothing significant on how to promote sports. There were no provisions for financial incentives for Paralympics champions. “Another change we tend to bring is to make pro-sportsmen atmosphere and friendly relationship between the sports association and the government. The sports associations should not be limited to only for grants but work in tandem with the government to promote budding talent,” said Pathania. The minister said there is no dearth of raw talent in Himachal but thing was that how many of them are spotted and promoted. “We would do a talent search by way of schools sports, rural sports championships and women championships,” he said. The minister said to motivate youth to take up sports, the policy also proposes to increase the jobs under the sports quota. “There would be no place for political recommendations but the talent will be selected in the teams on merit,” he said. He said the new policy is as per the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has set a target that India should win at least win 50 medals in the Paris Olympics 2024. “Every state has been given a task to prepare sportsmen for different sports. We will have no dearth of funds. The things were hit due to Covid-19 pandemic, but the situation will improve soon,” he said. Pathania said earlier last year the total budget of the sports department was just ₹48 crore of which ₹24 crore were salary bills. “It was due to the fund crunch that we lacked in sports but now that would be a thing of the past,” said Pathania. 
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||4 deaths, 132 Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir; highest number of active infections in Srinagar dist||Jammu and Kashmir reported 132 fresh Covid-19 infections and four deaths on Tuesday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 103 cases were reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 29 infections. Two deaths were reported each in Kashmir and Jammu divisions. Kashmir reported the highest 32 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 25 cases in Budgam and 19 in Baramulla district. As many as 16 districts saw single-digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 531 followed by Baramulla and Reasi districts with 272 and 205 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 188 with active positive cases reaching 1,601.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 58,040 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.703 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,31,959 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.19%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,38,047 and the death toll has reached 4,487.The officials said that 47,917 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,153 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 870 deaths.JK Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,38,047Total recovered patients: 3,31,959Total Deaths: 4,487Active cases: 1,601||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-deaths-132-covid-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-highest-number-of-active-infections-in-srinagar-dist-101638908719020.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: Retired cop dead, 4 injured in Rajouri road mishap||A retired police sub inspector died and a six year old girl among four were injured in a head-on collision between a car and an army vehicle in Nowshera area of Rajouri district on Tuesday. The deceased policeman was identified as Mohammad Mushtaq Khan of Salwah in Mendhar sub division of Poonch district. “An accident took place at Nowshera area on Jammu- Poonch highway on Tuesday. There was a head-on collision between a car and an army vehicle that caused the death of a retired SI and injuries to four others,” said a police officer. Four others injured in the accident were identified as Ataullah, 35, Maria, 6, Saleema Bi, 50 and Iqra Pathan, 30 of Salwah in Mendhar. Police have registered a case and further investigation has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-retired-cop-dead-4-injured-in-rajouri-road-mishap-101638908660430.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Demolition of Nirmal Singh’s house: Jammu and Kashmir special tribunal extends stay till December 14||The J&K special tribunal on Tuesday extended its interim order (stay order) till December 14, thus postponing the demolition of former deputy chief minister and former speaker Dr Nirmal Singh’s palatial bungalow in Nagrota. The interim order was extended after Jammu Development Authority (JDA) failed to furnish a reply in the matter. The JDA’s law officer has sought further time to file a reply and to produce JDA’s standing counsel. The tribunal has now fixed the hearing for December 14, 2021. The JDA had on November 8 directed Dr Nirmal Singh and his wife Mamta Singh to demolish the bungalow on their own, stating it had been constructed without requisite permission. It ordered the two to “remove the illegal structure on your own level within five days from the date of issuance of this order’’, or it would pull it down itself and recover the cost from them. Subsequently, Mamta Singh had filed an appeal against the JDA order. Advocate Muzaffar Ali Shah, who was the first to raise objections to the construction next to the Army ammunition depot, has also sought to be impleaded as a respondent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/demolition-of-nirmal-singh-s-house-jammu-and-kashmir-special-tribunal-extends-stay-till-december-14-101638908657895.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: Fear Nagaland-like situation in Punjab, says Farooq Abdullah||Accusing the BJP government of autocracy, National Conference president and Lok Sabha member Dr Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday feared Nagaland-like situation in neighbouring Punjab. Addressing party’s day-long convention here, he said, “See in Punjab, they have extended the jurisdiction of the BSF up to 50 km. Isn’t the Punjab Police capable to handle the situation? They could have extended BSF’s jurisdiction by 5 km. Now same fights like Nagaland, where innocents were killed, will take place in Punjab… wait for that day… this will also happen”. He felt that such decisions could have been averted. Referring to the death of 750 farmers over farm laws, he said, “When the BJP sensed defeat in five states, it immediately rolled back the farm laws. We had said they should have been sent to select committees”. “Even Satya Pal Malik, former J&K governor, had warned them over farm Bills predicting their defeat,” he added. He said the farm laws were passed in a huff notwithstanding the demand for debate and discussion by the opposition ahead of their passage. Such was the arrogance of numbers that no plea of sending the farm Bills to the select committee was heeded to. Farooq also contradicted the government’s tall claims development post-abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A. “Go to Kashmir and see how many youths can’t pro-India slogans there…just go and see. The first bullet will be shot at us… it will be shot at those who are with India and we will remain till our last breath,” he said while explaining the “deteriorating” law and order situation in the Valley. The veteran politician demanded the restoration of the rights of the people of J&K. “We demand our rights that were snatched from us. The PM had assured to remove “Dil Ki Doori and Dillli se Doori”. May I ask him what he has done so far since June 24 when the all-party meet was held,” he asked. He warned the BJP to stop spreading hatred. Farooq expressed optimism about the restoration of special status and said the people are resolute enough and steadfast in their resolve to stand for their rights. “We will fight for our rights peacefully as we don’t believe in violence. Together we will definitely bail the state out of this morasses,” he said. He lamented that BJP calls them Pakistanis “We never picked up gun, grenade and stones. We never raised anti-India slogans but we are called Pakistanis. We follow the footsteps of Gandhi and we want to bring Gandhi’s India back. We had acceded with Gandhi’s India and not Nathuram Godse’s India,” he said. He said the communal politics was not in the interest of the nation and the BJP should better realise it. Earlier, the party adopted five resolutions seeking restoration of Article 370 and Article 35A besides statehood to Jammu and Kashmir, effective measures to curb inflation and rising prices, jobs to unemployed, repeal of decision with regard to Darbar Move and providing respite to farmers. 
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||80-year-old veteran covers 230 km on old ‘moped’ to pay homage to his comrades of 1971 war||An 80-year-old war veteran travelled 230 km on his old ‘moped’ from his home town in Punjab to Jammu and Kashmir’s Akhnoor sector to pay homage to his comrades from the 1971 Indo-Pak war.Subedar Jai Singh, a second-generation Army man from Mukerian belt in Hoshiarpur district, had participated in the 1965 and 1971 Indo-Pak wars and fought bravely along side his comrades in Akhnoor sector.“In the highest tradition of the Indian Army, an 80-year-old ex-servicemen decided to give a glowing tribute to his comrades of the 1971 war who fought with valour during the Battle of Chhamb in Akhnoor-Jaurian border of the LoC,” a senior Army officer said.The son of a veteran of the World War 1 got enrolled into 6 DOGRA and participated in both the 1965 and 1971 wars, PRO Defence Lt Col Devender Anand said. During the 1965 war, Singh was part of an assault team and he was injured during the capture of Gitian in Hajipir sector, Lt Col Anand said.The subedar participated in the 1971 war at Chapriyal area of Akhnoor with the 216 Field Regiment that fought valiantly there. Two officers, two junior commissioned officers (JCOs) and 64 other ranks of the regiment, including the CO, Lt Col M L Sethi, had made the supreme sacrifice during the operation, he said.On the occasion of ‘Swarnim Vijay Diwas’, Singh travelled 230 km from his residence to the gun area of the 1971 war and the 216 Field Regiment memorial at Pahariwala on his old ‘moped’ all by himself, the PRO said.The veteran remembered his CO, OC and fallen brothers with pride and tears in his eyes, he said.“His sense of patriotism and esprit-de-corps acted as a motivation for all the attendees of the wreath-laying ceremony,” Lt Col Anand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/80yearold-veteran-covers-230-km-on-old-moped-to-pay-homage-to-his-comrades-of-1971-war-101638908593116.html
08-12-2021||Jaipur||Amit Shah led BJP conspiracy to topple my govt last year, failed, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday renewed his attacks on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), accusing its top leaders of trying to topple his government in 2020 and insisting that they left no stone unturned but did not succeed.“Rajasthan made history by failing their efforts to topple the state government which will be helpful in saving the democracy in future,” he said, alleging that two top BJP leaders, home minister Amit Shah and education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, played a lead role in the conspiracy.Asked about Amit Shah’s statement during his Jaipur visit that the BJP will not destabilise the state government, Gehlot shot back: “Is it in his hands?”“They tried it but failed. Their own MLAs did not support them. Two planes were sent to Jaipur to shift BJP MLAs out of the state but only one plane could take off and the second plane left empty,” he claimed.Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia dismissed the charge, insisting that his party will not bring down the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state, but it will fall due to infighting.Gehlot’s move to target the BJP leadership for last year’s political crisis in Rajasthan comes a day his top aide appeared before Delhi crime branch in connection with phone tapping case lodged on a complaint by Union Jal Shakti minister, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.Gehlot said the minister should give a voice sample to make it clear whose voice is on the tape.An alleged leaked telephonic conversation between a Union minister and Congress leaders in Rajasthan triggered the political crisis in the state last year, which also gave rise to the charges of illegal phone tapping.The clips emerged on social media during the rebellion by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot in July-August last year.Gehlot said Shekhawat’s voice sample will clear the air about the tapes and the conspiracy.“He should give voice sample, but he tries to find a way to escape. The voice sample will make things clear. He will be exposed in which manner he was there in the conspiracy (to topple the government),” he said.On the proposed Congress rally, he claimed it will be the beginning of NDA’s downfall and mark the victory of Congress in next assembly elections in the state. He said that it will be a historic rally for which grand preparations are being made. AICC chief Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi have chosen Jaipur very wisely for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/amit-shah-led-bjp-conspiracy-to-topple-my-govt-last-year-failed-says-ashok-gehlot-101638908233039.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farm law repeal has improved BJP’s poll prospects in Punjab drastically: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||Union Jal Shakti minister and BJP’s Punjab election incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is a busy man these days. An MP from Rajasthan’s Jodhpur Lok Sabha constituency, Shekhawat is at the centre of the party’s poll strategy formation ahead of the assembly polls scheduled early next year in the border state. Be it holding talks with former chief minister Captain Amarinder’s newly formed Punjab Lok Congress or the decision to induct leaders from other parties in the BJP fold, he has been taking care of it all. On his visit to Chandigarh on Tuesday, HT talked to Shekhawat on various issues. Here are the excerpts: How do you see BJP’s chances in Punjab after the repeal of 3 farm laws? The party’s prospects have improved drastically after the decision. We used to contest from 23 seats traditionally. This is for the first time that we are prepared to contest on all 117 seats. After Narendra Modi became Prime Minister and what he has done after for Punjab and the Sikhs, we will take these achievements to the common man and fight the polls with full strength. A barrier was created on the pretext of these laws but it is over now. The BJP will form government in the state or will be part of the government. You met Amarinder today. Is alliance formation with his party and SAD (Sanyukt) final? We discussed the political scenario in Punjab. It will be premature on my part to say as on what lines the BJP will or will not enter an alliance. The only thing I can tell you is that it is highly likely that we will contest the polls as part of an alliance. Union home minister Amit Shah has already given a statement in this regard. Politics is a game of possibilities. Punjab is a border state and we are eager to work with all those who want to ensure communal harmony here. In case of an alliance, will Amarinder be CM face of it? Will BJP be a major partner in it? There is no such tradition in the BJP unless a serving chief minister is going to the polls. But we generally don’t announce CM candidate where we are contesting to come to power. A strong outrage was seen against BJP in Punjab during the farm stir. Don’t you see it as a big challenge? What Prime Minister Modi has done for the Sikh community is exceptional. There is a long list of Modi government’s pro-Sikh decisions including opening up of the Kartarpur corridor, revoking the black list, waiving GST on langar etc. Someone may create a temporary outrage among the Sikhs against the BJP, but it is not be permanent. The Sikhs community’s contribution in pre- and post-Independence era to preserve our cultural ethos was immense. The people who tried to create hatred for the BJP among Sikhs and vice versa are defeated now. There is a common saying in Punjab that BJP doesn’t understand the state well.Do you still think so after the repeal of the farm laws also?BJP first said its CM face in Punjab will be an SC. But then, Congress made Channi, a SC, CM. Will there be a change in strategy? The announcement of making an SC a CM face was never from the party high command. Yes, some statements in this regard were made by our party leaders. But these were the individual statements, and not of the parliamentary board. The BJP doesn’t do caste politics. When Sirsa joined BJP, SAD called an attempt to ruin Sikh institutions. Manjinder Singh Sirsa ji first resigned as president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC). It is easy to level allegations like Bhagwant Mann did by claiming that a senior BJP leader offered him something. Such claims are ridiculous. Will BJP also announce some freebies in its manifesto? Punjab doesn’t need freebies. But it is in a dire need of good administration. How can one promise everything free when you don’t even have the money to repay your debt? 
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: CM Channi’s brother resigns as senior medical officer, eyes ticket from Bassi Pathana||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s younger brother Dr Manohar Singh, who was posted as the senior medical officer (SMO) in the Kharar civil hospital in Mohali district, has resigned from the service. Dr Manohar, who is vying to contest the upcoming state assembly elections from Bassi Pathana in Fatehgarh Sahib district, has already started meeting people and addressing gatherings in the constituency which is reserved for scheduled caste (SC) category. In the past week, he has visited 35 villages of the segment and claims to have redressed their grievances. He has even set up an office at Bassi Pathana where he meets people daily. When contacted, he said, “Yes, I am interested in contesting the polls if the party high command allows me.” Presently, the constituency is represented by Congress MLA Gurpreet Singh GP who is also trying to get the ticket for the second time. Gurpreet Singh said, “Being the sitting MLA, I will contest from Bassi Pathana. I have full faith in the party high command which has assured me the ticket. Also, the majority of people from the segment support me due to the development works I have got done in the area.” On Dr Manohar’s political activities, he asked, “How can two tickets be given to members of a family?Interestingly, Dr Manohar started political activities in Bassi Pathana during the pandemic last year when he was posted at the Nandpur Kalour primary health centre in the segment. Nandpur Kalour sarpanch Manjeet Singh said that Dr Manohar was transferred to Kharar after MLA Gurpreet feared his popularity in the area.A post-graduate in anaesthesia, Dr Manohar has done master’s in journalism from Kurukshetra University and is also a law graduate from Panjab University, Chandigarh. He has been vice-president and general secretary of the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association, a body of government doctors in the state that led protests in Mohali against the 6th Pay Commission recommendations on de-linking non-practising allowance (NPA) with the basic pay. Besides, is heading a non-governmental organisation (NGO) Saadi Saanjh that helps the elderly get their eye surgeries done by providing free treatment and lenses.
08-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Four arrested for robbing cab driver at gunpoint||Police on Tuesday arrested four members of a gang for allegedly robbing a cab driver at gunpoint at Signature tower on December 4. Police said the suspects were fond of travelling and used to rob a cab to travel to different places. The suspects were identified as Rahul alias Lando (31), Shivam alias Jadugar (20), Ankush alias Monu (23), all from Gurugram, and Mahipal Singh (29), a native of Bihar. Police said they were arrested from the Dwarka Expressway while they were returning from Himachal Pradesh.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the suspects, who are friends, were jailed several times for robbery, extortion, rape, assault, murder and attempt to murder. “On the morning of December 4, they planned to visit Himachal Pradesh. So they decided to rob a car and flee to a hill station,” he said. According to police, the four suspects at Signature Tower saw a Dzire car coming from Sector 14 side and one of them flagged down the vehicle and requested the driver to give directions for an address. Sangwan said as soon as the driver rolled down the glass of car’s window, one of them pulled him out. “They snatched the driver’s mobile phone and cash, and fled with the car towards Huda City Centre Metro station,” he said, adding that they were seen driving towards Delhi in the footage obtained from different CCTV cameras. The cab driver, Hakam from Nuh district, lodged a complaint against unidentified men on the same day and a case under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 40 police station. Sangwan said the victim who lives in a rented room in Sector 65 works with a cab aggregator. “The probe was handed over to the crime investigation agency which on Tuesday morning arrested the four people and recovered the car and the victim’s mobile phone,” he said.  “The suspects had also robbed another person of cash as they hardly had ₹100 with them and that was not enough to fund their trip. They were fond of travelling and robbed over 30 cars in Gurugram in the past two years,” Sangwan said. Sangwan said that the suspects are drug addicts and used to smuggle drugs from hill stations to make money. “The kingpin of the gang, Rahul, was lodged in jail in a rape case in 2014 and later for a murder case. He came out on bail in 2016 and formed a gang,” he said. The suspects were produced before the court on Tuesday that sent them to 14-day judicial custody, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-four-arrested-for-robbing-cab-driver-at-gunpoint-101638907333454.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Aam aadmi, not elite, should get political power in Punjab: CM Channi||In a bid to consolidate his position as the Congress’ face in the upcoming Punjab assembly elections, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday said that political power in the state should now be represented by the “aam aadmi” (common man) and not the traditional elite. Addressing a rally in Fazilka, Channi said it was for the first time when political power in the state had come out of the control of the ‘rajwadashahi’ (royalty). He said, “Now, it must stay with the middle class for inclusive growth of the state. I understand the issues of the poor and the middle class and my government has rolled out several programmes for their welfare.”Channi inaugurated a newly constructed 100-bed civil hospital and a bus stand at the Fazilka district headquarters amid strong protests by the employees demanding regularisation of jobs and trained unemployed teachers.Without naming anyone, Channi, in his public address, said his opponents questioning the rationale behind doling sops in his tenure of the last over two months.“Why it pains anyone if the government gives direct relief to people. After all, it is the public exchequer and it must be spent on the poor and the middle class,” he said, counting his earlier decisions of waiving arrears of electricity, water and sewerage bills to the tune of ₹3,000 crore. “My government’s decision to cut VAT (value added tax) on petrol and diesel and reduce electricity bills has a positive effect on the farmers and the salaried class,” he added.Channi expressed his gratitude to the first-time Congress legislator from Fazilka Davinder Ghubaya for “his role in making me attain the top political office of the state”. “Davinder was instrumental in unseating Amarinder Singh who as CM collaborated with the Akalis. He proved his acumen as he worked well with the MLAs in dethroning Amarinder,” said the CM. Announces medical, govt colleges for Fazilka On Ghubaya’s demand, the CM announced to open a medical college and a government college for the town located near the India-Pakistan border. Channi gave a call to repulse any attempts by the “outsiders” to gain electoral power to ensure inclusive development of Punjab. “Punjab is not a ‘shamlat’ (common) land that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leadership from Delhi could take control of. Punjab should not allow power control to be shifted to Delhi as we are capable of governing the state,” he said.He blamed the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for framing anti-people policies and patronising mafia during its 10-year regime. An arrear of ₹16 crore to sugarcane growers will be disbursed soon, he said.He assured restoration of three heritage buildings and examine the issues of compensation to the farmers whose cultivable land lies beyond the fence on the international border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aam-aadmi-not-elite-should-get-political-power-in-punjab-cmchanni-101638907033777.html
08-12-2021||Other||Air quality improves slightly in Gurugram||The air quality in the city improved slightly on Tuesday and entered the ‘poor’ zone due to an increase in the wind speed that helped disperse the pollutants, weather scientists said. The overall air quality index (AQI) of Gurugram was 248 at 4pm on Tuesday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), a climbdown from Monday’s reading of 306. Neighbouring Delhi and Faridabad recorded the AQIs at 255 and 234, respectively. According to the weekly forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), over the next seven days, Gurugram will see mainly clear skies. “The city on Tuesday witnessed an increase in the wind speed which was 10-12kmph. It helped improve the air quality,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD.“Shallow to moderate fog is likely at isolated places in the state, including the south Haryana region, during the next two days. The minimum temperatures are also likely to fall by at least 2-5°C over the next five days,” Singh said. According to forecast by the Air Quality Early Warning System, the quality of air over Delhi-NCR is likely to improve further and will be in ‘moderate’ category on Wednesday but will again deteriorate to ‘poor’ category on Thursday. The air quality is likely to remain in ‘poor’ category till December 13, the forecast said. According to IMD, Gurugram on Tuesday recorded a maximum temperature of 24.5°C which was one degree above normal and minimum temperature of 10°C, which was three degrees above normal. Over the next few days, both the maximum and minimum temperature will drop and be around 23°C and 8°C, respectively, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-quality-improves-slightly-in-gurugram-101638906973625.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sand mafia running ₹20,000 crore business in Punjab under Congress leaders’ patronage: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the sand mafia in Punjab was running an illegal business of sand and gravel mining worth over ₹20,000 crore under the patronage of the ruling Congress. Interacting with mediapersons at the Sri Guru Ramdas Ji International Airport in Amritsar, the AAP supremo, who was on one-day visit to Punjab for participation in party programmes in Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, said, “There are serious allegations of direct involvement of the Congress MLAs, the ministers, including the CM, and their close associates for patronising the sand mafia in the state.” When there are allegations of illegal activities against the ruling party MLAs and ministers, who will protect the interests of the general public, he questioned.“Can the welfare of the people of Punjab be expected from patrons of the mafia? Earlier, the Badals and BJP looted Punjab by patronising all sorts of mafia. In 2017, people expressed their faith in the promises made by the Congress and Captain Amarinder Singh but they too followed in the footsteps of the Badals,” ” he said.“This money being stolen can be used for the welfare of the people, but it is going into the pockets of political leaders instead of the state government’s coffers. Once the AAP forms government in 2022, all sorts of mafia, including illegal sand mining, will be thrown out. The money that is going into the pockets of political leaders from the resources of the state will go to the pockets of women and the elderly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sand-mafia-running-rs-20-000-crore-business-in-punjab-under-congress-leaders-patronage-kejriwal-101638906794811.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal reaches out to SC community in Punjab, announces 4 guarantees at Hoshiarpur rally||In an attempt to reach out to the scheduled castes (SCs) in Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced four guarantees for members of the community if his party came to power in the state. Addressing a gathering in Hoshiarpur, Kejriwal promised free education to every child of SC families and free coaching for their youth to purse professional courses, to bear expenses if a child wants to go abroad for graduation or post-graduation and free medical treatment for members of such households. Also, he reiterated that their government would deposit ₹1,000 per month in the account of every woman aged above 18. He said that all parties had “used” the SC population for their vested interests and deliberately kept them underdeveloped.“Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi is asking for votes by stating that he is also an SC. I may not belong to your community but I still belong to you. I will serve you as a brother,” he told the gathering.He claimed that people of Punjab would forget other parties, once AAP is given a chance to form the government. “I am a great fan of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar and have followed his life. I am here to fulfill his unfinished dreams,” he said.In the last 75 years, leaders and political parties had demolished the government institutions, he added. “If you want improvement in the system, vote for AAP. After coming to power, the AAP will regularise the services of National Health Mission (NHM) employees and guest faculty teachers,” he told the audience.AAP state president Bhagwant Mann said that Kejriwal had come to improve the state of affairs in Punjab. “The AAP is making only those promises which it has already fulfilled in Delhi,” he said. Ridiculing the Congress for highlighting achievements of only the Channi-led government, Mann said that people would take into account its performance of full five years. He reiterated that he was given an offer to join the BJP but he preferred to “keep my head high”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-reaches-out-to-sc-community-announces-4-guarantees-at-hoshiarpur-rally-101638906553105.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Contractual transport employees in Punjab start indefinite strike||Bus passengers across the state were a harried lot on Tuesday as the contractual employees of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and Punbus kicked off their indefinite strike.The employees are demanding job regularisation as promised by state authorities in a meeting held on October 12.At least 90% of the services were crippled with buses staying parked at various bus stands. Of the 1,100 buses operated by PRTC, only 10% were operated in different parts of the state. As a result, commuters were forced to hire other modes of transport, including expensive taxis, to reach their destinations.Notably, the state transport department has already directed managements of the state transport undertakings to deploy regular staff, presently on desk jobs, on field duties to minimise the impact of the strike.“Government authorities had assured that the process of job regularisation will be started within 20 days of the last meeting held on October 12. But nothing has proceeded on the ground,” said Harkesh Singh Vicky, vice-president of Roadways/PRTC Contractual Employees Union.“The government has been making lame excuses for the past five years even after promising to bring policies for job regularisation in 2017,” he said.He said during meetings with transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring last month, they were assured that the cabinet will decide on their regularisation, but nothing had been done so far. “Moreover, the Regularisation Act, that the government is contemplating, will prove to be a bane for contractual workers as 90% of employees will not meet its criteria,” Vicky said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contractual-transport-employees-in-punjab-start-indefinite-strike-101638905954225.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal is a dictator, says Sukhbir Badal||Lashing out at Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday termed him a “dictator” whom “all people associated with the Anna Hazare movement had left”.The SAD chief addressed two rallies in Tapa and Sunam, one in favour of party candidate advocate Satnam Singh Rahi from Bhadaur segment and second for party’s Sunam nominee Baldev Singh Mann.“AAP has failed in Punjab. I am sure they will manage to win a maximum of 7-8 seats across the state because people know that the AAP failed to unite itself. When Kejriwal started working with Anna Hazare, there were many people associated with the movement, but everyone left Kejriwal because he is a dictator,” said Badal, talking to the media in Sunam.Earlier in Tapa, he said, “Kejriwal had claimed that he would not make alliance with the Congress, but he had formed a government in Delhi with the Congress’ support. He also announced that he and his MLAs will not take salary, but he increased their salary from ₹25,000 to ₹2 lakh. He is a cheater who also took heavy security. I want to ask Kejriwal why are the announcements that he’s making in Punjab not implemented in Delhi.”Raising questions on the registration drive by AAP to credit ₹1,000 into the account of every woman in Punjab, he said, “If a government will give ₹1,000 to all women, there is no need for registration, but they will cheat. The Delhi CM should tell people if he gave even ₹100 to a single woman in his ruling state. He promises regularisation of all contractual employees in Punjab, but employees have been staging protests for regularisation for the past 10 years in Delhi,” Badal said.The SAD president said they will focus on education and health facilities if they came to power. He also promised that his government will give tubewell connections in the first month to farmers with no connection.Attacking chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Badal said, “He is trying to depict himself as an ‘aam aadmi’, whereas the truth is that he has amassed huge wealth by delineating illegal colonies in the Kharar-Ropar belt, besides engaging in sand mining and various other forms of corruption.”
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 49 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Tuesday reported 49 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,03,556, according to a medical bulletin.With one Covid-related fatality in Mohali district, the death toll reached 16,612, it said. The state’s positivity rate on Tuesday was 0.28%. Among the fresh cases, Ferozepur reported 14, followed by seven in Mohali and six in Bathinda.The number of active cases rose to 350 from 333 on Monday. Twenty-nine more people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,86,594, the bulletin said. A total of 16,321,622 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state out of which 17,776 were tested on Tuesday. As many as 118974 doses of vaccine were administered in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-49-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101638905897118.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP will give Punjab a road map of progress, says party’s Punjab chief||Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Sharma on Tuesday said the party will not indulge in false promises, and will give the state a road map of progress and opportunity.Addressing a press conference here, Sharma said the opposition parties should refrain from making announcements of freebies, which the state revenue cannot fund.“Unfortunately, political parties are making whirlwind tours of the election-bound state and trying to woo the voters. The competition between the AAP, Congress and SAD has reached a crescendo where honestly one regrets to admit that the level of politics has stooped to a new low,” rued Sharma.Attacking Kejriwal for trying to mislead the public, Sharma said, “The so-called ‘model school’ model touted by Kejriwal is a farce, as one needs to ask him how many schools in Delhi are without principals, teachers and requisite infrastructure.”“The BJP will not merely come out with a manifesto, it will have a commitment plan, where progress and equal opportunity for every citizen will be primary duty of the government. Politics of announcements needs to stop. Statesmanship to bring Punjab back to its glory is needed,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-will-give-punjab-a-road-map-of-progress-says-party-s-punjab-chief-101638905895427.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||ICAR rankings: PAU slips to second spot among country’s agricultural universities||Slipping from the first position last year, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has ranked second among the agricultural universities of the country in the 2020 Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Rankings announced recently.Among state agricultural universities, it has got the fifth position after ICAR National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal; ICAR Institute, New Delhi; ICAR Veterinary Research Institute; and GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pant Nagar. Last year, PAU was ranked second in the category.Tejinder Singh Riar, additional director, communication, PAU, said 67 agricultural institutions were included in the rankings.In 2016, PAU was ranked third among state agricultural universities. It slipped to the fourth place in 2017, further to seventh in 2018, before climbing to the second spot in 2019.Notably, PAU also got the Sardar Patel Institution Award in 2018 from ICAR for overall achievements in the field of agriculture during 2012-2017.PAU vice-chancellor DK Tiwari congratulated the faculty, staff and students for the latest achievement, and exhorted them to continue the hard work for the welfare of the farming community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/icarrankingspau-slips-to-second-spot-among-country-s-agricultural-universities-101638905894248.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Inebriated cops create ruckus in Ludhiana, booked||Two police personnel were beaten up by locals for creating ruckus outside a liquor vend in New Kundanpuri on Tuesday evening. The locals accused the police personnel of being under the influence of liquor, snatching a mobile phone and threatening them with false implication in a case. Before police reached the spot, one of the cops left the scene.A video of the incident, recorded by a bystander, was circulated on the internet.“One of the cops, Dharmvir, has been arrested, while the other, Gyanpreet, is at large. Both of them are constables, deputed at Police Lines, and got jobs on compassionate grounds,” said sub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh, SHO at Division Number 8 police station.The SHO added that the duo was absent from duty without any information to the department, adding that at the time of the incident, both were in police uniform and in an inebriated condition. They have been booked for creating ruckus in public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inebriated-cops-create-ruckus-in-ludhiana-booked-101638905892815.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 13-year-old girl hangs self after being scolded by mother||A 13-year-old girl ended her life by hanging herself to death after being scolded by her mother for not cooking food for the family in Kanganwal on Monday. Her parents found her lifeless body on returning from work. They rushed her to the civil hospital where she was declared brought dead. Her body has been sent for postmortem and inquest proceeding have been initiated under sections of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).22-year-old held for touching Class-7 student inappropriately
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC allows divorce plea of Punjab man to give ‘positive environment’ to kids||ChandigarhThe Punjab and Haryana high court has allowed the divorce plea of a Punjab man to give “positive environment” to two children, one living with the father and the other with mother. “The element of marriage, which has become dead, will result in further loss to both the children. It is a right time if both the children meet with each other in a positive environment as the parents are finally independent. The element of silence between the parties will result into mental cruelty to the children, as both the siblings cannot meet with each other. Mental cruelty will blend with irretrievable and dead marriage is a good ground to grant divorce to the parties,” the bench of justice Ritu Bahri and justice Archana Puri observed. In the case in hand, the husband had sought quashing of January 2019 judgment passed by a Sangrur court seeking dissolution of marriage on the ground of cruelty and desertion. The couple got married in April 2005. Their elder son, who is suffering with blood cancer, is living with the husband and minor son with the wife. Both of them are government schoolteachers and developed differences sometime in 2007, which resulted in the wife opting to live separately with younger son in 2011. The husband had termed the wife short-tempered, habitual of leaving her matrimonial home, quarrelling with him and his parents and even the ill child. While the wife had claimed that she was turned away by the husband. The lower court had dismissed his plea holding that grounds of cruelty and desertion do not stand proved on record. In high court, the wife had deposed that she was not ready for divorce with mutual consent. The high court sent matter for mediation, but no positive outcome was coming. The court had to decide whether the husband can get divorce when wife who is staying away for the last 10 years and is still not ready to give mutual divorce and whether, this behaviour in dead marriage or irretrievable broken down the marriage, can be considered as act of mental cruelty towards the husband. The court found that despite illness, the child living with his father has done academically well, which showed father’s dedication. But he did not make any effort to meet his second child all the while. However, after hearings, the court found that the husband and wife cannot stay together. The court observed that if the appeal filed by the husband is dismissed, he will face mental agony with his son, who is ill and requires repeated checkups and treatments from various hospitals, expenses of which are also being borne by the father. “If the parents are not granted divorce, then both the children will not be able to meet each other in a positive environment. This will further result in cruelty because of the rigid attitude in giving divorce,” the court said, adding that now, the parents can plan shared parenting so both the children can meet with each other being real brothers and interact with each other. The court allowed the plea, directing the husband that he would make a fixed deposit of ₹5lakh in the name of the minor son living with his wife. 
08-12-2021||Lucknow||Cold wave to hit UP, N India in the next 48 hrs: IMD||The minimum temperature across Uttar Pradesh is expected to drop by an average of four degrees Celsius as isolated places experience rainfall, especially in west and central UP, according to an alert issued by Indian Meteorological Department on Tuesday.“The weather conditions due to a recent snowfall in the mountains will lead to a cold wave across the northern parts of the country. The average temperatures are expected to fall between three to five degrees in the next 48 hours,” reads the alert issued by IMD.The said conditions will be accompanied with dense fog, especially in the morning, across the state. “There will be a shift in the weather across Uttar Pradesh in the coming days. We have alerted the district authorities about it and suggested making arrangements for people like night shelters and bonfires,” said director of state MeT department JP Gupta.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature in Lucknow remained around 14 degrees Celsius which is 5 degrees above normal while the maximum temperature was recorded at 27.4 degrees, 2 degrees above normal, according to MeT data.The city experienced fog in the morning but cleared up during the day providing a welcome relief. The lowest temperature in UP was recorded in Etawah where the mercury dipped to 7 degrees, 2 degrees below normal. Jhansi recorded the highest day temperature in UP where the mercury was recorded at 29 degrees during the day, 1.4 degrees above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cold-wave-to-hit-up-n-india-in-the-next-48-hrs-imd-101638905654194.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: Ex-SSP files petition seeking status report on SIT probe||Former Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma on Tuesday filed an application asking the court to issue directions to the special investigation team (SIT) to file a status report of investigation in two FIRs registered in connection with the 2015 Behbal Kalan firing incident. Additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi has issued a notice to the state to file a reply and the case was adjourned to December 17. Sharma asked the court to give directions to the SIT to file a status report with regard to the investigation carried out in FIR 129 (registered against protestors) and FIR 130 (registered against cops) to date in view of the statement made by sub-inspector Amarjit Singh. Last week, SIT members, replying to another application, told the court that further investigation in both the FIRs registered in connection with the Behbal Kalan firing is underway. Last month, Sharma had filed an application seeking direction to police to conduct a further investigation with regard to injuries suffered by cops as well as damage to public property at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015. Sharma said during the proceedings on December 3, SI Amarjit Singh, who has come from the SIT, got recorded his statement in the court. “From the said statement, it was revealed that the investigation of the FIR 129 and FIR 130 is still going on even after six years. As per the provisions of the CrPC, the investigation agency is to conduct the probe in a fair manner promptly and expeditiously by adopting a sensitive approach and thereafter to submit a report under Section 173 of the CrPC or cancellation report as the case may be within a reasonable,” he said. “In the reply to application, SIT member SSP Satinder Singh admitted that he received the MLRs of some police officials and recorded their statements. However, as per the SIT’s statement, investigation is still going on, meaning there is an unnecessary delay in completing investigation reasons best known to the probe team. The facts clearly show that the SIT is sitting over the investigation and has not been conducting the probe in a proper and fair manner,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-firing-ex-ssp-files-petition-seeking-status-report-on-sit-probe-101638905652918.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Capt, SAD target Cong for naming Maken as screening panel head||Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday lashed out at the Congress high command for appointing Ajay Maken as the chairman of the screening committee for shortlisting candidates for the next Vidhan Sabha elections in Punjab.In a statement, Capt Amarinder said that Maken is the nephew of Lalit Maken, whose name figured in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi. He also said that Maken was not qualified enough to head the screening committee with veteran leaders like Ambika Soni and Sunil Jakhar being kept under him. He said Maken had presided over the two successive defeats of the party in Delhi assembly elections. “With someone who has presided over virtual wiping out of the party in Delhi, now being handed over the job in Punjab, the fate of the party can be anybody’s guess,” he said.This clearly indicates that the party has admitted to defeat before the elections by appointing a failed politician, who lost 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections, losing even his deposit in the Vidhan Sabha, said Amarinder.‘Gandhi family bent on rehabilitating kin of leaders responsible for 1984 riots’ The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said the Gandhi family was bent upon rehabilitating kin of party leaders responsible for the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. “With appointment Ajay Maken as the party’s screening committee chairman for allotment of tickets to party candidates for the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab, the Congress high command has again sent a signal to the Sikh community that it would continue to patronise such elements,” said SAD’s former minister Bikram Singh Majithia. Majithia said the Peoples Union for Civil Liberties had nominated 227 persons responsible for leading the rampage against the Sikhs out of which Maken’s name was prominent. The move proves that it was the policy of the Gandhi family to reward leaders who had massacred Sikhs at its command in 1984 to top posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-sad-target-cong-for-naming-maken-as-screening-panel-head-101638905472909.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU to host symposium on sustainable buffalo production||College of Veterinary Science (COVS) , Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), under the aegis of Indian Society for Buffalo Development will be organising a two-day symposium on “scientific interventions to address challenges for sustainable buffalo production” from December 10 .The ISBD is a registered society (since 1987) at Hisar, currently headed by SS Dahiya, with more than 1,700 registered members and aims for advancement of all aspects of buffalo production at farms and institutes.The symposium will be organised in a hybrid mode across eight scientific themes including physiology and reproduction, breeding and genetics, health, socioeconomic and environmental aspects, nutrition and feed resources, milk, meat and their value addition, biotechnology and management.The recommendations of the symposium will be helpful for agencies to formulate strategies for the upliftment of the Indian farmer community through the advancement in buffalo production. Each session will have at least two lead papers delivered by eminent scientists working in the field, followed by oral and poster presentations by participants. On the second day, a poster session named IDEATHON under IDP- GADVASU has been envisaged to boost entrepreneurship through novel and creative ideas from participants, particularly students.SPS Ghuman, organizing secretary and dean, COVS, Ludhiana stated that around 215 participants including faculty and students from various institutes across the country have already registered for the symposium. Keeping in view, the COVID pandemic scenario, vaccination for COVID -19 is mandatory of all delegates along with maintaining social distance and other precautions as per COVID-19 protocol during symposium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadvasu-to-host-symposium-on-sustainable-buffalo-production-101638905354256.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Faulty PPAs: Punjab Govt asks CVC to submit probe report within 4 weeks||The Punjab government has marked a vigilance probe into the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed between 2007 and 2017, the decade that the SAD-BJP alliance held power, and has asked the chief vigilance commissioner (CVC) justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) to conduct an inquiry and submit the report within four weeks.The government ordered the inquiry into the PPAs after presenting a white paper and passing a resolution in the special session of the Vidhan Sabha.Following the government decision, the chief vigilance commissioner sought details from Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) with independent power producers (IPP) for conducting the inquiry into the PPAs.On December 3, the CVC asked the additional chief secretary to appoint a senior PSPCL officer to assist the office of chief vigilance commissioner. The commission also sought the difference of power of purchase of the amount from different grids in the years 2007-2017, especially during paddy season. The commission has also asked for a write-up by Thursday (December 9) pertaining to non-transparency, financial impropriety and lop sided of terms of agreements.On December 1, the Punjab government wrote to the CVC that some alleged irregularities in the PPAs signed during 2007-2017 were raised in the House during the last Vidhan Sabha session. “The matter is referred to the vigilance commission with the request that the matter be inquired into from point of view of non-transparency, financial impropriety and lop-sided terms of agreements and submit the report with four weeks to the government,” reads communication sent by vigilance department of Punjab to CVC. During last assembly session, CM Charanjit Singh Channi announced to probe the allegations of faulty PPAs. CVC justice Mehtab Singh Gill has said that he has sought details from additional chief secretary, power, regarding the PPAs.Punjab had been facing serious problems due to past mistakes related to surplus capacity addition by IPPs and the issue of high cost PPAs of renewable power. The surplus IPPs capacity resulted in backing down and payment of capacity charges for surrendered capacity. Three major decisions were taken by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on November 11, including white paper on power taken on record, bill passed for cancelling earlier PPAs for 1980 MW and 1400 MW capacity and Bill passed for cancelling of previous PPAs for 886 MW solar and 97.5 MW biomass capacity.
08-12-2021||Lucknow||Section 144 imposed in Lucknow, to remain in place till Jan 5||The Lucknow police commissionerate on Tuesday announced new restrictions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in view of the Omicron scare, upcoming festival season and farmers’ protest, said senior police officials.The order read that not more than 50 people can remain present at a time at religious places and swimming pools will continue to remain closed.The order dated December 7, 2021, issued by Lucknow Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP), law and order, Piyush Mordia, read that these restrictions will remain in place till January 5, 2022. The directive under Section 144 (also known as prohibitory orders) empowers the magistrate to prohibit the gathering of four or more people in a specified area.“Section 144 of CrPC will be imposed in the Lucknow commissionerate jurisdiction area with immediate effect. Section 144 will remain in force in the capital to maintain law and order and ensure adherence to Covid-19 rules in view of the upcoming festival, various entrance exams and farmers’ protests,” an official note signed by the JCP read.In the order, the police said that Christmas will be celebrated from December 25 and thereafter New Year celebrations will begin. “Covid-19 is still having an impact on the normal lives of people. So, it is important to be vigilant during the festival period,” the order read.The order contained 25 points that explained different restrictions to remain imposed during this period. It also gave details about the Covid-19 protocols to be followed during this period. The order reads that the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the UP government from time to time must be followed strictly.The order further stated that tractors, bullock carts, horse carts, gas cylinders, inflammable material and any kind of weapon is banned within one kilometre area around the Vidhan Sabha. All demonstrations are also banned near the Vidhan Sabha. If anyone is found violating these guidelines, strict action will be taken against that person. Besides, drone videography is banned above or one kilometre around the state legislature building and government offices. Special permission needs to be taken from the police for using drones to shoot footage in any area of the district.Earlier, similar restrictions were imposed for a month before Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali in October first week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/section-144-imposed-in-lucknow-to-remain-in-place-till-jan-5-101638905173303.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU zonal youth festival: GHG Khalsa College lifts overall trophy||Host college GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, bagged the overall trophy on the concluding day of Panjab University Youth Festival (Zone-B) on Tuesday. Malwa Central College of Education for Women, Ludhiana and GHG Harparkash College of Education, Sidhwan secured the second and third positions, respectively. Around 700 participants from 22 colleges affiliated to Panjab University, Chandigarh from Education Zone- B competed in over 63 events in the four-day event. Vaar singing, kali singing, kavishri and heritage crafts, guddian patole making, chikku making, pranda making, peerhi making and tokri making were highlights of the concluding day.Director of youth welfare department of Panjab University Chandigarh Nirmal Jaura presided over the function. Group captain Ajneesh Tyagi, chief engineering officer of Halwara Air Force Station was chief guest in the first session while Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal, environmentalist was chief guest in the second session of the day. Seechewal in his address showed his concern for increasing environmental pollution and advised everyone to be aware of the problem in order to solve it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-zonal-youth-festival-ghg-khalsa-college-lifts-overall-trophy-101638904936212.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||3 held for killing elderly woman in Patiala village||Police on Tuesday arrested three persons, two weeks after a 64-year-old woman was found murdered at Pedan village in Patiala. Amarjit Kaur was staying alone in the village as her son Harpreet Singh moved to Canada in 2005.Police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). On the arrival of her son, the post-mortem was conducted in which it was found that there were seven injuries marks on her head, following which a murder case was registered. The accused have been identified as Gorakh Nath, 48, Dimple Kumar, 21, and Pushpinder Pal Singh, 27.Senior superintendent of police Harcharan Singh Bhullar said two special investigation teams were constituted to crack the case.During probe, it came to fore that Gorakh Nath, who hails from Pedan village, had taken family’s 21 acre agricultural land on contract for farming.“Gorakh had easy access to the house. He along with another accused Dimple stole Kaur’s ATM card and withdrew ₹2.5 lakh from her account within a month. Later they murdered the woman on November 21. Gorakh’s son-in-law Pushpinder was also part of the conspiracy,” he said.CIA in-charge Shaminder Singh said the accused deposed that they feared that woman and her family would come to know about the transactions and would approach the police.“The accused hatched a conspiracy and murdered the woman with sharp-edged weapons. They later concocted a story that the woman fell down on a sewing machine while hanging curtains and inflicted injuries on her head,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-held-for-killing-elderly-woman-in-patiala-village-101638904692784.html
08-12-2021||Lucknow||7 more clothes’ banks to be opened in Lucknow for poor||The Uttar Pradesh capital will get seven more clothes’ banks in the next couple of days. The initiative is part of the district administration’s drive which it launched in collaboration with the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) in order to help the homeless and needy brave the chill expected in the days ahead.Officials said that the move was an outcome of the success of the first clothes’ bank which the DM recently inaugurated on the Collectorate premises. “We never thought that our initiative would get so much support from the people. Hence, we have decided to open more clothes’ banks in other parts of the city,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate.As per the plan, the administration will establish around seven more clothes’ banks that will make eight banks in all. “It will be ensured that the clothes’ banks are established in all eight zones of the LMC,” an administrative official said.However, the officials are yet to decide the address of the banks. “The banks will cover all corners of the city in order to provide adequate bedding and woollens to the homeless,” the official said.On the functioning of the banks, the official said that the banks will be a joint initiative wherein commoners, NGOs and corporate houses and others will be roped in to run them.“We will appeal to the people, NGOs and others to donate with an open heart. Here, at the bank, we will accept clothes, bed sheets, old blankets, old quilts, sweaters, woollens, etc,” the official said.However, for those families or houses that cannot come over to banks to deposit the old clothes, the DM said that there will be a dedicated courier service. “Once opted, a service person will collect the old clothes from the house,” he added.Once collected, the banks will be open for needy people, and would be linked to Raen Baseras, where it will be distributed among the gathering.Other than setting up the clothes’ banks, the administration is also going to increase the number of Raen Baseras in order to accommodate the maximum number of homeless people. The DM has also directed the LMC and other departments to give a facelift to the existing Raen Baseras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/7-more-clothes-banks-to-be-opened-in-lucknow-for-poor-101638904633033.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana RTI activist writes to Punjab CM over missing measurement books||At a time when questions are being raised over quality of development works carried out in the past, 330 measurement books (MB) are missing from the municipal corporation’s (MC) record. A city based RTI activist has now written to chief minister Charanjit Channi seeking an FIR against the employees to whom the books were issued initially.The MB books are used to keep a record of work done by contractors and payments are issued on its basis. The books are missing from MC records for years and many of the employees, to whom they were initially issued, have retired.In the complaint sent on Monday, activist Rohit Sabharwal stated that replying to an RTI application, the MC revealed that 330 books have not been returned by 75 employees between January 2014 and June 2020.“Action should be taken against the officials as payments to the contractors are released on the basis of MB books only. Also, the work done at the ground level needs to be checked,” the letter stated. A copy of the complaint has also been marked to local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra and the Punjab chief secretary.In January this year, MC issued show-cause notices to 54 employees. Of these, departmental action was also recommended against 17 junior engineers of the local bodies department. But, no FIR has yet been registered.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that the department suspects embezzlement in the case. In the past, it has also been seen that officials even hand over to the MB books to the contractor and they maintain the record as per their convenienceMC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that directions have been issued to additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal to give a last warning to the staffers and lodge an FIR against them, if they still fail to hand over the books. The retired employees have also been summoned. Earlier too, notices were issued and some of the books were recovered, as per the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-rti-activist-writes-to-punjab-cm-over-missing-measurement-books-101638904573362.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Rajveer bags 3 gold medals in national shooting championship||After recently winning bronze at the Shooting Championship held in Peru, Rajveer Singh from Kotli village of Dakha constituency bagged three gold medals in the 64th all India National Shooting Championship in Patiala.Manpreet Singh Ayali, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA from Dakha constituency, gave him a warm welcome and wished him a bright future ahead.Speaking about his performance, Rajveer said that he won golds in the junior and senior individual events and one as part of the junior team. He credited his success to his father Manmohan Singh Gill and MLA Ayali for encouraging him throughout. He now has his eyes set on representing India in the Olympics.Ayali said that they a shooting range has been constructed in Kotli, where many youngsters are preparing hard for the upcoming shooting championships. He added that many playgrounds have also been developed in the constituency, to encourage participation in sports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-rajveer-bags-3-gold-medals-in-national-shooting-championship-101638904276676.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mayor’s attempt to end PAU protest bears no fruit||The government’s attempt to end the ongoing protest at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has failed once again. High drama was witnessed at the varsity on Tuesday when mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, who was accompanied by PAU officials including director of extension JS Mahal, faced intense protest from the Daily Paid Labourer (DPL) and Contractual Union members. He asked the union leaders to end the strike and join the meeting of the board of management to be held December 16. Sandhu asked the protesting staff to lift the protest and assured that he will take up the issue of hiring the contractual staff for 500 vacant posts of the university and the remaining DPL staff on contractual basis.While a faction led by Jagwinder Singh Grewal agreed to the proposal, the faction of DPL employees union led by Chamkaur Singh refused to lift the dharna and said that minimum pay for DPL employees should be ₹21,000. This led to a heated argument between union members, the mayor and PAU authorities. Some of the employee union activists started raising slogans against the mayor and the PAU authorities. Later, both the factions reached a consensus and agreed to continue the protest.When asked, the mayor said that the talks failed due to the confrontation between the protesting factions.Kingra’s hunger strike enters seventh dayOn the other hand, the hunger strike by Dr HS Kingra, president of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO) and PAU Teachers’ Association, entered its seventh day. PFUCTO members said that although Dr Kingra’s health is deteriorating, he is still in high spirits.As per sources, a delegation of four members is also meeting cabinet minister Manpreet Singh Badal to take up demands of the union. The teachers’ union has been protesting for the past seven days while demanding revision of UGC pay scales and withdrawal of the decision of delinking universities from UGC scales.Communist Party of India (CPI) leader DP Maur along with his supporters met Kingra today. Earlier SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema and Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal had met Kingra and demanded the immediate implementation of UGC scale for university professors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mayor-s-attempt-to-end-pau-protest-bears-no-fruit-101638904096485.html
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Attack on Sahnewal MC chief: organisations seek Punjab CM’s intervention||Five days after a murder attempt on Sahnewal municipal council president Captain Sukhjit Singh Hara, 57, when the police failed to trace the assailants, multiple organisations appealed chief minister Chranjit Singh Channi to intervene and to order police to speed up the investigation. Municipal councillors of Sahnewal municipal council, sarpanches, member panchayats, Sahnewal Artia association , Sahnewal truck union ,Sahnewal senior citizens , zila parishad and samiti members along with sports clubs and NRI diaspora held a press conference in Sahnewal seeking arrest of the assailants, on Tuesday.They suspect that the drug peddlers may have orchestrated the attack on Captain Hara as Hara had initiated a drive against drugs and drug peddling and helped the police in arrest of many drug peddlers and their associatesCaptain Hara was assaulted twice by unidentified accused at Southern bypass on December 3. The assailants attacked and damaged his Ford Endeavor SUV but he survived unhurt. The Dugri police had lodged an FIR against unidentified accused on December 3 and initiated investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attack-on-sahnewal-mc-chief-organisations-seek-punjab-cm-s-intervention-101638903918615.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Covid-19: Pune sees 171 new cases, one death||As of Tuesday, Pune district reported 171 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.14 million have recovered, 20,063 deaths and 1,716 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 86,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 46 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 368,222 and the death toll stood at 6,982 as no more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 76 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 523,512 and the death toll stood at 9,218 as no more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 49 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 270,055 and the toll stood at 3,513 as one more death was reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 86,828 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 13,812,619. Of which 8,340,269 are first doses and 5,472,350 are second doses. A total of 677 sites saw vaccination of which 535 were government centres and 142 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-pune-sees-171-new-cases-one-death-101638903437507.html
08-12-2021||Other||Over 33,000 inoculated during mega vaccination drive in Gurugram||A total of 33,713 people were vaccinated in Gurugram on Tuesday as part of the mega vaccination drive conducted by the district health department. Of the 33,723 people, 6,953 were given the first dose and 26,760 the second dose of vaccine against Covid-19, according to a statement issued by the department. With this, over 3.95 million doses of vaccine have been administered in Gurugram till now, the statement said. The drive was conducted at 265 sites, including around 80 fixed sites and door-to-door vaccination locations, with focus on increasing the coverage of second dose. The district health department had not set any target for this vaccination drive. Usually, the daily second dose coverage is around 10,000 doses. On Wednesday, vaccinations will take place at 59 fixed sites and 110 door-to-door vaccination locations. Among the fixed sites, first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 51 sites and the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at six sites, the statement said. The second dose of Sputnik V vaccine will be given at the polyclinic in Sector 31. Meanwhile, 10 fresh cases of Covid-19 were recorded on Tuesday, along with seven recoveries, according to the state government data. The active Covid-19 case tally in the district now stands at 89, of which 82 are under home isolation and seven patients are hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-33-000-inoculated-during-mega-vaccination-drive-in-gurugram-101638903372855.html
08-12-2021||Pune||431 villages 100% vaccinated in Pune district||PUNE The Pune Zilla Parishad administration, which has so far covered 431 villages under both doses of the Covid vaccine, now aims to cover 100 per cent of the remaining 955 villages.“After completing 100% vaccination in 431 villages, now we focus on covering the remaining 955 villages under our vaccination programme. There are a total 1,386 villages in Pune district and a majority of people are giving a good response to the vaccination drives,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad.“We have sufficient stock of vaccines, and currently there are about 500,000 doses available with us. It will take another two months to finish vaccinations in all the villages because a lot of people have taken their first dose in the last three months and are in the waiting period of 84 days,” added Prasad.In rural Pune, 90 people who have tested positive are isolated in hospital and while 386 are home isolated.The ZP administration had increased the timing of vaccination to cover a majority of people under the programme.“As many people were not coming for vaccination, we started to focus on door-to-door vaccination. It gave a very good response. In a few cases, people were reluctant. We have also run an awareness programme which brought good results. We are encouraging people to come for a second dose of vaccination through repeated phone calls,” said Prasad.“Vaccination centres are spread out across the district with one vaccination centre for every two villages. Confidence building measures are also undertaken,” added Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/431-villages-100-vaccinated-in-pune-district-101638903252716.html
08-12-2021||Other||PM likely to inaugurate Kanpur Metro on December 28||Kanpur: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate the Kanpur Metro rail services on December 28, said district administration officials privy to the development, on Tuesday. IIT K convocationAdditional chief secretary, UP, Avanish Awasthi has written to the Kanpur district magistrate Vishakh G, seeking details of the metro project and the IIT-Kanpur’s convocation. In his letter, the Awasthi has clearly mentioned that the prime minister is proposed to inaugurate the metro services and attend the convocation at IIT-Kanpur on December 28, the officials said. The letter has also been marked to the officer on special duty to PMO, Sanjay Bhavsar, commissioner of Kanpur division, Dr Raj Shekhar; managing director of UP Metro Rail Corporation, Kumar Keshav and the director of IIT Kanpur. “In view of the PM’s visit, the team of commissioner, metro rail safety, is likely to complete the final inspection by December 15. On the basis of this report, the PM’s visit will be finally approved,” the officials said.In the first phase, the Metro trains would run on a nine-km route between IIT Kanpur and Motijheel. In the second phase, the service would be available on the Transport Nagar- Motijheel route as well.Last the month, the chief minister Yogi Adityanath had flagged off the trial runs between the institute and Geeta Nagar crossing. Metro project sources said it was expected to open for the general public by the end of this month. Earlier, the plan was to inaugurate the metro services on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. But the PM’s programme could not be finalised on December 25. The new date has been proposed keeping in mind that PM can not only inaugurate the metro but also attend the IIT-K convocation. The DM on Tuesday visited the IIT Kanpur and reviewed the arrangements for the convocation. The PM would land directly on the permanent helipad on the institute premises and would again fly to railway grounds in Nirala Nagar where he would address a public rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-likely-to-inaugurate-kanpur-metro-on-december-28-101638903134471.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Demand for booster Covid vax doses on the rise with Omicron variant lurking||PUNE Even as the state government is pushing the centre to provide booster Covid vaccine doses for the vulnerable population, the city’s major private hospitals are getting requests for the same from their own staff, as well as people who want to travel abroad for various reasons; or from people who believe that a booster dose would give them extra protection. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) and several senior ministers in state government have also written to the centre to allow a booster dose for healthcare workers and the frontline population. Several studies have shown that the antibodies wane after a few months. With the new Omicron variant, the demand for a booster dose has risen. Dr Sanjay Patil, IMA, Pune chapter, and hospital board chairperson said, “Back in November the IMA had written to the central government to give booster or third doses to the healthcare and frontline workers who received their second shot of the vaccine months ago. Several studies have shown that the antibodies wane after a period of time and with the new variant coming in, it is important that those who are in direct contact with the patient are given extra protection. Along with this, the vulnerable population must also be given a third dose of the vaccine.” Major city hospitals are now getting queries for booster shots. Dr Avdhut Bodhamwad, medical superintendent at Ruby Hall clinic said, “Most people who took the vaccine at private hospitals at the time took it for safety purposes unlike now when people are taking if to get access to the malls or for transportation. We have a lot of stock pending with us as no more takers are there for paid vaccinations and on the other hand we also have people who want to take a third shot as an extra layer of protection, but we cannot give it to them until the government approves it.” On Tuesday state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted that he has written to the central health minister Mansukh Mandaviya. In the letter he requested the central government allow those frontline workers and healthcare workers who have received both the doses early in the year, a third shot at their studied desire. Also, to reduce the vaccination age from the current 18 years to 15 years of age as this will give secondary and junior colleges vaccine protection, as doctors have approved the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demand-for-booster-covid-vax-doses-on-the-rise-with-omicron-variant-lurking-101638903078580.html
08-12-2021||Other||CAQM order shutting unclean fuel units affects 900 in Haryana||In a bid to check the air pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR), the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Tuesday ordered an immediate closure of industries which are not running on cleaner fuels despite their availability. The latest order by the commission is likely to affect over 900 industries in the 14 NCR districts of Haryana which are using unapproved fuels, according to the Haryana government data.The commission said that violating industries or industrial units will not be permitted to operate till December 12. “The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas has issued directions for immediate closure of all such industries located in industrial areas where PNG infrastructure and supply are available but have still not switched over to the cleaner fuel. As per the directions of the commission, these violating industries or industrial units will not be permitted to schedule their operations till December 12, and the position will be reviewed for further decisions,” the CAQM said in a statement. According to the statement, the flying squads of CAQM will also launch special drives and inspect sites to ensure compliance of the directions. Till Sunday, a total of 576 sites were visited by the flying squads, of which 111 units were identified for immediate closure, which include 23 sites in the NCR districts of Haryana. Meanwhile, the Gurugram Industrial Association has written to the CAQM seeking representation from the industry in the commission before issuing directions and relief for industries not running on PNG/cleaner fuels. JN Mangla, president of the Gurugram Industrial Association who sent the letter on Monday, said, “The directions are issued without any consultations with the industry. In many places, there is no infrastructure for supply of PNG or other cleaner fuels. New directions every week impact our work and deliveries get affected. Food processing industries and those who process raw material for wine get affected. The work of the garment industry also gets affected as there are specific timelines for delivery of orders.” The association wrote the letter after the CAQM on December 2 directed that industrial units in NCR, not running on PNG or cleaner fuels, shall be allowed to operate only up to eight hours a day from Monday to Friday and shall not be allowed to operate on Saturdays and Sundays. At present, this remains applicable to those industrial units, where there is no supply of PNG. The letter by the Gurugram association also mentions that the National Green Tribunal had earlier approved agro-based fuels due to the reduced ill effect on the environment, therefore, requesting CAQM to allow industries running on such fuel to operate. “We humbly request you to consider the option of industries running on agro-based fuel like mustard husk, rice husk, saw dust and who have simultaneously implemented pollution control and monitoring mechanisms to be granted relief...” states the letter. “We are only requesting the CAQM to discuss issues with the industrial association also once to get our perspective before directions are issued. Most of the industries follow all the norms, but they have to use DG sets at times, when power supply gets disconnected. Same is with using non-cleaner fuels, as it is mostly because of lack of infrastructure available to us. If we are allowed to operate for only eight hours, then our work gets affected as in some industries, the heating up and starting of the machine itself takes up to eight hours and that is why the machines are on continuously,” said Mangla. Parveen Yadav, president of Gurgaon Udyog Association, said, “As the Covid-19 situation improved this year, the garment industry has started showing signs of revival. But with such norms and fixed working hours, it will be very difficult to deliver the orders on time. The delay will further affect our payments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/caqm-order-shutting-unclean-fuel-units-affects-900-in-haryana-101638902894340.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Fear of new restrictions in Pune puts Dec-Jan weddings in a quandry||PUNE For Prasad Joshi and his family, the new Omicron Covid variant is a matter of worry and has raised safety-related issues about strict restrictions to be imposed on weddings and public gatherings. “My wedding is scheduled on December 27 and we have booked a marriage hall with lawns and around 400 guests are going to be invited. If again strict restrictions or lockdown is imposed by the state government, then all the planning and expenses will be wasted. So we are confused about what decision to take. Whether to postpone the wedding or go along with fewer wedding guests,” said Joshi, an IT professional. Several families, of both brides and bridegrooms, who have weddings planned are now worried about inviting people, as they fear restrictions on the number of people being allowed to attend wedding. The scheduled weddings are in December, January and February. Another citizen Ramesh Pandhare said, “Our daughter’s wedding was scheduled on January 5 and it was going to happen in Bengalure, Karnataka. As Covid cases and specially the Omicron variant cases are coming up, both families have decided to postpone the wedding for few months. We want to have a grand wedding for our daughter, but if Covid restrictions are there, many celebrations cannot be done.”While marriage hall owners are also getting postponements and cancellations, Kiran Sakpal owner of Shantai wedding hall and lawns in Hadapsar said, “There were seven wedding bookings for this month and January 2021, of which already two weddings are postponed. Families are worried about the new Covid Omicron variant. Crowding would lead to the spread of virus and so to avoid it these weddings have been either been postponed or canceled. This is going to adversely affect our business during this peak season of ours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fear-of-new-restrictions-in-pune-puts-dec-jan-weddings-in-a-quandry-101638902841717.html
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt approves formation of task force to enforce steps to curb pollution||Based on the directions of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas, the Delhi government has approved the formation of a special task force to ensure efficient enforcement of pollution control measures in the Capital. An order issued on Monday directed the formation of the task force, comprising representatives from 20 agencies across Delhi, including the Delhi Police, Delhi Development Authority, New Delhi Municipal Council, Delhi government’s departments of environment, health and family welfare and revenue, the three municipal corporations (north, south and east), Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation and Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), among others. “The task force shall strictly implement the directions issued by the CAQM from time to time and report compliance status to the commission on a fortnightly basis — on the 1st and 16th of each month...,” the order read. HT had reported on December 5 that the pollution control task force in Delhi shall comprise all the major government agencies to ensure that pollution control measures are implemented thoroughly. In an order on December 2, the CAQM directed the formation of a special task force in Delhi and other NCR states to ensure that the enforcement of the pollution control directions issued by the commission can be undertaken efficiently. The order said that for Delhi, the task force will comprise the principal secretary or secretary environment, who will act as the chairperson of the task force; member secretary of the DPCC, who will be a member; and three technical members. A senior official of Delhi government’s environment department said that getting maximum representation in the task force will ensure that action is implemented properly. “It is true that many pollution monitoring and control agencies in Delhi are short of staff, but when all the agencies join hands, the collective workforce ensures that there is no excuse to ignore action. We are anyway taking regular reviews with all the agencies. This will improve accountability,” the official said. 
08-12-2021||Delhi||Seven officers given new role as L-G orders mid-level Delhi Police reshuffle||Seven police officers, between the ranks of joint commissioner of police (Joint CPs) and deputy commissioner of police (DCP) , were given new roles in Delhi Police as lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal ordered a mid-level reshuffle in the force on Tuesday.According to the order, 1999-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, Chhaya Sharma, has been postedas the joint commissioner of police in the economic offences wing (EOW) of the city police. Sharma was recently transferred back to the Delhi Police almost eight years after she went on Central deputation. She has formerly served in the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and the Central Vigilance Commission, where she was last posted as a director before being transferred back to the Delhi Police.Sharma was the deputy commissioner of police (south district) when the December 16, 2012, gangrape case shook the entire nation. She led the team that cracked the case, arrested all the suspects and prepared a watertight charge sheet, which eventually resulted in the hanging of all the adult accused. A juvenile, who was also involved in the brutal crime, served his sentence in a correction home for boys.Along with Sharma, her husband and batchmate, Vivek Kishore, who was on Central deputation as a director in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, has also been transferred back to the Delhi Police and given the charge of joint commissioner of police (traffic).As per the order issued by the Delhi government’s home department, 2004-batch IPS officer Veenu Bansal has been given the charge of additional commissioner of police (northern range), while his batchmate Ravindra Kumar Pandey has been posted as additional commissioner of police (general administration) from vigilance department.Another additional commissioner of police Suman Goyal, an IPS officer from 2005 batch, has been given the charge of the central range. She was posted in the traffic unit in the same rank. Her batchmate Rajneesh Gupta has been moved to special branch from general administration.Further, Sanjay Kumar Tyagi, a 2008-batch IPS officer who was posted as DCP Security, has been given the charge of DCP (IGI airport).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/seven-officers-given-new-role-as-l-g-orders-mid-level-delhi-police-reshuffle-101638902652808.html
08-12-2021||Pune||42 contacts of Pune’s index Omicron case test negative for the variant||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has tracked down 42 contacts of the index Omicron case confirmed in the city who had returned from Finland. All the 42 contacts have tested negative for the infection even as the administration is gearing up to tackle the variant. The Omicron variant is believed to be highly transmissible. As an act of caution, the civic body traced the 42 contacts, which also includes residents of the building he lives in, his house help and other people who might have come in contact with the person. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of Pune municipal corporation’s (PMC) health department said, “We have tested everyone who could have come in contact with the person through RTPCR. A total of 42 contacts have been traced as of Tuesday and all of them have tested negative.These 42 contacts also include 15 high-risk contacts who have also tested negative for the infection. As a precaution we are testing every international travel returnee who has come into the city 15 days before the restrictions were put into place, irrespective of the country of travel.”The index Omicron case is a 47-year old male from Pune city. The patient was found positive for Omicron variant through routine surveillance. He visited Finland from November 18 to 25, 2021. He was tested owing to mild fever on November 29 and was found Covid positive. He has taken both doses of the Covishield vaccine and is completely stable without any symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/42-contacts-of-pune-s-index-omicron-case-test-negative-for-the-variant-101638902594019.html
08-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram namaz row: Muslim groups reject new proposed sites||A day after a Hindu and a Muslim group recommended to the district administration that the Friday namaz could be held at 12 mosques and six rented sites in the city to resolve the standoff, at least two Muslim groups on Tuesday said they did not agree with the proposal.The members of the Gurgaon Muslim Council said they were instead planning to offer namaz at all the 37 sites designated by the administration for namaz in 2018.On Monday, the district administration said it would examine the proposal received from the members of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti and the Muslim Rashtriya Manch to resolve the long-pending row over Friday namaz in open public spaces in Gurugram.Altaf Ahmad, spokesperson, Gurgaon Muslim Council, which has been representing the Muslim groups, however, alleged that their consent was not taken before submitting the proposal.“We have requested the deputy commissioner to not consider their proposal as we do not agree with the terms offered by them. We will offer namaz at the 37 sites identified by the administration,” he said. In 2018, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims to perform Friday namaz. However, in November first week, the number of sites was brought down to 20 after right-wing organisations protested against the prayers.Ahmad said a press conference will be organised on the issue in Delhi on Wednesday.“Despite repeated assurance from district administration that ‘Juma namaz’ in open public spaces will continue till the Muslim community gets a practical and viable alternative, there have been open threats by members of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti that they will disrupt all Juma namaaz in open spaces from December 10, onwards. No police or legal action has been taken against three people for their open and blatant threats and hate-mongering against the Muslim community,” said Ahmad.The group last week filed police complaints against three right-wing activists for hurting the sentiments of the community.Mufti Mohd Saleem, president of Jamiat-Ulama-i-Hind, Gurgaon division, said their repeated submissions to administration that the Muslim Rashtriya Manch did not represent the Muslim citizens of Gurugram, have been ignored. “How can a handful of maulvis claim to represent the 150-plus Maulvis who had been organizing peaceful and orderly Juma namaaz for years. There are approximately four lakh Muslims in Gurugram, and who has given the right to take a decision on their behalf that to reduce namaaz sites from 37 to zero. Why we were not informed regarding the meeting, it was an absolutely fraudulent and illegal meeting, held secretly and in a suspicious manner,” he said.Haji Shehzad Khan, the chairman of Muslim Ekta Manch, another Muslim group, said the proposal is impractical and likely to create severe problems for the citizens. “We reject any and all such agreements done behind closed doors. We have requested Haryana chief minister and the district administration to constitute a representative ‘Aman Committee’, and resolve this matter in a mutually consultative way. We will continue to offer Juma namaaz at all the 37 sites agreed upon in 2018, and demand that the district administration ensures that law and order is maintained,” he said.Khurshid Rajaka, coordinator of Gurugram Imam Sanghathan, and also the national convener of Muslim Rashtriya Manch, said he has been raising the issue since 2013, but this is the first time that people were trying to give it a “communal colour”. “I have been regularly raising the issues of Muslims in Gurugram. I had taken permission to offer Eid namaz in 2014, and since then I have been resolving related issues,” he said.“For maintaining communal harmony, we have reduced the sites so that the present issue can be resolved. No one can use a public place for puja or namaz without the consent of locals or the authorities. Some Muslims are trying to give it a political angle . We have identified nine sites, and we are ready to pay the rent,” he said.Members of Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti and Gurugram Imam Sanghathan organised a press conference on Tuesday at PWD rest house and said that namaz in open spaces was not legally permissible, and that people should not be allowed to offer prayers in public places.Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, legal advisor of Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, a Hindu umbrella body leading protests against namaz in open spaces, said, “We have even offered to pay rent for the sites which the administration will identify for Muslims to offer their prayers on Fridays. We are looking for a solution so that the issue can be resolved,” he said.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said some members of the Muslim groups met him on Tuesday and handed over a letter. “We will review the proposals and will try to resolve this issue at the earliest. We will ensure that sentiments and interests of every community are safeguarded,” he said.The Gurugram Police said they have not received any application or request that Muslims will offer namaz at 37 sites this Friday. “We will deploy the force according to the plan sent by the district administration,” said a senior police officer, asking not to be named.Over the past three months, right-wing groups have tried to disrupt namaz being performed in open spaces in sectors 47, 12, 37 and Sirhaul Village. On November 5, Hindu groups organised a Govardhan Puja at the site in Sector 12A, where namaz used to be offered on Fridays. The protesters also performed a havan at a site designated for holding the Friday prayers in Sector 37, and also disrupted the namaz in Sirhaul Village, Sector 18.
08-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Red light violation detection cameras operational only at five locations||More than three months after the installation of red light violation detection (RLVD) cameras at 25 locations across the city, these devices are currently operational at only five spots. Many of these cameras have not been put to use yet for reasons such as lack of road markings and delay in linking them to the control centre, said traffic police officials on Tuesday.“Currently, the RLVD cameras are functional at only five locations. At some points, we want to complete road markings such as zebra crossings and speed limit signages before making them operational, while at other places trees and poles obstruct the view. We are aiming to make the rest of the cameras functional by early next year,” said Ravinder Singh Tomar, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gurugram.The cameras are currently operational at Galleria market, Huda City Centre, Kanhai Chowk, Jharsa Chowk, and Rajesh Pilot Marg.On December 22 last year, the Gurugram traffic police and the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) announced that they started installing RLVD cameras across the city. Overall, 315 such cameras had to be installed at 30 key locations in the city such as Iffco Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, and Subhash Chowk. By June, RLVD cameras were installed at 13 locations, and by August at 25 locations across the city, the officials said, adding that about 10 such cameras were installed at each location.Tomar said that at the five operational spots, the number of daily fines has witnessed a 10-fold increase. “Through the RLVD cameras, there is a 24x7 monitoring of the five crossings by officials deputed at the traffic tower in Sushant Lok 1 and GMDA’s integrated command and control centre (ICCC). As soon as a violation is observed, an e-challan is issued against the owner of the vehicle,” said Tomar.Jumping traffic signals attracts a fine of ₹5,000, the officials said.According to GMDA officials, besides the 25 points, the installation of RLVD cameras at Khushboo Chowk, Ambedkar Chowk, Pataudi Chowk, Basai flyover, and Sitaram Singla Chowk is still in process.“At some points such as Iffco Chowk and Rajiv Chowk, traffic signals have been removed altogether. However, by then work on installing the cameras at these points had already commenced. We are now using RLVD cameras at these points for security surveillance instead,” said a GMDA official overseeing the project, seeking anonymity.The traffic signals at Iffco Chowk have been removed after two U-turn flyovers came up there, while at Rajiv Chowk, jersey barriers are being used to divert the traffic, the traffic police officials said.The GMDA official quoted above said that at 13 more points, besides the five functional points, all requisite measures are completed barring the laying of optical lines. “Work on laying of optical lines at 13 locations is remaining which would directly link them to the ICCC and traffic tower. Work on this is likely to be completed by March next year,” said the official.Residents said that in the absence of RLVD cameras, the jumping of traffic signals continues to remain a constant violation. “There are several intersections across the city such as Genpact Chowk, Bristol Chowk, Vatika Chowk, and Gurjar Rajesh Pilot Chowk where the violation is rampant. Even after the signals turn green at one side, one has to wait for five to 10 seconds before proceeding as commuters from the opposite direction continue to drive through,” said Harshit Pandit, a resident of Sector 70.
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR opens hearts and hearths for strays in winter||New Delhi The season of chills is a challenge for many humans, and even for the furry beings. In such a scenario, imagine the plight of strays on the streets, who often have to battle bone-chilling temperature including unexpected winter showers. Cooped up in corners sans warmth, they often call out for help. And a few good Samaritans in Delhi-NCR have heard their pleas, and taken it upon themselves to provide some warmth to these pawfect beings! “Dogs make our lives whole. In fact every animal out there gives meaning to the word ‘love’ for me,” says Sanchita Vohra, an animal lover based in Rajouri Garden, who takes care of food and warm bedding for a bunch of stray dogs in the lane where she lives. “These doggos aren’t as privileged as us and need just a little more than love to survive the cold. A simple jute bori (gunny bag) or any old sweater of yours could be a new lease of life for them. I’m also inviting them inside my home. Since it’s not easy to stay warm when hungry, I’m making sure their bellies are full. We need to allow them in our buildings, if possible, and give them lot’s of love to make them survive the winter.” Also providing jute bags to stray animals, alongside warm milk, is North Delhi-based Shivam Khatri, from the NGO Animal Lovers Foundation. “We focus on animal rescue, awareness campaigns, free sterilisation drives, and free anti-rabies vaccination drives. But for winter, we are specifically providing the stray with jute bags as they are cost effective and keep them warm. Stray animals need more than just leftover rotis when it’s the winter season. So, we provide warm food including rice, chicken, rotis, milk, paneer, eggs, and even dog biscuits. Regular health check ups are also done to ensure they are fit and fine. And in case of any injury, we try to provide them the required treatment, and look after them to the best of our ability.” Lighting up bonfire every evening, near his home in New Friends Colony, so that the strays can sit along and get warm, is Vikas Gautam from Love For Animals Lord Buddha Foundation. He runs an animal shelter in Noida, works for animal welfare in Delhi as well, and has distributed around 2,000 waterproof bora beds and 2,500 dog coats since this winter started setting in. Gautam says, “Every year, many strays die due to cold. On an average, almost 40% old animals which include not just dogs but even cows and other animals, and half of new-born animals such as puppies and calves die. Disabled and old animals also get very slim chances of surviving winters since they can’t move to warmer spots so easily. Recently, I took an old female visually-impaired indie dog from Palam Colony in south west Delhi to my home; she was shivering badly and had visibly not eaten anything since days.We are trying to save her.” Likewise, many of us can do just a little bit to save strays from the winter wrath. Here’s how you can help strays in chilly weather:- If you have the facility, provide them with shelter, which is the most important on cold nights and mornings.- Gunny bags, jute sacks, and thick bedsheets for good bedding for strays, so spread them out.- Be aware and proactive about injuries and frost bites in winters. Contact your local NGO or a caretaker, if they are not being already taken care of.- Cats often take refuge in car hoods, so before starting your car in the morning, give the hood a knock so they can come out.- Leave food and water out if you can. Roti and bread become hard in winters, so keep kibbles or dal-rice (without chilli powder and salt). If you are going on a feeding round, warm up some milk and give them before it gets cold.(Inputs by Pooja Advani, animal expert and canine behaviouralist)Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-opens-hearts-and-hearths-for-strays-in-winter-101638902356286.html
08-12-2021||Lucknow||Three killed, four injured at oil refinery in UP’s Bareilly||Three workers were killed and four others were injured in an accident at an edible oil refinery in Bareilly on Tuesday afternoon. Bareilly district administration officials said the accident occurred when around seven workers were cleaning a tank in the refinery. “It appears that the workers were exposed to some gas and fainted. They were rushed to a hospital where three of them were declared dead and four others are undergoing treatment. Their condition remains critical,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP), Bareilly Rohit Singh Sajwan. The deceased workers have been identified as Vijay Pal, Neeraj and Mohammad Yasin Khan. The workers are said to be in their twenties. The old refinery is located in CB Ganj area of Bareilly, 15 kilometres north of the district headquarters. The family members of the deceased and injured workers staged a sit-in at the gate of the refinery against the management. The family members also sought monetary compensation. Senior officials rushed to the spot and inspected the area where the accident occurred. Additional police force was also deployed at the refinery. Prem Babu Sharma, the manager of the refinery spoke with the family members of the deceased workers later in the evening. He was accompanied by officials from the administration, police and labour department. “We have assured the family members of a fair investigation which will be conducted by two teams separately. We will also bear the cost of medication and provide appropriate monetary compensation to the families of the workers,” said Sharma. The manger declined to comment on the amount of the compensation. The district authorities along with the experts at the refinery conducted a survey of the factory before declaring the area safe and free of poisonous emissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-killed-four-injured-at-oil-refinery-in-up-s-bareilly-101638902294249.html
08-12-2021||Pune||Winter travel plans going through the Omicron wringer for Punekars||PUNE The threat of the Omicron Covid variant has put a majority of travel plans for the winter in fair amount of uncertainty, with the government still to issue travel guidelines. Some are waiting to take a “last moment” call, while many have postponed travel plans.“People are still desperate to travel, but those who have not booked their tickets are postponing their plans, especially for international travel. When it comes to domestic travel, most are still hoping restrictions do not come up. We are getting queries for whether the planned trip will continue or, will there be a refund policy if the tour is cancelled. We are getting many calls in last five days,” said Ashwin Kardekar, director, My Travelogue Holidays.Hotel associations in Maharashtra are continuing with Covid-appropriate norms as suggested by the state governmentJaved Sunesra, president, Panchgani Hotels and Welfare Association said, “We are continuing with the standard operating procedure of 50% occupancy and the compulsion of completing both doses of vaccination. If any SOPs change from the state government, we will implement it.”Akhilesh Joshi from Girikand Travels said, “As many as 90% of persosn booked with us are continuing with travel plans following all Covid norms. People are not rushing to cancel plans; most prefer to wait and watch.”Baba Shinde, president of the Maharashtra Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna, said, “Ever since the news of Omicron we have seen a drop of 15% passengers in interstate traveling.”Senior citizens are more concerned about the new variant and they want to postpone holiday plans.“We had planned family trip to Leh and Ladakh on December 10, and now my mother is worried about the new variant, although we (family of four), all are vaccinated. Mother wants to avoid travelling since she is 50 and now father is also reluctant to travel, so I will cancel two tickets and hope me any wife can travel,” said Siddhant Shukla, an IT professional who stays at Singhad road.Samiksha Suryawashi, a housewife from Karve nagar said, “We have planned a trip to Kerala from December 15. So far, no Omicron cases have been detected in Kerala. Still we are worried, so we have decided to cancel our plans for now.”Ketki Mane, who was travelling Jaipur on December 17 with four friends has canceled her trip, “I stay in Chinchwad and now we have six cases of the new variant. I am thinking I will limit my outdoor visits like I did during the lockdowns.”Mihir Mulay, director of Mid Earth Outdoors said, “People are not worried like last year as the majority of states have allowed traveling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/winter-travel-plans-going-through-the-omicron-wringer-for-punekars-101638902241648.html
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Shut industries not running on PNG, orders CAQM||Intensifying action against polluting industries operating in the National Capital Region (NCR), the Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas (CAQM) on Tuesday ordered immediate closure of all industries located in areas where PNG (piped natural gas) infrastructure and supply are available, but they have still not switched over to the cleaner fuel.“As per the directions of the commission, these violating industries and industrial units will not be permitted to schedule their operations till December 12, and the position will be reviewed for further decisions,” CAQM said in a statement on Tuesday.The statement added, “Despite the measures taken in different sectors towards improvement of air quality of Delhi-NCR, the air quality still remains in ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ category. Keeping in view the need to enforce strict actions against the deteriorating air quality of the region, the commission believes that there is an urgent need to take further preventive measures, as a matter of extreme emergency and abundant caution.”In a set of directions issued on November 16, CAQM ordered all industries in the NCR having access to gas infrastructure to not run on any other fuel, failing which they will be shut down. It was also directed that all industries in NCR where gas connectivity is available will immediately be shifted to gas and state governments were asked to provide details of their switch to the cleaner fuel.In December last year, the commission directed all industrial units in Delhi to switch over to piped natural gas by January 31, 2021. About 1,600 of the industrial units spread across 50 industrial areas in Delhi were then identified for the switch over to PNG. The commission stressed the need to switch over by all identified industries in Delhi, saying use of other fuels is one of the major contributors to air pollution in Delhi and the NCR.Enforcement reviewMore than 1,800 old vehicles were impounded and over 25,000 polluting vehicles were fined in Delhi between November 17 and December 6, the latest action taken report assessing the pollution control measures by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has shown.“The pollution control drive was carried out in two stages. The report of the action taken between November 17 and November 25 has already been submitted before the Supreme Court and the CAQM. The second phase, carried out between November 26 and December 6, will be submitted on December 8 (Wednesday),” a senior official of the DPCC said on Tuesday.As Delhi witnessed its most polluted November since 2015, when the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) started recording the air quality index for the Capital, the Supreme Court the CAQM issued detailed measures for Delhi and NCR states to curb the rising pollution levels. These steps included a ban on the construction activities, closure of all schools, colleges and educational institutions, ban on the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items into Delhi and scheduled operations for thermal power plants operating in the NCR.According to the DPCC assessment, 1,882 aged vehicles (diesel vehicles older than 15 years and petrol vehicles older than 10 years) were impounded in the city since November 17, when CAQM issued a set of restrictions for Delhi and NCR states to control the rising air pollution levels in the region.Besides this, 25, 616 polluting vehicles or those vehicles that did not have the Pollution Under Control certificates were also fined.The review showed that at least 15,324 trucks carrying non-essential items were stopped at various Delhi borders. The DPCC said fines or notices were issued at 2,650 construction and demolition sites where violation of anti-dust measures were found, senior DPCC officials said.“We have also taken stock of how agencies have fared in using mechanised sweepers and water sprinklers in their areas to control road dust. We have asked all bodies to increase action,” the DPCC official said.
08-12-2021||Pune||Number of institutes offering diploma in Pharmacy increase to meet rising demand||PUNE In an interesting trend this year, there is an increase in the number of institutes offering a diploma in pharmacy this year. As of date, 100 per cent admissions have been reported for the course (D-Pharmacy) this academic year. For the last 1.5 years, medical stores and the entire pharma sector has seen a spike in business, which has attracted students. As per information given by the state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell, in the academic year 2021-22 a total of 30,049 seats were available for the D-Pharmacy course in 462 pharmacy institutes across the state. In 2020-21 there were 28,402 seats available in 427 colleges, which means an increase of 1,647 seats and 35 new pharmacy institutes this year. “Last two years have been very tough for our family, my father passed away due to Covid and now I have completed myClass 12 and took admissions for apharmacy course. Medical stores which did good business during the lockdown. Even the pharma companies were hiring people. So I decided to pursue acareer in this field and accordingly have taken the admission,” said Shankar Yedve a student. Another student Mangesh Chavan said, “There are various career opportunities after pursuing the pharmacy course and not just a medical shop. The pandemic has shown us how important the medical and pharmacy sector is and so I chose to pursue a career in this field.”Talking about this trend, Ramdas Zol, president of the Association of the Management of Unaided Institutes in the rurals area said, “Once the student completes a diploma in pharmacy, s/he gets a legal licence to start his own medical store or mall. And we have seen demand for medical stores in the last two years due to the pandemic. This has attracted students. Also many pharmacy companies are continuously hiring students for their business growth for which the D-Pharmacy course is the basic qualification.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/number-of-institutes-offering-diploma-in-pharmacy-increase-to-meet-rising-demand-101638902234401.html
08-12-2021||Mumbai||Mayor objects to BJP MLA’s comment, women’s commission takes suo moto cognisance||The Maharashtra State Commission for Women (MSCW) has asked the Mumbai police commissioner to submit a factual report about an alleged objectionable remark passed by BJP leader Ashish Shelar about Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar in connection with the November 30 cylinder blast in Worli. Meanwhile, Pednekar has also written to Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil that she is filing a police complaint in the matter.On November 30, a fire broke out after a gas cylinder exploded at around 7.10am at BDD chawl number 03, Kamgar Vasahat, on Ganpatrao Jadhav Marg in Worli. Four persons were admitted, of which three died including a four-month-old boy, and Vishnu Puri, 5, remains the sole survivor after reporting 15 to 20% burn injuries. Post the tragedy, Shelar, while addressing a press conference on December 4, slammed the mayor for visiting the site nearly 72 hours after the incident. Shelar allegedly remarked, “Where were you (the mayor) sleeping for these many hours?” Pednekar took exception to his mention of the word ‘sleeping’. In her letter to Dilip Walse Patil, she wrote, “The mayor of Mumbai is the first citizen and it is a very important post. The term used to describe me as a woman mayor is objectionable.” The letter stated that Shelar’s remark insulted not only Pednekar but other women as well and hence, she planned to file a police complaint.Responding in the matter, the BJP issued a statement that the party has filed a complaint with the Mumbai police as a few people having links with the Shiv Sena morphed Shelar’s video and deliberately insulted Pednekar in the process.Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator and BJP spokesperson in the BMC, said, “We have filed a police complaint in the matter considering what Shelar has said is there on YouTube. He has used the term ‘sleeping’ for the system and not for the mayor. But a few people have morphed the video, thereby insulting the mayor. On Wednesday, we are also going to visit the state women’s commission office to complain regarding the same.”In a separate development, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday ordered a probe into the allegations made by the BJP against mayor Kishori Pednekar.Earlier on November 30, the BJP claimed that the mayor’s office delayed the procurement of emergency medicines required for the treatment of mosquito-borne diseases.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in-charge of public health, BMC, on Tuesday said that two officials of the rank of deputy municipal commissioner (DMC) will carry out the investigation and a report will be submitted within two weeks. “The investigation will be conducted to find out who is the actual culprit behind the delay in procuring the medicines,” Kakani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mayor-objects-to-bjp-mla-s-comment-women-s-commission-takes-suo-moto-cognisance-101638902172707.html
08-12-2021||Bhopal||MP woman, neighbour kill husband, put body in car. Then a change of plans: Cop||A woman in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal and her neighbour, a software engineer she was suspected to be in a relationship with, murdered her husband late on Monday, police said. The two intended to dispose of the body but later changed their mind and surrendered, a senior police officer said late on Tuesday.Ashish Pandey, (42), and Sangeeta Meena, (40), have been arrested for the murder of her husband, Dhanraj Meena, 44, on Monday night. He was killed with a hammer and sharp-edged weapon, Sai Krishna Thota, superintendent of police, Bhopal (south), said.“They tried to dispose the body on Tuesday by packing it in a bag but when they failed to do so, they reached Katara Hills police station and surrendered before the police on Tuesday afternoon,” Thota said.Thota said, “Sangeeta Meena and Ashish Pandey, who are neighbours, were allegedly in a relationship for the past five months. Recently, Dhanraj Meena came to know about it. Dhanraj threatened his wife and Pandey with dire consequences. Dhanraj also asked his wife to change their residence and move to another house. Sangeeta and Pandey then planned to kill Meena.”“On Monday night, Sangeeta mixed sleeping pills in kadha (medicinal concoction) and gave it to Dhanraj. After he slept, Sangeeta called Pandey at 2 am and attacked Dhanraj with a hammer and sharp-edged weapon and later strangulated him. Their two teenage children were sleeping in the room. Sangeeta and Pandey packed the body to hide in a car. On Tuesday, the children went to the school and the accused tried to dispose of the body. After roaming across the city, they decided to surrender before the police,” said the SP.
08-12-2021||Lucknow||2022 UP polls: Priyanka to launch Congress manifesto for women today||Congress general secretary and party’s Uttar Pradesh (UP) incharge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, will launch her party’s manifesto for women for the 2022 UP assembly polls in Lucknow on Wednesday. Priyanka had arrived in Lucknow on Monday for holding meetings with various election-related committees of the party. “Priyanka ji will launch the women manifesto for the UP polls at noon on Wednesday,” said Congress spokesperson, Anshu Awasthi. In the last two months, Priyanka had announced several women-centric promises including 40% tickets to women candidates for contesting 2022 UP Assembly polls, smartphones to Class 12 pass girls and electric scooters to graduating women, and skill development schools for women. “All these and more promises for women will be announced and documented in the manifesto too,” said a young party leader. On Monday, Priyanka held a meeting of the party’s manifesto committee wherein she had said that her party’s poll manifesto for the upcoming UP elections will be a roadmap for all-inclusive and all-round growth of the state. She had also said that the manifesto will pay special attention to all sections of the society, youths, women, farmers, traders and various deprived sections of the society. She also held meetings of the coordination committee, election and campaign committee. On Tuesday, she chaired a meeting of planning and strategy committee and discussed strategy for the polls including how to take the party’s poll campaign to each and every house in the state. UP is scheduled to go for elections in 2022. Previously, in the 2017 UP elections, the BJP bagged 312 seats out of the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh Assembly while Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 19 and Congress could win only seven seats. The rest of the seats were bagged by other candidates. Congress had contested the 2017 polls in alliance with the SP. 
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospitals feel the squeeze as resident doctors’ strike enters 11th day||With the strike by resident doctors entering its 11th day on Tuesday, both Delhi residents and those arriving from neighbouring states and are in need of urgent medical care are facing difficulties as the emergency wings of several big Delhi hospitals are barely functional. The resident doctors have been striking work since last Saturday over delays in NEET-2021 PG counselling, which is now pending the outcome of a batch of petitions being heard by the Supreme Court over economic reservations. The strike started last Saturday with doctors boycotting work in out-patient clinics, but it later escalated to boycott of all routine work such as care of admitted patients and routine surgeries as they received no written assurance from the Union health minister, who said the matter is now sub judice. Doctors from Central government-run hospitals such as Dr Ram Manohar Lohia and Safdarjung withdrew from emergency services from Monday, leaving the emergency wing of the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences flooded with patients. Seventy-five-year-old Geeta Colony resident Sudhir, who goes by one name, was brought to the emergency department of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital on Tuesday morning with fits. After waiting for hours, he was given a medicine and asked to go to either AIIMS or Lok Nayak Hospital. “The doctors said he needed admission, but because of a strike they cannot take him in. They asked us to go to AIIMS but all ambulances were either refusing to take us or charging over ₹1,000. I don’t know what to do,” said his daughter Preeti. An ambulance driver from Delhi government’s Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) blamed long queues at the AIIMS emergency for their reluctance. “Last night, I took a patient to AIIMS and had to wait at the hospital for over 1.5 hours because there were no trolleys to carry the patient in. Many family members were laying patients on the floor outside. All big hospitals are now referring emergency patients to AIIMS because of the strike,” said the driver, on condition of anonymity. A guard on duty near the hospital’s emergency department said no patient was being treated in the outpatient clinics— they are all being sent to the emergency department if urgent care was needed. “The senior doctors are giving some first aid and care, sometimes on the trolley outside, and then referring patients to other hospitals,” the guard said. A guard on duty at Safdarjung Hospital’s emergency department said all patients were being turned away. “We have been asked to turn away patients; even the serious ones. We ask them to go to either AIIMS or Pt Madan Mohan Malviya hospital. What can we do, there are very few doctors left to take care of the already admitted patients,” the guard said. Outside the emergency department of the hospital, Yogesh Kumar was sitting on a parapet with his cousin Shyam Vir on a stretcher nearby. Shyam Vir met with an accident in end-November and has a shattered tibia and fibula (leg bones), along with infection. “We took him to the government hospital in Jaipur where his CT scan and X-rays were done, the pus drained, and the wound dressed. He needed a surgery, but the doctors went on a strike the next day onwards. So we decided to come to Delhi. But, now we hear that doctors here are also on strike. We were asked to come to the hospital on Tuesday for the surgery, but now they have asked us to come back on Friday,” said Kumar. The NEET-2021 PG examinations that usually happen in May were delayed this year because of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country. While the exams were finally conducted in September, the counselling was postponed because of a batch of petitions in the Supreme Court on the economic reservation for candidates. The health minister and other ministry officials have said they cannot provide any written assurances as the matter is sub judice. On Tuesday, as the boycott of hospital emergencies continued, hospitals have started warning that all resident doctors hired on ad hoc basis will face disciplinary action, including termination from service. “All resident doctors who are appointed on ad hoc basis are informed that they cannot indulge themselves nor participate in any strike activity. Non-observance of rules attracts disciplinary action as deemed fit, including termination,” read a circular from the RML hospital. But resident doctors said they will continue with the strike. “The delays in NEET PG counselling has not only left 42,000 MBBS doctor awaiting admissions but has resulted in a shortfall of one-third of resident doctors in medical college hospitals. The resident doctors are the backbone of the services provided at these hospitals and the ones on calla re overburdened,” said a doctor on strike, requesting anonymity. 
08-12-2021||Pune||Last date for engineering admissions extended due to MSRTC strike||PUNE The state higher and technical education department has given an extension to the admission process for Engineering, after a demand was raised by students from across the state. Due to the ongoing strike of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), students from rural areas are not able to travel to cities and colleges for admission. The state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said, “As per the demand by the students and their parents to give an extension for engineering admissions, and after discussion with state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, it has been decided to give an extension for engineering admissions.” Currently, the admission process for various engineering courses for the academic year 2021-22 is going on and the deadline was December 16. It was demanded to extend the date till December 20 or 25. The detailed schedule of the new admission extension has not yet declared by the department. “This decision has given a relief to lakhs of students across the state, as there are several issues students are facing this time in getting admission. Right from getting all the necessary documents to reaching college has become difficult for students due to the MSRTC strike and closed ST bus services,” said Raju Kshirsagar a student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/last-date-for-engineering-admissions-extended-due-to-msrtc-strike-101638902007267.html
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Presence in mob enough to prove guilt, says court||The first accused in the cases pertaining to the north-east Delhi riots was found guilty by the court due to his sheer presence in the mob despite there being no direct evidence against him, according to the order in the case that was uploaded on the district court’s website on Tuesday.On Monday, additional sessions judge Virendra Bhatt held a 25-year old man guilty of setting on fire a 73-year old woman’s house in Gokalpuri during the communal violence that erupted in several localities of north-east Delhi in February last year.The court convicted Dinesh Yadav alias Michael, for being a member of an unlawful assembly, rioting, rioting armed with deadly weapon, house trespass, robbery and mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house. The maximum punishment under these sections entails a jail term of up to ten years.Holding Yadav guilty, additional sessions judge Virendra Bhatt has said that his presence with a wooden rod in the mob indicated that he shared the common object of the unlawful assembly, i.e to attack the other community.The court said the fact that the accused also belongs to Hindu community and was present with a wooden rod, in the mob that resorted to violence against the Muslims, indicates that he shared the common object of the unlawful assembly.“The circumstances in which the members of Muslim community were identified and beaten, their vehicles damaged and their houses broken, robbed and set ablaze by the rioters comprising the members of the other community coupled with the object of the unlawful assembly i.e to assault the Muslims and damage their properties and the fact that the accused was seen among the rioters armed with a wooden rod, are sufficient to indicate beyond any doubt that he too shared the common object..,” the court said while convicting Yadav on Monday.The judge said even though the testimony of police officers and the two eyewitnesses to the incident revealed that Yadav did not take any active part in vandalising, looting or putting on fire the house of the complainant, however, it cannot be said that he was only a bystander or a passive spectator at the spot of incident.The judge said that even though there is no evidence on record to indicate the direct commission of offence, yet Yadav is guilty of all those crimes which have been committed by the members of the mob for the reason that he shared the common object of other members of the assembly.“There is nothing on record to show that the accused had disassociated himself from the unlawful assembly and he did not share the common object of the assembly. It does not appear that his presence at the incident spot was only because he is a resident of that very area..,” the court said in a 13-page order.Yadav was arrested in June 2020, and the charges in the case were framed on August 1, 2021. There were 12 prosecution witnesses who were examined during the trial.According to the prosecution, Yadav was an “active member of the riotous mob” and took active participation in vandalising and setting on fire the house of a 73-year-old woman named Manori on the night of February 25.The woman, who was the complainant in the matter, alleged that a mob of around 150-200 rioters attacked her house when her family was not present, and looted all the articles including a buffalo.Earlier, in July, a city court passed its first judgment in the riots cases, and acquitted a man accused of rioting, unlawful assembly, and dacoity. Accused in two cases, that were being probed by the local police, were given clean chit by the court even before the trial started.Communal clashes broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, after a standoff between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and opposers got out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-presence-in-mob-enough-to-prove-guilt-says-court-101638901514285.html
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: City breathes easy as fast winds, rain clean air||Delhi’s air quality improved to the “poor” category on Tuesday due to faster wind speeds, a good “mixing height” of pollutants, and the impact of light showers in the early hours of Monday, according to scientists across agencies monitoring the city’s weather and pollution levels.The average air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday was 255 – the lowest since October 27, when the AQI was 232 -- according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4pm bulletin.AQI is not expected to worsen over the next three days due to moderate winds even as the temperature will continue to dip. Delhi’s AQI was 322 (very poor) on Monday and 305 on Sunday, CPCB data showed.Also Read| Delhi govt approves formation of task force to enforce steps to curb pollutionGufran Beig, founder and project director at the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said wind speeds remained fairly good over Delhi, with the mixing height touching 1.5km on Tuesday.Mixing height is an invisible boundary layer of the atmosphere within which movement of air and particles can take place, including dispersion of pollutants. The lower the mixing height, the lesser the room for pollutants to disperse.“A high mixing height allows greater room for pollutants to move and disperse freely. The lower it is, the closer pollutants get trapped to the surface. Wind speed will remain similar for the next three days,” says Beig, adding that while the temperature was beginning to dip again, it was still above normal. “Once temperature falls below the normal mark, pollution levels may rise again. The drizzle on Sunday and Monday may have also helped,” he said.Safar, in its daily forecast, said winds are expected to remain moderate until December 11, increasing ventilation, with the mixing height likely to be between 1km and 1.5km.“The net effect is that air quality for the next four days likely to improve gradually but will stay within the ‘poor’ category,” said Safar.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 25.1 degrees Celsius on Monday – one degree above normal, while the minimum was 11.4 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal for this time of the season. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum wind speed touched 15 km/hr during the day, with clear skies allowing greater visibility.“Visibility was over 3,000 metres, which was only seen in November on one day. Wind speed was 15 km/hr, which is expected to have helped bring down pollution to an extent. Colder northwesterly winds are blowing at the moment and this will lead to a drop in temperature in the coming days,” said R.K Jenamani, scientist at the India Meteorological Department.IMD forecast minimum temperature to drop down to around 9 degrees Celsius by Saturday, with the maximum touching 23 degrees Celsius by the weekend.The ministry of earth sciences Early Warning System (EWS) for Delhi, meanwhile, has forecast that AQI may even improve to “moderate” by Wednesday before rising back to the “poor” category on Thursday.Also Read| Air quality panel orders closure of all NCR industries not using clean fuelAn AQI between 101 and 200 is classified as “moderate”, between 201 and 300 “poor”, between 301 and 400 “very poor” and over 400 “severe” on CPCB’s air quality index.Delhi has so far recorded 12 ‘severe’ air days since November 1 -- 11 in November, and one in December.Meanwhile, Santosh Harish, Fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, noted that emergency responses, such as shutting down schools and stopping construction activities, continue to remaining in place, despite air quality improving to the ‘poor’ category. “The whole idea of Grap (Graded Response Action Plan) was to take these emergency measures based on the PM 2.5 and PM 10 readings. Even when there has been improvement, these measures have not been lifted, whereas they should have. There seems to be no trigger on when to escalate and de-escalate measures based on Grap and we need to look into this,” said Harish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-city-breathes-easy-as-fast-winds-rain-clean-air-101638901274938.html
08-12-2021||Delhi||DU panel points to over-admissions as major drawback of cutoff based system||To bolster its argument for a common entrance test to admit students to undergraduate courses of Delhi University, the committee deliberating on admissions reforms has highlighted the issue of over-admissions plaguing colleges year after year, under the current cut-off based admissions process. College heads said while any alternative to the present admission mechanism would require detailed discussions and deliberations, there was no doubt that a solution was needed for over-admissions. While outlining the issues pertaining to cutoffs and the variation in marks allocated by different boards, the report prepared by the nine-member committee said, “Since admissions at the undergraduate level are cut-off based, it is difficult to control over-admissions beyond the sanctioned strength as applicants who are eligible within that cut off are all entitled for admission to a particular course of study.” It further said dissuading prospective applicants from their right to be admitted to a course of their choice, upon meeting the cutoff, would not be appropriate. The report also shared this year’s admission numbers for popular courses across colleges. Many of these courses ended up over-admitting students, the data showed. Colleges that saw over-admission included those with popular courses as well as those that had reduced cutoffs in subsequent lists after seats remained vacant in the first and second lists. North Campus’s Hindu College saw over-admissions in multiple courses such as history and physics. The college has 49 sanctioned seats in BA (Honours) Political Science but recorded 146 admissions. In BSc (Honours) Physics, the college admitted 210 seats against 79 sanctioned seats. For BA (Honours) Mathematics, the college admitted 185 students against 49 sanctioned seats. College principal Anju Srivastava said while she was yet to go through the panel’s interim report, over-admission needed to be looked into for better utilization of resources. “We build structures on the basis of a certain sanctioned strength. When the strength goes overboard, accommodating more number of students in the same class puts a lot of pressure on resources, especially lab facilities,” said Srivastava. She further said that admitting a higher number of students also affected the teacher-student ratio adversely, and in consequence, the learning mechanism. “The teacher-student ratio is affected because we get teachers on the basis of the sanctioned strength, not the actual strength. This can affect the quality of learning,” said Srivastava. Other colleges such as Miranda House and College of Vocational studies, among others, also recorded over-admissions. College of Vocational Studies ended up admitting 263 students against 96 sanctioned seats. Whereas Miranda House admitted 232 students in BSc (Honours) Physics against 86 seats. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said the college ended up over admitting nearly 250 students for BCom. “We have around 140 seats across all categories for the course but ended up admitting around 250 students after reducing the cutoff by 1%. When the cutoff was high, the seats were vacant and when we reduced it by a percentage point, we ended up over admitting students,” said Khanna. He said it was difficult to estimate admission intake since a high number of students could get admitted even with a minor change in the cutoff. “Right now, over-admissions continue to be a concern. An alternative is certainly needed,” he said. At Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, the Bcom (Honours) saw 216 admissions against a sanctioned seat strength of 154. Hem Chand Jain, principal of the college, said they have recorded over-admissions in nearly all categories. “In some of the reserved categories, we admitted nearly 2.5 times more students than the sanctioned strength. In a system based on percentages, we have to admit all students meeting the cutoff criteria. We are not left with a choice and there is no way out of over-admissions,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-panel-points-to-over-admissions-as-major-drawback-of-cutoff-based-system-101638900673640.html
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board to set up 70 more modern water extraction wells near Sonia Vihar||Delhi water minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday inspected multiple “modern extraction wells” installed near the Sonia Vihar water treatment plant , and said that the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) will install 70 more such structures to augment the water supply in the city.Jain said that the government has already constructed 30 “modern extraction wells” which can provide 6-8 times more water than ordinary wells. “The modern wells are designed in such a way that water gets purified within the premises and does not require any additional water treatment... The capacity of each well is to supply 1.2-1.6 million gallons of water per day (MGD). This will help resolve the problem of drinking water in east Delhi areas,” said Jain.A DJB official said that the new wells were constructed as part of a pilot project. “Ordinary wells have a diameter of 0.3 metre while these new wells have a diameter of 1-1.5 metres and a depth of 30 metres. The groundwater will be automatically replenished during the rainy season, so the extraction of water from the well will not have much effect on groundwater levels,” the official said. The official said that the wells were built by DJB in collaboration with Public Works Department, and the Flood and Irrigation Department.DJB operates nine water treatment plants at Wazirabad, Chandrawal, Haiderpur, Sonia Vihar, Bhagirathi WTP, Okhla, Nangloi, Dwarka and Bawana to supply 935 MGD potable water every day. Delhi currently faces a shortfall of over 300MGD in estimated daily demand and supply even as the government plans to initiate 24x7 water supply.At the same time, large parts of the Delhi have seen a drop in the groundwater levels by four metres or more, a decadal analysis carried out by Central Ground Water Board between 2005 and 2014 has shown. Recent analyses have shown that Delhi is losing groundwater level at an average of 0.2 metres every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-to-set-up-70-more-modern-water-extraction-wells-near-sonia-vihar-101638900372633.html
08-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: East civic body to make health trade licence must for street food vendors||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) will soon roll out a policy, making it mandatory for street food vendors to obtain health trade licences, failing which they will not be allowed operate within the corporation’s jurisdiction. Granting anticipatory approval to the policy on Tuesday, mayor Shyam Sunder Agarwal said the zonal town vending committees have surveyed and selected street vendors — in Shahdara north and south — who will be allotted sites by the civic body, but only on completion of all due processes needed to obtain the health trade licence. The process, civic officials said, has been made more stringent by the public health department. “Street food vending will be allowed through hand-driven carts or other means as approved by the zone vending committee. The vending operations should not be restricting the right of way of pedestrians or motorists and it should not cause nuisance, littering, noise pollution or any obstruction to the traffic flow,” Aggarwal said, adding that the operational hours will be restricted of such vendors will be from 8am to 10pm. Neither the south nor the north corporation has a separate health trade policy for street food vendors. Aggrawal said the licensee will mandatorily undergo training under the Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) or an equivalent skill development programmme. Last week, the EDMC launched a skill development programme for 2,500 street vendors, in association with the Union skill development and entrepreneurship ministry. The new health licence will cost ₹3,750 a year and the vendor will be able to take a licence for up to three years.Commissioner Vikas Anand said under the new licence regime, a vendor will not be allowed to have single use plastic and thermocol items. “If the licensee or other food handlers are suffering from any infectious disease, they shall not be permitted to work until they recover. Proper arrangements for collection of waste will be made by the licensee, as per the waste management rules and the people handling food should be appropriately vaccinated against Covid-19,” he said. Anand said with this initiative, street vendors will be brought under the licence ambit and the corporation will be able to earn some revenue as well. Under phase one of the street vendors survey, EDMC has identified 10,039 vendors in Shahdara South zone and 9,604 in Shahdara North zone. A public health department official said street food vendors will be a subset of people identified in this survey. “We will allocate space to these street food vendors and then the new licence policy will be rolled out,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Arvind Singh, national convener of NASVI (National Association of Street Vendors) said street vendors are governed by the Food Safety Act and the Street Vending Act; the corporation should not make another health trade licence mandatory for them. “It is illegal to demand a new licence from street food vendors. This will lead to more harassment. When the certificate of vending is already being issued by the corporation and the food safety officials are issuing the FSSAI licences, why does the civic body want to establish a parallel process,” Singh asked. He said NASVI is also encouraging vendors to get vaccinated but the corporation should not interfere by linking it with their livelihood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-east-civic-body-to-make-health-trade-licence-must-for-street-food-vendors-101638899953500.html
08-12-2021||Other||Delhi smog tower cleans air, but test continue on efficacy and range||Preliminary data submitted by the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) shows a 50-60% reduction in PM 2.5 concentration, but only between the inlet and the outlet of the smog tower installed at Connaught Place earlier this year.Now, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee(DPCC ) plans to test its effective range to determine whether the tower is actually improving air quality in the surrounding area. To do this, the committee has installed sensors every 100 metres from the smog tower. DPCC officials say the data collected will be able to give a better idea on the smog tower’s effectiveness.Experts have long argued that smog towers are not a long-term solution to Delhi’s air pollution problem, and that not only would people have to remain extremely close to the smog tower to breathe clean air, but thousands of such smog towers would have to be installed all across the city to bring about a change in air quality.“Like any purifier or smog tower in this case, there will be some reduction in the air quality readings at the outlet, but we are now looking to identify the exact impact and how big the radius of the relatively cleaner air is,” said a DPCC official involved in the project who asked not to be named.“After three months since testing first began, a detailed quarterly report will be generated,” the official added.After the smog tower became operational in October, DPCC has been receiving daily air pollution reports from IIT Bombay. The tower is located next to the Shivaji Stadium metro station. Real-time readings are being displayed on a giant screen installed outside the smog tower.One such a daily report, reviewed by HT for November 21, showed the inlet PM 2.5 concentration at 9 am to be 383 micrograms per cubic metre. The concentration at the outlet was found to be 223 micrograms per cubic metre.When HT visited the smog tower the following day, when Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) was 311 (very poor), the giant screen outside the tower displayed the outside PM 2.5 concentration to be 140 micrograms per cubic metre, with the treated air having a concentration of 73 micrograms per cubic metre.Similarly, on HT’s visit on December 2, when AQI was 429 (severe), the smog tower displayed a PM 2.5 concentration of 460 micrograms per cubic metre outside the tower, while the controlled air was said to have a PM 2.5 concentration of 324 micrograms per cubic metre.To assess the possible impact an anti-smog tower may have on the ambient air quality in its surroundings, the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) last year carried out an experiment with an air purifer outside, using it as a smaller scale model of the actual smog tower.The experiment, which was carried out at a balcony, measured readings within 12 feet of the device and found that while ambient air quality improved by 20-25 micrograms per cubic metre within the flow of the air, the impact was reduced when measured away from the flow of the air. Ambient air quality also rose as soon as the device was turned off. It concluded that people would have to be around the tower to feel any impact at all.While there was a 30% reduction in the PM 2.5 concentration just outside the boundary of the smog tower, even moving 15 feet away from it towards the metro station reduced this to practically nothing, said Karthik Ganesan, fellow and director at CEEW, who had carried out the experiment.“This was an amateur experiment but I don’t see how any formal exercise is going to reveal a different finding. Taxpayers’ money will be better spent on scaling up air pollution monitoring, building a better understanding of air pollution data and sources, improving the capacity of agencies responsible for managing air quality, educating common citizens, and strengthening our regulatory regime,” said Ganesan.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director at Centre for Science and Environment, said that around the world , smog towers haven’t emerged as a solution to the air pollution problem, with long-term solutions instead requiring money to be spent to strengthen public transport and control local sources of pollution. “There is no scientific study at the moment to back the need for smog towers.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the anti-smog tower in August of this year; it was built at a cost of ₹20 crore. At the time, he mentioned that a two-year long study will be carried out by IIT Delhi and IIT Bombay on its effectiveness.“This tower has been established as a pilot project and detailed studies will be conducted on its performance. Once satisfactory results are received, then the model can be replicated and more such towers can be established in other parts of Delhi,” he said.The first smog tower was installed in Delhi in the busy Lajpat Nagar market by Bharatiya Janata Party MP Gautam Gambhir in January 2020. Two more were installed by Gambhir in the Gandhi Nagar and Krishna Nagar markets later that year. Delhi also has a smog-tower at Anand Vihar, built on the same size and technology as the Connaught Place tower, but set up by the Centre, following Supreme Court orders. That tower was inaugurated in September. No formal study has been launched for the tower yet to study its efficacy.The Delhi government did not comment on IIT Bombay’s findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-smog-tower-cleans-air-but-test-continue-on-efficacy-and-range-101638898271615.html
08-12-2021||Lucknow||UP govt starts withdrawing stubble burning cases against farmers||LUCKNOW Ahead of the assembly elections in UP, the Yogi Adityanath government has started withdrawing cases registered against farmers for burning crop residue even as no fresh FIRs were being registered against them this year, said officials dealing with the issue. During last two years, the government had already dropped, at one go, around three lakh cases registered against people for violation of Covid-19 lockdown in the state. The move to withdraw cases against farmers came after chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced in August that his government would drop old cases against farmers booked for stubble burning. He made this announcement when a group of progressive farmers met him at his residence here when the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws (now repealed) was at its peak. “The government has not only taken a decision to withdraw crop stubble burning cases against farmers, but the quashing of FIRs against them has also already begun in keeping with the CM’s announcement,” said Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, chief secretary. According to a home department official, the government identified around 865 cases (against farmers) for withdrawal and referred the same to the committee headed by the LR (legal remembrancer)/principal secretary, law, taking a call on them on the basis of merit. “Most of these cases belong to 2019 and 2020, when the police in various districts lodged FIRs against farmers who were causing air pollution by burning crop residue in violation of National Green Tribunal’s directions, “ he said. “This year, no FIRs were registered in such cases,” he added. special secretary (law) Rakesh Kumar Singh, who deals with the issue related to withdrawal of cases, said cases against farmers were yet to be withdrawn in bunches though they might have been withdrawn in some individual cases. “We will issue an order for withdrawal of cases in a bunch once the cases are identified for the purpose on the basis of reports being sent by the district magistrates concerned,” he said. “We recently issued an order for a bunch withdrawal of some three lakh cases filed against people for Covid-19 lockdown violations in the state,” he added. The government’s decision to drop old cases against farmers and not to lodge any FIR against them this year was being seen as a conscious move to appease them before the assembly elections — more so when the opposition was trying to corner the government on issues related to farmers. 
