09-12-2021||Delhi||NEET PG protest: Resident doctors suspend strike for a week||Resident doctors from hospitals associated with medical colleges have decided to suspend by a week the nationwide strike to protest delays in the NEET postgraduate counselling process, after the Union health ministry issued a plea for the court hearing in the matter to be fast-tracked. The NEET PG counselling process was delayed repeatedly due to a bunch of cases in the Supreme Court over economic reservations. “A plea was issued by the MoHFW [Union ministry of health and family welfare] to fast-track the court hearing and we were assured by the health minister that the office of the Prime Minister is also looking after the issue and the process will be completed within a week. Considering the above and looking at the security situation of the nation owing to the untimely demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and other Army personnel in a tragic accident yesterday [on Wednesday], FORDA has decided to [put on] hold the agitation for a period of one week,” said a release from the Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA), one of the two national associations co-ordinating the nationwide protest. The other association, the Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA), in a statement said it had called off the strike and will continue a “symbolic protest”. “With the government showing positive response from their side to fast track the process, FAIMA and many of our associated state RDAs are currently not in favour of continuing our agitation at the cost of patients’ lives. We have decided to call off the nationwide strike and withdrawal of services, and continue our symbolic protest by wearing black badges and demonstrations.” The Union director general of health services Dr Sunil Kumar in a doctors’ WhatsApp group said he appreciated the decision. The move comes on the 13th day of the doctors’ strike, which started with them withdrawing from out-patient clinics, followed by other routine services such as treatment of patients admitted to the hospital and planned surgeries. Doctors from many of Delhi’s major hospitals, such as Safdarjung and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia withdrew from emergency work on Monday, with patients being turned away or referred to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) or Lok Nayak hospital. Doctors from Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur hospitals, two of the biggest Delhi government hospitals that were running their emergency departments, also withdrew from emergency work on Thursday morning. The doctors have been protesting delays in NEET PG counseling that has resulted in a one-third decrease in the number of resident doctors in the hospitals, resulting in the others being overworked. It has also resulted in over 42,000 medical students being left in a lurch over their education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/neet-pg-protest-resident-doctors-suspend-strike-for-a-week-101639074520086.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Blast at Rohini court in Delhi, months after gun battle, throws up questions||Lawyers at the Rohini court on Thursday said the explosion inside a courtroom has been a major lapse on part of the security agencies, and added that despite the murder of gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi inside a courtroom on September 24, the situation has remained unchanged. Manjeet Mathur, honorary secretary, Rohini Court Bar Association (RCBA), said the changes in security apparatus after gangster Gogi’s murder have proven to be just “optics”. “There has been no change except for the deployment of some extra security personnel. No new X-ray machines or CCTVs have been installed even after the shoot-out in September. This is a complete security lapse on the part of the police. Our suggestions to the authorities have not been considered, and the higher administration is not acting on them.” He said that there is only a single gate where the X-ray machine has been installed, and the administration has asked the lawyers to use that gate only.After the shocking September shoot-out, the Delhi Police handed the court’s security to the security unit, and assured better safety within the premises. The security unit is a specialised department whose officers are trained in managing security at vital installations or protecting senior dignitaries. The officers of this unit are not engaged in solving crimes or maintaining law and order.Until three months ago, the courts security was managed by personnel from the local police.Rakesh Chahar, former secretary general, RCBA, said lawyers have being accused of not cooperating with police during frisking in the past, but this blasts is a clear lapse on part of the police.“The checking at the gate is not up to the mark, and after 11.30am security personnel are lethargic. Lawyers are co-operating wholeheartedly, but despite this, such incidents are happening. If this happens every quarter, this is worrying,” Chahar said.Delhi Police did not give specific details of the explosives used, but officials aware of the investigation said they have found shrapnels, iron nails, and a white powder, all suggesting that it was a “crude bomb”. On October 13, the then chief of the police’s security unit, ID Shukla, issued an order assigning duties to senior officers with new roles for each court. For example, an inspector rank officer was made the security in-charge and his senior – an assistant commissioner of police rank officer, was appointed the supervisory officer. At each court, the two officers were appointed to monitor the security. They were responsible for ensuring that no outsiders with arms or explosives entered the court premises. “There are 70-95 officers from security unit now. Earlier there would be 20-25 police personnel from local police,” a police officer, who asked not to be named, said.HT contacted Delhi police commissioner Rakesh Asthana and Manish Agarwal, special commissioner of the security unit, for their response on the alleged security lapse, but they did not respond despite calls and text messages.After gangster’s Gogi’s murder during a court hearing on September 23, the Delhi High Court’s chief justice DN Patel had taken suo motu cognizance of the matter, and initiated a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on court’s security. The high court called for suggestions from all the bar associations and the Delhi Police. On November 8, the court suggested a slew of measures for improving security. Police during the proceeding had informed the court that a specialised unit of the city police had taken over the security. The court had also suggested creation of special courtrooms to hold proceedings related to the high risk under trial prisoners instead of their physical production in the courts. Advocate Prince Gupta, who was in the adjoining court when the explosion happened on Monday, said, “There is fear among the lawyers. This blast has taken place just a couple of months after that top gangster was shot in the courtroom. There is no safety of the litigants, lawyers and judicial officers. The bullet or the bomb in both the incidents could have hit anyone.”
09-12-2021||Pune||There is no dearth of alternatives for leaders: Kanhaiya Kumar||PUNE Congress leader Kanhaiya Kumar, on Thursday, attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claiming that the party blamed Nehru for everything instead of delivery on their promises. Kumar was speaking at a rally organised at Congress Bhavan in the city on Thursday. Kumar said, “The opposition and the media are asking for an alternative to be provided for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In democracy there is no dearth of alternatives for leaders. Before Modi, there were leaders and even after him there will be good leaders. This is the power of democracy.” Kanhaiya Kumar said, “Intentionally, government companies are weakened by the BJP government. To keep the balance in the market, there is a need to have the presence of government companies. If the BSNL remains in the market, private companies like Jio will not charge more. If there is Air India, private companies will not charge more.” Kumar added, “Earlier, all governments were an alliance, like UPA 1 or UPA2, but this government intentionally announces itself as a Modi government. If an individual becomes more important than the party or country, it is harmful for democracy.” Instead of giving answers to various promises given by them, BJP use to blame former Prime Kanhaiya Kumar said, ‘This government and media are intentionally diverting citizens’ attention from basic issue to non-issues. Media speaks on issues which are not important to citizens.” Congress leader and revenue minister Babasaheb Thorat, also speaking at the rally, said, “BJP used social media effectively and created a propaganda of wrong things. By using fake messages, they diverted voters from real issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/there-is-no-dearth-of-alternatives-for-leaders-kanhaiya-kumar-101639074342323.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: SDMC dismantles 208 tandoors in 2 months||In order to control air pollution in the Capital, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has in the last couple of months dismantled 208 traditional tandoors in its jurisdiction. The civic agency has also converted 152 charcoal and wood tandoors to LPG, said officials. SDMC House leader, Indrajeet Sehrawat, said that while 68 tandoors were dismantled in the central zone, 80 were pulled down in south zone. “Similarly, 40 tandoors were knocked down in west zone, while 20 others were dismantled in Najafgarh zone,” he said. He added, “These traditional tandoors at various restaurants, hotels and eating joints are important factors causing air pollution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-sdmc-dismantles-208-tandoors-in-2-months-101639074278790.html
09-12-2021||Noida||Yamuna authority offers plots near Noida airport for industrial purposes||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has decided to launch an industrial plot scheme on December 15 in order to cash in on the positive sentiment created after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Noida international airport at Jewar along the Yamuna Expressway. The scheme offers plots having a size of 450 sqr mtrs, 1000 sqr mtrs and 3000 sqr mtrs in sectors 32 and 33, close to the airport project site along the Yamuna Expressway. The Yeida wants to encourage small-scale industries and ‘start up’ businesses to set up their units in the plots, said officials.“This is the golden opportunity for those who want to invest in plots of size less than 4,000 square metres. We have come up with the scheme as the demand for plots has increased after work on the airport expedited,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Yeida. Initially, the Yeida will offer 68 plots to interested buyers and later put up more plots for sale if there is enough demand in the market, said officials.Applicants can apply for the scheme till January 5 on the portal of the authority. Once all the applicants apply, the Yeida will examine the documents of each applicant and subsequently call the eligible parties for an interview to decide the allotment of the plots. The Yeida is developing roads, parks, drainage and other basic civic amenities in sectors 32 and 33. “We have acquired the land for this scheme and will complete the development of basic facilities at the earliest,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yamuna-authority-offers-plots-near-noida-airport-for-industrial-purposes-101639074159797.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||EDMC develops separate website for all of its 368 schools||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has set up separate websites for each of its 368 schools, where students and parents can access all information related to online classes, student data and infrastructure-related information, said officials aware of the matter. The websites have been set up under the civic body’s Management Information System (MIS) LaboratoryRajiv Kumar, the chairman of the EDMC’s education committee, said, “The website of a particular school provides all the details of that school, including the profiles of the teaching staff, the status of different welfare schemes and textbook distribution. The website also provides the online links of different NCERT books, so that anyone can study online any time,” he said. Anil Balyan, deputy director (education) in EDMC, said, “The website also gives information about direct benefit transfers (DBT), online teaching report and assessment reports, besides portal queries, Google Meet technical support and using active WhatsApp groups and phone calls,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmc-develops-separate-website-for-all-of-its-368-schools-101639074039679.html
09-12-2021||Noida||Four held in Noida for impersonating SSC candidates during their written exams||Police on Thursday arrested four men from Noida’s Sector 62 for allegedly impersonating candidates of the Staff Selection Commission (SSC GD constable) during their written examinations. The SSC exams are conducted to recruit staff to various posts in ministries, departments and organisations of the Government of India.The suspects have been identified as Vikas Kumar (24), Sanjay Kumar (28), and Raghvendra Kumar (23)--all residents of Firozabad, and Anish Chahar (26), a resident of Fatehpur Sikri in Agra. Police said Vikas runs a coaching centre in his home town while Raghvendra is an SSC candidate. “Vikas impersonated Raghvendra in the written exam at the examination centre in Noida’s Sector 62 on Wednesday. Vikas was planning to impersonate another candidate on Thursday when he got arrested. The two other suspects were involved in finding candidates appearing for the SSC written exam,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, Noida. Police said the suspects used to strike a deal with candidates appearing for the SSC exam in exchange of ₹5-7 lakh per candidate. “The suspects had a unique modus operandi— they would start the whole process at the time of filling the application forms itself. To impersonate Raghvendra, Vikas first made a fake Aadhaar card using Raghvendra’s name and his photograph and also filled a separate exam form with a fake identify to get easy access to the exam centre. That way, two admit cards were issued on Raghvendra’s name with different roll numbers. At the exam centre, Vikas sat in Raghvendra’s seat and gave the written examination while the other seat remained vacant,” said the ACP. Police said Rinku Yadav, a cyber cafe owner, helped the suspects forge the necessary documents and also file the duly filled application forms. He is on the run since the arrest of the four suspects. On Thursday, police received information that the suspects would be meeting near Gupta T-Point in Noida’s Sector 62. “A police team reached the spot and arrested the four suspects. We recovered five mobile phones, five PAN cards, five Aadhaar cards, one debit card, two admit cards and ₹52,150 cash. On checking their phones, we found at least 46 WhatsApp chats, indicating their involvement in the racket,” said the ACP adding that the suspects have been running this racket for the past five years. “They claimed to have impersonated at least 10 candidates so far. Noida police will write to the authority conducting the exam to probe the matter,” said Verma. A case has been registered against the suspects under sections 416 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and also under sections 6,9 and 10 of the UP Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 1998. “The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said Vinod Kumar, station house officer of Sector 58.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-held-in-noida-for-impersonating-ssc-candidates-during-their-written-exams-101639073738809.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Construction ban adds to delay in key infra projects||Several key infrastructure projects aimed at decongesting arterial stretches, some of them on the verge of completion, are stuck as a ban on construction activities in Delhi is on since November 14.Agencies executing these projects and site managers have said that the prolonged halt on work will ensure that it will take them at least 20-25 days to achieve the same speed of work as it was when the work stopped. The managers said the sourcing of construction material has also become difficult due to the ban on the operations of stone crushers and hot-mix plants which was enforced by the Central Pollution Control Board on November 8, 2021.At least three of these projects -- Ashram underpass, Pragati Maidan underground tunnel and the underpass connecting San Martin Marg-Benito Juarez Marg -- have missed deadlines set earlier due to various reasons, and are yet again looking at delays.Experts, however, have been arguing that instead of imposing restrictions on an impulse, the authorities should combine a forecast-based system with the measures mentioned in the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap). When the air quality is expected to deteriorate, these measures such as shutting of schools and ban on construction should be imposed immediately. But, when an improvement is expected, these measures should be reviewed immediately.The Supreme Court in its order on 24th November decided to reinforce the prohibition till further orders. The ban remains in force. It also directed the state governments of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh to utilise the corpus of labour cess for paying wages to construction workers during suspension of activities. The local task force of CAQM is holding daily review meeting however the CAQM is yet to hold a review meeting on the construction ban.A 2018 study conducted by The Energy and Resources Institute (Teri), a Delhi-based research institute, showed that vehicle emissions account for 24%-28% of the city’s pollution. Dust, on the other hand, contributed only 18%-38% to the city’s overall pollution.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment says Grap was designed so that restrictions could be imposed and lifted dynamically, based on the air quality. However, that is not seemingly being done. “Under Grap, construction work is banned when the air quality touches severe plus levels, but even when air has come down to the poor category, these activities stay banned. We need to implement Grap in the correct manner,” she said.Delhi has not seen a severe-plus day this year. However, Delhi recorded 11 severe (AQI between 401-500) air days in November this year.Dr. S Velmurugan Chief Scientist, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) said maintaining a timeline may not be possible in several infrastructure projects if the ban on construction is extended. He suggested that the agencies should apply to the courts to permit construction work during the night time when the vehicular load is low on the roads. “The authorities should consider providing some relaxation to the projects which are in advanced stage by mandating stringent dust pollution control norms like regular sprinking of water at the site, prohibition on idling construction vehicles etc. Lakhs of vehicles are passing through the congested intersections are also contributing to additional air pollution,” he added.HT looks at the three key projects:Ashram UnderpassWork began: December 2019Work finished: 96%Deadlines missed: 5Latest deadline: End of this monthWhy it is important? The 750-metre underpass connects Nizamuddin railway bridge and CSIR Apartments at the Ashram intersection, the busiest road stretch in the capital with over 300,000 vehicles using it daily. It also connects south and central Delhi, and virtually serves as the link for two NCR cities Noida and Faridabad.What officials say? A senior PWD official overseeing the project said that 96% work has been finished and as soon as the construction ban is lifted, the remaining work of laying the approach roads is likely to take another 30 days. “The 220KV power line which was the last remaining hurdle in clearing ROW for underpass, has been relocated by Delhi Transco Ltd and the realignment of wall has also been completed.. We were about to fill the base structure with concrete a week after Diwali when work was banned,” the official said.Pragati Maidan tunnel road projectWork began: October 2018Work finished: 95%Deadlines missed: SixLatest deadline: December-endWhy it is important? The 6-lane, 1.2-km tunnel from Road to Ring Road running below Pragati Maidan is expected to take the pressure off the ITO and Bhairon Marg.Along with underpasses to provide access, the tunnel will also make Mathura Road signal-free. Commuters from south Delhi to east Delhi, and those going from ITO to south Delhi will be the main beneficiaries.What officials say? “The supply of bitumen and raw material has been affected due to ban on operations of hot-mix plants and stone crushers. We estimate that the remaining work can be completed in two months once the ban is lifted,” a senior PWD official overseeing the project said. He added that the work on strengthening the tunnel base below the railway line is being carried out simultaneously, and it is expected to take around two weeks.Rao Tula Ram Marg underpassWork began: November 2015Work finished: 93%Deadlines missed: SixLatest deadline: NoneWhy it is important: It was part of the much-delayed Rao Tula Ram (RTR) flyover. The an underpass from Benito Juarez Marg to San Martin Marg passing under the Ring Road was conceived in 2013. It is aimed at providing smooth movement of traffic coming from IGI airport, and take the load off the Outer Ring Road.What officials say? “We were facing issues in shifting utilities passing through the 11m portion ring road portion abutting Satya Niketan. But now the work has been suspended due to the construction ban. It may still take around two months to complete the remaining after even after the ban is lifted,” a PWD official said.When HT visited the construction site on Wednesday, half of the carriageway on the Ring Road meant for the movement of traffic movement towards Dhaula Kuan was lying dug up while the barricading has led to a traffic-bottleneck right below the Durgabai Deshmukh metro station near South Campus of Delhi University. The traffic snarls extended from Satya Niketan up to Moti Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-construction-ban-adds-to-delay-in-key-infra-projects-101639073678914.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi reviews preparations for Saryu canal project inauguration by PM Modi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday visited Balrampur, Bahraich and Shravasti districts of Uttar Pradesh to review preparations for the inauguration of the Saryu Canal National Project by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 11. The Saryu Canal National Project will irrigate about 15 lakh hectare land in 6,227 villages, the chief minister said in a series of tweets before visiting the three districts.The government has spent ₹ 10,000 crore on the canal project. Dedicated to agriculture and uplift of the farmers, the project will set new standards of development, Yogi Adityanath said.The Saryu Canal National Project was pending for more than four decades. The Prime Minister will dedicate the much-awaited project to the nation on December 11 and it will benefit about 30 lakh farmers of nine districts, paving the way for all- round development of the state, Yogi Adityanath said.The chief minister inspected the programme site at Balrampur on Thursday. He held a review meeting with officials and people’s representatives and gave instructions about the arrangements for the PM’s programme. Later, at a press conference in Bahraich, the chief minister said the Saryu Canal National Project starts from the Saryu Barrage and will benefit the farmers of Bahraich, Shravasti, Gonda, Balrampur, Siddharthnagar, Basti, Sant Kabirnagar, Gorakhpur and Maharajganj districts. The Saryu canal project was planned in 1972 and work on it started in 1978. Initially, the project was limited to three districts of the Devipatan division but was expanded to nine districts in 1982, he said.Only 52% of the work on this entire project could be completed in about 40 years from 1978 to 2017, he said. After the BJP government came to power in UP, the remaining 48% of the project was completed between 2017 and 2021, Yogi Adityanath added.The 6623-km canal system has been made in the nine districts by connecting the Ghaghra with the Saryu, Rapti, Banganga and the Rohini rivers.This project is the best example of the river linking campaign, Yogi Adityanath said.From 2015 onwards, the central government made funds available to the state government through the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana to develop better irrigation facilities, the chief minister said. The BJP government in UP took full advantage of the scheme to develop a network of canals, he said. The Saryu Canal National Project has now been completed with the help of the Central government. The income of the farmers of this area will increase manifold, he said.After assuming office in 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had pledged to double farmers’ income by the year 2022 and this project is very important from the point of view of fulfilling that resolution, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-reviews-preparations-for-saryu-canal-project-inauguration-by-pm-modi-101639073501787.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Enrollment for SPPU’s degree-plus courses begins||PUNE Student registration has begun for online ‘degree-plus’ courses, an ambitious project of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). The commencement date of the courses are provided on the said website (see box). The objective of this initiative is to provide updated skills and knowledge to make students industry-ready while pursuing a degree. Under this, AWS Academy, EDX, Simpli Learn, eKeeda, Celebrity School, Catalyst Wealth will offer courses to SPPU students at very concessional rates, and a few without any fees even. The celebrity courses are being offered by Nawazuddin Siddiqui on acting; Asha Bhosale on singing; Madhur Bhandarkar on film direction; Sabira Merchant on Communication Skills; and Dabboo Ratnani on photography.“Degree-plus provides opportunities for all SPPU students from all faculies to upgrade skills in areas of information technology, artificial intelligence, cloud computing, manufacturing business,media, culture, economics, entrepreneurship. This is the trial launch of the platform made available to all students. Currently, 130 courses are available and 200 more are getting added. All SPPU students should take the benefit of this initiative,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. How to get a degree-plus course - Where to register?http://degreeplus.in- What courses can be studied?A complete list of courses is available on the website.- Who can apply for this course?Initially, these courses will be available only to students of the University and the affiliated colleges of the University.- What students need to doStudents affiliated with the university should go to the website and register and fill in the information. In this you can mention your interest area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/enrollment-for-sppu-s-degree-plus-courses-begins-101639073199963.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Katraj residents protest poor state of Jambhulwadi road||PUNE Frustrated with a daily struggle to pass through the Jambhulwadi road, starting from Dattanagar chowk, a protest was held on Thursday morning by citizens in Katraj, over the bad conditions. For the last many years concretisation of this road has not been done and often, there are accidents. “The entire road stretch has been dug up, hundreds of potholes and mud is lying all over and citizens risk their lives while traveling on this stretch. Daily there are small mishaps like bikes slipping and now the citizens are demanding immediate repair of this road,” said Shankar Beldare, president of the Siddhivinayak Cultural and Educational Association in Katraj. At least 50 citizens and members of various citizens groups gathered at the Dattangar chowk at around 10 am and protested against the bad condition of the road. A few months ago in one of the serious accidents on this road, a two-wheeler rider lost his leg after an accident with a heavy vehicle. “We protested at the Dattanagar chowk and have given a memorandum to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) road department in this regard. If there is no action taken soon, then the protest will be made more aggressive in coming days,” added Beldare. In last 10 years this entire Jambhulwadi road stretch of 5kms has developed into a residential area. At least 50 small and big residential housing societies have come up on this road, and 20,000 residents live here. It is one of the major roads in the Katraj area, which connects various localities like Bharati Vidyapeeth, Ambegaon Budruk and Jambhulwadi. Another resident Kishore Swami said, “For my office work I daily travel on bike and feel afraid to go by this road. Due to the rains in last week the roads have become slippery with lot of potholes.The road needs an urgent repairing work as daily thousands of people including women, children and elderly people travel through it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/katraj-residents-protest-poor-state-of-jambhulwadi-road-101639073078695.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Obesity in Maharashtra: 24% above age of 15 obese, claims study||PUNE Obesity is as a major healthcare challenge in the country today, because of the epidemiological shift to an overweight population. A study done by the Indian Council of Medical Research, Public Health Foundation of India, and Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, suggests approximately 650 million people are affected by obesity globally, of which 20% live in India. Obesity in Maharashtra, according to the study, is quite high with 24% of people above the age of 15 being cited as obese, as per a survey entitled ‘India: Health of the Nation’s States’. According to city-based doctors, being a healthcare challenge in itself, obesity is also a major risk factor for many diseases, including diabetes and heart ailments. India is home to approximately 135 million obese people who are at risk of developing multiple healthcare issues. “Of the overall type 2 diabetic patients, 52% of the patients are obese. At the same time, among the female population, 23.4% of the female population is overweight,” according to data shared in the study.Dr Jayashree Todkar, Consulting General Laparoscopic, Bariatric & Metabolic Surgeon, said, “Approximately 650 million people are affected by obesity globally, of which approximately 20% of obese people live in India. The obesity burden in Maharashtra is quite high and around 24% of people above the age of 15 years are obese. Being a major risk factor for other healthcare issues, the actual burden of obesity is manifold than what the data suggests.”Explaining the diseases associated with obesity, Dr Todkar added, “Every 10kg increase in weight from the normal weight band results in 3.0 mmHg Higher Systolic & 2.3mmHg Higher Diastolic BP, which contribute to 12% Increase in CHD risk and 24% increase in stroke risk. Additionally, 30% of diabetic people are overweight.”Obesity needs immediate attention to control the burden of non-communicable diseases in India. “It is estimated that by 2025,obesity-related diseases will cost more than $13 billion in treatment. To control the burden of other non-communicable diseases, it is important that obesity management gets its due attention,” added Dr Todkar. Obesity is divided into two grades - Grade 1 obesity in which a person’s body mass index is between 26 and 32; and Grade 2 obesity in which a person’s body mass index is above 32. As per guidelines, people with grade 1 obesity are not eligible for bariatric surgery. Bariatric surgery is only considered for people with grade 2 obesity who fit the qualifying criteria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/obesity-in-maharashtra-24-above-age-of-15-obese-claims-study-101639072718309.html
09-12-2021||Pune||MSRTC bus services resume in Pune after one month||PUNE The Pune division of the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC), on Thursday, claimed bus operations are back to normal, one month after MSRTC workers, including drivers and conductors went on strike. At least 1,200 staffers have re-joined work and on Thursday, 135 ST operations took place, this is apart from private, contractor-operated buses still operating on various routes because of the strike. December 9 was the 30th day of the strike. Till now, at least 500 workers from the Pune division who were on strike have been suspended by the department. ST buses are running on various routes from the Baramati, Bhor, Indapur and rural areas ST stands in the Pune division. The ST bus operations from Pune’s Swargate and Shivajinagar ST stands had not yet started, with private tourist buses and contractor-operated Shivshahi and Shivneri buses running from here. “Most of the ST bus operations from Pune division have been regularised today as around 1,200 workers joined back, of 300 are drivers and conductors. So it has become easy for us to run the bus operations from our stands. A total of 225 bus operations was held of which 135 were our normal ST buses going into remote villages around the district. Rest were the Shivshahi and Shivneri buses operated by the private contractors,” said MSRTC Pune divisional controller Ramakant Gaikwad. For the last one month, MSRTC workers and a Kruti Samiti of unions wanted for the bus division to become a state government department, so workers (apart from union members) spontaneously started a strike at all the 13 depots in Pune division. To support the state government the private tourist bus association came forward and operated 2,000 buses across the state. “We are hopeful that more and more workers will join and we can start the Swargate and Wakdewadi ST stand bus operations too. If more workers joined in this week, then from next week these stands will also be operational,” added Gaikwad. Sakharam Gawade, a passenger from Bhor taluka said, “Our village is in the interior and I need to come to Pune daily for work. As of now I come in a tempo to work, but if the ST bus operations start then it will be convenient for me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-bus-services-resume-in-pune-after-one-month-101639072479190.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Pune court stays FIR against mayor Murlidhar Mohol||PUNE The court of a judicial magistrate in Pune has stayed an earlier order on the registration of an FIR against Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and others, for allegedly breaking the doors of a women’s toilet in the Paud phata area of Kothrud, allegedly forcing residents to leave their homes. Mohol filed an application through his lawyer after which the court stayed the order. Mohol said, “There are two toilets in this neighbourhood. Proper procedure was followed to remove one of them for road work. There is a resolution of the Women and Child Welfare Committee. As the house of Javed Shaikh also came under the road work, he had been instigating people. A case of obstructing public servant from discharging official duty is already registered against him.” “The demolition of toilets is an administrative task; I have nothing to do with it. After bringing facts to the notice of the court, the FIR order has been stayed.” Based on a complaint from Devidas Bhanudas Oval of Sheelavihar Colony, Paud phata, Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Janhavi S Kelkar, on December 7, directed the Kothrud police station to register the case and investigate as per provision 156 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Besides Mohol, the order also names contractors Vasant Chavan, Rahul Shivaji Shinde and an unidentified person. The complainant had also demanded registration of a case for offenses under relevant sections of the Schedule Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocity) Act. It is alleged that mayor Mohol, a corporator of the area, along with three others conspired to remove the doors of the toilets on October 20 with the help of some persons, making it impossible for women to use the bathrooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-court-stays-fir-against-mayor-murlidhar-mohol-101639071879030.html
09-12-2021||Pune||7-year-old killed in hit-and-run on Kalewadi phata in Pune||PUNE A 7-year-old child was killed while his parents escaped with minor injuries in a hit-and-run case in Pimpri-Chinchwad early on Wednesday morning. The deceased child was identified as Sangharsh Gawali, while his mother was identified as Rajeshri Gavali and his father as Kanwarlal Gavali, 35, all residents of Survey number 212 in Kalewadi phata. The three were crossing the road when a car came speeding from the direction of Pune city and hit the pedestrian family from behind. The car driver did not stop the vehicle and fled the spot, The child was rushed to a nearby hospital, but was declared dead while under treatment, according to police. A case under Sections 279 and 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 119/177, 132(1)(c) and 179 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Wakad police station. Sub-inspector Deepak Kadbane of Wakad police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/7yearold-killed-in-hit-and-run-on-kalewadi-phata-in-pune-101639071577799.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Two arrested 7 months after assaulting, drowning man in Pavana river||PUNE Two men have been remanded to police custody on Wednesday for a murder they allegedly confessed to have committed in Pimple Saudagar, Pimpri-Chinchwad, in May. The deceased has been identified as Rahul Nandu Bhalerao, 22. The two arrested were identified as Omkar Milind Gaikwad, 19, a resident of Sudarshan nagar in Pimple Gurav, and Kedar Ghanshyam Suryavanshi, 22, a resident of Sinhagad colony, also in Pimple Gurav, according to police. The two were remanded to police custody for five days by a local court in Pimpri. “He had a habit of using ganja and used to stay out of his house for 2-3 nights from time-to-time. So, his family was not concerned initially. His body was found two days after he left home one night in May. His family was called to identify him and further a investigation was launched,” said assistant inspector Satish Kamble of Sangvi police station, who is investigating the case. The deceased man was allegedly not carrying his phone. The police found it in his house and traced the last made calls and whom he had last met. The investigation led them to Gaikwad and Suryavanshi who allegedly confessed during questioning. The deceased man had allegedly inappropriately touched a woman whom Gaikwad had accepted as his sister. The two called him to a place near the bank of Pavana river in Pimple Saudagar and assaulted him with hammer and waist belt before drowning him in the river, according to the police. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-7-months-after-assaulting-drowning-man-in-pavana-river-101639071398437.html
09-12-2021||Pune||2 dead, two injured after car rams into BRT bus stop at Kharadi Bypass||PUNE Two persons died on the spot while two others were injured after the car, they were travelling in rammed into a Bus rapid transit (BRT) bus stop at Kharadi Bypass.According to police, the car was speeding towards Wagholi when the accident took place around 12.30 pm on Wednesday. The car was completely damaged in the accident.The deceased have been identified as driver Sanket Ramchandra Bhujbal (22), a resident of Chandan Nagar and Om Rahul Pavale (17), a resident of Kasba peth.The injured persons have been identified as Gaurav Sanjay Sathe (22) of Wagholi and Praful Ankamanchi (21) of Kharadi.Assistant police inspector Namdev Supe in the first information report (FIR) registered at the Vimantal police station stated that the driver of the speeding car had lost balance over the wheels. The other occupants were under the influence of alcohol.Supe added that a case under rash and negligent driving has been lodged.Civic activist Qaneez Sukhrani has been regularly raising the issue of the present BRT system which lacks detailed planning and since its introduction is being implemented at random. A BRT cell is presently essential which is not in place, she had pointed out.Sukhrani had further stated that the basic BRT terminal in the place itself is not proper. “The automatic doors which are expected to detect incoming buses are always open. Water gets accumulated around the terminal during the rainy season, there were no toilets and the lighting was not proper making it unsafe during nights,” she had pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2-dead-two-injured-after-car-rams-into-brt-bus-stop-at-kharadi-bypass-101639071099038.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Consuming alcohol in public irks Aundh residents||PUNE Residents of Visava Park and other adjoining residential societies have given up on the municipal corporation as well as the police, over acting on complaints of alcohol being consumed in public in the area. The allegations concern one liquor store right next to a diagnostic centre, which allegedly has customers consuming the liquor in front of the shop. The sit-outs and the trees of Smart City are now the new ‘addas’ for the alcohol sessions. Residents living in Visava Park have video clippings and photos that have been forwarded to the police. “I had formally filed a complaint two years ago. The police had warned the liquor shop owner. Ever since these sit outs were made for senior citizens, these have been mostly been occupied by drinkers,” said Charu Shrotri, a resident. The Aundh Vikas Mandal (AVM) too has raised concerns. “Vaishali Patkar, AVM member said drinking in open areas creates annoyance and nuisance and is punishable by law. Permitting drunkenness or allowing the gathering of unsocial elements must be punishable under law, which we have mentioned in our letter earlier, but it does not seem to work.” “Drunks are found loitering around our society gate,” said a resident speaking anonymously, but pointed to a newly placed board on a tree seeking a guard and help to clean up the mess of leftover bottles. Residents state that the police and civic authorities are aware of the issue, but have done little to curb the practice. Interestingly, the drinking sojourns take place right opposite a corporator’s office. Archana Madhukar Musale, local corporator, said, “We had requested the police to do rounds, which they did initially, but soon lost interest. We have even put up a board. We have informed the shop keeper and he also put up a board. We will be informing the police and giving them a letter again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/consuming-alcohol-in-public-irks-aundh-residents-101639070918012.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 182 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths on Thursday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 182 fresh Covid-19 positive cases in 24 hours. Two deaths related to the virus were also reported on Thursday. Out of these, both were reported from Pune rural.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 523,693 Covid-19 cases and 9,219 deaths by Thursday. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 270,157 cases so far and a total of 3,513 deaths due to Covid-19. Pune rural has reported 368,352 total cases so far and 6,948 deaths due to the virus.In the Pune district, there are a total of 1,162,202 Covid-19 cases. Out of this, 1,140,443 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,069 deaths in the district and at present, there are 1,690 active cases.As per the state health department, 585 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,490,305 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.72%.Across Maharashtra, 789 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and seven Covid-19 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-182-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths-on-thursday-101639070742797.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Pune’s first Omicron positive patient tests negative for the variant||PUNE Pune’s index case for the Omicron variant tested negative for the variant of the Sars-Cov2 virus on Thursday. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said that the patient will be discharged on Friday. As of Thursday, no new case of the Omicron variant has been detected in Maharashtra, as per authorities. The patient, a male aged 40-plus, said he is happy to go back home. “Officials tested 40 other people who came directly in contact with me. None of tested positive. I had taken the second dose of the vaccine in June. Though I tested positive for Omicron I was asymptomatic. I am very happy that I will be discharged on December 10,” said the patient on Thursday evening. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer at PMC said that so far there is just one Omicron case in Pune city. “After 10 days of quarantine the patient was tested again on Thursday. And he has negative and will be discharged on Friday,” said Dr Wavare. On Thursday, officials said that 10 cases of the Omicron variant have been detected across Maharashtra so far. According to the state health department, field surveillance of all international passengers who have arrived since November 1 is underway. “Through airport and field surveillance, 80 samples have been sent for genomic sequencing. Results of 55 are awaited,” said officials. From December 1 till date, 8,846 passengers arrived from hig-risk countries and all their RTPCR tests were done. Of these 13 samples tested positive for Covid-19 and were sent for genome sequencing. Also, 44058 passengers arrived from other countries and 1,099 of these were tested. Three people tested positive for Covid and their samples have been sent for genomes sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-first-omicron-positive-patient-tests-negative-for-the-variant-101639070502588.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drivers in US who took us for a ride, with a rider||My wife Koumdi and I were leisurely walking on the 16th Street in Denver. We saw an electronic poster that gave details about the “Unsinkable”. We got curious. We found that it was the house of Molly Brown, who had survived the sinking of The Titanic. We found out the directions and boarded a bus for Lincoln Way. On boarding, I tried feeding three dollar bills for our tickets when the driver watching me nearly frowned, “$30!” I looked at him in bewilderment and as if questioning that it was too huge a fare than we had known. I looked at Koumdi to gesture that we had taken a wrong bus and shifted my gaze again at the driver ,who was firm and sterner this time repeating, “30 dollars, 30!” I began looking for the credit card since I didn’t carry that much cash when the driver smiled and said, “Hota hai, hota hai Bhai Jaan, hota hai (It happens).” Fair complexioned, he had short hair on the nape and golden brown of about an inch near his forehead. By no standard did it seem that he knew Hindi. He was a Muslim and came from Mumbai. Jocularly, he said he was sorry to have put us in a quandary. He issued us a ticket with free return till 5pm. “You must stay at a nearby market for a few hours to see Indian eateries and a yoga centre,” he said. Later, in the typical Indian fashion we kept chatting loudly with him from our respective seats, much to the amazement of the co-passengers. Just a year before the onset of Covid-19, we were in Redmond, the headquarters of Microsoft. Our son Sawan dropped us in a market near Bear Creek where we could shop leisurely till he would collect us in the evening. When Sawan left, I noticed a bus of Route no. 245 to Seattle. Suddenly, an idea flashed my mind. We could go to downtown Seattle and come back by the evening. Koumdi agreed. Waiting for the next bus, we met a youngster from Bangladesh. He began talking about his parents who were then visiting him. He said that there was a big concession for seniors in buses and all one had to do was to tell the driver that he or she was one. “But on our senior citizen card, our age is 60, while in the US it should be 65.” I told the young man about our predicament and pat came the reply, “Oh, come on, they don’t check!” Well, we embarked on Route no. 245 and told the driver that we were seniors. He smiled and let us head forward to our seats. I wasn’t too pleased, since I thought how could the driver, going by our looks, have thought us to be that aged. Having spent some time on the West Lake Plaza, we boarded a bus to return. We repeated the trick. This time, the driver was a woman who said she wanted to see our cards. Having a look at them from a distance, she too signalled us to move to our seats. All through the return journey, I kept appreciating the woman driver for having thought of us not being that old, and for insisting on authentication. rajbirdeswal@hotmail.com The author is a Panchkula-based retired IPS officer, advocate and commentator||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drivers-in-us-who-took-us-for-a-ride-with-a-rider-101639070498993.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Therapeutic drug monitoring facility for cancer patients at Varanasi’s MPMMCC soon||Soon cancer patients will be getting therapeutic drug monitoring test (medical drug monitoring test) at the Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Center (MPMMCC). This new facility will be provided in collaboration with HDFC Bank for which they have signed an MoU with MPMMCC. Under this, an amount of ₹1.5 crore will be provided by HDFC Bank to the hospital, which will be used to start other facilities, including therapeutic drug monitoring tests, in the hospital.The importance of the test is to monitor the medicines dose given to cancer patients and understanding its side effects. So far the samples had to be sent to Mumbai for test.Dr Pratibha Gavel, in charge of the biochemistry department of MPMMCC and Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital (HBCH), said “Monitoring the dose of medicines given to patients in any disease is very important. When the patient is battling cancer, its role increases even more. If the amount of medicine given to the patient is less during the treatment, then it reduces the effect of the medicine. Also if the amount of the medicine is exceeded, it can have side effects on the patient’s body, so it is very important to know the right amount of medicine to be given to a patient.”Dr Satyajit Pradhan, director, MPMMCC and HBCH thanked HDFC and said along with providing timely treatment to cancer patients, proper treatment is also very important. Neighbouring cancer states will also benefit from the launch of this facility. Also, from the point of view of research, this investigation will be very important for the hospital.Senior HDFC officials Manish Tandon, Akhilesh Shukla, Mr Vaibhav Tripathi, Abhishek Singh and other dignitaries were present on the occasion. Therapeutic drug monitoring test facility at Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Center (MPMMCC) will be set up in collaboration with HDFC Bank||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/therapeutic-drug-monitoring-facility-for-cancer-patients-at-varanasi-s-mpmmcc-soon-101639070080678.html
09-12-2021||Pune||No rush for RT-PCR test in Pune amid Omicron threat||PUNE No rush has been noticed for the RT-PCR test at city labs even after the Omicron threat and rates slashed by labs after government order. This, at a time when erratic weather is leading to multiple complaints about cough and cold.Abrarali Dalal , CEO Sahyadri Hospitals said “We have not seen any significant rise in the number of people coming for RT-PCR tests in recent times.”The government resolution (GR) issued on Monday stated, ₹350 would be charged for samples given at collection centres instead of ₹500. For the same test at Covid care or quarantine centres, the charge would be ₹500 instead of ₹600 and labs would charge ₹700 instead of ₹800 to collect swabs from home. No private laboratory can charge more than the prescribed rates.The state government has given orders to obtain S-gene test kits which enable the detection of the Omicron variant. The S-gene test detects the absence of S-gene, which is an indicator of the presence of Omicron variant in a Covid positive patient.“There is no panic rush at the lab as majority of people in Pune have been fully vaccinated. The people who have developed fever symptoms and want to rule out Covid threat are opting for RT-PCR test and people who want to go abroad are doing the tests,” said Dr Awanti Golwilkar-Mehendale, chief of laboratory at AG Diagnostics.“Flyers travelling to the United States now need RT-PCR report before 24 hours instead of 42 hours. There is little stress on people as their concern is getting a report in 24 hours. Our labs provide service even over weekends so we are not facing much issue in delivering reports,” added Dr Awanti Golwilkar-Mehendale.Dr Avdhut Bodamwad, medical superintendent at Ruby Hall Clinic said “There has been no increase in the number of people coming for the RT-PCR test. With the vaccination number increasing every day, people are not behaving like how they behaved during the outbreak of the second wave.”Resident of Hadapsar Ravi Dhole said, “I went for an RT-PCR in the lab and they charged me according to new rates. fixed by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-rush-for-rt-pcr-test-in-pune-amid-omicron-threat-101639070079249.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Germany offers to support restoration work in Maharashtra||MUMBAI In a bid to strengthen diplomatic relations between the two countries, Germany has offered to support Maharashtra in the restoration of temples and heritage structures in the state. German ambassador Walter J Lindner said that the German consulate in Mumbai will draw up a list of structures that they can help restore in Maharashtra. These structures could include temples, libraries, synagogues and forts.Lindner said that the plan to offer support in the restoration work is in its “early stages”. “We had a heritage tour today (in Mumbai) and asked our experts for a list of structures that we could support. We extend cultural heritage support in other parts of the country. Like, we restored the Mughal tombs in Hyderabad. We might do it here as well. It can be too big, as the government needs to be convinced. We are willing to offer support,” Lindner said.“We are drawing up a list of possible options that we could help restore - whether it is a museum or synagogue or garden or library or fort. We need to see which one fits our budget but we are willing to do it. There are many things to be done here,” Lindner said.Lindner is on a two-day Mumbai visit and said that Mumbai will continue to remain the economic backbone of India in the post-pandemic world. “Mumbai is an economic powerhouse. I think it is modernising itself; it has its share of challenges. In the post-pandemic world, it will continue to be the backbone of India. The location of Mumbai, its harbour, multicultural environment, a mix of mentalities, all these things are what makes it unique,” the ambassador said in an interaction with media persons in Mumbai.During his visit, he met the dabbawallas and said that he was very impressed with their modus operandi and their zero failure record. He also visited the Gateway of India and took a ride on an electric Victoria.Lindner is slated to meet Bollywood producers and directors to collaborate on film shootings, and pitch Germany as a destination for Hindi and other language films in the country. “We can provide 10 absolutely breathtaking locations in Germany for shooting. I will meet the film producers tomorrow and discuss collaboration. I recommend that filmmakers and producers should consider Germany too for filming. We can give details on what the government can do to make life easier for them. Mostly, the idea is to create more interest in German locations,” he said.As the new chancellor Olaf Scholz was sworn in on Wednesday, the ambassador said that the new government in Germany will continue to have cordial relations with India even after the end of former chancellor Angela Merkel’s era.
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Three of family among four killed in road mishap in Pratapgarh||Four persons, including three members of a family, died when their car was hit by a speeding heavy vehicle near Lakhipur village under Kohdaur police station of Pratapgarh late Wednesday night, police said. The deceased had come to attend a post-marriage ceremony in Prayagraj and were returning to Gorakhpur.According to reports, the car collided with a tree after being hit by the unidentified vehicle. Car driver Sushil Singh 32, Harishankar Singh, 60, his granddaughter Ashi Singh, 9, died on the spot following the collision. Ashi’s father Surendra Singh, 38, and another relative Devisharan received serious injuries and were rushed to hospital by locals where they were referred to SGPGI Lucknow. However, Surendra Singh died during treatment. Post mortem report revealed that all four of them received multiple injuries including on their head in the mishap. Kohdaur police said an FIR has been lodged on the basis of complaint received from driver’s kin and efforts were on to identify the vehicle which hit the car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-of-family-among-four-killed-in-road-mishap-in-pratapgarh-101639069725221.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Now, pay ₹75 per home for garbage collection in Pune||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation, on Thursday, announced new rates for garbage collection and an increase in fines for public disposal of garbage. Citizens need to pay ₹75 per month per home for garbage collection. Earlier, this amount was ₹50 per month. Swacch employees collecting garbage from homes. In slums, every slum dweller needs to pay ₹55 per month for garbage collection from his/her slum area. Recently, the general body of the PMC cleared these new rates and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar announced the new amounts on Friday. The civic body’s solid waste management department said that implementation of the new rates will be with immediate effect in the city. The PMC administration had earlier proposed huge fines for garbage burning, urinating on the road and pets being allowed to ease themselves in public places, but corporators did not approve these fines. Also, per the new norms, it is the responsibility of shopkeepers to keep their premises clean and ensure there is no garbage around the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/now-pay-75-per-home-for-garbage-collection-in-pune-101639069722749.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Patients suffer as UP pharmacists start two-hour work boycott||Patients and their attendants who visited government health facilities on Thursday morning faced difficulties in getting services as over 7000 pharmacists working in different government hospitals and health facilities in the state abstained from work for two hours from 8am to 10am to press for their several demands including wage revision. As per the agitating pharmacists, the work boycott will continue till December 17. Hospital outpatient department (OPD) services start functioning from 8am hence work such as getting an OPD ticket to see a doctor, giving samples for tests or other diagnostic facilities were hampered.“The work boycott will begin from 8am in urban areas and 10am in rural areas,” said Sunil Yadav, executive president of the Diploma Pharmacist Association, Uttar Pradesh, that has over 7500 member pharmacists. Long queue of patients could be seen at OPD counters of hospitals as pharmacists staged protests. At the Civil Hospital, pharmacists held ae meeting led by Sunil Yadav, who is also president of Pharmacists Federation, UP Chapter.They are posted at district level hospitals, medical colleges, community health centres and primary health centres and are engaged in drug distribution and at many places work in injection rooms to administer injectable drugs and vaccines.“The pharmacists deployed at emergency wards did not join the work boycott. But if our demands are not addressed, we will go on complete work boycott from December 17 and boycott emergency work also from December 20,” said Yadav.“Besides wage revision, the pharmacists are also demanding right to prescribe drugs, creation of new posts and standardisation of their work. Posts of pharmacists are fewer than required in violation of the guidelines and at some places there are no pharmacists at all,” he added.“Drug distribution is a significant work as an incorrect dose taken by patients can actually do more harm than benefit,” said Yadav. For the past one week, the pharmacists in the state have been working with black badges during their duty hours at the health facilities.“We had held protests at office of chief medical officer in all districts and handed over memorandum to officials. We had announced that work boycott will begin if our demands are not met. Hence, we are compelled to intensify our stir,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/patients-suffer-as-up-pharmacists-start-two-hour-work-boycott-101639069659663.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Health dept paper leak: Joint director in Pune police custody till Dec 13||PUNE Mahesh Botle, joint director (non-technical), National Health Mission in Mumbai was remanded to police custody by a local court on Thursday in the health department paper leak case. Four others, who were the first to be arrested on December 2 and 4, were remanded to judicial custody by the same court .The official was arrested from Mumbai by Pune police cyber-crime cell on Wednesday night. Botle is accused of having leaked the paper of recruitment examination to fill posts in Group C of the health department. He was remanded to police custody till December 13.The remand was granted by Judicial magistrate first class SG Dolare with public prosecutor Vijaysinh Jadhav and defence advocate Sunil Ghumre.“The police have to investigate whether he shared the paper with anyone else besides Badgire. His devices also need to be seized. It also needs to be checked if he leaked papers of any other examination. Therefore, we have asked for police custody and it has been granted till December 13,” said PP Jadhav.Prashant Shankarrao Badgire, 50, chief administration officer of Latur public health department was remanded to police custody till December 11 along with four others on Tuesday by a local court in Pune.He was part of the team that set the paper and took it in a pen drive and passed it on to Badgire who sold it further, according to Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cyber-crime cell and Economic offence wing (EOW) of Pune police. A private company called Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL) has been given the contract to conduct these examinations.With the arrest of Botle, the number of people arrested in the case has risen to 12. Additionally, on Thursday, the police have added Sections 3 and 5, along with earlier invoked 6 and 8, of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board or other specified examination act, 1982 to the case in the matter registered at cyber police station of Pune.The police are on a lookout for at least two more people in the case.This investigation is happening in light of a statement issued by the state health department that there was no leak in the examination. A video showing some documents related to the exam had started making rounds of social media in the days before the examination which was held on October 31.BOXHead: The case so farStrap: 12 people have been arrested in the caseArrested people:Vijay Murhade (29)Anil Gaikwad (31)Baban Mundhe (48)Sandeep Bhutekar (38)Sandeep Jagtap (28)UdhavNagargoje (36)Dr Sandeep Jogdand (36)Shyam Mhaske (38)Rajendra Pandurang Sanap (51)Prakash Misal (40)Prashant Shankarrao Badgire (50)Mahesh BotleTimeline:-Last week of October: A video showing exam documents appears on social media-October 29: Health department issues statement claiming no leak-November 26: Case registered at cyber police station on complaint of Smita Karegaonkar, admin officer of health department-December 2: Vijay Murhade arrested-December 4: Anil Gaikwad, Baban Mundhe, Sandeep Bhutekar, and Sandeep Jagtap arrested-December 5: Prakash Misal arrested-December 6: Udhav Nagargoje, Dr Sandeep Jogdand, Shyam Mhaske, Rajendra Pandurang Sanap, Prakash Misal, and Prashant Shankarrao Badgire arrested-December 8: Mahesh Botle arrested||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/health-dept-paper-leak-joint-director-in-pune-police-custody-till-dec-13-101639069477497.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Ammonia leak from cold storage pipeline causes panic in UP’s Etawah||A widespread panic was caused among people when ammonia gas leaked from the pipeline of a cold storage in Ekdil in Etawah district around noon on Thursday, police said. After several hours of constant efforts, the fire department teams managed to fix the leak. A control valve of the pipeline carrying ammonia gas to SN Cold Storage near the national highway was not properly closed leading to major release of gas in atmosphere, said circle officer, Etawah city, Rajeev Singh.No one was hurt in the leakage, he added. However, people in the nearby villages complained of burning sensation in eyes, pain in chest and anxiety following the leak, Singh said. Health department teams swung into action and examined the people in their villages, said chief medical officer, Etawah, Dr Bhagwan Das.Tehsildar, Sadar, Shripal Yadav said assessment of damage the gas might have caused in the open fields was going on. It is believed that the leak may have damaged crops worth 20 lakh. The ammonia gas is considered injurious because of its cold nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ammonia-leak-from-cold-storage-pipeline-causes-panic-in-up-s-etawah-101639069238295.html
09-12-2021||Patna||ED attach properties worth ₹2.48 crore of a pvt finance company in cheating case||PATNA: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday attached properties worth ₹2.48 crore of a private housing finance and construction company along with its other group companies for cheating investors in several districts in Bihar, West Bengal, and Arunachal Pradesh, officials familiar with the development said.According to the ED officials, three immovable properties worth ₹62 lakh were attached in Katihar, six immovable properties worth ₹1.10 crore at Banka, and property worth ₹76 lakh registered in the name of Pratigya Housing Finance and Construction Limited and its Managing Director Dipten Banerjee was attached in West Bengal’s Jalpaiguri.ED initiated the investigations following an FIR registered by the Economic Offences Unit (EoU), Patna, Town police station in Katihar, Forbesganj police station in Araria in 2014, against Dipten Banerjee, Sambit Banerjee, Ruma Banerjee, Soma Banerjee, and others.As per the ED investigation, non banking company Pratigya Housing Finance and Construction Company Limited has registered under Registrar of Companies at West Bengal. Its MD Dipten Banerjee, director Sambit Banerjee and his wife Soma Banerjee, opened branch offices at Araria, Bhagalpur, and other parts of Bihar in 2009 and started its forged business by appointing agents to work on commission basis. The agents appointed by the regional manager and branch manager started hiring more agents. The said agents started collecting daily deposits, by issuance of equity, redeemable preferences shares, bonds, securities from public by alluring them of higher returns. They also promised investment of the said money in various schemes of the company by making them members. The company collected huge deposits from people in different schemes and kept the deposits violating the rules of the Companies Act, regulation of RBI and rules of SEBI, officials said.“Further investigation, in this case, is under progress,” said an official familiar with the matter.
09-12-2021||Patna||Fund crunch at IGIMS halts genome sequencing in Bihar||PATNA: Lack of funds to buy reagents have forced the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) to stop next-generation sequencing (NGS), amid the Omicron threat, doctors aware of the development said.Delhi, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka are among some states to have reported the deadly variant, believed to be virulent in nature.Though Bihar has not yet reported any Covid-19 case of the new variant so far, however, it awaits genomic sequencing results of four Covid-19 positive patients, having international travel history, said health officials.Their samples have been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, the nearest mapped Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomics consortium (INSACOG) laboratory, for genomic sequencing to ascertain the strain of the Covid-19 virus.The IGIMS is the only institute in Bihar to be part of the INSACOG, comprising 28 national laboratories, to monitor the genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the pandemic. The institute stopped NGS amid shortage of funds to buy reagents, after having tested one sample in the last week of November that was found positive for the Delta variant, said doctors at the institute requesting anonymity.The 53-year-old patient had a travel history to the United Kingdom. He had gone to attend a marriage ceremony in Motihari town of East Champaran district, where he fell ill and was admitted to a private hospital in Patna.Prior to this, the institute had done a trial run of two archived samples of the second wave (April to June), which tested positive for the Delta variant, the doctor quoted above said.Sources at the institute said the reagents for NGS cost nearly ₹15 lakh (approx.) for one run of the machine. A maximum of 96 samples could be accommodated in one run. It generally took a minimum of 10 days to get the test result, which involved multiple tests. The machine aborts the sample if, at any stage, the quality of the test was not up to the mark. In such an event, one had to re-run the entire process, leading to a delay in getting the precise result, said a microbiologist at the institute.Officials at State Health Society, Bihar, said funds to purchase NGS reagents are on the way after the IGIMS made a formal request for it on December 7.“Based on information of travellers from “at risk” countries on the Air-Suvidha portal of the government of India, as many as 957 of the 1,200-odd samples of international travellers collected from the last week of November have tested negative, while four are positive. The samples have been sent for genomic sequencing. Results of the remaining 239-odd samples are awaited,” executive director of the State Health Society, Sanjay Kumar Singh, had said on Tuesday.
09-12-2021||Pune||E-registration of first-sale properties: software update to enhance process||PUNE Officials from the state registration department have stated that important updates in the e-registration software will be rolled out within a month. The updated version of the software is meant to have new templates, a facilitated version for developers for verification and data integration with Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). “Basic version is currently functional. We are continuously trying to make it better so that the process will be easier. Currently some big developers have registered with us. There should be wider acceptance about this process from the developers and the people,” said Suhas Mapari, deputy Inspector General of Registrations (IT). The e-registration of first-sale properties has been started in Maharashtra to ensure less crowding at the sub-registrar offices. This new system allows developers and buyers to conduct online registrations from their offices in coordination with the department of property registration, Maharashtra. “We have conducted meetings with developer associations to seek their suggestions as well. We are trying to be more inclusive. Any developer who is registered with Rera and is constructing more than 50 flats can utilise this facility,” said an official from the head office of the Department of Registration and Stamps. Earlier while speaking in Pune, Balasaheb Thorat, state revenue minister had hinted that the state government will make it mandatory for developers to register from their offices only. The initiative of e-registration was proposed after Covid-induced curbs were affecting the registration process. “We are working closely with the IGR and his team to start a new e-registration system. We are sure it will revolutionise the process of registration by offering convenience to consumers/ citizens. It will also substantially reduce the pressure on sub-registrar offices across the state as most developers will no longer need to visit sub registrar offices to register their flats booking agreements,” said Anil Pharande, president, Credai Pune Metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/eregistration-of-first-sale-properties-software-update-to-enhance-process-101639069001284.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||TN chopper crash: Wing Cdr Chauhan’s father remembers soft-spoken son||Surendra Singh Chauhan, 74, is unable to come to terms with the untimely demise of his only son Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, 42, who was flying the ill-fated military helicopter carrying among others India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat and 12 others. Thirteen out of 14 people, including Wing Commander, were killed when the Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. “We came to know about the tragic loss from television at about 6.30 pm on Wednesday. We could not get any official confirmation about the death from the Indian Air Force on Wednesday. My son-in-law in Mumbai left for Coimbatore where my son was posted,” he said while sitting at corner of a room in his house in Saran Nagar locality of Agra on Thursday. “Prithvi was a soft-spoken person, at good terms with all family members and was very close to his uncles. He last came home on Raksha Bandhan this year and it was after 31 years and unfortunately for last time that his three sisters (the eldest one could not make it) tied Rakhi to him. We are all shattered,” said the father of the wing commander who was the youngest among his siblings. “My eldest daughter in Mumbai saw the news about the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu on television and tried to call Prithvi but his mobile phone was switched off. After that, she called Prithvi’s wife Kamini who somehow confirmed his death,” said a teary-eyed Surendra Singh Chauhan who earlier ran a bread business in Agra. Soon after the tragic news broke, neighbours, friends and relatives started gathering at Chauhan’s house in utter house. Chauhan’s family shifted to Agra from Gwalior in 2006. Young Prithvi had his schooling in Gwalior and then went to Sainik School in Rewa. After his friend cleared the National Defence Academy (NDA) exam, Prithvi too decided to go for the elite defence services, cleared the NDA and joined the Indian Air Force in Hyderabad. He was to visit Agra in January next and had last talked to his father three or four days back. “His mother had a problem in her eyes and Prithvi had assured her to fix an appointment this Saturday at Military Hospital in Agra,” said his father. Prithvi’s mother Sushila Chauhan, 70, is in a state of shock and listlessness. Yashpal Singh Chauhan, one of Prithvi’s uncles, said his nephew and his family lived in Coimbatore. He is survived by his wife Kamini Singh, 40, daughter Aradhya, 12, and son Aviraj, 7. He said his nephew was married in 2007.Sanjay Chauhan, a family friend, said all through Wednesday family members prayed for Prithvi. On Thursday morning, Prithvi’s uncle Yashpal Chauhan said mortal remains of deceased defence personnel, including that of his nephew, were to reach Delhi on Thursday evening.
09-12-2021||Pune||Why property registration at Pune sub-registrar office is a two-day affair||PUNE Crowding and long queues at the sub-registrar’s offices have continued, leaving citizens who wish to register property or register certificates related to other matters in a state of despair. To make matters worse, the perennial problem of “servers down” has still not been solved, despite the department being responsible for large amounts of revenue coming in to the government’s coffers. For a citizen who wishes to complete a task related to the sub-registrar offices, a minimum of two working days is required. Raghvendra Shevale is one of many such people at the joint sub-registrar haveli 21 and 22, in Erandwane, waiting for his turn in the queue. He wants to register his apartment in the Kharadi area. “I have been here for more than three hours and my turn still hasn’t come. Servers had gone down and the work resumed once they were restored. I had been told by the developer’s office to spare three days to complete this work. I am mentally prepared. I had to take off from work to do this. There are 24 flat owners from our scheme who have come here,” said Shevale. The department is known to be cash rich as citizens pay large sums as part of stamp duty on the property they purchase. The budgeted estimated collection from stamp duty and registration for the financial year 2021-22 is ₹32,000 crore. At most sub-registrar offices, there is no proper place to sit while the internet connection is often sketchy. Earlier last week, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture’s (MCCIA) president Sudhir Mehta, post his visit to sub-registrar’s office, noted that the entire process highlights a “low ease of doing business”. “A trip to the property registrar’s office reminds you of why we remain so low in the ease of doing business. You have the privilege if 1) Standing outside for hours in the rain/ sun with no place to sit or any basic amenities; 2) Request “Mai- Bap to accept your lacs in transfer charges; 3) bonus opportunity to get Covid in circumstances with no social distancing while getting your fingers full of blue ink; 4) thank the “mai-bap” by Prasad; 5) leaving with feeling we deserve better”, Mehta said in a series of tweets. There are a total 27 sub registrar offices in Haveli tehsil. Though the registration department has been rolling out online facilities, wait times at the registration offices haven’t reduced. Citizens have demanded that the offices remain open on weekends. “For working people like us, spending a day waiting in queues is not possible. There are some tasks which have to be done through these offices and visiting them becomes inevitable. It will be great if they remain functional on weekends. That way we won’t have to tussle between office work and the registration work,” said Dhanashri Bhagat, who recently visited the sub-registrar’s office to register a rent agreement. A 64-year-old resident of the Kothrud area who did not wish to be named said that he had come to the office with his whole family to register the family-owned land and every member had to be present. “Elderly people cannot wait for so long. It has been more than two hours. We have asked our lawyer to arrange this. So we could come a little late. People have been waiting here since 6am,” said the elderly resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/why-property-registration-at-pune-sub-registrar-office-is-a-two-day-affair-101639068821662.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad University hostellers begin fast-unto-death on varsity campus||Around 45 inmates of different hostels of Allahabad University (AU) have started an indefinite fast-unto-death at the office of the dean student welfare (DSW) of AU on Thursday. The inmates are protesting on the issue of levying of “fine” on them by the varsity administration for forcefully occupying the room of their respective hostels at a time when it was officially closed during lockdown period.However, the AU administration maintains that they have not levied any fine and instead the amount of ₹15,000 per student being sought from 1097 inmates was fee for their stay in the allotted rooms during the said period.The protest began with 52 inmates sitting on fast unto death on Wednesday. However, by Thursday evening, eight of them fell ill while the rest continued with their fast. DSW prof KP Singh tried to persuade them to end their agitation.Former vice-president and the present state president of National Student Union of India, Akhilesh Yadav said, “The AU administration has issued a notice to the students to pay a fine of ₹15,000 against which the students are agitating for the past many days but varsity administration is adamant on realizing the money which is unjust.” Meanwhile, AU authorities on Thursday again tried to clarify their stand on the issue. “We have not imposed any penalty. It is just the fee being sought from them for staying in the hostels during the pandemic. It is an approximation of the expenses incurred by the hostels during the period which has to be paid only by the 1097 students who have stayed in the hostels without allocation and due permission of the competent authority,” said a communiqué issued by AU.Varsity administration maintains that AU has a list of 1097 boys who had illegally entered the hostels by breaking the locks and without the permission of the competent authority. There are no girls in this list. These boys are liable for legal action under Disaster Management Act and for damaging public property but it was not done at that time because of the severity of the second wave, they said.In spite of repeated warnings, notices and instructions, the students did not leave and continued to use the premises, its facilities including electricity without paying any charges. They did not pay any fees for staying in the hostels though the staffs including the block servants, the gardener and sweeper were engaged. In this regard, students are also once again being instructed to pay their dues according to the formula developed, AU administration said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-university-hostellers-begin-fast-unto-death-on-varsity-campus-101639068818939.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||2 doctors in Kalyan arrested for death of 18-month-old girl||A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been filed against two doctors after a woman claimed that they prescribed a wrong medicine for her one-and-a-half-year-old daughter leading to her death in the month of July this year.The woman tried to file a case against the doctors in July. However, police refused to file the case. The woman approached the Kalyan court, which has issued orders to Kolsewadi police on Wednesday to file a case against the two doctors under IPC Section 304. The police have also arrested the two.The two doctors, Mohammed Ansari, 45, and S Alam, prescribed some medicines for the toddler when the mother took the baby to them for high fever and stomach ailment in July. Ansari prescribed the medicine on the prescription with the name of Alam in their Kolsewadi clinic.The girl’s health deteriorated after she consumed the medicines the same night and died within some time. The mother tried to register a complaint against the doctors in July. However, after the police refused to take the case, she went to court. The Kalyan court, on Wednesday, asked the Kolsewadi police to file a case and arrest the two doctors.Kolsewadi police officials said, “We have filed a case against two doctors on the complaint of Munni Sahani, mother of a one-and-half-year-old girl who died. We are taking experts’ help to solve these cases as due to medical terms we need some medical guidance. We have filed a case under IPC Section 304, Culpable homicide not amounting to murder, and the doctors have been arrested.”They, however, refused to comment on why no case was registered by them in July itself when the mother first raised a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-doctors-in-kalyan-arrested-for-death-of-18-month-old-girl-101639068758078.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||22 years on, UPRTOU close to bagging NAAC grading||Twenty-two after it was set up, Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU)—the only state open varsity of UP—is now close to getting its first ever grading from National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).Bengaluru headquartered NAAC is the autonomous institution of University Grants Commission (UGC) that assesses and accredits higher educational institutions of the country. “The achievement would make UPRTOU just the third open university of the country after Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), New Delhi, and Netaji Subhas Open University, West Bengal to get a NAAC accreditation,” said the university officials in the know about the development. “With all other formalities now complete, the NAAC team is set to arrive on a three-day physical inspection and assessment visit to UPRTOU campus in Phaphamau on December 15,” they added. Vice chancellor of UPRTOU prof Seema Singh said on December 15, the NAAC peer team will reach for on-site inspection. The team will undertake its inspection, interaction and assessment in the university for three days between December 15 and December 17. After the visit, the NAAC team will submit its report to NAAC which would then award the final grading to the university, she added.Earlier, NAAC grading was not necessary for open universities of the country. However, after the UGC (Open and Distance Learning) Regulations-2017, which came into effect in April 2019, every open university has to apply for this vital grading within one year. The time duration for applying for the same was, however, extended because of the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.This led to UPRTOU kick-starting the process for bagging a NAAC grading. The process involves registration of the higher educational institutions (HEIs) on the NAAC official website, compilation of the institutional data and information for initial Quality Assessment (IIQA) and submission of the self-study report (SSR) after the acceptance of IIQA (If it is rejected, the educational institutions get two more attempts to resume the process within one year) followed by data validation and verification process student satisfaction survey and NAAC peer team visit in the institution for further verification. This finally leas to final grades being assigned to the institution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/22-years-on-uprtou-close-to-bagging-naac-grading-101639068159232.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron scare: Thane civic body to increase antigen, RT-PCR testing in city||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has planned to increase the number of antigen and RT-PCR testing in the city. Amid Omicron scare, a special meeting was held by Thane municipal commissioner, Dr Vipin Sharma, with the health department and task force on Wednesday. It was decided that a daily tab on travellers from countries of concern will be made and all provisions and medical facilities have to be kept handy.Moreover, strict testing at prominent bus stops across the city will be implemented to ensure only those who are fully vaccinated travel by Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) buses.A special set up at SATIS, Lokmanya Nagar, Wagle Estate and Kalwa depots will be made to check the vaccination certificate of those traveling by buses. These being the most frequented or busy routes, and the main halt for buses in the city, regular checks have been initiated by the TMC at TMT bus stops.“All Covid protocols have to be strictly implemented and moreover all those working in the major markets within the city should be vaccinated. All assistant commissioners have to conduct a ward-level meeting and ensure that those without masks are fined. As the number of people traveling through buses is increasing, the transport department should ensure only those fully vaccinated be allowed to travel by buses,” said Sharma.Instructions have been given to all concerned officers to make provisions for medicines, ventilators, oxygen facilities and other medical requirements including ambulances at the Parking Plaza Covid facility.Sharma also instructed the concerned officials to make daily calls to travellers and monitor their health. “Timely RT-PCR tests need to be conducted and if need be the travellers should be quarantined. Meanwhile, their high-risk contacts should also be traced and monitored,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-scare-thane-civic-body-to-increase-antigen-rt-pcr-testing-in-city-101639067678888.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||State readies oxygen, med supplies to handle possible surge||Mumbai Even as Maharashtra’s Omicron cases have not gone up from 10 in the last three days, the state government has geared up with health infrastructure, a buffer stock of critical drugs and liquid medical oxygen. The Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan reviewed the public health response of the states in the wake of the Omicron variant. Bhushan, according to state health department officials, advised the states to ensure that the health infrastructure is in place and drugs are available in adequate quantity.A health department official said that the state has nearly 3,50,000 isolation beds for Covid patients at various Covid Care facilities across the state. “There are 4,39,733 isolation beds excluding ICUs, over 93,000 beds for suspected Covid cases, 1,33,898 oxygen beds, and nearly 39,000 ICU beds. We have 15,582 ventilators available with us. We also have an adequate quantity of PPE kits and N95 masks,” he said, requesting anonymity.A statement from the health ministry said that the states and UTs were advised to review their readiness to provide quality medical care and be ready for any possible surge. “It needs to be ensured that all health facilities at the field-level have functional ventilators, PSA plants, oxygen concentrators etc...the health secretary also urged the states to ensure to maintain adequate buffer stock for the eight critical drugs identified in the clinical treatment of Covid, guidelines for this was shared with the States in July 2021,” the statement from the health ministry said.The health department official added that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had already directed district collectors and municipal commissioners to prepare the hospital infrastructure. He also took stock of the availability of hospital beds, liquid medical oxygen, PSA plants, oxygen concentrators, and the available medicines, including Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, Ivermectin, and others. According to the health department’s data, the state has 366 Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen plants or PSA plants across the state with a capacity of 379 MT of oxygen. The state also has 265 storage tanks with 3733.6 MT of liquid medical oxygen. So far, the state has tested 9,945 passengers that arrived at airports in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. Of these, 8,846 were from at-risk countries. Meanwhile, Maharashtra added 789 new Covid infections, taking the tally to 6,641,677. It reported seven fatalities on Thursday, pushing the death toll to 141,211. Mumbai reported 219 new infections, taking its tally to 764,654. The city also recorded one death in the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 16,354.
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Sameer Wankhede sues social media platforms, seeks restraint on allowing defamatory material against him, wife||Mumbai: Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), and his wife Kranti Redkar have moved court asking social media companies Facebook and Twitter to disallow “scurrilous and defamatory messages” against them from being posted on their respective social media platforms. The plea stated that certain channels operating unrestrictedly on social media platforms were spreading “sponsored misinformation” about Wankhede and Redkar at the “behest of the individuals against whom he had to act as part of his official duty” and sought relief under provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000. It is scheduled to come up for hearing on December 17. This follows a the ₹1.25-crore civil defamation suit filed by Wankhede’s father, Dnyandev Wankhede on November 7, against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik for posting what he called “derogatory comments on social media against my son and family”. Dnyandev also sought a permanent injunction restraining Malik and others “acting under his instructions” from publishing, writing or speaking in the media about the family, after the Maharashtra minister posted photos of Wankhede’s birth certificate and claimed that he had lied about his religion to avail caste-based reservation. Wankhede and Redkar filed a plea for interim relief on October 28 in which they claimed that Wankhede is an “honest and upright officer” who has been instrumental in curbing illegal activities like smuggling and trafficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in Mumbai. Their plea stated that some unscrupulous elements, against whom Wankhede has taken action, have taken to social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter, to launch a “tirade against him”. “When special investigation teams have been set up (to investigate some drug cases registered by NCB, including the one involving Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan and another involving son-in-law of Nawab Malik) such continued illegal tirade against me and Plaintiff No. 2 (Redkar) is purely intended to discredit me and my official work.” “It is only just and fair that the Defendants (social media platforms) be directed to prevent the misuse of their platforms to threaten and defame me for being a Government servant, who has no other remedy,” the plea stated. Wankhede has sought an order under section 79 of the IT Act asking that the companies stop airing, displaying, publishing malicious, defamatory, scurrilous messages against him and his wife. When contacted, media representatives for Facebook and Twitter said they were unaware of the legal issues involved and therefore expressed inability to comment on the proceeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sameer-wankhede-sues-social-media-platforms-seeks-restraint-on-allowing-defamatory-material-against-him-wife-101639066479422.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Ashish Shelar moves HC, seeks to quash FIR filed by mayor||Mumbai A day after the Marine Drive police station registered an offence against BJP MLA Ashish Shelar after mayor Kishori Pednekar filed a complaint against him, Shelar on Thursday filed a petition in the Bombay high court (HC), seeking to quash the FIR. Shelar’s petition states that the FIR is blatantly false, vexatious, frivolous, concocted and a product of abuse of process of law. Shelar further stated that as the Maharashtra State Women’s Rights Commission had issued a letter to the police authorities to inquire and submit a report on the alleged objectionable remarks by him, he had addressed a letter to the Mumbai police commissioner apprising him of the incident. Despite his letter, the FIR was filed. “The present FIR is nothing but a result of brainstorming and imagination of the ruling party, who are falsely implicating the petitioner in the present crime,” says the petition. In her complaint to the Marine Drive police, Pednekar alleged that Shelar had made derogatory remarks about her in the context of the cylinder blast at BDD Chawl on November 30, which resulted in the death of a man, an infant and two others. Post the tragedy, Shelar, while addressing a press conference on December 4, slammed the mayor for visiting the site nearly 72 hours after the incident. Shelar allegedly remarked, “Where were you (the mayor) sleeping for these many hours?” In her letter to state home minister Dilip Walse Patil, she wrote, “The mayor of Mumbai is the first citizen and it is a very important post. The term used to describe me as a woman mayor is objectionable.” The letter stated that Shelar’s remark insulted not only Pednekar, but other women as well. The petition has been filed by advocate Rizwan Merchant and is expected to come up for hearing in due course before a division bench of the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ashish-shelar-moves-hc-seeks-to-quash-fir-filed-by-mayor-101639065098432.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Versova beach construction violates CRZ clearance: NGT||Mumbai: The ongoing construction work of an anti-sea erosion wall at Versova Beach has run into trouble with the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The project, which is being carried out by the Public Works Department (PWD), allegedly violates the Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) clearance. However, the NGT is yet to pronounce a judgement in the matter and has given concerned parties time till January 28, 2022, to file their affidavits. These include the PWD, the municipal corporation and the district collector.It was reported earlier that an elevated walkway is being constructed along the beach, despite clear instructions that prohibit any reclamation of the shore. At present, a 1.2km long wall about eight metres from the original high-tide line has been built, with tetrapods dumped on its seaward side. Earth has been backfilled into an eight-metre space between the original high-tide line and the new anti-erosion wall. Environmentalists have demonstrated that it is now possible to drive large cars along this part of the beach, which was earlier inaccessible to vehicles. A two-judge bench comprising justices M Sathyanarayanan and Dr Arun Kumar Verma observed, “NGT has read the materials placed before it and is of the prima-facie view that a walkway/road has been created between the existing wall and the place identified for construction of a new retaining wall and the same is in violation of one of the clearances granted by MCZMA.” The sandy beach is a CRZ-I area where construction activities are prohibited, the coastal authority has noted in response to similar proposals by Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) and Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada), which have, at different times, sought to carry out “beautification” of the beachfront. PWD was allowed to go ahead with the ostensible purpose of their proposal to reconstruct an existing 1.2-km anti-erosion bundh from Picnic Cottage, Versova to the Hindu crematorium before Versova Koliwada. This bundh, PWD had submitted, was essential for protecting properties along the stretch “from further damage caused by the tidal action”. MCZMA had categorically prohibited any promenade construction or reclamation of the CRZ-1 area and allowed for the bundh to be remodelled into a sea wall. Environmentalist Zoru Bhatena whose petition challenging the project was admitted by the NGT in September, shared, “Constructing a new facade, eight metres from the original bundh has neither been recommended nor approved by MCZMA. The eight-metre gap has been backfilled to about 16 feet above sea level and the walkway is to be built over that, according to the plans we have obtained. What is expressly not permitted cannot be done by creative engineering. A walkway cannot be created in the garb of anti-erosion measures.” Narendra Toke, chairman of MCZMA and director, state environment department, could not be reached for comment. However, in an affidavit before the Tribunal on December 2, Toke wrote that no walkways or elevated promenades are permitted to be built in the area. “It is binding for the PWD to carry out the activities within the framework of CRZ clearance granted to the project,” he explained. A PWD engineer directly involved in the project declined to comment in detail, saying that the matter is sub-judice. “We will submit our response before the court directly before the next date,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/versova-beach-construction-violates-crz-clearance-ngt-101639064316668.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||MVA will win State elections in 2024, Uddhav Thackeray to be CM again’: Awhad quotes Sharad Pawar as saying||State housing minister and NCP leader, Jitendra Awhad, claimed that his party supremo Sharad Pawar has stated that MVA will win the state elections in 2024 and that Uddhav Thackeray will be made Chief Minister of Maharashtra again.Awhad was in Navi Mumbai on Wednesday evening to address his party workers during which he made the statement.Awhad said, “There is no alternative to coalition government now. Maharashtra has not had a single party government for years. The MVA needs to stay together to ensure that BJP is kept at bay. Sharad Pawar, the architect of MVA, has never pressured the Chief Minister on any issue and also asked us to accord him due respect and allow him to take his decisions. Pawar told us that he was confident that MVA will win the next assembly elections and that Uddhav Thackeray will become the CM again.” While he said that Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde fully supports MVA unity for NMMC elections, he blamed Shiv Sena for not adhering to coalition unity in Navi Mumbai, where he said party workers were being targetted and NCP leaders not given due respect.Attacking the BJP on the OBC reservation issue, Awhad said, “The empirical data on OBCs is required for the reservation and the central government has to give us the data. It is, however, playing politics on the issue. It doesn’t want the OBCs, who constitute 51% of the population of Maharashtra, to progress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-will-win-state-elections-in-2024-uddhav-thackeray-to-be-cm-again-awhad-quotes-sharad-pawar-as-saying-101639064076706.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Elated over victory, but have lost trust in govt, say farmer leaders in west UP||MEERUT The suspension of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s over a yearlong agitation on Thursday after the Central government accepted the pending demands of farmers evoked a mixed response from farmers and their leaders in western UP.“It was an achievement for farmers that the government eventually accepted their demands and also agreed to form a committee to resolve the issue of MSP after repealing three farm laws. But at the same time, majority of the farmers don’t trust the government until they execute their commitments,” stated farmers’ leaders. “We are happy over our victory, but also feel sorry for over 700 fellow farmers who sacrificed their lives during the movement. Making MSP legal remains a big issue and our organisation has decided to continue its battle for MSP,” said Harpal Singh Bilari, a veteran farmer leader who heads BKU(Asli) and has good following in Sambhal, Amroha and neighbouring districts of western UP. He is also associated with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha since beginning of the movement. He said MSP would be made a political issue as his organisation had given a ‘MSP laao, vote paao’ call. “The government has not clarified how 40,000 cases registered against farmers in Haryana would be taken back besides cases in UP and other states. Farmers are elated over the victory of their movement but have lost trust in the government,” added Bilari. BKU’s National Capital Region president Mangeram Tyagi shared that farmers had a mixed feeling as they were elated over the success of their movement, but at the same time their eyes were filled with tears for 700 farmers who lost their lives to ensure the historic victory.“Withdrawal of three farm laws and acceptance of other demands may give breathing space to the BJP, but they won’t regain the trust of the farmers’ community after what they did in the past one year,” he said. Echoing similar views, Bilari said: “Withdrawal of the movement doesn’t guarantee the revival of trust in the BJP.”Kamehameha Tyagi of Falauda village in Muzaffarnagar and sugarcane farmer Manoj Malik in Paswara village of Meerut said acceptance of farmers’ demands and withdrawal of bills were a “historic victory” for farmers. Jitendra Pal, secretary in Meerut and Saharanpur divisions of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, said farmers were still doubtful over the intention of the government because many leaders said that the bills could be withdrawn and introduced anytime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/elated-over-victory-but-have-lost-trust-in-govt-say-farmer-leaders-in-west-up-101639063957497.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Don’t panic, take treatment with positive approach, says Maharashtra’s first patient from Dombivli infected by Omicron||Maharashtra’s first Omicron patient who was discharged on Wednesday has said that people need not panic if infected. He urged them to cooperate with the health department, help them do their job and to stay positive to fight the virus.In a statement released on Thursday, the 33-year-old Dombivli-based merchant navy engineer who returned from South Africa last month said, “Those infected should not get panicked and should take the treatment with a positive approach. In order to recover, one should support the health staff.”The 33-year-old was the first to get infected with the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus and was discharged on Wednesday after treatment. As per the KDMC health department, he was provided with a dedicated doctor 24 hours a day and his health condition was checked every two hours. At the time of his discharge, on his birthday, the staff also arranged a cake for him to cut.So far, the KDMC health department has received a list of 927 travellers who had returned to Kalyan-Dombivli from different foreign countries. Out of these, 23 were from South Africa and The Netherlands.“The list of travellers is being updated every day and we are working on tracing and tracking each one of them. There are some who are untraceable for which we are taking guidelines from the State and acting upon them,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Bundelkhand Development Board wants local representation in Ken Betwa Link Project Authority||The Bundelkhand Development Board wants local representation in the special purpose vehicle, the Ken-Betwa Link Project Authority, set up by the Centre to implement the Ken-Betwa inter-linking of rivers project for the drought-prone Bundelkhand region. The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the ₹ 44,605 crore project to address water scarcity problem of Bundelkhand region spread across Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. It will be completed in the next eight years.“For proper implementation of the project, there must be local representation in the Ken-Betwa Link Project Authority. Without monitoring at the local level and by locals, we cannot ensure proper execution of the project,” Raja Bundela, vice-chairman of Bundelkhand Development Board, said on Thursday. “We will forward our suggestions to the Centre through the state government,” said Bundela. The project will not only provide water for irrigation but will also ensure drinking water for around 62 lakh people of both the states. The project will be of immense benefit for the water-starved regions of Banda, Mahoba, Jhansi and Lalitpur districts of Uttar Pradesh among other districts. “The project, if implemented properly, will change Bundelkhand’s image as a water-starved region. It is an ambitious project for the welfare of the region. But it requires proper implementation,” said Raja Bundela. The board will also prepare a proposal for the state government suggesting promotion of agro-based industries in Bundelkhand. The state government, in a statement issued on Thursday, stated that in the past four years several big irrigation projects for Bundelkhand region have been implemented. This has led to an increase in irrigated land by 2,16,666 hectare. The project will also help generate 103 megawatt (MW) hydro-electricity and 27 MW solar energy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bundelkhand-development-board-wants-local-representation-in-ken-betwa-link-project-authority-101639061736429.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Man drowns 5-year-old in drum, dumps body in dry nullah||Mumbai An embroider allegedly kidnapped and murdered a five-year-old boy after a fight with the boy’s mother, which whom he was in an extra-marital affair. Mahendra Singh, 25, filled a drum with water and drowned Ayush Nayak, the five-year-old. He then tied his hands and legs and dumped the body in a dry nullah behind an industrial unit in the Boisar MIDC area, where the body was found on Wednesday. Singh and Balram Nayak, Ayush’s father, are both embroiders by profession and worked in a unit in Boisar. According to sources, Singh had an alleged extramarital affair with the victim’s mother, Anjali Nayak. The accused had a fight with Anjali and wanted to kill her, but he decided to kill Ayush instead. Anjali filed a kidnapping complaint after Ayush went missing on Monday. An official of Boisar MIDC police station and the Local Crime Branch (LCB), Boisar started to probe the case.“We reached the spot and seized the body and sent it for postmortem after his mother identified him. During the probe, we detained Singh and during questioning, he confessed to the crime,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-drowns-5-year-old-in-drum-dumps-body-in-dry-nullah-101639061196141.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Tourists throng Pirwadi Beach in Uran, the only beach in Navi Mumbai, as winter sets in||With the arrival of winter, a large number of tourists from across Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane have started visiting Pirwadi Beach in Uran, the only beach in the satellite city.Located at around 50km from Vashi and just 3km away from Uran city, Pirwadi Beach is known for its scenic beauty and peaceful surroundings. According to the officials from Nagaon gram panchayat, the local governing body here, more than 300 tourists visit the beach during the weekends.Chetan Gaikwad, sarpanch of the gram panchayat, said, “The beach is around 2km long and it’s a very good hangout for people who want to enjoy a day. No one was coming here during the lockdown last year and earlier this year. With the drop in temperature, people have started coming in large numbers.” There is a dargah on the one side of the beach and pilgrims including many from Raiagd visit it every year. The pilgrims from Thane, Mumbra and Raigad travel by bus. Those from Mumbai normally travel by boat from Bhaucha Dhakka at Mazgaon.The beach is maintained by the gram panchayat and it has allotted a ghanta gadi and three people for lifting garbage. It has also installed several dustbins there.Sudheer Mane, an activist from Uran said, “This beach is no less than those in Mumbai, Alibaug and Murud. However, many people from this region don’t know about it and thus don’t come here. The gram panchayat officials have maintained it well, but there are a lot of options to improve it. They may think of developing a few modern public toilets, changing rooms, seating arrangements among others.”Gaikwad said, “The beach is close to the ONGC plant in Uran and we have been requesting them to provide some facilities from their CSR plans. We had a meeting with their officials last week too. We hope they will take a decision and do the needful soon.” At present people from Navi Mumbai can travel to Uran both on NMMT and ST buses. From there, they can take autos and reach the beach in 10 minutes. With the completion of the Nerul-Belapur-Uran railway project (phase II), it will be more convenient to explore the beach and its surroundings.Gokul Puri, a 37-year-old resident of Ulwe, said, “I had been to the beach last weekend with my family and friends, and we enjoyed there till evening. There are also a lot of stalls close to it and thus the tourists don’t have to bother about food. It’s a nice play to enjoy a picnic with family.”
09-12-2021||Mumbai||1 arrested, 2 on the run for killing 50-year-old in Taloja||The Taloja police have arrested a 24-year-old for the murder of his 50-year-old uncle. The accused, identified as Manoj Balaram Patil, was arrested on December 7 evening while his brother Nitin and father Balaram are still at large in the case.The deceased, identified as Nivrutti Babu Patil, was killed on Monday evening by his brother Balaram Patil and nephews Manoj and Nitin. As per the complaint registered by the deceased’s sister, Sunanda Kelkar, both the brothers had been fighting for many years over their ancestral property in Taloja. On Monday evening, the deceased, his son and his sister had gone to the property to repair a borewell. During the same time, the accused trio came there with sticks and a sickle and threatened them to stop the work.It led to a fight and the trio assaulted Kelkar and the deceased. Later, the accused killed Patil with the sickle and fled the spot with the weapons.“With the help of the technical evidence, we were able to nab one accused within 12 hours of the crime. The other two will also be arrested soon,” senior police inspector, Jitendra Sonawane from Taloja police station, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-arrested-2-on-the-run-for-killing-50-year-old-in-taloja-101639060776152.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Work on sewage treatment in Kalyan Dombivli to be completed by May 2022||The pollution caused in Ulhas and Kalu rivers due to sewage generated in Kalyan-Dombivli will soon be under control. The work for sewage waste treatment is expected to be completed by May 2022. In Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits, the Ulhas river, which is a source of drinking water, and Kalu river meet the Kalyan creek. Several nullahs in the city meet the rivers at different places while a few also meet the creek. The untreated sewage waste that flows through the nullah also ends up in these rivers.Under the KDMC Amrut scheme, the civic body initiated the project of intersecting nullah and diverting the sewage to the sewage treatment plants (STPs). “The work under this scheme is in its final stage and is expected to be completed by May 2022. With this, the pollution caused to the river due to the nullahs in Kalyan-Dombivli limits will be under control,” said an officer of KDMC. As per the KDMC, in Ulhas River, sewage waste from the nullah mixes with the river water without any treatment. The project will ensure that the nullah water is treated at the STPs before mixing with the river. The work of treating the sewage water is being carried out in two phases by the KDMC. The proposal for the project was sanctioned in 2018 under the Amrut scheme.In the second phase of the project, the estimated cost was ₹132.82Cr. Till January 2020, only 20% of the work for the second phase was completed. Throughout the pandemic, KDMC managed to finish the work for the second phase up to 85%. In the second phase, KDMC has built eight pumping stations out of the proposed 11. Till November, KDMC had spent ₹103.39Cr for Phase II of this project.“This entire work is only limited to the KDMC jurisdiction. However, there are many other factors that lead to pollution in the river. There is a need to ensure other authorities are also implementing pollution-control measures like us,” added the officer.In the first phase of the project, which cost around ₹153.38Cr, KDMC has managed to build 10 pumping stations out of the proposed 11 and also the work for 47km sewage pipeline while work for 3km is remaining. According to KDMC, the pipeline connects 30,000 households in its limits.In total, the KDMC has spent ₹118.25Cr for this project. A total of 90% of the work of the first phase is also finished and it is also expected to be completed by 2022.
09-12-2021||Mumbai||13.78L yet to pay Rs48.50Cr penalty for traffic violations in Navi Mumbai||With around 13.78 lakh people yet to pay ₹48.50Cr penalty issued via e-challan, Navi Mumbai traffic police have urged motorists to check ‘Maha traffic app’ and find if they have any fine to be paid before December 11.“The people who have not paid would have got ‘pre-litigation notice’ on their mobile phone numbers for hearing of their case at Lok Adalat (People’s Court) being held on December 11. To avoid the task of coming to the court and facing the case, it is best to pay the penalty as issued by the challan,” DCP Purushottam Karad said.In order to bring discipline into the motorists, traffic police have been conducting various drives. While some of them pay the fine up front, some others are issued with an e-challan for paying the fine online or at the nearest traffic chowky“In some cases, when it is physically not possible to stop everyone, police monitoring the CCTV cameras find the people breaking traffic norms and issue an e-challan. A message is sent to the person immediately when the challan is issued. It is also possible to get to know if there is any pending amount to be paid for the challan through the app and one must keep checking the app once in a while,” a traffic police officer from Navi Mumbai said.On the total 13.78 lakh challans issued, maximum issued are for riding without helmet, which is 3.10 lakh, followed by violation of speed by driver issued to 77,338 people. E-challans for driving without seatbelt were issued to 77,156 people, for jumping the traffic signal to 29,057, for dangerous driving to 21,039, for wrong side driving to 14,537 and for speaking over the phone while driving to 13,779.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1378l-yet-to-pay-rs48-50cr-penalty-for-traffic-violations-in-navi-mumbai-101639055804656.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Five accused move bail plea, hearing on Dec 20||LAKHIMPUR KHERI Five accused in the October 3 Tikunia violence case (FIR number 219) – Ankit Das, Latif, Shekhar Bharti, Satya Prakash Tripathi and Nandan Singh Bisht – moved their bail applications in the court of district and sessions judge, Mukesh Mishra, on Thursday.These five are among the 13 accused in the Tikunia violence, which had left eight people, including four farmers, a journalist, two BJP workers and a driver dead. FIR number 219 related to the death of four farmers and a journalist. All of them are in judicial custody along with the others including main accused, Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra.District government counsel (DGC) Arvind Tripathi said: “Ankit Das, Satya Prakash Tripathi, Shekhar Bharti, Nandan Singh Bisht and Latif moved their bail applications in the court of district and sessions judge on Thursday through their counsel.”He added, “The court fixed December 20 as the date of hearing on their bail applications and asked the prosecution to be present on the day with the case diary and other related reports and documents.”Shekhar Bharti was arrested on October 12 – three days after the arrest of main accused Ashish Mishra while Ankit Das and his gunner Latif were arrested on October 13, followed by the arrests of Satya Prakash Tripathi Satyam and Nandan Singh Bisht on October 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-five-accused-move-bail-plea-hearing-on-dec-20-101639055615088.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Results of genome sequencing reveal 11% Delta cases||Mumbai Results of the fifth batch of genome sequencing conducted by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have revealed that 11% or 24 of the 221 samples that were tested were infected with the Delta variant, 89% or 195 were infected with Delta derivatives. This comprises less than 1% of the samples tested.In a statement on Thursday, BMC said, “The fifth batch of genome sequencing results have overall indicated that the Covid outbreak in Mumbai is under control. However, despite this, in light of the Omicron variant, it is important to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Those who have not yet been vaccinated with the first or second dose should get jabbed on priority.”Only one of the 221 patients who received the first dose, and 26 patients who received both doses had to be hospitalized. Twelve of the 47 people who did not receive a single dose of the vaccine had to be hospitalized. None of these 221 infected patients died.In its statement, BMC said, “Both the Delta variant and the Delta derivative are relatively mildly invasive and do not pose a significant risk. Compared with the Delta variant, the delta derivative virus transmission rate has also been found to be lower. But it is important to seek timely medical help.”Out of 221 patients in Mumbai, 19 patients (9%) are in the age group of 0 to 20 years, 69 patients (31%) in the age group of 21 to 40 years, 73 patients (33%) in the age group of 41 to 60 years, 54 patients (25%) in the age group of 61 to 80 years, and six patients (3%) are in the age group of 81 to 100 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/results-of-genome-sequencing-reveal-11-delta-cases-101639055255084.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to organise Shaheed Diwas events from Dec 17-19 to pay tribute to Kakori heroes||LUCKNOW The UP government will observe a three-day-long Kakori Shaheed Diwas from December 17 to 19 to mark the 94th death anniversary of the freedom fighters who took part in the Kakori train action and were later hanged on December 19, 1927. The events will be organised at the Shaheed Smarak in Kakori, said officials. “We are planning a programme to mark the 94th anniversary of Kakori Shaheed Diwas, which is observed to pay tribute to the heroes of Kakori. The event would start on December 17 and culminate on December 19,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, while addressing a meeting to review preparations for the programme. The Kakori Shaheed Diwas event will be packed with cultural and patriotic programmes. “We would also organise essay and painting competitions in which the students of many schools and colleges would take part. On day one of the event, the governor will also pay floral tribute to the five heroes of Kakori who executed the Kakori train episode and gave the supreme sacrifice for the country,” said the DM. Prominent among these freedom fighers were Rajendra Lahiri, Ram Prasad Bismil, Roshan Singh, Chandrashekhar Azad and Ashfaqullah Khan.The program would also witness mushaira, kavi sammelans and other cultural events. The DM also directed the LMC and other departments to make elaborate arrangements. On August 9, 1925, some members of Hindustan Republican Association (HRA), an undercover rebel outfit, attacked a running train on Lucknow-Saharanpur route close to Kakori railway station, and plundered the government treasury from the train. The reason behind the attack was the outfit’s need for money to fund their independence movement activities. More than 40 people were arrested in this incident. They were finally sentenced to death by the British government and severe punishments were also given to those people who helped this incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-to-organise-shaheed-diwas-events-from-dec-17-19-to-pay-tribute-to-kakori-heroes-101639055136253.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Thane district sees 5.25% rise in vaccination dose against Covid over last 10 days||With Thane district being the first to detect the Omicron variant last week, the vaccination here has shown a marked increase over the last 10 days.Till Wednesday, the district has administered 99.37 lakh vaccine doses, 5.25% of these doses were administered in the last 10 days. The increase is basically among the beneficiaries due for their second dose as 13 lakh are yet to take the first dose.Around 4.96 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated since November 29 within the district. Among these, 2.90% have taken the first dose and 9.10% have been fully vaccinated.After November 25, Thane district started keeping a close track of the travellers visiting the district from countries of concern. The new variant scare, Omicron, seems to draw more people towards vaccination centres in the district. The number of people taking the second dose across the district has increased in the last few days. In the last 10 days, the daily number of vaccinations was more than 50,000 doses each day. On some days, it crossed the 70,000 mark as well.Dr Anjali Chaudhari, district vaccination officer, Thane, said, “We still have around 13 lakh who have not been vaccinated with the first dose. The increase in figures is mostly those who are due for the second dose. With the news of the new strain, a positive response to get fully vaccinated has emerged. However, we continue to create awareness and adapt various means to increase the number of first dose vaccinations across the district.”In the last week of September, the district had ample vaccine doses and around 75% of the target population had taken their first dose, out of these 21.32% are yet to get the second dose.“As most of them are now due for their second dose after three months, a positive response in vaccination has been noted. Moreover, there are a few who had taken the first jab and did not find it essential to get fully vaccinated. Those people also seem to have come forward for their second jab following the new variant scare,” said an officer from the district health department. Within the district, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has noted hardly a 4% increase in vaccinations in the last 10 days while Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 6.37% rise. Similarly, 5.08% increase in vaccination was noted in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) as well.Reluctance has been noted among both the first and second dose beneficiaries within TMC. Until November end, the vaccination drive had picked up pace with around 15,000 vaccinations administered daily. However, the numbers have started to dip again with hardly 10,000 daily vaccinations now in the city.“We now have a dedicated team who are making calls to those who are due for their second dose. Also, we have door-to-door surveys and mobile vaccination facilities. We expect a positive response towards vaccination in the coming days,” said Dr Prasad Patil, immunisation officer, TMC.Meanwhile, KDMC and NMMC have noted a remarkable response from those who are due for their second dose. KDMC has seen around 12.13% increase in those getting fully vaccinated and around 2.57% increase in first dose vaccinations in the last ten days. Similarly, NMMC saw a 9.17% increase in second dose vaccinations while hardly a 2.39% spike in those getting their first dose.“There was a lull during the festive season. Many must have postponed their second vaccine. This might be the reason more people have now come forward to get fully vaccinated. We are continuing with our surveys and awareness programmes related to vaccination. However, there are some who continue to show hesitancy in getting immunised,” said Dr Ganesh Doiphode, vaccination officer, KDMC.NMMC has completed the first dose vaccination and hence has a positive response for second dose vaccination.“By mid-October, we had completed 100% first dose vaccination. Those who took the first jab in that period are due for their second now. This is the reason we have over 9% increase in second dose vaccination. Now, considering that people from the neighbouring cities or those who have travelled to Navi Mumbai can avail the first dose, we continue to provide the same,” said a senior officer from NMMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-sees-5-25-rise-in-vaccination-dose-against-covid-over-last-10-days-101639052975933.html
09-12-2021||Bangalore||‘No hasty decisions', Karnataka CM Bommai on curbs during Christmas, New Year||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the state government does not want to make any “hasty decision” regarding Covid-related restrictions in the state in the wake of the new Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant and the breakout of new Covid-19 clusters in some of the state’s educational institutions.When asked about restrictions on Christmas and New Year celebrations in the state, Bommai said that his government would want to observe the situation for a week’s time and then arrive at a decision. “...regarding any special curbs like night curfew also, a decision we will decide after watching the situation for a week. We did not want to take any hasty decision,” news agency PTI quoted the chief minister as saying.Bommai also said that he has discussed the threat of the Omicron variant with experts and there was no need for any “major concern or worry.”Also read | Karnataka: Two hospitals identified for isolating int’l passengers who test Covid positive“Regarding Covid, our Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) head Dr M K Sudarshan has informed about the current situation, and he has shared details about the Omicron variant. According to him, looking at the current figures and the positivity rate, there is no need for any major concern or worry,” he said.However, he also said that some control measures such as new Covid-related guidelines for hostels, sanitising the premises, allowing people for food in a staggered way, restricting movement of visitors, full vaccination against the disease for all staff members and arranging for an isolation room were deemed necessary by the government.“We have already given similar guidelines for cluster management and have said that if there are more than three positive cases in a place it will be declared clusters, and such measures will continue,” he added.Earlier on Wednesday, Bommai received an “informal” briefing about the Covid-19 situation in Karnataka from officials and also discussed issues such as management of clusters and the Omicron variant, according to a news report by PTI.Following the outbreak of several Covid-19 cases in some colleges across the state, Bommai said that the measures in border areas – mandatory vaccinations and negative RT PCR tests – particularly for students from Kerala.On Wednesday, the state reported 399 new Covid-19 cases and six related deaths, taking the total caseload to 2,999,098 and death toll to 38,249. According to a medical bulletin from the state health department, two cases of the Omicron variant have been detected till Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-hasty-decisions-karnataka-cm-bommai-on-curbs-during-christmas-new-year-101639052675221.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Fashion faux pas leads to arrest of burglar in Thane||Wearing the same clothes twice is considered a ‘fashion faux pas’ among the rich and the famous. But, for a 27-year-old who allegedly tried to break into two shops in Thane last month wearing the same clothes led to his arrest on Tuesday.According to the Naupada police, the accused has been identified as Manoj Sahu (27). The police said that on the intervening night of November 27 and November 28, Sahu tried to break open the shutters of two commercial establishments, a plywood store and a cell phone shop, at Chhaya Society near Makhmali Talao in Thane. He was, however, unsuccessful in breaking into both the shops and had to flee empty-handed.A complaint was subsequently registered by the shop owners and a team led by sub-inspector Vinod Labhade initiated inquiries into the matter.“We examined CCTV camera footage, and obtained stills of the accused. The clearest of these were circulated among our informants, who were asked to provide any and all information about him,” Labhade said. In the early hours of Tuesday, an informant spotted Sahu, who was wearing the same clothes as seen in the CCTV footage, near the Mahagiri cremation ground in Thane . The informant tipped off the police and a team reached the spot. Sahu was picked up and taken for questioning, during which he allegedly confessed to having committed the crime. “Sahu is homeless and works on a daily wage basis at construction sites or for caterers whenever they get orders for large events. He desperately wanted to go home but had no money to pay for the journey due to lack of work. On the night of the offence, he had consumed alcohol and under its influence thought it would be a good idea to burgle shops for money,” an officer with the Naupada police station said.Sahu has been charged with attempted burglary. He was subsequently produced in court and remanded in police custody for a day after which he was sent to judicial custody, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fashion-faux-pas-leads-to-arrest-of-burglar-in-thane-101639051174513.html
09-12-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt scraps brown uniform at public schools, rakes up old debate||Students in Rajasthan’s public schools will have a new uniform from the next academic year after the education ministry announced that the existing light-and-dark brown colour combination - introduced by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government back in 2017 - will be scrapped.The new uniform will have a blue-and-grey colour combination.Although government officials said the decision has nothing to do with politics, members and supporters of the Congress have in the past reportedly alleged that the BJP had rolled out the brown uniform to make it resemble the Rashtriya Swayansevak Sangh’s (RSS) colour code.According to an order issued by the school education department on Wednesday night, boys at government-run schools will wear blue shirts and dark grey pants, and girls will don blue shirts and dark grey salwars or skirts. The change in uniform covers 64,000 state-run schools, according to the order.For 20 years since 1997, boys in Rajasthan’s government schools wore a blue-and-khaki combination, while girls put on a blue-and-white combination. In 2017, the colour combination was changed to light and dark brown, sparking criticism from the Congress at that time.A senior education department official said the new uniforms will be provided free of cost to students from Class I to VIII, covering around seven million school kids. The remaining 2.8 million students, studying in Class IX to XII, will have to purchase the new uniforms from government-authorised stores. Education minister BD Kalla said the process of changing the uniform was started by the previous minister, Govind Singh Dotasara. “There is nothing political behind changing the uniform colour. It is the BJP that always works on an agenda,” he said. Former education minister and state Congress chief Dotasara said the decision was taken on the basis of a six-member panel’s recommendation. “The committee considered complaints from parents and school teachers about the uniform introduced during the BJP government in 2017 and recommended a change,” he said. A government functionary familiar with the development said the existing colour of the trousers and salwars was identical to that of the RSS uniform, but insisted that the Congress government’s decision to change it is not a political one. BJP MLA and former education minister Vasudev Devnani slammed the new decision. “They have no reason or logic behind changing the colour of the uniform. It’s done only to change what the previous BJP government had done. This is an autocratic decision,” Devnani said. He argued that the move was harsh for parents who had already been suffering financially due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
09-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi weddings facing brunt of liquor shortage?||What is #DilliwaliShaadi without a well-stocked bar? But those arranging weddings and other pre-wedding functions during this season, are running from pillar to post to find alternate ways to ensure the supply is swell at their gatherings. The shortage of liquor, especially the premium brands in Delhi, is affecting the numerous weddings since the few licensed liquor shops in the Capital are running with almost empty shelves, and quite a few Delhiites are forced to rejig their alcohol preferences. “My daughter recently got married, and it became quite difficult for me to get alcohol for all the functions that we had planned for her wedding,” says JK Kriplani, a businessman who lives in Shalimar Bagh. He adds, “I live in north Delhi and travelled all the way to Khan Market in south, when I got to know that one wine shop had some good stock available. But, the next day when I went to buy more, the shop was empty! Then we were forced to opt for lower brands. In fact, we were only able to source only one average brand, and scotch toh thi hi nai wahaan... It was such a disappointment that we couldn’t offer all the brands to our guests, but ab kya hi karein.” City-based caterers are also experiencing a challenge to pacify the guests who are ready to shell out extra for brands of their choice. “Popular brands gayab hain market se, woh bhi is time pe jab demand itni zyada hai shaadiyon mein. Bahut dikkat ho rahi hai hume logon ko samjhane mein ki hum jaan bhujhke ek hi brand nahi rakh rahe, peeche se maal hi nahi aa rha,” says Rajesh Gupta from a catering and decorator company in Paschim Vihar, adding, “Majboori me log wedding functions ke liye lower brands le rahe hain. Humein unhe convince karna padh raha hai ki jo hai usi me maan jayein. Kayi log jo bahut specific hote hain brands ko leke, they are OK to buy lesser number of bottles, but refuse to go for cheaper variants.”“Peeche se hi samaan kam aa raha hai,” says Ankit Aggarwal from a catering and wedding planning company based in Shahdra. He adds, “Jahan toh house parties hain, uske liye expensive brands reserve kar rahe hain zyadatar log, aur shaadi ya bade functions mein saste brands se kaam chala rahe hain. Ab sabko pata hi hai dilli me kya haal hai, toh jo guests wedding attend karne aa rahe hain, woh bhi samajhte hain is situation ko. Par kuchh log phir bhi shaadi pe tamasha karte hain agar unki pasand ka brand na mile.”In the quest to appease their guests, many Delhiites have been flocking to NCR to buy the stock of alcohol for weddings. “Dilli se bahut saare log aa rahe hai aur kaafi saari bottles leke jaate hai ek hi bar mein,” says Manish Jain from a wine shop in Gurugram, adding, “Aaj kal toh itna rush ho gya hai, ki yahaan par humara stock bhi low hi chal raha hai. Kai Gurgugram ke log abhi khaali hath wapis laut rahe hain.”Some Delhiites have been requesting their wedding guests from cities near Delhi, to help them with alcohol. “It was my cousin brother’s wedding recently and we just couldn’t get the brands of our choice. So for the big functions, we just went with the brand available. For the functions at home. we requested our family members who were travelling from NCR and Punjab to get some bottles for us,” says Rupesh Goyal, an IT professional from Pitampura. Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weddings-facing-brunt-of-liquor-shortage-101639048060364.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Countdown timers at traffic signals in Navi Mumbai restored back from Marathi to English||After displaying the countdown numbers in Marathi for almost a week, the traffic signals at the APMC Market have started showing them in English again.HT had reported last week that the countdown timers of quite a few traffic signals at the market were displaying the numbers in Marathi. That had also confused the motorists as many of them did not understand the Marathi numbers.Officials from the electrical department of NMMC then said that they were doing that on a trial basis to understand the feasibility of the system. They also said that they would take the motorists’ opinion into consideration and accordingly take the next course of action.Contradicting their own statements, they are now saying that the numbers appeared in Marathi due to some software issues and that it was not an intentional move.“We had no intention of changing the language from English to Marathi. That happened due to some issues in the software and we fixed it earlier this week. Now all the traffic signals in the city are displaying the countdown numbers in English,” said an official on condition of anonymity. Suman Mukherjee, 45, a resident of Vashi said, “It seems, the NMMC officials are now blaming the software to hide their own haphazard actions. Since the numbers have reappeared in English now, no one will face any issue.”
09-12-2021||Mumbai||On nod to Rahul Gandhi's Dec 28 Mumbai visit, Ajit Pawar cites Omicron spread||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Thursday the administration would have to think about granting permission to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to state capital Mumbai on December 28 if cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 continue to increase. At present, there are 10 cases of the new highly transmissible strain in the state.Pawar, also a senior leader of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), was quoted as saying by news agency ANI, “If the cases of Omicron continue to increase like this, then we'll have to think.”If the cases of Omicron continue to increase like this, then we'll have to think: Deputy CM Ajit Pawar on being asked about the permission to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's visit to Mumbai on Dec 28 pic.twitter.com/ejRwvXSJWvThe Congress and NCP are ruling partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, led by Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray.On Wednesday, health minister Rajesh Tope said people do not need to panic about Omicron yet as the severity of the coronavirus variant is low."There are a total of 10 Omicron cases in Maharashtra till today. About 65 swabs have been sent for genome sequencing, their reports are awaited. Screenings are being conducted at international airports. The Omicron variant is spread over 54 countries so far. Transmissibility is higher. But, the severity or virulence is low. So we do not need to panic," Tope told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/on-nod-to-rahul-gandhi-s-dec-28-mumbai-visit-ajit-pawar-cites-omicron-spread-101639046832034.html
09-12-2021||Pune||Taste of life: Keventer and Poona’s slice of success with cheddar cheese||Last month, while browsing through the archives of “The Poona Observer”, I came across a small advertisement published all through the month of November 1876. “First class guavas from Satara available for making jelly and cheese”, it declared. The advertisement did not mention the name of the enterprise or the person offering guavas. It only had the address – 12, Civil Lines, Poona. Similar advertisements announcing the arrival of “first quality” guavas could be found in “The Bombay Gazette” too. The fruits were used in making jelly and cheese as the advertisements mentioned. Guava jelly and guava cheese were made in some European homes in Poona in the 19th century. These delicacies were always meant for private consumption. They were not offered for sale. Cheese was considered a valuable food material, rich in protein, and was prized as such all over Europe and America. It made good food and in combination with bread, butter, and beer was considered a delicacy in many countries. Cheese was always imported from Europe and sold in European shops in Indian cities. Europeans in India yearned for good cheese. The cheeses made at home could never match the texture, taste, and smell of the ones available in Europe. The Portuguese had somewhat mastered the art of making cheese in Bengal and Goa. A Portuguese baker from Calcutta sold homemade cheese in Poona in 1885, according to an “Agricultural Report” published in 1910. But these were isolated efforts, and the British did not like the cheese made by the Portuguese. There was also a serious handicap in the manufacture or storing of cheese in tropical climates where the high temperature affected its keeping qualities. Whereas in cold climates, it could be easily stored for a length of time, it was difficult to keep it even for a few weeks either in the summer or the monsoons in tropical climates. Dr Ozanne, the director of agriculture in Bombay Presidency, and a friend of the great Mahadev Govind Ranade, wanted to reform the dairy industry. He also wanted to make cheese available on a commercial scale. Enter, Edward Keventer. Keventer, and Keventers, are familiar names and brands in India. Keventer’s milk and butter have been known all over the country for their “purity and life-giving properties” for more than a century. It has been an old favourite of locals and tourists and an unforgettable part of growing up in Darjeeling, Kolkata, Delhi, Bengaluru, and several other cities in India. It started as a dairy in Aligarh and has grown into one of the best breakfast-and-milkshake places in India. Keventer, a Swedish urbanite, studied dairy farming in Antwerp in 1885-86. He ran his own dairy in a small town nearby, and within a couple of years came to be known as a respected expert in the processing of dairy products. Around the same time, Ozanne desired to introduce cream separators and other dairy machinery and appliances in Bombay and Poona, to establish departmental dairies, to induce capitalists to take up dairying under European methods and to improve the breeding and feeding of cattle for dairying purposes. For this, he sought help in Europe. In 1889, Ozanne’s search was successful and the London Dairy Supply Company sent out to Bombay Mr Howman, as a demonstrator of modern dairy practice, with improved appliances. Edward Keventer after holding various appointments in England and Scotland came out to India as his assistant. Reports written by Ozanne suggest that satisfactory progress appeared to have been made in at least some of the directions he desired, a few dairies having been started, and modern machines and other appliances having been purchased by a considerable number of Parsi dairymen in Bombay Presidency. Ozanne, with the help of Howman and Keventer, demonstrated the use of the first-ever “Made in India” cream separator in Poona in the presence of Ranade in 1891. The use of separated milk became more extensive, and brisk demand for well-made butter sprung up in Bombay and Poona. Howman had then spent a couple of years in Bombay and Poona and helped set up the Government Dairy Farms in Bombay and Poona. He had also helped a Parsi gentleman set up a private dairy near Poona. Howman’s work was so appreciated by the officers in the Bombay Presidency that the services of his assistant, Keventer, were retained by the Government of Bombay in order to carry out further experiments. The British Government, in 1891, assigned Keventer two important tasks – modernizing the Indian dairy industry and making cheese locally. Keventer not only made butter-making pay on the government farms in Poona but also succeeded in cheese-making, which was quite a new achievement in India. He was the first to make “good quality” cheddar cheese commercially available in India. It had so far been impossible to make cheese of uniformly good quality in India. The reason was that the temperature of the cheese room could not be regulated, so that proper ripening of the cheese was ensured. At Poona, it was found impossible to secure in the curing room an even temperature of 65 degrees to 75 degrees F. which, in order to obtain the best results, should be maintained with moist air. But still, Keventer’s cheese was found to be quite pleasing to the British palate. He had stayed in Poona to bring Ozanne’s dream to reality. He now wanted to start his own dairy farm in the city. He wanted to make other varieties of European cheeses after successfully making the cheddar cheese. But Poona lost to Aligarh. The Government of the North-West Provinces and Oudh then owned a dairy farm in a small village named Chherat near Aligarh. The dairy had turned out to be a complete failure. The government hoped that Keventer would help them turn its fortunes. It decided to follow the Bombay example and requested the Bombay government to loan Keventer for a year. He was engaged to advise the government on how to improve the provincial dairy industry by the introduction of modern methods of butter–and cheese–making, the cows at Chherat being the only cattle readily available for his experiments. Land was offered to Keventer on lease for a couple of years. He left Poona for Aligarh. The land at Aligarh had been considered useless for cultivation because of being impregnated with soda salt. For several years the government tried fruit raising and failed. Keventer subsoiled the ground and put fertilisers under the surface. After toiling for nearly a decade, he was able to redeem the desert. Over thirty acres were then producing vegetables and other crops “of the best quality”. His dairy in Aligarh was operated according to the most improved methods. The butter was never touched by hand in the making. A ready sale was found for all that they could produce. Keventer had employed thirty teenaged orphans from the famine of 1897 who did most of the work. In the next few decades, Keventer had established his dairies in several cities, with pasteurised bottled milk being sent to Delhi, Agra, Calcutta, and Allahabad. Even though Keventer did not return to Poona, his experiments with cheese-making and pasteurizing milk at the Poona dairy farm were responsible for making western Uttar Pradesh known as the birthplace of the modern Indian dairy industry. More about Keventer and his “Poona experiment” next week. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-keventer-and-poona-s-slice-of-success-with-cheddar-cheese-101639046373399.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||‘Please clear the doubts’: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut to govt on chopper crash||A day after Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and 12 others died in a chopper crash in Coonoor, the Shiv Sena on Thursday said that there were some doubts in the minds of the people, which should be dispelled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh, even though a high-level inquiry has already been ordered. Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut argued that the CDS had been playing a key role in planning action against China and Pakistan, and so, when such a tragic accident happens involving a technologically advanced helicopter, the episode raises questions.“Bipin Rawat had the responsibility of modernising weapons in the country. He contributed to missions against Pakistan and China. After Pulwama, the action against Lashkar [e-Taiba] had an important contribution. When such an accident happens while travelling on a technologically advanced helicopter, then it definitely raises doubts in the minds of the people,” Raut told reporters in New Delhi. “There will be an inquiry by the government. But it is the responsibility of the prime minister and the defence minister to dispel these doubts.” Raut pointed out that the doubts cropped up because the tragic accident happened at a time when tensions between India and China were high.The Shiv Sena MP said that he had worked closely with General Rawat when he was a member of a defence committee, recalling that he would simplify complex issues so that the committee members could understand them. Raut went on to question why multiple high ranking military officers were travelling together on the IAF chopper that crashed in Coonoor on Wednesday.The Sena leader said that if the chair permits a discussion in Parliament on the accident, he along with others would like to take up the matter. “It was a technologically advanced helicopter. The incident has not only shaken the nation, but the government as well. If there is any discussion on this, then we will speak in the Parliament. We hope the government allows a discussion on this [issue] at least... There is a doubt in the minds of the people about the accident happening at a time when there are tensions with China,” he said.
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||CDS copter crash: Samples of Kangra soldier’s parents taken for DNA test||Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, 29, a para commando and the personal security officer of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, belonged to Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh and had come home on a month-long leave in August for the birth of his son. Also read: India orders tri-service probe into chopper crash, full military honours for CDSHe was among the 13 people, including General Rawat and his wife Madhulika, who were killed in the helicopter crash in Coonoor district of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. A military team arrived at his native village of Upper Theru in Jaisinghpur sub division on Thursday morning to collect blood samples of his parents for a DNA test to identify his mortal remains. The body is expected to be brought to the village for the last rites on Friday. Lance Naik Vivek Kumar is survived by his parents, wife, three-month-old son and a younger brother. His cousin, Surjeet Kumar, said the family received a call from the authorities on Wednesday evening. “They only asked for his details but didn’t share any information,” he said. Local panchayat pradhan Vinod Kumar said Vivek had told his family members that he was going to Coonoor with the CDS. Lance naik Vivek Kumar started his military career as a sepoy about a decade ago. He was a para-commando. He had come home on a month-long leave in August for the birth of his first child. Expressing grief, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur tweeted: “Himachal’s son and PSO of CDS Rawat, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, was also martyred. May God give peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family to bear the loss.” “We are with the family in this hour of grief,” he added. Earlier, Jaisinghpur legislator Ravinder Dhiman shared the tragic news on his Facebook page. “Sad news, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar from Jaisinghpur martyred in helicopter crash. He was the personal security officer (PSO) of CDS Rawat. May the Almighty grant peace to the departed soul,” Dhiman wrote in the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cds-copter-crash-samples-of-kangra-soldier-s-parents-taken-for-dna-test-101639042052548.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Low-intensity explosion in laptop bag in Rohini court complex, 1 staffer hurt||A court staffer was injured in a low intensity explosion at the Rohini court building in outer Delhi on Thursday morning, a senior police officer confirmed.According to the officer, the blast took place near courtroom number 102, causing injuries to a Nayab court (a court official). Teams of the local police, bomb detection and disposal squad and special cell have reached the place of the explosion.Delhi Police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal, said the explosion took place in a laptop bag at about 10.30am. “The spot has been cordoned. Forensic and NSG teams are inspecting and examining it,” Biswal said.The incident comes months after the complex’s security measures were beefed up following a shooting incident on September 24 in a courtroom where one of Delhi’s most dreaded gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi was shot dead by two gunmen dressed as lawyers. The assailants were gunned down by the police personnel who escorted Gogi to the courtroom from Mandoli jail.Police said the probe will ascertain who took the explosive item inside the courtroom and how the suspect managed to dodge the security check.
09-12-2021||Kolkata||Bengal told to pay ₹5 lakh to Nepali man jailed for 41 years without trial||KOLKATA: NEW DELHI: The Calcutta high court on Tuesday ordered the West Bengal government to pay ₹5 lakh to a Nepali citizen who had to spend almost 41 years without trial. The man, Dipak Joshi, was arrested on May 12, 1980, from Darjeeling district and was released in March 2021 after the high court’s intervention. “He was arrested on charges of murder under section 302. His trial couldn’t be done as he developed mental problems probably during his stay in the prison. The high court took cognisance of the issue after the matter was brought to its notice,” said Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee, who appeared on behalf of the State Legal Services Authority. A bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj delivered the order.Joshi was sent back to his country earlier this year through the consulate of Nepal after being released from the Dum Dum Central Correctional Home near Kolkata. He is now staying with his relatives in Nepal. “On December 7, the counsel for the high court referred to the West Bengal Correctional Services Prisoners (Unnatural Death Compensation) Scheme, 2019 to submit that the maximum compensation payable under the said Scheme is Rs.5 lakhs,” said Chatterjee. The state government’s counsel, however, did not raise any objections and told the court that the amount may be credited into Dipak Joshi’s account through the consulate of Nepal. The court on Tuesday that the money should be transferred to Joshi’s account within six weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-told-to-pay-rs-5-lakh-to-nepali-man-jailed-for-41-years-without-trial-101639035930398.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Mysterious explosion in Delhi's Rohini Court, proceedings suspended||A mysterious explosion was reported in Delhi's Rohini Court on Thursday morning, which suspended the ongoing proceeding in the court. Seven fire tenders rushed to the spot, according to reports. According to news agency PTI, a laptop in the court exploded. Police, however, said they are investigating.The fire officials said they received information about the explosion at 10.40am, when the court was in session. In September this year, Rohini Court stood witness to a shootout incident in which two gunmen opened fire killing Delhi's notorious gangster Jitender Gogi. The gunmen sneaked inside the court dressed as lawyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mysterious-explosion-in-delhi-s-rohini-court-proceedings-suspended-101639033205245.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab revenue officials’ strike: Students, job seekers worst hit||People across Punjab continue to suffer amid the deadlock between revenue officials and the Punjab government over the arrest of the Hoshiarpur naib tehsildar by the state vigilance bureau in a corruption case on November 22.Also read: With China and Pak borders active, merit criteria for new CDS appointmentThe Punjab Revenue Officials Association is on mass leave for an indefinite period in support of its demand for an impartial inquiry and cancellation of the first information report (FIR) against naib tehsildar Sandeep Kumar besides punishment for vigilance bureau officials. The state revenue officials are protesting against the vigilance DSP on Thursday and will hold a rally in front of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s house in Morinda on December 10. Since the arrest of Kumar and three others by the Jalandhar range vigilance bureau, the revenue officials, backed by the Deputy Commissioner Office Employees Union, have been protesting against the Punjab government. The PCS Officers Association has also decided to proceed on mass casual on Friday in support of the revenue officials.An IAS officer in Doaba said that the delivery of public services has been crippled and the worst hit are students and job seekers who need certificates of domicile and proof of income for higher courses and government jobs. “What is their fault? Why should they suffer?” he said, requesting anonymity. A senior Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officer posted in the Malwa region said 50% work of the DC office depended on revenue officials. “How can we work without them when other employees too are joining their protest. Ultimately, people suffer,” he said. He said election-related work was also hit as with every returning officer (SDM) there are two assistant returning officers (tehsildars), who are now on indefinite strike. “The compensation to be given to Covid-19 victims is linked with revenue officials but we were forced to take an alternative,” said the officer adding that state also suffers financial loss in the form stamp duty due to the strike. A senior IAS officer said that government should order an inquiry and direct the revenue officers to get back to work. “Why should people suffer because of the deadlock?” he said. The association members alleged that vigilance sub-inspector Ajaypal had on directions of DSP Niranjan Singh handcuffed Sandeep Kumar and fettered his feet to the hospital bed and locked him up in the room when he was being treated. Association president Gurdev Singh Dham met state revenue minister Aruna Chaudhary and Punjab financial commissioner (revenue) Vijay Kumar Janjua on Tuesday to resolve the issue. The Punjab vigilance bureau is tightlipped on the matter, while Chaudhary and Janjua were unavailable for comment despite repeated attempts. 
09-12-2021||Gurugram||How’s the josh? High sir, say Gurugrammers||Cries of Jai Ho and Vande Mataram echoed in the heart of Gurugram, as members of the defence forces came together for Vijay Parv 2021. A precursor to the commemoration of 50 years of India’s victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war on December 16, this event at CyberHub set the tone for what’s to be witnessed at the India Gate lawns in Delhi, from December 11 to 14. Awe-inspiring acts included a rendition by a pipe and drum band, Kalaripayattu and Khukuri dance by the fierce, unmatched 11 Gorkha Rifles, led by Subedar Padam Khawas. “Khukuri is a weapon used not only to kill the enemy, but also for day-to-day activities in Gorkha households. Khukuri dance was incepted years ago, when Gorkhas won an attack,” shares Major Karan Kapur, emcee of the event. On the continuation of golden jubilee celebrations, Major Krutika Patil, emcee, says, “We will hold a battle exhibition at India Gate, depicting all battles fought in 1971. Everything will be exhibited, from who fought for our country to the equipment used. We’ll also have a display of the captured Pakistani equipment.” Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
09-12-2021||Delhi||Melange of happiness, nostalgia at this show in the Capital||From canvases that capture happiness and love for the Capital to installations that utilise discarded objects, the ekAtm-Assimilated in One exhibition has something for every taste. Hailing from diverse backgrounds, 15 creative souls have come together to showcase their labour of love. One of the artworks on display is by Delhi-based Binay Kumar, who uses everyday objects like fan regulators to showcase the passage of time. “My work also talks about the fast pace of today’s life. And I want to remind the viewers, to take care of people who need our support, such as the elders, children, the weak and the poor,” he says. While city-based artist Sanjeev Kumar Sinha grew up in the green hills of Jamshedpur, Jharkhand, his watercolours speak about his fascination with the “beauty of the Capital, despite its hustle and bustle”. He explains: “In each of my paintings, there is a part of the old and new Delhi. For me, this city isn’t just about a grey landscape, but contains so much beauty within it.”Other artists showcasing their work include Sonia Sareen, Seema Sirohi, Shakti Sagar, Sourabh Mazumdar, Sunil Bhonwal, Radha Dhaka, Pritom Saikia, Narottam Patel, Kamal Sharma, Gouri Shankar Mukherjee, Binay Kumar, LN Ramaswamy and Alok Shankar.Curator of the show, artist Pankaj Nigam explains how he came up with the name of the exhibition. He says, “Since the pandemic, we’ve all felt the same grief, helplessness and at the same time, humanity has fought against this adversity keeping aside our differences. As a curator, I feel that we are all governed by one universal mind, which is ekAtm. This realisation of non-duality and assimilation inspired us to come up with this show.”Artist Gouri Shankar Mukherjee, who captures the notion of happiness in his painting titled Nostalgia, explains, “There’s a saying that happiness shared is happiness doubled. In my painting, you’ll see figurines of a male and a female, but they are both viewing with one eye, which shows that all we want is happiness... Nature has been a great teacher for me. What it profoundly teaches is to live in a moment of joy, living it for the self and praying for other’s happiness.”The exhibition was earlier inaugurated by painter Paramjeet Singh, and had poetry recitation by Utsa Seth, author of Fine Tangled Strands, and an interactive session with theatre actor-director and NSD alumnus Rakesh Singh.Catch It LiveWhat: ekAtm - Assimilated in OneWhere: Visual Arts Gallery, India Habitat Centre, Lodhi RoadOn till: December 9Timing: 11am to 8pmNearest Metro Station: Jor Bagh on Yellow Line and Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium on Violet Line Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
09-12-2021||Delhi||Couple dies in road accident in Delhi, six-year-old daughter survives||A couple died and their six-year-old daughter survived when a truck carrying building construction material topped on a car that all three were travelling in at around midnight in south Delhi’s RK Puram area, police said on Thursday.After rescue personnel from Delhi Fire Services (DFS) failed to manually remove the couple and the child from the car that was badly damaged, a crane was deployed to remove the toppled truck to make way for rescue efforts. All three were then rushed to AIIMS, where the couple succumbed to injuries and the child survived, said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma.The deceased couple were identified as Manish Sharma and Shipra. Police haven’t shared the child’s name.DCP Sharma said that around midnight, the RK Puram police station received a call regarding a road accident on Ring Road. A police team reached the accident spot and found that the dumper fell on the car after hitting a divider. The driver of the truck had fled. “A case was registered and teams are conducting raids to nab the errant driver,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/couple-dies-in-road-accident-in-delhi-six-year-old-daughter-survives-101639030348866.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's first Omicron patient discharged after testing Covid-19 negative||Maharashtra's first patient of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, who resides in Thane district, was on Wednesday discharged from a hospital after testing negative for the infection, a civic official said.The patient, a 33-year-old marine engineer from Kalyan Dombivli municipal area, had arrived at the Delhi airport from South Africa via Dubai in the last week of November. He had boarded the flight from South Africa on November 24.On his arrival at the New Delhi airport, his RT-PCR test was conducted. By the time he landed in Mumbai, he was informed by the Delhi airport authorities that he has tested positive for Covid-19.The Maharashtra health authorities had then sent his swab samples for genome sequencing and the test report later confirmed that he was carrying the Omicron strain.The man had joined his duty on a private ship in April this year and was on high seas since then. He has not yet taken any vaccine against Covid-19, officials said. He had been admitted to a Covid Care Centre in Kalyan town, from where he was discharged at 6pm on Wednesday, commissioner of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) Dr Vijay Suryavanshi told reporters.“He was discharged as he tested negative for the infection. As per the standard protocol, his two RT-PCR tests were conducted and both came out negative. He is perfectly all right now and there are no symptoms,” he said, but he has been advised seven-day home isolation.“Incidentally, it was his birthday today,” the commissioner added.The state has so far reported 10 cases of the Omicron variant. According to the Centre, the countries designated as “at-risk” are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-first-omicron-patient-discharged-after-testing-covid-19-negative-101639024791229.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi air quality in poor category; IMD says min temp will be 9 degree Celsius||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality remained in the poor category on Thursday morning on the hourly air quality index (AQI) of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), while the city is likely to see shallow fog and a minimum temperature of about 9 degree Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.According to the CPCB’s website, the hourly AQI at 7 am stood at 259 on Thursday, the middle end of the “poor” category. The average 24-hour AQI on Wednesday was 237.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. Prolonged exposure to air in the poor category leads to breathing discomfort to most people.As far as Delhi’s weather is concerned, the maximum temperature is likely to be at 24 degree Celsius while minimum temperature is predicted to be around 9 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 10.1 degree Celsius, one notch above normal. The maximum temperature was 24 degree Celsius, usual during this time of the year.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “As predicted by Safar, the air quality improved significantly. However, the improvement was higher than expected and AQI slipped to ‘Moderate’ today implying that control measures seem to be effective and are yielding results.”Safar follows a different air quality index metric. “For the next four days (8th to 11th), winds are likely to be moderate increasing ventilation of pollutants. Minimum temperatures are likely to drop gradually leading to more stable boundary layer during night time that helps accumulation of pollutants. With mostly clear sky conditions during day time, the peak mixing layer height is likely to be around 1.5 km causing moderate vertical mixing of air mass. The net effect is that air quality for the next four days likely to improve gradually but within ‘Moderate’ or ‘lower end of Poor’ category.”Mixing height is an invisible boundary layer of the atmosphere within which movement of air and particles can take place. The lower the mixing height, the lesser the room for pollutants to move or disperse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-in-poor-category-imd-says-min-temp-will-be-9-degree-celsius-101639025309038.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Where the stars descended||A dome that’s like a Buddhist stupa. Pillars resembling those at ancient Hindu temples. Designs on the gateway inspired by Islamic monuments.This red-and-white sandstone edifice is permeated with the essence of India’s histories. But the Nepalese ambassador’s palatial residence across the road is more easily visible from the road outside and attracts more attention.It is Sapru House, however, that is the precious souvenir of our city’s post-independent past. Tucked away on Barakhamba Road in central Delhi, close to the Mandi House circle, you might have passed by it a hundred times without knowing that it has been graced by the presence of international notables such as Ho Chi Minh and Dag Hammarskjold (Google him!). Its library is stacked with thousands of old and new books, and unlike the libraries of members-only institutions such as the IIC, it has free access.Inaugurated by the then prime minister Jawarharlal Nehru in 1950, Sapru House was dedicated to his passion - world affairs. After shuttling through five offices earlier, the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA) founded its permanent home here. Named after Tej Bahadur Sapru, the ICWA’s first president, the landmark was built with public donations from maharajas, maharanis and a few corporate houses.The ICWA was fashioned after London’s Royal Institute of International Affairs. Our own Chatham House. The forthcoming years met the expectations. Intellectuals such as Dr Zakir Hussain and S Radhakrishnan patronised it. Margaret Thatcher and Kurt Waldheim delivered speeches in its halls. Stephen Cohen and V I Potapov browsed reading matter at its famed library. Sapru House became the place to see and be seen. Only after staging a performance here was an artist said to have finally “arrived” - according to kathak dancer Shovana Narayan’s memoirs. She was talking of the Delhi of 1960s and 70s. Over the subsequent decades, the Capital’s highbrow society got distracted by other destinations to while away its evenings. The India Habitat Centre, for instance.But Sapru House has continued to exist. These days, parts of the building are under renovation, as if the institution is eagerly getting ready to re-enter the city’s vital blood streams with renewed vigour. This sunny afternoon, the place is gleaming gracefully with its grand marble stairs, Ashoka trees, beautiful lawns, cobbled driveway and wide corridors illuminated with daylight. Once the pandemic becomes less threatening and it is again safe to mingle with the smart set, Delhi evenings might again include Sapru House as a necessary stop. Perhaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-where-the-stars-descended-101639005902336.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||High Court stays DJB defamation case proceedings||The Delhi high court on Wednesday put on hold the trial court proceedings in a criminal defamation complaint filed by Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and its vice chairman Raghav Chadha against Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and three other party leaders.Chadha had filed the complaint against the BJP leaders for calling the institution as “Dalali Jal Board” and alleging a scam of ₹26,000 crore.Justice Manoj Ohri issued notice to Chadha and DJB on a challenge by BJP leader Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is also named in the defamation case, to the summons issued to him on the defamation complaint.His petition submitted that the statements in question are not defamatory in nature since no personal allegations have been made against the complainants.The matter will be heard on March 16, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-court-stays-djb-defamation-case-proceedings-101639004844097.html
09-12-2021||Noida||Supertech told to pay ₹40 lakh to aggrieved homebuyer||he Delhi high court on Wednesday directed real estate developer Supertech to pay ₹40 lakh, in two instalments, to a homebuyer, on whose complaint of delay in giving possession of a villa the company’s managing director was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment.Justice Amit Bansal ordered that the first instalment of ₹20 lakh should be given on or before December 31 and the second instalment by January 31.The counsel for Supertech said the balance amount is ₹72 lakh, and that they have paid more than the principal amount. He also sought six months to pay the money, saying that the company was not doing well financially. “Please allow us to pay in nine instalments,” he said.However, Vrinda Kapoor, counsel for the complainant, objected to the proposal, saying the balance was ₹76 lakh. She requested that the money be paid in two instalments of ₹35 lakh. But the court asked the company to pay ₹40 lakh in two instalments as there was dispute over the pending amount, and posted the matter for hearing February 11.On September 20, the national consumer commission sentenced the managing director (MD) of Supertech to three years in jail for not refunding the homebuyer after having failed to hand over possession of the house in Uttar Pradesh’s Yamuma Expressway Industrial Development Area (YEIDA) for several years.The commission also issued an arrest warrant against MD, while directing that its order will come into effect after seven days if the builder fails to deposit around ₹1.79 crore by then.The money ( ₹1.75 crore) is to be paid to Brigadier (retired) Kanwal Batra and his daughter Aakriti Batra, who jointly purchased a villa in Supertech’s Upcountry project, offered by the builder in December 2013 at a cost of approximately ₹1.03 crore, which the builder promised to deliver in August 2014.Challenging the national consumer panel’s order, Supertech had gone to the high court in September arguing that it acted out of its jurisdiction and also did not give the company a chance to present its case.On September 24, the court stayed the arrest after Supertech MD agreed to give ₹50 lakh to Batra. Till date Supertech has repaid ₹1.07 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/supertech-told-to-pay-40-lakh-to-aggrieved-homebuyer-101639002776464.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Cabbie among three held for robbing people||Three persons, including a cab driver, were arrested for allegedly robbing people on the pretext of providing cheap rides. Police said the racket came to light after a resident of Sangam Vihar was robbed by the suspects. The victim told police that he was waiting for a bus to Khanpur from Kashmere Gate ISBT when a suspect offered to drop him at his destination for Rs50.Two others later entered the car and they took the vehicle to near Geeta Colony flyover, where the victim was allegedly robbed of ₹3,000, gold ring and phone. He was later dumped on the ring road. Police traced the suspects after they identified the last four digits of the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cabbie-among-three-held-for-robbing-people-101639002247251.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||2 Jatheri gang sharpshooters held in Delhi||The Delhi Police said it arrested two sharpshooters belonging to the Kala Jatheri gang from Sangam Park area on Wednesday. The arrests, made by officers in Bharat Nagar police station, were made under the force’s “Operation Sajag” - the northwest district police’s crackdown on street crime.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said they have recovered a stolen two-wheeler, two semi-automatic pistols along with four live cartridges from the two suspects.“On December 7, a cop, Yamin, was on evening patrolling duty in the Sangam Park area. When they were near Gufa wala Mandir, Sangam Park, they noticed two persons coming on a Yamaha FZ motorcycle without a number plate and tried to flee when they saw the cops,” said the DCP. The police staff gave chase and arrested the two, identified as Ankit and Aashu, said Rangnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-jatheri-gang-sharpshooters-held-in-delhi-101639001424124.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Officials indifferent to potholes, grime coating MC’s multi-storey parking||Potholed floors, defunct lifts, stinking washrooms, and a thick coating of grime have sadly become the defining features of the lone multi-storey parking on the premises of the municipal corporation’s Zone-A office near Mata Rani Chowk. With the parking catering to old city markets, including Chaura Bazar, and Akalgarh Market, hundreds of vehicles, including two and four wheelers of those visiting the MC office, are parked at the lot on a daily basis. However, authorities have been turning a blind eye to the abject state of disrepair the multi-storey parking has fallen into. On an average, around 500 cars are parked in six-storey parking facility on a daily basis and the number increases to around 1,000 on Saturday and Sunday. Two-wheelers are mostly parked on the ground floor and basement.No major repair work has been undertaken by the MC since the parking was thrown open to the public in the year 2000, and only ad hoc work has been taken up from time to time. Any repair to the potholes wears off in no time, subjecting the public to a bumpy ride. The contractor’s staff says that the lifts have never been operated and are have been lying defunct for a long time.Swachhta claims go for a tossDespite tall claims made by authorities to promote ‘Swachhta’ in the city, its own parking facility is filthy. The defunct fountain at the entry of the parking facility is a mere preface of what is to come. A visitor, Gurminder Singh, says, “There are deep potholes on the first floor of the parking lot, which are not visible to drivers. Unhygienic conditions prevail with foul smell emanating from the washrooms. Sadly, this is the only parking facility in the area and it too is ill-maintained.” A staff member, requesting anonymity, said, “Many times vehicles get damaged due to potholes and even the staff tries to keep away from the washrooms due to unhygienic conditions. The issue has been raised several times, but to no avail.” The parking contractor also slammed the civic body for not taking up the repair work. Contractor Manish Shah said the MC failed to repair the parking before handing over the possession of the lot. “As per the contract, the contractor has to maintain the parking facility, but one can only maintain something if it was in good condition in the first place. We have already spent ₹3 lakh on repairs and improving the lighting of the parking lot, though we were not compensated for it. We will again take up repair work as it is for the betterment of visitors, but the MC is not bothered about the same,” said Shah. Despite attempts to reach the MC zonal commissioner Jasdev Sekhon, he remained unavailable for comment.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that directions will be issued to the contractor and MC staff to repair the potholes and clean the parking lot. Sandhu said, “The MC is working on a proposal to revamp the building and parking facility of the MC headquarters. The proposal is being discussed at state level as it requires a lot of funds.” Proposal to establish restaurant hangs fireThe proposal to establish a restaurant at the seventh floor the multi-storey parking is yet to see the light of the day. The floor is in a sad state with wild grass and waste all around. In December 2017, the MC house had also approved a resolution to establish a shopping complex in the basement and ground floor of the facility, but it failed to materialise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-officials-indifferent-to-potholes-grime-coating-mc-s-multi-storey-parking-101638999627273.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||PAU protest: Studies disrupted, no clarity on exams||The protests at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) have led to future of more than 4,000 students studying in PAU and around 1,000 students of Guru Angad dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) at stake.No clear directions have been issued until now, whether the exams will be conducted on December 9 or will be put off. The practical exams for undergraduate courses were scheduled for the first week of December and theoretical from the second week.On the other hand, class-four daily paid labourer (DPL) employees have refused to assist postgraduate students in any experimental work. It is being alleged that the outside labour is not allowed to enter the university to help the students in carrying out field experiments.Due to the strike, education of students has been affected for the last seven days and students are demanding to reschedule examinations lined up for December. Seminars are not being held, hospitals and labs of the Veterinary University are also locked. MSc agriculture students were seen working as farm labour in the experimental fields. “This is a crucial period for conducting wheat sowing experiments. The DPL employees are not joining us. If we wait for labour then this crucial period will lapse. And we may have to wait for the whole year to conduct the experiment. This could lead to delaying our degree. So, we decided to conduct the field work and began helping each order in carrying out labour work,” said the students in the experimental field.A BSc agriculture final year student said, “Due to the pandemic, our studies have taken a hit and the teachers’ protests have led to delay in examinations. We are not sure when to submit the synopsis and when the seminar will be conducted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-protest-studies-disrupted-no-clarity-on-exams-101638999388658.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||PAU protest: Kingra ends hunger strike||After seven days of hunger strike, president of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO) and PAU Teachers’ Association, Harmeet Singh Kingra, finally broke his fast-unto-death on Wednesday. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu visited the pandal outside Thappar Hall and offered juice to Kingra and assured to raise the demands of association members in a cabinet meeting scheduled for December 9.However, later PFUCTO, Punjab Agricultural University and Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University teaching staff decided to continue strike till the notification is issued. The decision was taken following a marathon meeting with finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and then with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. On the other hand, fissures appeared in the Daily Paid Labourer (DPL) and contractual employee union. A faction of contractual employees led by Jagwinder Singh Grewal remained absent from the protest, after mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu’s visit on December 7, who assured to take up the issue of hiring contractual staff for 500 vacant posts of the university and the remaining DPL staff on contractual basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-protest-kingra-ends-hunger-strike-101638999207698.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Bride’s family calls off wedding after groom demands dowry||A wedding function was called off after the groom allegedly demanded ₹2 lakh cash and a new car as dowry from the bride’s family. He allegedly refused to take part in the ceremonies till his demands were fulfilled, prompting the bride’s family to take the matter to the police.The bride’s family members sat on protest outside Division Number 3 of the police station, seeking an FIR against the accused.Sundar Das of Khud Mohalla, father of the bride, said when the groom started acting out and demanding dowry, they decided to call off the wedding and lodge a police complaint. He alleged that the police are dilly-dallying the matter.Sub-Inspector Sahib Singh, Division number 3 station house officer, said the family of the bride had sought FIR against the groom, but later withdrawn the complaint. No FIR has been lodged so far in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bride-s-family-calls-off-wedding-after-groom-demands-dowry-101638997344821.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Akali Dal slams Channi-led government for hollow promises||: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday voiced its criticism of chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi, accusing him of misleading the public by making hollow promises. The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) workers, led by district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, staged a unique demonstration, ferrying an effigy of the CM on a rickshaw from the Laxmi Cinema Chowk to the Rakhi Chowk.Speaking to the media, Gosha said, “While the world today is talking about rocket science, people are talking to their children about the moon and Mars. The CM suggested the youth could earn money by ferrying rickshaws.”“The CM’s job is to give a new vision to the state and open more economic avenues. But Channi is still living in the 90s-era hangover. Instead of schools, colleges and hospitals, he is boasting rickshaw riding skills,” he added.He further stated that the Channi-led Congress government had failed to deliver on any of their prior promises, adding, “Neither did they make schools or a hospital, nor did they build any road network or bridges, but only fooled the people.”The protest also saw the participation of several top Akali Dal and Youth Akali Dal leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-akali-dal-slams-channi-led-government-for-hollow-promises-101638997108350.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Contractual transport employees’ strike enters Day 2 in Ludhiana||The strike called by the PRTC and Punjab Roadways contractual employees entered its second day, with at least 200 buses being cancelled on Wednesday.While the footfall at the bus terminal was relatively low, the arriving passengers were still forced to turn to private buses. Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Barewal village, said “I had to visit Chandigarh, but no government bus was available, while private buses were plying more than their capacity.”According to the members of the PRTC and Punjab Roadways Contractual Employees Union, there are around 124 PRTC and 150 Punbus buses that run from the Ludhiana depot, a large number of which are operated by contractual employees.“Similarly, buses at other depots of the state are also not operational and the strike will continue till our demands are not fulfilled by the government,” said members of the unionFemale passengers could also not avail the benefit of free travel in the government buses. A female passenger said, “There was no government bus available for Jalandhar, due to which I had to pay the private bus operator for the trip.”Speaking about the strike’s impact, a transport department employee said, “Due to the strike, passengers have shifted to private operators, which is causing loss to the government exchequer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contractual-transport-employees-strike-enters-day-2-in-ludhiana-101638997044709.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Industrialists raise range of issue during meeting with Union ministers||: Facing a range of industry-related issues, a delegation of industrialists on Wednesday met Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal and minister of state Som Parkash, at the Parliament House.The delegation comprised office bearers of both the United Cycle Parts and Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) and the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU), as well as industrialists representing various other sectors.They raised issues including the rising steel prices, the GST verification on purchase, government support on non-validation of vehicle dismantling plants, export promotion schemes for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) and availability of raw material. The rise in steel prices was one of the major concerns for industrialists, who demanded action from the regulatory authorities.Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of the CICU, said that the ministers discussed the issues in detail and ensured that a meeting will be called with the minister of steel, senior government officials and manufacturers, before ensuring availability of steel at competitive prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialists-raise-range-of-issue-during-meeting-with-union-ministers-101638996685654.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Ferozepur resident held for drug peddling, 110 gm heroin recovered||The anti-narcotics wing of city police arrested a drug peddler and recovered 110 gm heroin from his possession on December 7.The accused was identified as Satnam Singh alias Baba of village Malluvaliye, Ferozepur. During questioning, the accused told police that he had bought the contraband from Manjit Singh of village Keemewala, Ferozepur and came Ludhiana to deliver the consignment to a man, who was supposed to meet him near Suffian Chowk.Inspector Rajesh Kumar, in-charge of anti-narcotics wing said that the accused was arrested during special checking near Old Jail Road behind civil hospital. A case under sections of NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at Division Number 2 Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ferozepur-resident-held-for-drug-peddling-110-gm-heroin-recovered-101638996564188.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Murder convict who jumped parole nabbed in Ludhiana||A convict, who murdered a person during a robbery and jumped parole, has been arrested. To avoid being traced, he has shifted his residence and started living in some other location. The Sadar police on Wednesday arrested him. According to the police, the convict, Charanjit Singh, alias Rajan, was dodging the police for the past three years. Inspector Jagdev Singh, SHO, Sadar police station, stated that the convict was a resident of Aggar Nagar. He was serving a sentence of 10 years. He had come out of jail in 2018 on parole but did not report back. To avoid arrest he had changed his residence and shifted to Madhuban Enclave at Barewal road. The SHO added that they came to know about the new address of the convict and arrested him on Wednesday. He said the convict along with his aides had murdered a person during a robbery. A case under Sections 460 (All persons jointly concerned in lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night punishable where death or grievous hurt caused by one of them), 458 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint) and 459 (grievous hurt caused whilst committing lurking house-trespass or house-breaking) of lodged against the accused on August 13, 2005, at police station, Sadar. Charanjit and his aides were convicted by the court in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-convict-who-jumped-parole-nabbed-in-ludhiana-101638996206012.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||To claim RDF for paddy procurement, Punjab food & civil supplies dept seeks amendment in Rural Development Act||The Punjab food and civil supplies department has asked the state government to amend the Rural Development Act, 1987, so that rural development fund (RDF) could be claimed from the Centre for the paddy procurement season. The central government has mandated the states to make amendments to specify the RDF usage and stop fund diversion for purposes other than development works in rural areas. According to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, the state charges 3% RDF on the total value of grain (wheat in rabi and paddy in kharif seasons) procured from Punjab at minimum support price (MSP). Last year, the state government had assured the Centre to bring in amendments in the Act with a view to specifying the RDF usage. Also, the Centre ahead of the kharif procurement had asked the state to justify the usage of the RDF collected. In the provisional cost sheet mentioning taxes to be paid on paddy procurement that was received from the Centre last week, there is no mention of the RDF. In case of non-payment, the state government stands to lose ₹1,091 crore in the recent kharif season procurement that ended on November 30. “We have asked our government to amend the Act at the earliest,” said an official of the food and civil supplies department. The Centre has raised objection to the “vague provisions” and the rural development board’s discretion in deciding the use of funds. The board is headed by the chief minister. The governments in Punjab have funded its farm debt waiver scheme to the tune of ₹4,610 crore from the RDF, gave grants for development projects under sangat darshan programmes besides raising funds by pledging future accruals from the fund. The Centre, however, wants to put an end to the practice.
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||OYO Rooms penalised for denying occupancy to Ludhiana complainant||For denying occupancy in the rooms of a hotel booked by the complainant through the website of OYO Rooms, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Ludhiana, directed the latter to pay ₹20,000 compensation along with ₹5,000 litigation cost to the complainant. Kulwant Singh (52) of Guru Nanak Colony, Ludhiana, in his complaint against OYO Rooms, submitted that he booked four rooms for Mallital (Nainital) in Hotel Flatties, Mall Road, Mallital through the OYO website on June 07, 2017. He paid ₹42,200 for the booking from his bank account following which OYO confirmed his bookings through a WhatsApp message. The complainant and his friends were to check in on June 10, 2017 afternoon and check out on June 13, 2017, at 11 am. Kulwant alleged that when he reached the hotel with family and friends, the hotel staff flatly refused to acknowledge any booking. He alleged that after OYO failed to render any help, he along with his family and friends had to stay at another hotel after paying a much higher rate causing inconvenience and harassment. Kulwant contended that when he sought a refund, OYO refunded only ₹14,494 to him resulting in a deficiency of service and unfair trade practice on the part of the OYO Rooms. Meanwhile, the counsel for the respondent averred that the booking was only for four persons instead of four families or 16 persons as alleged by the complainant. The counsel added that even in the confirmation message, it was specifically mentioned that the booking of four rooms was for four numbers of guests. “Accordingly, the complainant was refused room accommodation for four families aggregating to 16 persons. Due to the peak season, there was no refund policy applicable, but as a goodwill gesture, the respondents refunded one-night tariff,” stated the counsel seeking dismissal of the complaint against OYO Rooms. However, the commission observed that it is totally unthinkable that there could be a restriction of stay of just one person in one room. The commission stated, “It is a matter of common knowledge and usual practice that one room is meant for the stay of a minimum of two persons. In the event of a stay of more than two persons is required, especially in the case of children accompanying the couple/parents, the hotel usually charges extra for an extra bed for the additional person/child staying in the room. Therefore, it is quite arduous to believe and hold that the four rooms were booked by the opposite parties for the stay of just four persons i.e. one person per room”. The commission further directed OYO Rooms to refund ₹25,506 to the complainant and to pay additional ₹20,000 compensation along with ₹5,000 litigation expenses. “It has to be held that there has been an acute deficiency of service as well as unfair trade practice on the part of the opposite parties which has resulted in inconvenience, embarrassment and humiliation to the complainant and his family and friends accompanying him,” read the order..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oyo-rooms-penalised-for-denying-occupancy-to-ludhiana-complainant-101638996084908.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram Thakur doles out sops for Kangra’s Jaisinghpur assembly constituency||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of developmental projects worth ₹144 crore in the Jaisinghpur assembly constituency of Kangra district on Wednesday. Addressing the public on the occasion, the chief minister announced to open division of jal shakti department, HRTC bus depot and block medical office. Besides, he announced the upgrade of many health and educational institutions. He said the Jal Jeevan Mission started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured that every household in the state gets drinking water. “With the concerted efforts of the state government, Himachal Pradesh has emerged as the first state in effective implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission,” said Jai Ram Thakur. He said the state government has opened a PWD division at Jaisinghpur to ensure proper maintenance and construction of roads and bridges in the area. He said that although the pandemic adversely affected the economy of the country and the state, the Himachal government ensured that the pace of development goes uninterrupted. The chief minister accused Congress leaders of politicising the sensitive issue of the Covid pandemic. He said at the peak of the pandemic, the Congress leaders did nothing except “misleading” the people of the state. He alleged that the state Congress leaders even did not spare their own central leaders and raised fake bills worth ₹12 crore, as expenditure during the pandemic. He said there were only 50 ventilators in the state when the pandemic broke out and after the state government took up the matter with Prime Minister and 500 ventilators were immediately provided. Today, the state has over 1,000 functional ventilators. Similarly, there were only two oxygen plants in the state and today it has 30 oxygen plants in various health institutions across the state. The chief minister also hailed doctors, health workers and other frontline workers for making Himachal the first state in the country with having achieved 100% vaccination of eligible age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-thakur-doles-out-sops-for-kangra-s-jaisinghpur-assembly-constituency-101638995970638.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Land acquisition scam: Ex-Tarn Taran SDM, brother booked for bungling ₹88 lakh||Anupreet Kaur, formerly posted as a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in Tarn Taran district, and her brother Sandeep Singh were booked for allegedly bungling ₹88 lakh from the state exchequer in a land acquisition scam. The fresh case is connected with the one registered against her earlier for an alleged embezzlement of ₹1.6 crore. The case was registered on the direction of the senior superintendent of police (SSP) after an inquiry indicted the two accused, both residents of Nag Kalan village in Amritsar district. It was registered under Sections 409, 419, 420, 120-B, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the former Patti SDM Navraj Singh Brar. “Misusing her post in 2016, she benefited her brother with ₹88 lakh. Further investigation is on,” the case diary read.As per the FIR, Kaur allegedly purchased a house in a private township on the outskirts of Amritsar in the name of her brother with public money meant for compensation for land acquisition for national highway.A Punjab civil service (PCS) officer, she was earlier booked in September 2019 along with five others in the land compensation scam. An inquiry had had found that the compensation of ₹1.6 crore was fraudulently transferred to the five co-accused whose land was never acquired for the highway. Anupreet was the competent authority for land acquisition (CALA) from early 2018 to February 2019. She was suspended after registration of the case. Further probe has pegged the scam at ₹3.91 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/land-acquisition-scam-ex-tarn-taran-sdm-brother-booked-for-bungling-rs-88-lakh-101638995903925.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: FIR registered month after GPS trackers found in tax wing vehicles||A month-and-a half after GPS trackers were found hidden in five vehicles of the mobile wing of the State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) department, Dugri police on Tuesday lodged an FIR against unidentified persons.The FIR has been lodged on the statement of excise and taxation officer (ETO) Randhir Singh. He stated that the department has set aside five vehicles for raids on tax evaders. A few days ago, they found nine GPS trackers installed in the vehicles. Singh said he suspects that some unscrupulous elements may have installed the trackers to keep tabs on the movement of officials. The tax department lodged an official complaint on September 24.According to sources, SIM cards found in GPS trackers were bought using fake identification proofs.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Manjit Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-fir-registered-month-after-gps-trackers-found-in-tax-wing-vehicles-101638995844172.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal assembly’s winter session likely to be stormy affair; Congress plans to corner BJP||The winter session of the Himachal Pradesh Assembly is likely to generate much heat as the opposition Congress is likely to corner the BJP government, which will be completing four years in office later this month, over scores of issues.Buoyed by its victory in the recently held bypolls, the Congress is mount and offensive against the Jai Ram Thakur regime on alleged wrongdoings in vaccination drive, inflation, unemployment and corruption.To counter the opposition, the BJP will try to highlight its achievement in the last four years.The session starts on December 10 in the Dharamshala complex of the Vidhan Sabha at Tapovan. The session ends on December 15. There will be total of five sittings and December 14 will be a private-member day.Both treasury and the opposition would prepare the floor strategy in their legislative party meetings likely to be held a day prior to the start of the session.The Congress will aggressively raise the issue of the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state. The leader of opposition, Mukesh Agnihotri, has been accusing the government of presenting false data of vaccination to claim 100% coverage of the eligible population.Agnihotri has alleged that the government has issued vaccination certificates to the people who haven’t got both the jabs and even to the dead.The state was declared the first in the country to have a fully vaccinated 100% eligible population on December 3.The government had celebrated the feat by organising a mega function at Bilaspur which was presided over by the BJP national chief JP Nadda. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had also attended the event.The BJP regime has been highlighting the success in the vaccination campaign as its major achievement while the opposition alleges that it was just a ploy to divert attention from BJP’s defeat in the byelections.The Congress also plans to vehemently raise the issue of the government’s alleged move to lease out two prime properties of the tourism department in Mandi district in private hands.It will also raise the issue of disparity in salaries of constables in the police department who were recruited after 2015.The state for the first time had witnessed an unprecedented protest by cops outside the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s official residence “Oak Over” last month while the family members of the constables had stopped the convoy of JP Nadda during his programme in Bilaspur.Besides, the opposition will turn up the heat on the government over the land acquisition for the proposed Greenfield airport in Mandi, loans raised by the state government in its tenure, unemployment, law and order, rising prices of essential commodities and cooking gas, poor conditions of roads and national highways, and stray cattle menace.Meanwhile, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has said the government was fully prepared to face the opposition and every matter raised in the house will be discussed and answered.Questions aplentyAs per the Vidhan Sabha website, total of 428 questions has been filed by the legislators seeking government’s reply of which 285 are for oral reply and 143 questions for oral reply.Most of the questions are related to roads, schools, health institutions and water-supply schemes. The government will also introduce some important Bills during the session.Tight securityThe district police have put elaborate arrangements in place for security and traffic management during the Assembly session.Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Khushal Chand Sharma said a 900-strong force will be deployed for security and traffic management during the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-assembly-s-winter-session-likely-to-be-stormy-affair-congress-plans-to-corner-bjp-101638995615816.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla: Himachal governor flags off cycle rally for voter awareness||The state election department in association with the Cycling Association of Himachal Pradesh organised a voter awareness cycling rally on Wednesday.The rally, aimed at creating awareness among the general public, especially youths and girls of 18-19 years, was flagged off by governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar from the historic Ridge in Shimla on Wednesday.Boys and girls competed in the rally in three categories – U-16 (junior), U-23 (youth) and above-23 (elite). Speaking on the occasion, the governor said that special revision of photo electors -2022 was underway in the state these days.He said that every resident of Himachal Pradesh who has attained the age of 18 years or more as on January 1, 2022, should get his name enrolled in electoral rolls.He said the state election department was making special efforts for the registration of voters and in this regard, a cycle rally has been organised. He urged the youth to make themselves aware about the voter lists and also make their family and the people around them aware. He added that if their name was not included in the voter list then they should ensure to register it online or through their booth label officers.Earlier, Mohit Sood, secretary, Himachal Cycle Association, welcomed the governor.Chief electoral officer C Paulrasu, secretary to the governor Priyatu Mandal, deputy commissioner, Shimla, Aditya Negi, were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-himachal-governor-flags-off-cycle-rally-for-voter-awareness-101638995611159.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||151 Covid cases, 2 deaths in Jammu and Kashmir; Srinagar reports highest infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported 151 fresh Covid-19 infections and two deaths on Wednesday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 107 cases were reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 44 infections. One death was reported each in Kashmir and Jammu division. Kashmir reported the highest 47 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 22 cases in Jammu and 18 in Baramulla district. As many as 15 districts saw single-digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 538 followed by Baramulla and Reasi districts with 258 and 202 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 111 with active positive cases reaching 1,639.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 57,350 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.709 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,32,070 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.18%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,38,198 and the death toll has reached 4,489.The officials said that 55,107 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,153 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 870 deaths.Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,38,198Total recovered patients: 3,32,070Total Deaths: 4,489Active cases: 1,639||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/151-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-jammu-and-kashmir-srinagar-reports-highest-infections-101638995553943.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farooq Abdullah slams repeated extensions to Jammu and Kashmir Delimitation Commission||National Conference president and Lok Sabha member Dr Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday slammed the Centre for deviating from its promise and assurance that there will be no extension to the Delimitation Commission beyond March 6, for submitting its report to pave the way for elections to the Jammu and Kashmir legislative assembly. The last popular government in Jammu and Kashmir ceased on June 19, 2018, after the BJP pulled out of the PDP-BJP coalition regime. “Being members of the commission, we were neither invited nor shown any preliminary report,” Farooq said while addressing a day-long convention of the party’s OBC cell here. He said, “The people of Jammu and Kashmir cannot wait anymore as there is no alternative to the popular government. The people have lost their patience due to misgovernance of authoritarian and bureaucratic rule”. “There can be no substitute to the elections and going by the inordinate delay in delimitation report, it appears the government has no intention to hold polls in near future”, he added. The NC president also “rubbished” the claims of normalcy in the Valley, claimig Central leaders remained in a denial mode over Kashmiri Pandits fleeing Kashmir in the wake of recent civilian killings. He expressed concern and anguish over unprecedented media gauge and called for bringing legislation for ensuring complete freedom to the press with a caveat that nothing should be reported that can jeopardise communal harmony and brotherhood. “How can you expect a free press when the media houses are starved for advertisements in case they report against the interests of the government,” Dr Farooq Abdullah said, adding that the media should have the freedom to voice the concerns of the people freely and fearlessly. He said he has always encouraged free media because it is the essence of democracy. Referring to the resolutions passed by the OBC Cell with regard to, inter alia, restoration of special status and statehood to Jammu and Kashmir, Dr Farooq Abdullah said the people will fight peacefully and democratically for their rights with a sense of commitment. They will weather all the storms and shall remain steadfast in getting back what has been snatched from them, he added. Strongly advocating the genuine demand of reservation for the Other Backward Communities, Dr Abdullah said this is imperative for providing a level playing field to the marginalised segments of society to grow and prosper. The reservation for their youth is necessary as they too have the right to contribute towards the nation by becoming doctors, engineers and high-ranking officials like similarly placed reserved categories are availing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farooq-abdullah-slams-repeated-extensions-to-jammu-and-kashmir-delimitation-commission-101638995551294.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Nights in Kashmir continue to record sub-zero temperatures; Gulmarg freezes at - 6 °C, Leh - 7.9 °C||Nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the third day on Wednesday with the mercury plunging to - 6 °C in the snow resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir.The days remain warm as the sun continues to come out bright and break the effect of chilling temperatures.“Today, weather is fair to partly cloudy in all districts,” said J&K, meteorological department, Sonam Lotus.The night temperature in all the weather stations remained below zero, though slightly better than Tuesday.In north Kashmir, Gulmarg recorded a slight improvement in night temperature with the mercury settling at - 6 °C as against - 7 °C a night earlier.In south Kashmir, the mercury dipped to - 3.4 °C at the mountainous resort of Pahalgam in Anantnag district.The summer capital Srinagar recorded - 0.4 °C while it was - 1.4 °C each in Kokernag and Kupwara, - 1.5 °C in Khanabal and - 1.6 °C in Qazigund.In the union territory of Ladakh, Leh recorded - 7.9 °C during the night.Weather conditions improved in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday after a day of light rains and snow in J&K and Ladakh.Srinagar had received rains on Sunday while snow fell on mountainous areas like Gulmarg in north Kashmir and Shopian in south Kashmir. Some areas of Jammu were hit by hails. Moderate snowfall was also reported at Kargil, Zanskar and in higher reaches of Leh.The director, MeT, said light snow was likely at isolated places on higher reaches during December 8 and 9. “The weather will remain mainly dry till December 15,” he said.He said Ladakh’s weather is generally cloudy at most places of Leh district and Panikhar-Zanskar area of Kargil district.“There was light snow over the mountains. Except for light snow over Zojila-Drass, Gilgit area, during December 8 and 9, mainly dry weather till December 15 is expected. Overall, warmer and pleasant days and colder nights till December 15 in both union territories,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nights-in-kashmir-continue-to-record-sub-zero-temperatures-gulmarg-freezes-at-6-c-leh-7-9-c-101638995545625.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mehbooba Mufti meets Kashmiri Pandits in New Delhi; tells them your exodus has hurt us too||Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti held interaction with migrant Kashmiri Pandits in New Delhi and stressed on community-based reconciliatory efforts in order to bridge the gaps.Mehbooba said the role of youth was paramount in bringing the young generation of both communities.While addressing a gathering of members of the Kashmiri Pandit community in the national capital on Wednesday, Mehbooba said that Kashmir was incomplete without Kashmiri Pandits and that greater and constant communication between the two communities is paramount to bridge the gap.“Kashmir is incomplete without you. You are part of our culture and existence. Believe me that you are always missed back home. Your exodus has hurt us too and we want you to return in a dignified manner,” said the former chief minister, who is currently in the national capital.Mehbooba urged the youth of the two communities to be at the forefront of initiatives of reconciliation underlining that youth alone can make any such effort sustainable to yield desired results.“The new generation from both Kashmiri Muslim and Kashmiri Pandit community has had no interaction and thus don’t know much about each other. The distances between us have only grown. If we want to make headway in community reconciliation, our youth have to interact and know each other better,” she said.Underlining how the pain and suffering of Kashmiri Pandit community have been weaponised by some political parties while doing nothing to help them and see their dignified return to the Valley, Mehbooba said a deliberate and concerted effort is being made through hateful television debates to further the wedge between the two communities.“A sinister design is in play to deepen the fault lines between the two communities in furtherance of communal and divisive agenda. They want us to hate each other. A deliberate attempt is being made to widen the gap and create an atmosphere of hate at the cost of community interests,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehbooba-mufti-meets-kashmiri-pandits-in-new-delhi-tells-them-your-exodus-has-hurt-us-too-101638995488650.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Three LeT militants killed in encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian||Three LeT militants were killed in an encounter on Wednesday in south Kashmir’s Shopian district.A joint operation was launched by the Army, police and the CRPF at Chack-i-Cholan village in Shopian. The operation turned into an encounter in which three militants were killed.Police spokesman said that during the encounter three militants of LeT (TRF) were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of the encounter. The militants were identified as Amir Hussain Ganie, Rayees Ahmed Mir and Haseeb Ahmad Dar, all residents of Shopian.“As per police records, all the three killed militants were categorised militants linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). They were part of groups involved in several terror cases, including attacks on security forces and civilian atrocities,” a police spokesman said, adding that the killed militant, Aamir Hussain, was active since September 2020 and involved in several terror crime cases, including the attack on forces at Rakhma village on October 1.“He was also involved in luring gullible youth to join terror folds. While as Rayees Ahmad was active since June 2021 and involved in several terror crime cases, including the attack on the police. He was also involved in the attack on police at Rakhma village. Haseeb Yousuf was also involved in several terror crime cases in the areas of Kulgam,” the police spokesman said.The police said that an AK 74 rifle and two pistols were also recovered from the encounter site. “All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation.”Among three killed terrorists, Amir Hussain was TRF’s district commander, Shopian. He was involved in several terror crimes, IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said.He congratulated the joint teams for carrying out the operation in a professional manner without any collateral damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-let-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-south-kashmir-s-shopian-101638995487412.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gen Bipin Rawat’s alma mater in Shimla to hold prayer meeting for him||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat’s death in an air crash has shocked his alma mater, St Edward’s School, Shimla. The school will hold a prayer meeting to pay homage to its “bright star”.Gen Rawat, 63, his wife and 11 others died after an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper they were on board crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district.In 2019, Gen Rawat took time from his busy schedule to spend a day in the school along with his wife Madhulika Singh. During his visit to Shimla, Gen Rawat had told the students of the NCC wing of St Edward’s School that if you have the passion to serve the country, then join the Army. He wrote in the visitor’s book of the school, “I am impressed to see the spirit and enthusiasm of the NCC cadets. I wish them a bright future.”Gen Bipin Rawat had come to Shimla on May 13, 2019.“It was a proud moment when Gen Rawat visited the school,” said a schoolteacher. Gen Rawat studied at St Edward’s from 1971 to 1973 at the time when his father Lt-General Laxman Singh Rawat was posted in Shimla. “The school has lost its brightest star. It’s a sad day for all of us. He was an inspiration to the students,” said Anil Walia, general secretary, St Edward’s Old Boys Association. Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed grief over the sudden demise of Gen Rawat, his wife and other personnel of the armed forces.In his condolence message, the governor said Gen Rawat contributed immensely to the security of the nation and modernising the armed forces. His demise was a great loss to the nation.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the nation had lost a decorated officer and top Commander of the Army, who has made the country proud on several occasions. He said the country would always remember his services. He also wished speedy recovery to Group Captain Varun Singh.
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sahnewal: 32-year-old man killed, 5 hurt as car crashes into another car on highway||A 32-year-old was killed while five others were injured when a Maruti Suzuki Ertiga car rammed into a Toyota Innova parked on the roadside on the national highway near Sahnewal on Tuesday evening.The victim has been identified as Som Pal, 32, of Satkar Nagar, Tibba road. His brother, Menpal, said Som Pal and five of their relatives were returning from Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday evening when the mishap took place. The Toyota was parked on the roadside without blinkers on. As a result, Som Pal failed to see the stationary vehicle and rammed his car into it, said Menpal.The impact of the collision was so strong that Som Pal died on the spot. The other occupants of the car were taken to the hospital and discharged after first-aid. Police have arrested the Toyota driver, identified as Ajay Kumar of Chamba of Himachal Pradesh, for causing death due to negligence, obstructing public way, causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others and mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees. His vehicle has been seized.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pooran Singh, the investigating officer, said passers-by had informed the police. Deaths due to stationary vehiclesOctober 27: A biker died after crashing into a tractor-trailer near Kutbewal Gujrana village on Hambran road. After the incident, the tractor driver fled the spot.September 19: One person died after a vehicle crashed into a stationary truck on national highway near Doraha. September 16: A 34-year-old Mohali resident died after he rammed his bike into a stationary truck in Katani Kalan.May 7: Returning to Delhi after dropping a patient in Amritsar, an ambulance crashed into a tanker in Khanna. The ambulance driver died on the spot while his assistant suffered injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sahnewal-32-year-old-man-killed-5-hurt-as-car-crashes-into-another-car-on-highway-101638995424092.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will develop Talwandi Sabo as religious tourism circuit, says Punjab CM Channi||Announces heritage street in the town on lines of Amritsar, and Chamkaur SahibPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said that the state government will develop Talwandi Sabo, which is home to one of the five temporal seats of Sikhism Takht Damdama Sahib, as a key religious tourism circuit with a view to generating employment.Addressing a rally at Rama Mandi of Bathinda district, Channi said, “A heritage street will be developed in Talwandi Sabo on the lines of Amritsar and Chamkaur Sahib. Also, healthcare facilities will be strengthened in the town and the 5-bedded hospital will be upgraded to 50 beds. A school and railway over-bridge will be built at Rama Mandi.” On delay in the disbursement of compensation to farmers whose cotton crop was damaged in the pink bollworm attack, Channi said a cabinet in a meeting on Thursday will give a formal approval for the same. The affected farmers, he said, will get the compensation within a week.He rubbished the charges of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leadership that he struck a deal with Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and create a drama of arresting their party leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a “weak” drug case.“The AAP owes a public explanation on why their national convener Arvind Kejriwal had tendered an apology to Majithia for having levelled allegations related to involvement in the drug trade. My government is committed to breaking cartels of Sukhbir Badal and Majithia,” he added.Meets Akal Takht jathedarDuring his scheduled night stay at Takht Damdama Sahib, Channi handed over a memorandum to acting Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to direct the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to immediately grant rights to all the TV and radio channels for direct telecast/broadcast of live gurbani kirtan from the Golden Temple in Amritsar.The Punjab government is ready to bear the entire expenditure of requisite infrastructure for the purpose, he said.“The SGPC has given exclusive rights to a particular channel with ownership by a single family in lieu of a paltry fee enjoying monopoly which is totally unfair and unjustified. The holy programmes should be made available to the sangat on various platforms,” said the CM.Ex-MLA Jassi stopped from going near CMInfighting in the local Congress came to the fore at the Rama Mandi rally on Wednesday when three-time MLA and senior Congress leader Harminder Singh Jassi was prevented by the party’s youth wing activists from going near chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on the stage. Jassi, a former minister, was not invited to address the rally and he was given a corner seat. Youth Congress leader Khushbaz Jatana, who unsuccessfully contested the last assembly from Talwandi Sabo, organised the event and even staked claim for party ticket from the segment in the CM’s presence. Earlier, Jassi had publically expressed his desire to contest from Talwandi Sabo, his home turf. Jassi is a relative of jailed Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and has a Z-plus cover as he survived a bomb attack at Maur in 2017. On Tuesday also, he nearly came to blows with Jatana’s aides when they objected to his presence at the rally venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-develop-talwandi-sabo-as-religious-tourism-circuit-says-punjab-cm-channi-101638995065081.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Demands met, farmers likely to call off 14-month agitation today||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday announced that their 14-month agitation will be called off at 12pm on Thursday, but only after receiving the final copy of the Union government’s revised proposal which has accepted their demands.A five-member panel of the union took the decision after accepting a second draft proposal from the Union government, which includes assurances on minimum support price (MSP) and withdrawal of police cases registered during the agitation in various states.Ashok Dhawle, one of the five members of the committee, which held deliberations with the government, said they had received a revised draft proposal from the Union government, wherein their demands had been accepted.“We will get the final copy of the draft proposal at 12pm on Thursday. After holding a meeting of SKM leaders at Singhu, we will formally take a call on reducing intensity of protests,” he added.“The consensus was reached after the government agreed to take back all cases registered during the farm agitation and for stubble burning. The government also assured us that it will table the Electricity Amendment Bill. The Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments have also agreed to give a compensation of ₹5 lakh and a job to the kin of deceased farmers on Punjab government’s lines. Moreover, the government also agreed to our demands to include only SKM leaders in the MSP committee, apart from officials from state, centre and agricultural experts,” one of the committee members said.As per credible sources, SKM’s five-member committee had removed their demand of sacking union minister Ajay Mishra from their proposal being sent to the government.Khaps pass resolutions to accept SKM’s final decisionHaryana’s various khap representatives attended a meeting chaired by Ahlawat khap president Jai Singh Ahlawat at Tikri border in which they passed a resolution to follow SKM committee’s decision regarding the ongoing agitation.“If the SKM leaders ask us to go back home, we will follow their decision and if they ask us to stay put at Delhi borders, we will continue to sit here. We urged them to ensure that all cases should be taken back before calling-off this agitation,” Ahlawat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/demands-met-farmers-likely-to-call-off-14-month-agitation-today-101638994829557.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Omicron scare: All 731 foreign returnees in Karnal to be tested||Stepping up its efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19’s Omicron variant, the health department will examine all 731 people, who have returned to Karnal from different at-risk countries in the past one month. Karnal chief medical officer Dr Yogesh Sharma said health department teams will visit the 731 foreign returnees and their family members for Covid-19 tests. The list of travellers comprised people who have returned from high-risk countries, including UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Hong Kong and Singapore.The CMO also appealed to people not to hide their travel history and follow the guidelines issued by the government, including remaining in home isolation for at least one week after international travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/omicron-scare-all-731-foreign-returnees-in-karnal-to-be-tested-101638994828220.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gita Mahotsav: Haryana, Gujarat governors to inaugurate international symposium at KU||Kurukshetra University will hold a three-day international seminar from December 9 as part of the ongoing International Gita Mahotsav. The inaugural session of the seminar, on the topic “Vishwa Guru Bharat in the context of Srimad Bhagavada Gita”, will be held in Shrimad Bhagavad Gita Sadan, where Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya, along with his Gujarat counterpart Acharya Devvrat, will be the chief guests. Som Nath Sachdeva, vice-chancellor of Kurukshetra University, said Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal will also attend the inaugural session. A large number of scholars from different countries will participate in the technical sessions to be held in the seminar. Organising secretary for the seminar, Tejinder Sharma, said in this seminar, scholars from countries like Mauritius, USA, UK, Bulgaria, Bangladesh, Japan, Germany, Canada, Indonesia, Belarus and UAE will also present their lectures in various technical sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gita-mahotsav-haryana-gujarat-governors-to-inaugurate-international-symposium-at-ku-101638994827025.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||HPSC recruitment scam: Congress steps up attack on BJP-JJP government||The opposition Congress continued its attack on the BJP-JJP government in Haryana on the “slipshod” handling of the HPSC recruitment corruption case. Leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday met the Haryana governor to demand investigation into the recruitment scam under the supervision of a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court. “The government has made former HPSC deputy secretary Anil Nagar a scapegoat. An official of the deputy secretary rank cannot carry out such a recruitment scam on his own. The recruitment mafia has sold jobs like goods at a grocery store. But only the salesman of the shop has been caught while the owner has been let off. Justice demands that the HPSC chairman and members should be suspended,” Hooda said at a press briefing. Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala and former Haryana minister Kiran Choudhry, at a separate briefing, said since the order to dismiss HCS officer Anil Nagar clearly mentioned that he as the HPSC deputy secretary was the custodian of all relevant records and there was no surety of the sanctity of the record kept by him, why didn’t the state government scrap all recruitments done during his tenure in the HPSC. Surjewala said the governor’s orders had further exposed the conspiratorial chinks and the modus operandi to bury this scam. “Despite the FIR and remand application of the Vigilance Bureau mentioning one Jasbir Singh Balhara of Safedot e-Solutions Private Limited as an accused, he was not at all questioned for recovering crucial pieces of evidence. The December 7 order by the Haryana governor regarding Anil Nagar’s dismissal has completely obliterated the role and participation of Jasbir, his employee Vijay Balhara and M/s Safedot E-Solutions Private Limited. Why this favour has been extended to protect the principal accused?’’ the Congress leader asked. Choudhry said it was quite surprising that the state government did not take further remand of three accused – Anil Nagar, Ashwani Sharma and Naveen – in the bribery case and did not file an appeal or revision against the court’s order rejecting the remand plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hpsc-recruitment-scam-congress-steps-up-attack-on-bjp-jjp-government-101638994825573.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana rice millers up in arms against tender to private firm||Fortified Rice Kernels Manufacturers Association of Haryana on Wednesday said they will go on hunger strike if the government did not cancel its milling tenders to a private firm.At a meeting at a hotel in Karnal, the association members alleged that the government had changed the norms to allocate tenders to a private firm, causing huge loss to owners of rice mills of Haryana.They alleged that instead of promoting Haryana’s new micro-industries, the state government gave preference to industries of other states.Ram Niwas, president of the association, said the tender process was designed to allocate tenders to selected firms.“The government has given tenders to a firm which offered ₹59.64+GST per kg for fortified rice to the government, while the Haryana-based firms are even ready to give the same quality rice at ₹45-50 per kg,” said a member of the association, Ramesh Midha.He alleged that in the first advertisement, the government floated the tenders with a condition of ₹65-crore turnover of the interested firms and the newcomers were exempted, but the existing companies which installed machines of fortified rice were not exempted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-rice-millers-up-in-arms-against-tender-to-private-firm-101638994824065.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Memorial dedicated to 58 farmers from Sangrur who died during stir against 3 laws inaugurated||A memorial dedicated to 58 farmers from Sangrur who died during the agitation against the Centre’s three agriculture laws in the district and on Delhi border was inaugurated at the district headquarters on Wednesday. Punjab public works department (PWD) minister Vijay Inder Singla inaugurated the memorial named ‘Yadgaar-e-Shaheedaan’ that was constructed by the department and the district administration. The minister, who was accompanied by the family members of some of the deceased farmers and deputy commissioner Ramvir, said, “Over 700 farmers, including 58 from Sangrur, sacrificed their lives while struggling against the black laws. We want to remember their sacrifice and build their memorial. As many as 26 families have received job letters and 27 cases are under verification.”The memorial has the farmers’ names written on it.“Punjabis have fought against injustice and participated in major movements in the past. This memorial is in the memory of the farmers who fought against the Narendra Modi-led regime at the Centre,” he added.Slamming the central government for informing Parliament that they had no data on farmers who died during the year-long protest, the PWD minister said, “The Congress government has identified all the deceased farmers and given them compensation. It is really shameful that a the government says that it has no data on deaths.”Taking potshots at the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), Singla said that communal politics of the right-wing organisations has only deepened the divisions in society.“The RSS has only ruptured the secular fabric of India’s pluralistic society. But the people of Punjab are wise enough to understand their destructive politics and give them a befitting reply for committing atrocities against the state,” he added.Amarinderpreet Kaur (24) of Ramnagar (Ghumand Singhwala) said that her father Rajinderpal Singh (51) died of pneumonia on March 18 while participating in the protest. “The loss cannot be filled but my brother got a job. I am proud of my father as he fought against the black laws,” Kaur added.
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Military Literature Festival to return for a fifth edition||The annual Military Literature Festival will return for a fifth edition this year, but with a truncated schedule. The event will be organised in two separate phases—over the December 11-12 and December 18-19 weekends.This year’s festival, the theme for which is the Golden Jubilee of 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War, will take place via video conferencing given the Covid-19 situation.Several different sessions, hosted by army veterans, have already been listed out for the event. The opening day will commence with a session discussing the recent collapse of the establishment in Afghanistan.Captain Amarinder Singh, one of key figures behind the conception of the festival, is yet to confirm his participation. The former chief minister of Punjab has been keeping busy with preparations for the impending assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/military-literature-festival-returns-for-a-fifth-edition-101638994051780.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: AAP promises women’s safety||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday promised that all areas in Chandigarh without proper lighting will be illuminated with hi-tech lighting system so that women feel safe and can move freely anywhere and at any time.AAP Chandigarh affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh was addressing a press conference at the party headquarters here on Wednesday. Citing the report of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), he said, “The situation in Chandigarh in terms of women’s security was the most vulnerable in the country in 2019.”Referring to the Delhi model, he said, “The Arvind Kejriwal government is the only government in the country that has installed 1,826 CCTV cameras over every 1.5 kilometres in view of women’s safety in Delhi.” Singh promised that after their victory in the MC polls, work would be done on a large scale for women’s safety. Singh said, “Chandigarh will get world-class security. CCTV cameras will be installed in inner and outer areas of the city so that the girls/women can remain safe round the clock,” he said.AAP also promised free Wi-Fi facility across the city. He said, “In the era of technology, the internet has become a necessity for people of all ages. Keeping this in mind, AAP will provide free 24X7 Wi-Fi facility all over the city.”Jarnail Singh said that although 12 wards are reserved for women in the corporation elections this time, but seeing the worrying situation of women’s security, AAP has brought forward 13 women candidates. On the occasion, along with co-in-charge Pradeep Chhabra and president Prem Garg, all the women candidates of AAP, who have entered the electoral fray in 13 wards of the municipal elections, were also present.Cong to issue chargesheet’ against BJP The Chandigarh Congress will issue a “chargesheet” against the BJP in on Thursday. Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla said the chargesheet will list the “failures” of the BJP in the last five years and the poll promises it made in the last elections but failed to deliver. Alka Lamba, national spokesperson of AICC, Sujanpur MLA Rajinder Rana, DPCC vice-president Abhishek Dutt and Chawla will hold the press conference to issue the “chargesheet”.Kejriwal to campaign in Chandigarh It’s official. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will campaign during the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections.The Chandigarh AAP on Wednesday got the confirmation from the party’s Delhi office.In addition to Kejriwal, party’s other star campaigners will be Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia, Rajya Sabha members Sanjay Singh and ND Gupta, Punjab AAP president Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and Delhi MLA Atishi Marlena.MP Manoj Tewari in city on Dec 16The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has announced that Bhojpuri star and MP Manoj Tiwari will be campaigning for its candidates during seven public meetings on December 16.Tiwari will be addressing meetings at Khuda Ali Sher, Indira Colony, Dhanas, Hallomajra, Maloya, and Palsora.Parties suspend campaigning for a dayExpressing deep condolences on the demise of Chief of the Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and other armed forces officers in a chopper crash, BJP, Congress and AAP have suspended their election campaign on Thursday.Rawat, 63, was killed in an IAF helicopter crash near Coonoor in the Nilgris district of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday afternoon.Final list of candidates out todayThursday is the last day for the withdrawal of nomination papers, after which the State Election Commission will release the final list of candidates.There are 214 candidates in the fray currently. Originally, 316 nominations were filed, out of which 102 were rejected after scrutiny.With many rebel candidates entering into the fray, parties are working hard to convince them to withdraw their candidature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-aap-promises-women-s-safety-101638993624031.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Six mini islands set up in Sukhna Lake to draw more migratory birds||To attract more migratory birds to Sukhna Lake and provide them with space to feed, the UT forest and wildlife department has planned to set up six ‘mini islands’ in the waterbody. Five of these are already in place, while the sixth one will be developed within the next two to three days, said the department officials. Chandigarh chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said, “With the water level of Sukhna being higher than previous years, the islands have been raised to make it easier for the birds to feed. Last year too, we had created an island this way for the birds, but the number has been increased to six this time.” The islands can be spotted when going to the lake from the regulator end and taking the forest path. After reaching the danger mark of 1,163 ft, the floodgates of Sukhna had to be opened four times in August and September, the last time being on September 30. On Tuesday, the water level of Sukhna was still at 1160.5 ft as compared to the usual 1155-1159 ft in winters. Joint director of the UT animal husbandry, Dr Kanwarjit Singh Bhangoo said, “When the water level is too high, it becomes difficult for the birds to feed as they have to dive deeper for food. Further, the islands also provide a space for birds to sit by the lake’s surface. However, any increase in the number of birds will be gradual and the number won’t shoot up in just a few days.” The number of migratory birds that have come to Sukhna Lake has been lower than normal till now, said Dalai, adding that the department was yet to carry out its own survey. The Chandigarh Bird Club (CBC) had carried out its annual census on November 14, where 335 waterfowls were found at Sukhna and Dhanas lakes. This number was the lowest since the group started conducting the census back in 2017 on the birth anniversary of Salim Ali, the ‘birdman of India’. The number of waterfowls identified has approximately cut into half in comparison with 717 such birds identified in 2017. The bird club will conduct another census in February to get a better picture of how many birds visited Sukhna Lake in the winters. Dalai also said that they were hopeful that more birds will flock to Sukhna Lake towards the end of December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-mini-islands-set-up-in-sukhna-lake-to-draw-more-migratory-birds-101638993445857.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula sees uptick with 10 Covid cases||The tricity on Wednesday recorded 22 fresh Covid-19 cases, with Panchkula accounting for the bulk. As many as 10 people tested positive in Panchkula, the highest single-day figure in recent times, while seven cases surfaced in Chandigarh and five in Mohali. The tricity’s Wednesday tally was the second highest since the second wave receded in July. Earlier, 26 people had tested positive on November 26. In Panchkula, the new cases surfaced in Sectors 6, 8, 12, 20, 21 and Kalka. In view of the Omicron scare,t he Panchkula authorities have been tracing foreign returnees. Of 578 who have returned since November 26, 452 have been traced and 126 are under investigation, stated a release.Meanwhile, the tricity’s active caseload rose to 145, with 67 patients in Chandigarh, 57 in Mohali, and 21 in Panchkula. This month’s death toll stands at one, as a Mohali resident had died on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-sees-uptick-with-10-covid-cases-101638993272370.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Escape from lockup: Chandigarh SHO shunted out, 2 women cops suspended||A day after a thief escaped from the lockup at the police station in Sector 39, the Chandigarh Police on Wednesday shunted out the station house officer and suspended two women cops who were on night duty. Meanwhile, efforts are on to trace and arrest the accused, who had slipped through rusted bars of the lockup in the wee hours of Tuesday.“Such kind of negligence in duty cannot be tolerated. The SHO (inspector Ashok Kumar) has been transferred and sent to the police lines, while the staff found negligent has been suspended,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. Those suspended are assistant sub-inspector Birmati, who was the night munshi, and constable Geeta, who was on the women desk.Sources said that the preliminary inquiry found the two women cops were missing from duty. However, a home guard volunteer, who was posted on guard duty at the entrance, was alert, they said. Meanwhile, inspector Juldan Singh, posted in the security wing, has been moved to the police station as the SHO.Escaped from rear doorDivesh Gupta, 27, was arrested on Monday for allegedly committing a string of thefts of costly bicycles in southern sectors. He was produced in court and remanded to one-day police custody, during which he was sent to the police station in Sector 39 for questioning.Sources privy to investigation said Gupta managed to slip through the rusted bars of the lockup past midnight. Two rods were bent and as the cement on the floor was loose, it facilitated his escape. Footage of the CCTV camera installed to keep an eye on the lockup is blurry, but footage of another camera shows the shadow of a person escaping from the rear door of the station, it is learnt.With both women cops missing from duty, and the home guard volunteer stationed at the entrance, Gupta managed to escape without being noticed, said a police official. There are about 10 cops deployed on duty at night. The escape came to light when an investigating officer returned to the police station along with a constable after visiting a night spot, and noticed that Gupta’s shoes were missing. On checking the lockup, they found him missing. Police teams are raiding various possible hideouts of the accused, but had failed to trace him till the filing of this report. 
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh GMCH suspends walk-in OPDs, elective surgeries||The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has suspended walk-in OPDs and elective surgeries from Thursday after senior resident doctors joined the junior residents’ indefinite strike over the delay in NEET-PG counselling.“Earlier, junior resident doctors had suspended their duties, apart from emergency duties, to press for their demand. But now, they are also withdrawing from emergency services. Also, senior resident doctors will join the indefinite protest from Thursday. As a result, GMCH will only provide critical care services to the patients, such as emergency and intensive care unit services. Also, the hospital will continue to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients”, the hospital administration said on Wednesday.The hospital added that till the strike continues, physical OPD will be restricted to patients who have a prior online appointment (through gmch.gov.in). Also, telemedicine consultation will continue as before. “Since junior and senior residents will be on strike, faculty members will be available to provide emergency services to patients,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, GMCH.Strike over delay in NEET-PG counsellingOn December 6, around 200 junior doctors of GMCH had joined the nationwide indefinite strike to protest the delay in conducting counselling of NEET-PG 2021.The postgraduate entrance exam for medical colleges was delayed twice since January and was finally held in September. Now, admissions have been delayed due to the dispute over revising the income criterion for economically weaker sections.“Over 50,000 doctors are sitting at home and waiting for NEET counselling after completing their MBBS. Also, the doctors in hospitals are overburdened. Court orders should not be delayed now,” said Dr Vinci Priyasha, general secretary, United Resident Doctors’ Association, GMCH.The strike has not affected the PGIMER and Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. While GMSH does not offer postgraduate courses, the PGIMER doesn’t carry out admissions on the basis of NEET.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gmch-suspends-walk-in-opds-elective-surgeries-101638993269499.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Now, hail a heli taxi from Chandigarh to popular destinations in Himachal||The Chandigarh International Airport Limited on Wednesday launched the helicopter taxi service to popular tourist destinations in Himachal Pradesh, including Mandi, Kullu and Dharamshala, via Shimla. Chandigarh-Shimla-Chandigarh RCS heli taxi service, operated by Pawan Hans, was launched under the Centre’s Udan-2 scheme for regional air connectivity in February 2019. The 30-minute ride is available thrice a week — on Monday, Friday, and Saturday.Now, on three other days — Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday — the route will be extended to other destinations, stated a release. After a 25-minute stop in Shimla, the heli taxi will proceed to Mandi, where it will stop for 15 minutes. Thereafter, it will proceed to Kullu. On the way back to Shimla, it will touch Rampur. The fliers will also get air connectivity from Mandi to Dharamshala.One-way fare for each passenger from Chandigarh to Shimla is ₹3,665. Flying further to Mandi will cost ₹3,665 extra, taking the total to ₹7,330. Those flying from Mandi to Kullu will have shell out ₹3,155 more, which means a one-way Chandigarh-Kullu flight will cost ₹10,485 per passenger. According to officials, if the helicopter is fully booked till Kullu, the operator might also fly directly till there from Chandigarh or Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-hail-a-heli-taxi-from-chandigarh-to-popular-destinations-in-himachal-101638993266758.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Domestic help held for duping NRI employer in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Police have arrested a 21-year-old domestic help for stealing her employer’s debit card and withdrawing ₹5 lakh from the bank account. The accused has been identified as Sarojni, aka Roshni, who belongs to Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh.Complainant Kanan Singal, who is a non-resident Indian, said Sarojni was working and staying at her house in Sector 34, Chandigarh, for the past five years. Singal said her children are settled abroad and she keeps visiting Chandigarh regularly. She came out to know about the crime after receiving a message about ₹40,000 being withdrawn from her account on December 6. On further checking her bank statements, Singal realised that she had been duped of ₹5 lakh through various withdrawals.Investigations led the police to her domestic help. They have recovered ₹3.7 lakh besides the debit card from her. Booked for theft and cheating, she was produced in court on Wednesday and sent to one-day police remand.“The accused used to withdraw money using the debit card, and in order to avoid getting caught, she used to keep the card back. She even deleted the alerts sent by the bank on Singal’s mobile,” said an investigating official. Man loses ₹8.1L in online fraud A Manimajra resident lost ₹8.1 lakh to an online fraudster who was posing as a bank employee. Victim Hans Raj told police that he received a call from the fraudster, who told him that his credit card is about to expire and needs an online approval to remain operational. The fake bank employee then shared a link through WhatsApp. When Hans Raj clicked it, ₹8.1 lakh were debited from his account. A case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/domestic-help-held-for-duping-nri-employer-in-chandigarh-101638993265578.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC election: BJP, AAP enter hoarding war||The hoarding war has started in full earnest with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) taking advertisement sites all across the city ahead of the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections.Both parties have taken around 40 outdoor advertisement sites at markets, public toilets and bicycle docks on rent from the municipal corporation. Starting with banners, hoardings and glow display boards, both parties are next going to go for radio jingles to sway the city’s voters to their side. “The advertising strategy and style is the same as in Delhi, but we have localised the message for the city. Outdoor advertisement is one of the main ways to convey our message to the masses. Our focus is on highlighting the party’s successful Delhi model under Arvind Kejriwal and also to share with people our vision for Chandigarh,” said Chandigarh AAP convener Prem Garg.The advertisements have slogans such as “Chandigarh mein bhi Kejriwal... bhrashtachar-mukt corporation”. The advertisements also talk about the party’s “guarantees”, such as 20,000-litre free water every month.The BJP is planning to run its advertisement campaign in phases, and the message will evolve with every phase. Currently, the party’s slogan is “Kaho dil se BJP phir se”. “People of the city want the BJP to win the elections, that’s what we are highlighting now,” said Arun Sood, state president. In the next phase, the BJP’s advertisement will focus on its five-year achievements. The party has made a list of 50 successful projects and works that it claims it has done during its rule in the present MC House.“It will be followed by the party’s vision for the city. What is our plan and objectives for the city’s betterment in the next five years will be shared with the people through public advertisements,” said Sood. Closer to the polling day, the party will run an “appeal” campaign.AAP banners and hoardings having the photo of its supremo and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and the party symbol, broom. The BJP has pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior local party leaders.Meanwhile, the Congress has decided against running a full-blown outdoor advertisement campaign. “The AAP does not have a grassroot connect in the city; so they have to advertise through these hoardings. The BJP has nothing to show for the past five years; so they also have to put up such advertisements. Congress will only depend on door-to-door connection with voters,” said state Congress president Subhash Chawla
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drug trafficking ring busted in Canada, nine Punjab-origin gangsters arrested||Nine alleged gangsters of Indian-origin were among those arrested and charged by law enforcement and federal agencies in two Western provinces of Canada as they bust a major drug trafficking ring.The investigations that were part of the joint operation lasted 18 months and targeted a “violent drug trafficking network operating in Calgary and throughout Western Canada,” according to a statement issued by the Calgary Police Service (CPS).The CPS operation in Alberta resulted in the arrest of nine individuals while that undertaken by police in the province of Saskatchewan led to the nabbing of six more persons. Multiple law enforcement agencies were involved in the operations, including CPS units, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), Saskatoon Police Service, Canadian Air Transport Security Authority, Canada Border Services Agency, and Alberta Sheriffs.Investigators in Calgary alleged that the network “had been engaged in conflict with a rival drug trafficking network in the city, and that combined, the two groups were responsible for more than 20 violent events in Calgary that spanned just over a year, including a double homicide that occurred in April 2019”.The alleged gang members are mainly Indo-Canadians. Those arrested in Calgary were identified as Amandeep Saggu, 31, Ravneet Gill, 25, Prabhjyot Bhatti, 22, Jarmanjit Datewas, 23, Jaskaran Sidhu, 22, and Jasman Dhaliwal, 19. Also arrested in Calgary were Steven Whyte, 27, Safwan Riaz, 22 and Irkham Farooq, 23.Those arrested in Saskatoon included 26-year-old Japjee Minhas, 28-year-old Rajandeep Singh and 21-year-old Gurkeert Hehar. Also arrested were Ali Sarfraz, 26, Andrew Karamat, 23, and Rachel Kidd, 28.“From start to finish, this investigation required an incredible amount of coordination and patience from our investigators, who worked tirelessly to hold these individuals accountable. Though our work is not over, these charges are significant, and a major step towards protecting Calgarians put at risk by drug trafficking and the related violence that follows,” staff sergeant Greg Cooper of the CPS guns & gangs unit, said.Among the material recovered by CPS were six firearms, over 55,000 Canadian dollars worth of drugs, including cocaine, methamphetamine, fentanyl pills and patches, crack cocaine, marijuana, phenacetin, benzodiazepine, and prescription pills, and over 300,000 in Canadian currency.Seizures in Saskatoon included 226,600 Canadian dollars, 4177.96 grams of cocaine, 166.99 grams of fentanyl, 67.06 grams of methamphetamine, 568.92 grams of marijuana and six vehicles.While Indo-Canadian gangs have a history going back decades of operating in the province of British Columbia, the results of the operation announced on Tuesday are the latest evidence of their area extending further into other provinces of Canada. Multiple arrests linked to drugs and violent gang activity were also reported in Ontario this year.
09-12-2021||Jaipur||Sonia, Rahul and Priyanka’s joint rally on Dec 12 to be their first in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Rajasthan is going to witness the first Congress rally on December 12 where Congress president Sonia Gandhi, senior leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi will be seen together on the dais, a senior Congress leader said.“This will be the first time that the three leaders from the Gandhi family will together address people in Rajasthan,” a senior Congress leader said. He added that the last time Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were seen in the state was in 2013 when Rahul was appointed as the party vice president.It is also for the first time that a national-level rally is happening outside Delhi.A second Congress leader said the state’s ministers, legislators and party leaders have been told to ensure the presence of a large number of people at the venue, Vidhyadhar Nagar Stadium, at what he said, will be a mega rally against inflation in Jaipur. AICC general secretary Ajay Maken and state party chief Govind Singh Dotasara who reviewed the preparations with state ministers a day earlier held another review meeting with state Congress leaders to prep for the rally.Ajay Maken told party workers and leaders to ensure that people who join the rally have received both Covid vaccine doses and tested negative to the coronavirus disease within 72 hours of the rally.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has claimed that the rally will mark the beginning of the NDA’s downfall and a win for the Congress in Rajasthan’s next assembly elections.Maken’s emphasis on vaccination and negative test for people who attend the rally is aimed at ensuring that the gathering of tens of thousands of people does not lead to the spread of Covid-19 infection.The Rajasthan High Court has rejected a petition that sought to stop the rally on the ground that it will pose a severe hazard but the court ruled that there was no law to ban such a gathering after restrictions were eased.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan on Wednesday reached 236, with a maximum of 119 in Jaipur, followed by 22 in Bikaner, 18 in Ajmer, and 13 in Alwar.The call to put off the Congress rally received some support from former Jaipur mayor Jyoti Khandelwal who sent a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, suggesting that the party postpone the event in view of the increasing Covid-19 cases and in the remembrance of the chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other personnel of the armed forces.She said the Congress should treat public health as a priority and put off the rally, and use social media to power the party’s pitch against the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. Khandelwal, who was the party’s Lok Sabha candidate from Jaipur, said the party should postpone programmes for seven days as part of respect to the military personnel who died in the chopper crash.
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Coach certificate course: Minerva Academy CEO drags UT Cricket Association, Chandigarh, to court||The high court has directed the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, to admit Shahnawaz Khan, chief executive officer (CEO) of Minerva Football Club Academy to its hybrid coaches certificate course.The court order came on the plea of Khan, who had told court that the besides being the CEO of Mohali based football academy, he has also worked as a head coach in JP Atray cricket tournament for the session 2021-2022.On November 25 , Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) advertised about its hybrid level-1 coaches certification course starting from December 6 and he applied on the same date. The teaching faculty of National Cricket Academy was to conduct the said certification course, the court was told, adding that his registration was confirmed through a mail. But, when he tried to confirm his candidature on three occasions, neither BCCI nor UTCA responded, Khan told court. The course started on December 6.The court, while seeking response from BCCI and UTCA, directed that he be allowed to participate in the said course provisionally. However, his assessment will be subject to final decision on the present petition. The response from all the parties has been sought by January 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coach-certificate-course-minerva-academy-ceo-drags-ut-cricket-association-chandigarh-to-court-101638993083664.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will announce CM candidate in Punjab before Cong does: Sisodia||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will announce its chief ministerial candidate for Punjab before the Congress does, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday. In an interview to HT, Sisodia said the “freebies” announced by AAP supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in poll-bound Punjab would be achieved by ensuring efficient tax collection and ending corruption in the state. He also said Congress’ chief minister in Punjab Charanjit Singh Channi is only trying to “imitate” Kejriwal for his simplicity and honesty to achieve a greater “public appeal”, and alleged his involvement in illegal sand mining in his own constituency Chamkaur Sahib. Channi, however, has dismissed the AAP’s allegations as a “bundle of lies”.When asked about who will be AAP’s CM face in Punjab, Sisodia said, “We will announce, but so far even the Congress has not announced whether Channi will be their CM candidate or will it be someone else. But, let me assure you that AAP will announce its CM candidate for Punjab before the Congress does.” Kejriwal had in June announced that AAP’s chief ministerial candidate for Punjab will be from the Sikh community.In the recently concluded HT Leadership Summit, Channi repeated that Kejriwal was a “kala angrez” (dark-complexioned Englishman) as Kejriwal does not belong to Punjab and does not know anything about the issues in the northern state. Kejriwal’s AAP is the main opposition party in the Punjab assembly and is hoping to better its performance in the February-March assembly elections in the state. “People in Punjab don’t believe in Kejriwal,” Channi said at the HTLS on December 4. To this, Sisodia responded that it is not a hidden fact that Kejriwal is the chief minister of Delhi. “But if the people of Punjab want to adopt the politics and development model of Kejriwal and if they are fed up with the politics of the Congress, then what problem does Channi ji have in it? The people of Punjab want an honest government like the Kejriwal government in Delhi. It is known by now that Channi ji is having a problem with this because, otherwise, how will the sand mafia operate in that state. He will lose all the money,” Sisodia said. The senior AAP leader said the party’s internal survey suggests that AAP will have a comfortable victory in Punjab. “The farm laws being repealed exposed the secret alliance of the Congress and the BJP in Punjab. If at all, the people of Punjab are feeling betrayed because they trusted the Congress and their former CM Captain Amarinder Singh, who allied with the BJP instead and exposed himself. Captain had his personal agenda and played a dual role of telling one thing to the farmers and siding with the BJP-led Centre on the other hand. Ultimately, the Congress cheated and befooled the people of Punjab for five years. The same had happened with the Akali-BJP government prior to this and now I feel the Congress will have the same fate in Punjab. People will overthrow them,” Sisodia said. The AAP has promised 300 units of free electricity per month for each household in Punjab if it comes to power. It has also promised that 24/7 power in Punjab will be provided and pending electricity bills will be waived. On November 22, Kejriwal announced that all women above 18 years of age in Punjab will be given ₹1,000 if his party comes to power in the assembly elections schedule. On December 3, Kejriwal promised free and quality education in government schools to those born in Punjab and announced to give an ex-gratia of ₹1 crore to families of the soldiers or police jawans who die in line of duty if AAP comes to power in the state. When asked about how the AAP plans to roll out these schemes if voted to power, Sisodia said the party would follow the Delhi model. “The AAP’s promise is simple - the money of the people of Punjab should be used for and on the people of the state. The same model which the Kejriwal government has successfully implemented and showcased in Delhi. In Punjab, so far, be it the Congress or the BJP-Akali, these parties have been only siphoning off people’s taxes in some way or the other. Corruption is so rampant. The AAP when it comes to power will just ensure zero tolerance to corruption, timely tax collection and all this money will be rightfully deposited in the government’s kitty and it will be used for Punjab’s development only. This is how we changed Delhi’s governance and this is what we will do in Punjab too,” he said. Sisodia hinted that if voted to power, the AAP government in Punjab will also simplify the state’s tax structure. “At present, 65% of the traders’ time in Punjab is wasted in government compliances. All this needs to change, like we simplified Delhi’s tax structure when we came to power. Education for all and economic growth will remain our main motto,” he said. 
09-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Meta opens office at CyberHub, its first stand-alone facility in Asia||Meta, earlier known as Facebook, on Wednesday opened an office at CyberHub in Gurugram, the social media company’s first stand-alone office in Asia. The company on Wednesday said the new Meta headquarters is spread over 130,000 square feet and six floors, designed as an open floor plan. Ajit Mohan, vice-president and managing director, Facebook India (Meta), said, “We see this office as an opportunity for us to build a space that will house our largest team in the country. The office will be open to anyone who is driving change — be it creators, small business owners, entrepreneurs, artists or community leaders. The spaces here will see directed, purposeful efforts from Meta to fuel their pursuits, ideas and ambition. That is why we are embracing the ambitious goal of training one crore small businesses and 250,000 creators,” he said. The new office has artwork by Pratap Morey, Rohini Devasher and Sameer Kulavoor that reflects India’s cultural and ideological diversity, while shifting from traditional towards a new identity, according to a statement released by Meta on Wednesday. The company said the office has a dedicated space called “Centre for Fuelling India’s New Economy” that will showcase the use of new technologies such as augmented reality and virtual reality in sectors such as learning and education, commerce and health-care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-meta-opens-office-at-cyberhub-its-first-stand-alone-facility-in-asia-101638992903600.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala SP for calls for resolution of pending complaints||Around a month after taking charge, Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Singh Randhawa has asked all SHOs to expedite the process of resolving pending complaints. “All units have been asked to take a decision on pending complaints within a month. FIRs should be registered where needed, else it should be closed or transferred to the department concerned,” Randhawa said. This comes after the SP office held a review and found that there are complaints pending at several stations pending for more than six months. Randhawa said that the process is already underway and the disposal of all pending complaints is expected by December 20. In view of recent cases of snatching and robberies, primarily in the urban areas, paramilitary forces have also been deputed at several intersections of the Ambala twin towns. The SP said that such cases drastically rose in October and November, after which a revised patrolling plan was prepared and patrolling vehicles have also been doubled. “In wake of shortage of manpower due to duties assigned at Geeta Jayanti Mahautsav in Kurukshetra, we decided to depute an already assigned company of paramilitary forces. In addition to this, nakas have been set up at vulnerable areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-sp-for-calls-for-resolution-of-pending-complaints-101638992844135.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||4 killed, 7 hurt as truck rams into SUV in Patiala||PatialaFour persons died while seven were injured in a road accident near new Nabha jail on the Bhiwanigarh-Nabha road on Wednesday morning. The victims were identified Abhijot Singh (7), his mother Sona Kaur, and Jaspal Kaur (32), all residents of Mundkhera village, and Soma Singh of Madhomajra village in Samana city.The incident took place when 11 persons, including six children, were coming back in an SUV after attending a wedding at Bakhopir village of Sangrur district.Investigation officer Gurcharan Singh said during preliminary investigation, it came to fore that a truck rammed into the SUV while overtaking another vehicle.“The impact of the collision was so intense that it took an hour for the police and locals to rescue SUV-borne people out the vehicle,” he said. Abhijot and Soma Singh died on the spot while Sona succumbed to injuries at government Rajindra hospital. Jaspal kaur was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where she died during treatment.Police said accused truck driver managed to flee from the spot along with his vehicleA case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-killed-7-hurt-as-truck-rams-into-suv-in-patiala-101638992783673.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||PSEB to conduct first-term board exams from Dec 13||MOHALIThe Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) will conduct the first-term examinations for Classes 5, 8, 10, and 12 from December 13. As many as 12.6 lakh students will appear in the exams. For the first time, exams will be based on multiple-choice questions, while the second term exams, which will be held in March 2022, will be subjective. The board has uploaded the information on its website www.pseb.ac.in. PSEB controller of examination Janak Raj Mehrok said for classes 5 and 8, exams will begin from December 20, while for classes 10 and 12, exams will begin from December 13. The exams are mandatory and those who will appear in the first term will be eligible for the second term, he said. The exams will be on Optical Mark Reader (OMR) sheet, which has been uploaded on the website, he added. He further said around 3.07 lakh students are appearing in class 12th, 3.23 lakh in class 10, 3.23 lakh in class 5, while 3.18 lakh students in class 8. PSEB chairperson Yograj said: “The academic year is divided into two sections, each covering 50% of the syllabus. The result will be declared according to the average of both terms. The exams for special students will be conducted in their schools only, while others will be allocated different centres as used to be the norm earlier. Last year, the PSEB had announced a 30% reduction in the syllabi for classes 10 and 12 for the academic session 2021-22. In the wake of the Covid pandemic last year, the board had declared results of class 12 in July on the basis of the 30:30:40 formula to evaluate the students considering the marks in classes 10, 11, and 12. 30% weightage was given to the classes 10 and 11 results while 40% to class 12 unit test/mid-term/pre-board exams. In May, the results of classes 8 and 10 were declared on the basis of continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE).
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to hold three-day Chrysanthemum Show from December 10||The municipal corporation is set to organise a first-of-its-kind zero-waste Chrysanthemum Show at the Terraced Garden, Sector 33, between December 10 and 12.“This year’s show is an attempt to showcase sustainable and environment friendly initiatives. The purpose of the event is that zero waste leaves the premises,” an MC spokesperson said. The 2021 edition of the annual show will be a low-key affair as measures are being taken to avoid mass gathering in view of the Covid-19 situation. Enthusiasts from across the region will nonetheless be able to display their exhibits for public viewing.The show will open on December 10 at 11 am. The public will be allowed to attend from 11am to 7 pm on the opening day and from 10 to 7 pm on the remaining two days.The MC spokesperson ensured that all necessary precautions shall be taken over the course of the three-day event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-hold-three-day-chrysanthemum-show-from-december-10-101638992546274.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||CM lays stones for devp projects worth ₹20 cr in Anandpur Sahib||Anandpur Sahib Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday laid the foundation stones of development projects worth ₹20 crore dedicated to mark the 346th martyrdom day of the ninth Sikh master Guru Teg Bahadur.Addressing a public gathering at the auditorium in Virasat-e-Khalsa after paying obeisance to Guru Teg Bahadur at Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib, Channi said: “Guruji’s legacy of religious tolerance, secularism and freedom of faith would ever guide the humanity till eternity to live in peace and harmony in an egalitarian society.”He said: “Today is a day of introspection to follow the teachings of Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji to propagate the message of universal love, amity and brotherhood in every nook and corner of the world.”On the occasion, Channi digitally laid the foundation stones of four projects, including the modernization and upgrade of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Museum at a cost of Rs. 1.5 crore, nature park to be developed and named after Guru Teg Bahadur over an area of 62 acres at a cost of ₹10 crore with the plantation of those trees which finds mention in the Bani of Guru Granth Sahib, 1 MW Solar project at a cost of ₹4.16 crore and second phase of Bhai Jaita Ji Memorial at a cost of ₹2.63 crore.Acceding to the request of Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh, who also represents the Anandpur Sahib assembly constituency, Channi announced ₹5 crore for a community centre to facilitate the local residents for organising social functions and a fire brigade station within the local municipal council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-lays-stones-for-devp-projects-worth-20-cr-in-anandpur-sahib-101638992483625.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt to draft SOPs for IELTS centres, immigration consultants||Chandigarh The Punjab government will soon draft standard operating procedures (SOPs) in collaboration with immigration departments of foreign countries for regulating framework for immigration consultants and IELTS centres in Punjab. A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level meeting under the chairmanship of deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and technical education and employment generation minister Rana Gurjit Singh. The meeting was jointly conducted by the department of employment generation, skill development & training and department of home affairs, Punjab government. Chairing the meeting, the deputy chief minister and technical education minister underscored the need for framing the SOPs to regulate ghost immigration consultants, stop fake marriages and control of biometric appointment issues in Punjab. They also said that a policy will also be formulated in coordination with IDP Education Ltd, an International body for conducting IELTS tests. Randhawa said the Punjab government is committed to provide the youth of state moving to foreign lands a legalised framework through which they move abroad without falling prey to sharks who are trying to mint money by fulfilling their dreams through illegal way. He said that no stone will be left unturned for ensuring that youth don’t get exploited in hands of fake and illegal travel agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-to-draft-sops-for-ielts-centres-immigration-consultants-101638992363297.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali farmer killed in hit-and-run accident||A 52-year-old farmer was killed in a road mishap after a speeding car hit him near Jhanjeri village in Mohali on Wednesday.Identified as Labh Singh, he was crossing the road while returning to his home from the fields when the accident took place. The car driver fled, leaving him fatally injured.Singh was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, where he was declared brought dead.Police have registered a case of rash driving and causing death by negligence against the unidentified driver. After the postmortem, the victim’s body was handed over to his family members.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSHP man held with 1.05kg charasThe crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested a drug peddler with 1.05-kg charas. The accused, identified as Jumman, 30, from Chamba in Himachal Pradesh, was arrested at the bus stand in Sector 43. A drugs case was registered against him at Sector 36 police station. Police said the accused already has a drugs case lodged against him in Chamba. Mauli Jagran man held with 180-gm marijuanaThe crime unit of Panchkula police have arrested a resident of Mauli Jagran with 180-gram marijuana. The accused, Amir Khan of Mauli Jagran was arrested from Chandimandir light point. Meanwhile, one Ajay Chapad of Kalka was arrested with 1.2 gram cannabis from Rambagh Road in Kalka. Drugs cases were registered against both of them.Expert talk on nation building at CUAn expert talk was organised at Chandigarh university on Wednesday on the role of youth for nation building , where IAS officer and eminent speaker Sonal Goyal was the resource person. She said that the youth constitutes 47% of India’s workforce presently and will remain the biggest segment for the next decade as well. With no dearth of talent, knowledge and resources in the country, the youth is poised to play a very important role in nation building, she added.IGNOU extends admission to December 12Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the last date for submission of online forms for fresh admission to all masters, bachelor and diploma programmes up to December 12 for the July 2021 session. This extension of last date will not apply to certificate and semester-based programmes and all certificate and awareness programmes of six months duration or less.Cleanliness drive held at PUThe NSS unit of Panjab University in collaboration with Rotract Club and the varsity’s dental college organised a cleanliness drive at the administrative block. Anuj Kumar, NSS programme officer, said that such events encourage the students to work for their nation.Mohali MC install machine to turn malba into tilesThe Mohali municipal corporation has installed a ₹10-lakh machine to turn construction and demolition waste (known locally as malba) into paver blocks. The MC is also procuring more machinery, costing ₹2.5 crore, for the sanitation and engineering wings. It includes five tippers and three earth-moving machines. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Wednesday visited the site near Balongi where tiles are being made. He said clear instructions have been given to the sanitation and engineering officials to improve Mohali’s rank in the Swachh survey, and take it to No. 1.Cricket: Punjab U-25 men’s team enter finalsRiding on an impressive 214-run opening wicket stand between Nehal Wadhera and Vishwa Pratap Singh, Punjab recorded a 50-run victory over Karnataka in the semi-finals of the BCCI men’s U-25 State Trophy in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Punjab will take on Gujarat in the final to be played at M Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bengaluru on Friday.ABVP, SFS members come to blows at PUMembers of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and Students For Society (SFS) came to blows at Panjab University on Wednesday afternoon. Laying the blame on each other, both student outfits claimed their members had been injured in the brawl that took place outside AC Joshi Library around 3.15pm. PU’s chief of security Vikram Singh said: “The incident happened over an alleged poster war. Both the student bodies have accused each other of tearing their posters, which resulted in heated arguments between students and subsequent fight.”Man booked for raping, impregnating teenThe Sohana police have booked a Chattisgarh man for raping and impregnating a 16-year-old girl, who gave birth to a daughter. The accused has been identified as Ajat. Investigating officer, sub-inspector Sukhdeep Kaur, said that a police team has been sent to Chattisgarh to arrest him.No arrest in case of attacks on lawyersChandigarh Police are yet to identify and arrest those involved in attacking three lawyers and damaging their car near the Sectors 37/38 dividing road, late on Monday night. The complainant, Sukwinder Singh, a resident of Phase 4, Mohali, stated that four to five unknown people in a Scorpio car attacked him and his friends, advocates Barinder Singh and Amanpreet Singh. He alleged that the accused damaged their car with sluggers/swords with the motive to kill them and snatched their car.Mohali: Sec 48-C residents irked by contaminated water supplySupply of contaminated water over the past few days has left residents of Sector 48-C, Mohali, infuriated. Several of them have been complaining of stomach pain and vomiting. Ajay Kaushik, who lives in the area, said that for several days, the water supply has been contaminated, especially in houses near the park. Though the public health department team has taken the samples, the report is yet awaited, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-farmer-killed-in-hit-and-run-accident-101638992243388.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Demand in Lok Sabha for Guru Teg Bahadur university in Delhi||New Delhi/ChandigarhA demand to set up a university in the national capital to honour the memory of Guru Teg Bahadur was made in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday.Raising the issue during the Zero Hour, Shiromani Akali Dal member Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Congress’ Ravneet Singh Bittu and Jasbir Singh Gill, and BJP’s SS Ahluwalia recalled the sacrifice of the Sikh guru.“I demand that a national university be set up in Delhi to honour Guru Teg Bahadur’s sacrifices,” Bittu, a Lok Sabha member from Ludhiana, said.Similar demands were made by Harsimrat, a former Union minister who represents Bhatinda parliamentary seat.Harsimrat also urged the Centre to approach the United Nations to observe the martyrdom day of Guru Teg Bahadur as international religious freedom and tolerance day. Gill, a Congress member from Khadoor Sahib, urged the government to set up a Guru Teg Bahadur Handicrafts Institute at Sathiala in Amritsar district in the honour of the Guru.Gill said the Guru Nanak Dev University in Amritsar has already sent a proposal to the effect and has given an assurance that it will allocate land and building to establish the institute. The demands were made on the martyrdom day of Guru Teg Bahadur, who was executed by the Mughals for his refusal to convert to Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/demand-in-lok-sabha-for-guru-teg-bahadur-university-in-delhi-101638992183364.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 22 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths||Punjab on Wednesday reported 22 fresh Covid taking the infection tally to 603578, according to a medical bulletin.With two Covid-related fatalities in past 24 hours one each in Amritsar and Ludhiana, the death toll reached 16614. The state’s positivity rate was 0.08%. The number of active cases in the state rose to 350. Among fresh cases, maximum five were reported in Mohali and three in Bathinda. With 20 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 586614 it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-22-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths-101638992063149.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chhotepur to return to SAD fold today, may contest from Batala||AMRITSARFormer Punjab cabinet minister and ex-state convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Sucha Singh Chhotepur will join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday at Chandigarh in presence of top party leadership.Confirming the development, the Gurdaspur-based senior politician said: “I will tell tomorrow why I am joining the SAD”. He may contest Punjab assembly elections from Batala constituency as the SAD has not declared its candidate from this segment and its sitting MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal has been shifted to the nearby Fatehgarh Churian seat.Chhotepur was appointed as state convener of the AAP by Arvind Kejriwal. He unsuccessfully contested 2014 Lok Sabha polls on the AAP ticket from Gurdaspur seat.Levelling corruption charges, Kejriwal removed Chhotepur as the Punjab convener in August 2016. After being sacked, Chhotepur floated his own party Aapna Punjab Party (APP) few weeks before the 2017 Punjab assembly elections. His party drew a lukewarm response. Prior to this, Chhotepur remained Punjab minister during the Surjit Singh Barnala-led Akali government. He resigned along with Capt Amarinder Singh as minister from the Surjit Singh Barnala cabinet in 1986 to protest against Punjab Police entering the Golden Temple.Chhotepur contested state assembly elections five times and won twice from Dhariwal, first as a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate in 1985 and then as an independent in 2002. He defeated SAD candidate Sucha Singh Langah in 2002. In 2009, he joined the Congress and helped Partap Singh Bajwa to defeat the late Vinod Khanna of BJP by 8,342 votes.In the 2012 state elections, Chhotepur again contested as an independent and lost to Charanjit Kaur Bajwa.
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab registers second highest GST collection since rollout of central tax regime||The Punjab government on Wednesday said the Goods and Services Tax (GST) cash collection in November 2021 grew by 32% to ₹1,845 crore -- the second highest since the central tax regime came into force. An official spokesperson said the collection is second only to that in April 2021, but also the growth rate experienced is third highest in the country across the major states after Odisha and Kerala. The spokesperson said the GST revenue receipts for Punjab in November stood at ₹1,377.77 crore as against ₹1,067 crore for the corresponding period of previous year i.e. November 2020, registering a strong growth of 29%. This is in line with the trend in economic recovery. He said that the GST revenue up to November has witnessed a high growth of nearly 54% as compared to corresponding period last year. The government claimed the high growth in GST revenue can be attributed to compliance improvement on account of both policy and administrative measures undertaken by the state government as well as the strict enforcement measures adopted in coordination with the Central tax enforcement agencies. The deployment of effective data analysis based on machine learning and intelligent on-road detention has played an important role in detections of large tax evasion cases relating to fake invoices and enhanced compliance. The tax collection from VAT and CST during November 2021 is ₹949.44 crore and ₹20.19 crore, respectively. As compared to the same period last year, VAT and CST revenue collection have displayed respective growth of 28.73% and 11.49% this year. The robust growth in VAT revenue is predominantly attributable to increase in average tax rate in October, 2021 over October, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-registers-second-highest-gst-collection-since-rollout-of-central-tax-regime-101638991283190.html
09-12-2021||Noida||Agency roped in to meet fuel needs of Noida international airport||The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) has roped in Indian Oil Skytanking Limited to design, build, and operate the fuel infrastructure, including the multi-user fuel farm and hydrant system for the airport at Jewar along the Yamuna expressway, said officials of the Zurich Airport International AG on Tuesday.The move will enable the Noida International airport to provide aviation turbine fuel in a cost-effective way and as per the open access model to its airline partners. The Indian Oil Skytanking Limited, which is India’s largest independent service provider in the domain of aviation fuel handling at airports, will work for a 30-year concession period for the Noida airport. “We are pleased to partner with Indian Oil Skytanking Ltd (IOSL) for these key airport facilities. Owing to the strong technical proposal and best-in-class operating plan, the fuel farm will enable us to provide cost-effective jet fuel to our partner airlines. Our vision is to provide quick, efficient processes and best value to passengers, airlines, and shippers. In line with our focus on sustainable operations, the fuel farm will provide sustainable aviation fuel. We are committed to be India’s leading airport in terms of customer service, efficiency, digital services and minimal impact to the environment,” said Christoph Schnellmann, chief executive officer (CEO) of YIAPL. On November 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Noida international airport that is slated to become operational by September 29, 2024. Before the operations can begin for this mega project, the YIAPL--a special purpose vehicle of Zurich Airport International AG which will operate the project-- wants all the necessary arrangements in place on time. T S Dupare, CEO of Indian Oil Skytanking Limited, said, “The scope of this partnership will involve the development of modern aviation fuel infrastructure, comprising a multi-user fuel farm and hydrant system. This proposed development of fuel infrastructure, which will be purpose built for Noida international airport, will enhance the value proposition of the airport, and cater to the needs of all stakeholders. We will extend our complete support and cooperation to the YIAPL in its vision to serve as a sustainable airport, which is the need of the hour for the whole aviation industry. We are now waiting for the speedy construction of the airport, which will set the benchmark for a digital, sustainable and state-of-the-art-airport for the whole country,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/agency-roped-in-to-meet-fuel-needs-of-noida-international-airport-101638991103270.html
09-12-2021||Noida||Authority starts construction work on new office in Greater Noida West||Heeding the numerous pleas of residents, the Greater Noida authority on Tuesday started the construction work on a new administrative office that will be dedicated to citizens of newly built group housing complexes in Greater Noida West (earlier known as Noida Extension).Chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan and additional chief executive officer Deep Chand laid the foundation stone for the new office building in Sector Tech Zone-IV area. The new office will be built within six months, at a budget of ₹2.5 crore on a 1,200 square metre area, and will have the offices of CEO, ACEO and other supporting staff. The CEO will be present at this office two days a week and at the main office in Knowledge Park-IV for the remaining days.This new office will cater to the at least 30 lakh strong population in times to come as Greater Noida West is home to at least 4 lakh housing units, spread over an area of around 5,000 hectares. It is fast emerging as a destination for middle-class homebuyers, as per realty experts and builder groups. Around 20% of units are occupied and residents of these units have been demanding a dedicated office nearby as the main office of the authority in Knowledge Park-IV is around 20km from their area, making it rather difficult for citizens to approach the authority with civic or property related issues.“This office will immensely benefit residents of Greater Noida West as they do not need to travel to the main office. They may get their issues and grievances resolved at the new office more conveniently,” said Chand.The Greater Noida authority, in July this year, opened an additional administrative office at a government school, Balak Inter College, in Greater Noida West for the ease of residents and property buyers, but he need was felt for a permanent office.The UP government, in 1992, established Greater Noida on 38,000 hectares of agricultural land and divided it into two parts — Greater Noida West and Greater Noida East. The main administrative office, in Knowledge Park-IV, is located in Greater Noida East. Residents and property owners of Greater Noida West have been demanding an office in their area as well.“We have been demanding a separate office in Greater Noida West as travelling to the main office, even for small civic issues, is difficult for citizens. Once the new office comes up, we can easily meet officials and get our issues resolved,” said Abhishek Kumar, president, Noida Extension flat owners welfare associations.
09-12-2021||Noida||Authority plans city bus service for Greater Noida||The Greater Noida authority on Wednesday said it has decided to start a city bus service for the convenience of commuters, who otherwise have to depend on private vehicles for travelling in the industrial town inthe absence of adequate public transport system.The authority wants some of the buses travelling from Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida towards Bulandshahr, Aligarh and Agra to travel via Greater Noida. Apart from this, the authority also wants some dedicated buses for the industrial town to provide last mile connectivity to commuters travelling within the city, said officials. CEO of Greater Noida authority Narendra Bhooshan and Navdeep Rainwa, managing director of Uttar Pradesh State Roadways Transport Corporation (UPSRTC), discussed the project at the main office of the authority in Sector Knowledge Park-IV on Wednesday. “We will submit a proposal to the authority to take this project forward so that the service benefits daily commuters,” said Rainwa.Spread on 38,000 hectares of land, Greater Noida has at least 8,000 factories, around 500 housing complexes, schools, hospitals, education hub, the collectorate and other government offices. The 29.7km Aqua Line of the Metro corridor enters the city from Noida’s Sector 144 and provides connectivity to Greater Noida’s Sector KP-II, Alpha-1, KP-IV and Delta 1 only. A large part of the city is yet to be connected by the Metro corridor, leaving daily commuters on the mercy of erratic auto-rickshaw drivers or other private players for last mile connectivity. “There are 124 villages in Greater Noida, where we intend to make the city bus service available. We want the bus service to cover all government offices, residential and industrial areas so that all types of commuters can use the service,” said Bhooshan. UPSRTC officials informed the authority that the ticket collection from passengers may not be adequate to run such a service and that it needs proper funding from the state government. The authority agreed to meet the shortfall in running the service because it wants the city to have the facility, said officials. However, the authority has not fixed a deadline by when it can make the city bus service available to the general public. “The authority and the state government have been promising the city bus service for a long time but nothing has happened on the ground. In the absence of public transport service in the city, we have to either depend on private auto-rickshaws or taxies, which are not economically viable for everyone. Let’s hope the authority is serious in starting the service,” said Rohit Chauhan, a resident of sector 1, Greater Noida West.
09-12-2021||Mumbai||‘No elections if OBC quota absent’||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is likely to approach the Supreme Court (SC) today with an affidavit requesting it to allow polling on all seats in local bodies scheduled for December 21 or to postpone it completely, two days after the apex court stayed elections to seats reserved for candidates from Other Backward Class (OBC) communities. The decision was taken during the state cabinet’s weekly meeting held on Wednesday. Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who is also a senior OBC leader has been entrusted with the responsibility of overseeing the legal battle in the top court. “The [affidavit] will be submitted on Thursday. We are requesting the court to either allow us hold the election under quota with the condition of submitting the certificates after a few months or postpone all the polls. When other states are allowed to hold elections under a similar Ordinance, why has an exception been made only for Maharashtra? We expect the respite during next hearing on Monday. We will compile the empirical data in due course,” OBC welfare department minister Vijay Wadettiwar said. “The affidavit will be filed on Thursday. We are quoting a court order which says the elections cannot be held in a piecemeal manner. It leads to the unrest among communities. We are also requesting the top court to ask the Centre to give us Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) data to ascertain quota. We expect a decision on it next week. We have consulted senior counsels like Mukul Rohatagi and Kapil Sibal. We are doing our level best to restore the quota,” Bhujbal said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ashish Shelar on Wednesday asked the State Election Commission (SEC) to not go ahead with polls in local bodies scheduled later this month, saying conducting them will amount to doing injustice to OBCs. “The election (in local bodies) is not going to be conducted on some seats because the OBC data is not available. Holding elections on remaining seats by excluding some would be an injustice to the OBC community. Hence we requested the commissioner to put the elections on hold till this issue is resolved,” he said. The SEC on Tuesday stayed the polls to be conducted from OBC constituencies following the SC order. The development could snowball into a major political controversy as the upcoming local body elections are being seen as a test for the MVA government. A number of local body elections will take place on December 21, including in 104 district council seats and 210 panchayat samiti seats in Bhandara and Gondia, 1,802 seats in 106 nagar panchayats, and four seats in different municipal corporations across the state. Bypolls in 7000 seats in 4,500 gram panchayats across the state are also slated for that day. In all, at least 413 local body seats reserved for OBC candidates will be affected on that day’s polling. The state will also see local body polls between February and December 2022, including in 23 municipal corporations, 27 district councils, 298 panchayat samitis, 320 nagar panchayats and nagar councils. On March 4, the apex court struck down a legal provision that permitted 27% reservation in local body polls to OBC candidates on grounds that it breached the 50% ceiling on reservations when taken together with Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) quotas. It also directed the state to collect empirical evidence to fix the extent of OBC reservation. On Monday, the SC struck down the Ordinance passed by the state in September to ensure that the 50% cap isn’t breached. The apex court said on December 6 that the state should have conducted the survey first before passing the Ordinance. On Tuesday, HT reported that the state is going to amend the terms of reference (TOR) of the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission (MSBCC) formed on June 29 with the mandate to conduct household surveys to collect data on OBC communities. MSBCC officials said the state was yet to take a decision on the state-wide census proposed by them, and has instead proposed a change in the original TOR, seeking to limit the exercise to a sample survey. Experts said that this could end up being a “quick-fix solution” instead of the “rigorous empirical data” of the socio-economic backwardness of the OBC communities sought by the apex court. “In its order on Monday, the SC stayed the Ordinance for the state government’s failure to comply with the triple test asked by the court while giving ruling in K Krishnamurthy case on March 4. The state has constituted the MSBCC but failed to kick start the work of collection of the data. It has not even been able to finalise its terms of reference (ToR) or allocate adequate funding. The court is also against postponement of the elections for the want of empirical data. Moving court with the request for respite is just a political move,” an official from OBC welfare department said. The officer said that the political reservations given to OBCs since 1994 was disproportionate in many local bodies are the quota was more than their actual population. He said that the SC has ordered the survey to avoid depriving eligible backward class citizens from reservation. The state is expected to engage senior counsels to represent it during the next hearing on December 13. “I do not think political reservation will be restored without empirical data. The SC has made it very clear and to my opinion the sample survey to collect such data or for that matter even caste based survey should be done. Various commissions including Mandal commission had recommended collection of such data. It helps in weeding out the caste-based inequality in the society and also throws light on the current status of the population. It is possible that a section of established politicians from reserved categories may oppose such attempt as there is fear that the progressive sections of the reserved category would lose the reservation if fresh surveys are conducted,” Balkrishna Renke, former chairman of the National Commission for Denotified, Nomadic and Semi Nomadic Tribes, said. “The only option before the state government is to submit fair empirical data based on the ground realities and seek the restoration of the quashed reservation for the OBCs. Holding the elections is the responsibility of the state, but court will not allow it if the fundamental principal of the reservation is breached,” legal expert Aseem Sarode said. “The law or even the Ordinance should be in conformity with the Constitution. The Ordinance does not fulfil this fundamental obligation and thus the court is unlikely to be reconsider its order,” constitutional expert Ulhas Bapat said. 
09-12-2021||Noida||NCRTC erects 73m pillarless steel structure on priority section of RRTS project in Ghaziabad||The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) has successfully installed a 73-metre-long pillarless steel structure over railway tracks to connect Sahibabad station near Vasundhara and Ghaziabad City station on the 17km priority section of the Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project.According to NCRTC officials, it was a challenge to connect the two stations as no pillars could be erected on the railway land, near Vasundhara, due to presence of a network of railway lines catering to the Delhi-Howrah route, one of the busiest routes of the Indian Railway. It took the NCRTC about four months to erect and roll the steel structure, weighing about 850 tonnes, from one side to the other side without disturbing the rail traffic, the officials said. “The problem cropped up as we found that no pillars could be erected on the railway land due to presence of railway tracks. To overcome this, we completely bypassed the pillar structures and decided to install the framed streel structure to join the Sahibabad and city side of the RRTS project,” said an officer from NCRTC. The average distance between the two pillars of the ongoing RRTS project is about 34 metres, the officials said, adding that it would have required construction of two pillars to connect the two sides of the priority section. “After the successful installation of the steel structure, we will now install one more similar structure which will be about 150 metres long and likely to weigh twice than this structure. This needs to be installed as the RRTS alignment has to move over one flyover and the Metro tracks near New Bus Adda Metro station,” said Puneet Vats, chief public relations officer of NCRTC. The 82km RRTS project is proposed to connect Delhi with Meerut via Ghaziabad with the help of high-speed trains. Of the 82km, a 17km stretch from Sahibabad to Duhai is getting developed in Ghaziabad. This stretch is likely to commence operations by March 2023, while the entire route is likely to get operational in 2025. The project is pegged at a cost of ₹30,274 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ncrtc-erects-73m-pillarless-steel-structure-on-priority-section-of-rrts-project-in-ghaziabad-101638990384769.html
09-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad traffic police start issuing e-challans for violations on expressways||Officials from the Ghaziabad traffic police said on Wednesday that they have started receiving data from the systems installed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) and the Eastern Peripheral Expressway for detecting traffic violations and have started issuing e-challans to those violating traffic rules on the expressways. The systems have paved the way for real-time tracking of traffic violations on the two expressways. Traffic officials said of the daily traffic violations detected during the trail run of the systems, about 90% were related to overspeeding with erring vehicles clocking a speed up to 130-140kmph and sometimes even more on both the expressways. The speed limit for cars/jeeps and other light vehicles is 100kmph while that for commercial vehicles is 80kmph in the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh. “In the past couple of months, there were some issues with linking the data recorded in the systems with the control rooms, which have now been resolved. Now, the e-challans will be generated instantly as soon as the violations are detected by the systems installed by NHAI. In November, we issued about 22,302 challans and another 3,100 during the first seven days of December for over speeding,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). “The e-challans will now be issued daily as the data of violations is being streamlined. Apart from this, we are continuing to take action against wrong side driving, driving without safety gears, not driving in lanes and on-road parking,” he added . The NHAI has covered the 19.8km stretch of phase 2 from UP-Gate to Dasna and the 32km stretch from Dasna to Meerut with CCTV cameras and automatic number plate readers (ANPRs), which will help detect violations and the registration number of erring vehicles. “The ANPRs have been installed at the six entry/exit points on the DME while CCTV cameras have been put in place at every kilometre of the stretch. We are sharing regular data of the violations on the expressways with the Ghaziabad traffic police,” said Arvind Kumar, project director of NHAI. Officials familiar with the working of the systems said the facilities can detect the registration number of the vehicles with 99% accuracy. About 5% of the vehicles were allegedly found violating traffic norms during the trial run of the systems on the DME. For the purpose of controlling the systems that will record traffic violations, the NHAI has come up with a control room each in phase 1, 2 and 4 of the DME while a master control room has been set up at Dasna in Ghaziabad. Currently, there is an estimated movement of about 120,000 passenger car units (PCUs) per day on DME’s phase 1 from Akshardham in Delhi to UP-Gate while phase 2 has an estimated traffic of about 60,000 PCUs, besides about 40,000 PCU on phase 4. There are about 40,000 PCUs plying on the EPE per day. 
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 focused sampling drive in Lucknow: Over 9K samples collected return negative||In a development that should come as a big relief to all, the over 9,000 samples collected from different professional groups, as part of the six-day focused Covid-19 testing campaign in Lucknow, returned negative.The focused sampling started on December 1 and by December 6 the department had collected 9,598 samples via the RT-PCR method. The report of the last day’s samples came in on Wednesday.However, the health department has decided to continue random sampling at different places in the city.“The aim of the focused sampling was to check infection status among people who have to go out of their houses and meet people for their work. Hence, different professional groups were identified,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow.Among the target groups were students of medical and higher education institutes, teachers, chemists running medical stores, staff of government and private hospitals, and also those working at reception and in clerical work.Experts said that though no one tested positive for Covid-19 but people should not lower their guard and adhere to the Covid-19 protocol strictly. “Particularly at places with large gatherings, such as marriage ceremonies or other parties. Organisers should ensure limited guests stay inside a closed space and visitors too should take precaution while visiting places including markets and malls,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.The Lucknow health department has conducted 57,64,687 Covid-19 tests till now, including 27,70,293 tests via RT-PCR method, 28,07,517 Antigen, and 1,97,522 Truenat. With two fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Wednesday, the number of total active cases under treatment in Lucknow is 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-focused-sampling-drive-in-lucknow-over-9k-samples-collected-return-negative-101638990323518.html
09-12-2021||Noida||60 workers of Samajwadi Party booked for disrupting traffic on expressway||Police on Wednesday booked 60 workers of the Samajwadi Party (SP), who were on their way to attend a rally of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal’s (RJD) Jayant Chaudhary in Meerut, for allegedly creating a ruckus and affecting traffic movement on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway on Tuesday. Dadri police said the workers, who were going in several cars and SUVs, violated rules and disturbed traffic movement near Beel Akbarpur. Police took action after a video of the incident was circulated on social media. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer (SHO) of Dadri police station, said , “We took suo moto cognizance of the matter after a video was circulated on social media. Some people were seen standing on the cars’ roof and raising slogans. We have registered a case against 60 unidentified people under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC. We are investigating the matter,” he said. Raghvendra Dubey, SP spokesperson from Noida, said a group of party workers from Noida attended Akhilesh Yadav’s programme on Tuesday. “We had first called the workers to gather in Noida. They boarded their cars and SUVs and went directly to Meerut without stopping on the way. We do not know who created the ruckus,”said Dubey.Inder Pradhan, SP president, Gautam Budh Nagar, said generally, party workers are enthusiastic during a rally. “The party workers may have raised slogans on the way....but we feel the police action is not rational. The police do not take action against the workers of the ruling party when they organise similar programmes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/60-workers-of-samajwadi-party-booked-for-disrupting-traffic-on-expressway-101638990143521.html
09-12-2021||Noida||Woman jumps to death in Greater Noida, husband held for dowry death||A 28-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly harassing his wife for dowry, who died on Monday after jumping from the eighth floor of a high-rise in Greater Noida west. The suspect was identified as Dev Sharan Sharma, a resident of Supertech Eco Village. Police said his wife Karuna Devi (26) jumped from the eighth floor of a building after a quarrel and died on Monday. Anita Chauhan, station house officer (SHO) of Bisrakh police station, said around 8:30pm on Monday, police received a call that a woman had fallen from a building and was critically wounded. “A team reached the spot and rushed her to a private hospital, where she was declared brought dead,” said Chauhan. Police said the woman got married to Sharma two years ago. Originally from Madhya Pradesh, the couple was living in Greater Noida west after their marriage. Chauhan said the woman’s family members filed a complaint against Sharma alleging dowry death. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against him under sections 304-B (dowry death), 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC and also under sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. “Sharma fled the spot following the incident on Monday. On Wednesday, police received information about his movement near Hanuman Temple in Greater Noida west. A police team reached the spot and arrested him,” said the SHO. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-jumps-to-death-in-greater-noida-husband-held-for-dowry-death-101638989963209.html
09-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad sets up dedicated wards in two hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients||The district health department has dedicated a ward each with 20 beds for Covid-19 patients at the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital and Santosh Medical College in case a patient infected with the viral infection needs immediate admission. The Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital worked as a dedicated Covid facility in the L-2 category during the first and second waves of the Covid-19 pandemic while the Santosh Medical College was acquired by the government as a dedicated L-3 category facility. According to the Uttar Pradesh government’s three-tier setup, hospitals falling in the L-1 category deal with Covid patients having mild symptoms; those in the L-2 category treat patients with moderate symptoms while facilities falling under the L-3 category are dedicated to treatment of critical patients. “In line with our preparedness against any increase in Covid-19 cases, we have dedicated a ward each at Sanjay Nagar hospital and Santosh Medical College with 20 beds to treat Covid-19 patients. The two hospitals have been told to keep the wards ready along with the requisite equipment and manpower. The wards have been prepared so that any Covid patient requiring admission can be shifted to any of the two facilities depending on his/her condition,” said chief medical officer Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar. During the second wave of the pandemic, the district worked with about 50 hospitals, which were classified as dedicated Covid hospitals, to treat patients infected with the viral disease. According to official figures, the district had 3,292 patients against the availability of 3,469 beds at the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. “Communication has been passed on to the different hospitals to be ready to deal with a surge in Covid-19 cases. Hospitals, which played a crucial part during the first and the second waves, have been asked to keep the infrastructure and resources ready for treatment of Covid-19 cases in 24 to 72 hours, if the need arises. We will rope in hospitals for Covid treatment as per requirement,” said the chief medical officer. Eleven new oxygen plants were installed in different government healthcare facilities on the directions of the state government after the second wave. “There was a high demand for oxygen during the second wave. Our hospital has got two new oxygen plants with a capacity of 150 litres per minute (LPM) and another having 500 LPM capacity. We already have one more plant with a capacity of 150 LPM. So, our entire hospital is now equipped with centralised oxygen supply,”said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital. The hospital mostly depended on oxygen cylinders during the second wave of the pandemic. “On directions of the chief medical officer, we have come up with a Covid ward having 20 beds. Dedicated manpower and resources have also been assigned. Doctors too have been assigned 24-hour duty,” said Teotia. According to the state control room figures, currently there are nine active cases in the district. Till Wednesday, the overall Covid tally in the district stood at 55,689, which include 461 deaths. 
09-12-2021||Dehradun||Corbett admin to refund ₹1 cr to visitors who could not make it due to Covid-19 curbs||The Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) administration has decided to refund a booking amount of nearly ₹1 crore to tourists, who couldn’t visit the park during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Uttarakhand government has approved the proposal of the CTR administration to refund the booking amount to tourists. As soon as the order is received by CTR, the booking amount will be refunded. Rahul (who goes by his first name), director CTR said, “Tourists who had made bookings to visit Corbett and couldn’t come due to the Covid-19 pandemic have a right to get their money back. So, we had sent a proposal to the state government for refunding their money. This proposal has been approved by the government.” He said around ₹1 crore will be refunded to the tourists. “We will start the process after getting the order from the government. The money will be transferred to the accounts of the tourists,” he said “With this process, along with CTR, tourists will also have confidence and faith in the Uttarakhand government as a whole,” he added According to officials, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, CTR was closed for tourists under the guidelines of the Centre. From May 1, CTR remained closed for day visits and overnight stays. Night stay in Bijrani, Jhirna, Dhela, Girija zones started on October 15 and night stay in Dhikuli zone started from November 15, while Bijrani Zone opened for day visits from October 15. Jhirna and Dhela tourism zones were opened for day visits from June 29. The Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is spread across 1,288 square km, is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the state. The gates of Corbett open on November 15 every year for six months till mid-June. Corbett witnesses a footfall of around 300,000 tourists every year. There are 231 tigers inside CTR and 266 are using the reserve according to the latest report on tigers. This is the highest number of tigers across 50 tiger reserves in India. Corbett National Park remains closed every year from June 15 in the wake of the monsoon season. Forest roads get washed away or flooded in the rainy season and pose a danger to human life therefore it remains closed till October 15. This year it was closed from May 1 due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. But this year in June, the Corbett Tiger Reserve was opened for day visits in the monsoon season for the first time in its history||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/corbett-admin-to-refund-rs-1-cr-to-visitors-who-could-not-make-it-due-to-covid-19-curbs-101638989783060.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Indoor air pollution 20 times limit prescribed by WHO, shows study||New Delhi: The indoor air pollution levels in Delhi homes is more than 20 times the World Health Organisation (WHO) standards, a study by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC India) has shown.The study also highlighted that the levels of PM 2.5 (particulate matter of diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) was significantly higher than the levels reported by the nearest outdoor government monitors.The study released on Wednesday also showed that while high-income households were 13 times more likely to own air purifiers as compared to low-income households, its impact on indoor air pollution was only around 10%.The study further noted an 8.6% decline in indoor PM2.5 levels in homes with pollution monitors (usually with air purifiers), and said that such residents were likely to make “modest changes in inexpensive defensive practices and ventilation behaviours.”“In Delhi, the bottom line is, whether someone is rich or poor, no one gets to breathe clean air,” said Kenneth Lee, the lead author of the study.“It is a complex vicious cycle. When you do not know about the pollution levels inside your homes, you do not worry about it, and hence you are less likely to take corrective actions. Only with increased awareness, demand for clean air may gain momentum,” he added.The study surveyed thousands of Delhi households from varying socioeconomic strata between 2018 and 2020. and found that indoor PM2.5 levels tend to spike in the mornings and evenings when households were most likely to be cooking.Experts said that while there is growing awareness among people on the harmful impacts of outdoor pollution, people are still unaware about how the air inside their homes, offices and schools can also be highly polluted.“We need to create awareness among people. While there are a lot of studies about outdoor pollution and how severe it can be for your health, more studies are needed to assess the levels of indoor pollution and how they can impact people. At least you can gear yourself with masks outdoors but inside your homes, you tend to drop your guard,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-indoor-pollution-in-delhi-homes-finds-chicago-university-study-101638989606306.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Riots: Court frames attempt to murder charge against man who pointed gun at cop||A Delhi court has framed charges against Shahrukh Pathan, the man who allegedly pointed a gun at a policeman during the north-east Delhi riots in February 2020, saying the present case was not an “ordinary one”.Photographs of Pathan pointing a gun at Delhi Police head constable Deepak Dahiya were widely circulated on social media soon after the incident on February 24. He was arrested on March 3, 2020, and is currently lodged in Tihar jail.On Tuesday, additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat charged Pathan with attempt to murder, assault, rioting, unlawful assembly, and obstructing public servants in the discharge of duty under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act. The court also observed that it hadn’t witnessed riots of this nature since the deadly anti-Sikh riots of 1984.The court said from the statement of the complainant Dahiya, it is quite apparent that Pathan led a group of rioters to unlawfully assembly on the 66 Foot Road on February 24, 2020, at around 2pm and, fully armed with deadly weapons, committed rioting, attempt on the life of Dahiya, obstructed a public servant in discharge of his public functions and assaulted or used criminal force on a public servant to deter the public servant from discharge of duty.The judge said the entire incident was also captured on camera by a journalist and hence not only is there a statement from the complainant, but there also exists additional electronic evidence in the form of video footage to nail the conduct of the accused. The footage was found to be correct, continuous and un-tampered with, the court said.The court noted that there was a prohibitory order under Section 144 CrPC, issued by the deputy commissioner of police (north-east) and there was a violation also of Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC.It said even though no injury was caused to Dahiya, that does not mean that attempt to murder is not made out.It depends on the facts of the case and, in the present case, injury is not material at all.“..even the video shows firing by accused Shahrukh Pathan from a pistol in daylight with an aim to kill HC Deepak Dahiya. This is enough for framing the charge against Pathan under Section 307 IPC,” the court said.The court also framed charges against Shamim and Abdul Shehzad, both co-accused, for being part of a mob, allegedly led by Pathan, saying they were rioting at the time of the gunpointing incident. It noted that both the accused have been identified through CCTV footage and by witnesses.The court also charged another accused, Ishtiyak Malik, saying even if there was no footage of him rioting, he cannot be absolved of the crime.The judge said Malik was in constant touch with Pathan, as evidenced by Malik’s call records, and Malik’s mobile phone location was the same as that of Pathan at the time of the incident.“This factum of the location or the presence of the accused Ishtiyak Malik @ Guddu at the place of riots where weapons are being brandished, and firing done at head constable Deepak Dahiya and others by accused Shahrukh Pathan with whom he was in continuous touch and shared the location of riots, is enough for framing charges against him, “ the court said.Additionally, the bench charged one Kaleem Ahmed for harbouring Pathan in Kairana, Uttar Pradesh, where he was hiding, following the incident.Pathan, through his counsel, had earlier argued that he only intended to scare the policeman and not kill him.Communal clashes broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020 after a tense standoff between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and its critics went out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.
09-12-2021||Noida||Noida sees ‘moderate’ air, a first since Diwali a month ago||A day after favourable meteorological conditions helped disperse accumulated pollutants and improve the air quality of Greater Noida, the pollution levels in Noida also dropped on Wednesday, helping the city register the first “moderate” air quality day in 43 days. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s 4pm bulletin, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida was 186, in the “moderate category of the AQI scale. The last time Noida residents experienced “moderate” air quality was on October 26, before Diwali (November 4). Since October 26, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida had gone from bad to worse with levels ranging from “poor” to “severe” category, making it one of the most polluted cities on November 12 and 13 when AQI levels touched 488 and 464, respectively, in the severe category. Wednesday was the first day, post-Diwali, when Noida’s AQI improved to the “moderate” category. An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered ”good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 ”moderate”, 201 and 300 ”poor”, 301 and 400 ”very poor”, and 401 and 500 ”severe”. “The wind speed has picked up during past two days and it has led to significant reduction in air pollution with increased dispersion of pollutants. However, the AQI on Tuesday and Wednesday were calculated on the basis of readings taken from only three monitoring stations. The fourth station, in Sector 62, is of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and it developed technical issues. The repair work is ongoing while its recalibration was done last week,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UP pollution control board, Noida. The monitoring station in Sector 62 has also been giving high pollution readings for past two weeks while the UPPCB officials during inspections found no major polluting sources nearby. However, officials of the IMD said the reduction in pollution is due to winds picking up speed to reach between 10-15kmph during past two days. “The wind speed and clear weather has resulted in dispersal and improvement in air quality. It is likely that the clear conditions will prevail for next two or three days after which the wind speed may reduce. For the next couple of days, there is no indication of foggy conditions as such,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD. According to the CPCB bulletin on Wednesday, Greater Noida recorded an AQI of 154, in the “moderate” category, while Ghaziabad remained in the “poor” category with an AQI value of 229. “The AQI of Ghaziabad city is still ”poor” and that could be due to high volume of road traffic and other local factors. However, the conditions have improved much in the past one week. The Commission for Air Quality Management has directed the closure of industrial units that have not shifted to PNG or other clean fuel. We have about 421 such units and they will remain shut till December 12 as directed,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad. “Once such units shut, the AQI is likely to improve further though our teams are regularly conducting inspections, including night inspections. The reduction in pollution levels has been a result of better wind speed,” he said. A forecast by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said the improvement in air quality was higher than expected. “For the next four days, from December 8 to 11, winds are likely to be moderate while increasing ventilation of pollutants. Minimum temperatures are likely to drop gradually leading to more stable boundary layer during nighttime that helps accumulation of pollutants,” the Safar forecast said. It added that for next four days, the air quality is likely to improve but within the “moderate” or lower end of “poor” category.
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow full Covid vaccination tally crosses 20 lakh mark||LUCKNOW: With over 19,000 people taking their second dose of Covid-19 vaccines in the state capital on Wednesday, the total number of beneficiaries who completed their both doses in the city has crossed 20-lakh mark, according to the health department data. During the day, over 32,000 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Lucknow, including 19,895 beneficiaries who took their second dose. The total number of second dose administered in the city till now has reached 20,17,504 at 9 pm, as per the data. “So far, Lucknow has administered over 54.37 lakh doses of Covid vaccines, including over 34.14 lakh first dose,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow said, “On average over 100 vaccination centres in government sector hospitals and health facilities conduct Covid vaccination every day.” In state, total 17,21,25,018 doses have been administered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-full-covid-vaccination-tally-crosses-20-lakh-mark-101638989435178.html
09-12-2021||Gurugram||Namaz row: Muslims demand legal action, land for mosques in Gurugram||Members of the Muslim community on Wednesday alleged that the government authorities have failed to take action against miscreants who have been disrupting the Friday namaz in the city, and added that they were being denied their constitutional right to practice their religion.“We have submitted a report to 18 political parties in the hope that they will take up the issue in Parliament and other public fora. Communal slogans and provocative speeches are being made against Muslims, and the authorities are taking no action,” said Mohammad Adeeb, former Rajya MP and a member of Gurgaon Muslim Council, at a press conference organised by the two groups at the Constitution Club in New Delhi.The district administration said efforts were on resolve the sensitive issue, and the city police added that they were providing adequate security at all designated namaz sites.The presser was also attended by political and social activists such as Prof Apoorvanand and Dr Syeda Saiyidain Hameed.Hindu right wing groups have been protesting against Friday namaz in open public spaces in Gurugram since 2018. The same year, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims to perform the Friday prayers. However, in November this year, the number of sites was cut down to 20 after members of the right-wing outfits continued to protest and disrupt prayers. The Muslims, however, have maintained that they were forced to use public spaces since there were not enough mosques in the city.On Wednesday, members of the two Muslim groups who have been raising the issue with the administration also demanded action against members of the Hindu groups against whom the Gurugram police were given complaints on November 30 for alleged provocative communal speeches.“The BJP backed by RSS is bent upon reducing the minorities to second-grade citizens and they plan to achieve this agenda through polarisation. The disruption in namaz is being carried out by the same 20 to 30 people but they are not being taken into preventive custody,” said Apoorvanand, a political commentator.The Haryana BJP, however, rejected the charge, saying the state government and its bodies were taking action as per the law, and added that some people were trying to politicise the issue.“The activities of some people show their intention to politicise this issue. They are creating a law and order situation and disharmony in the society at large,” said Raman Malik, Haryana BJP spokesperson.Mufti Saleem Qasmi, a Gurugram-based religious leader, said baseless allegations were being levelled by the right-wing groups such as by offering namaz at public spaces the Muslims were waging a land jihad, and that those performing prayers were Rohingya, Bangladeshis and not local residents. “There are only 13 mosques in the city, and several people don’t get space to perform namaz. We have approached the authorities to allocate land for establishing religious sites, but nothing has happened,” he said.Altaf Ahmad of the Gurgaon Muslim Council said the authorities should provide safety at the designated namaz sites and end the harassment by Hindu groups. “The right to perform namaz (freedom to practice one’s religion) is provided by the Constitution. The population of Muslims in the city is around five lakh, but there are only 13 small mosques. The government must provide us sites for building new mosques, and ensure safety at designated sites and stop this targeted harassment” Ahmad said.Dr Syeda Hameed, a former member of Planning Commission, said, “Efforts must be made to stop communal polarisation and bring people together for peaceful coexistence.”The Gurugram police said they have been providing adequate security at all designated sites to ensure safety of the worshippers and maintenance of law and order. “Police personnel are deployed in adequate strength at all designated sites as per directions of the administration. No untoward incident has been allowed to happen till date, and in future too nobody will be allowed to disturb law and order in the city,” Subash Boken, Gurugram police spokesperson, said.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said all steps were being taken to resolve the “sensitive” issue. “Concerns of all stakeholders will be taken into consideration and the issue will be resolved. No one will be allowed to disturb the communal harmony and take law and order into their hands,” he said.Reacting to the claims about availability of land for mosques, Malik said development agencies hold regular auctions of land for religious sites, and everyone is free to participate in it. “The waqf board too has acres of land in Gurugram district, which may be used for establishing mosques. Details of these properties are available in the public domain,” the BJP leader said.He added that roads and sites “under dispute” are not conducive for offering namaz, according to people aware of Islamic practices. “We will request everybody not to act beyond the ambit of the Constitution and the law of the land. Religion and it’s practice is meant to attain peace, not to the contrary,” said Malik.Rajiv Mittal, spokesperson, Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, which is campaigning against the Friday namaz said that they were not against the practise of namaz, but only wanted it to be performed inside mosques and religious places. “Followers of no religion are allowed to pray in public places. I want to ask why in Muslim countries namaz is not allowed in open spaces, and in fact penalties are levied if someone violates the rules,” he said, adding that certain vested interests are trying to politicise the issue.
09-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Winds clean air, AQI inches towards moderate||Delhi’s air quality improved further on Wednesday, dropping down to 237 (poor) on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index to 237 on Wednesday from Tuesday’s 255, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data, with the fast winds continuing to flush out pollutants.According to data from the 39 stations were air quality is monitored in Delhi, at least eight city recorded air quality in the ‘moderate’ range (AQI value between 101-200). Delhi last reported a moderate air day (day’s average) on October 26.However, Union earth ministry’s forecasting agency, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), said air quality in Delhi on Wednesday was in the moderate range. Safar follows a different air quality index metric.“As predicted by Safar, the air quality has improved significantly. AQI slipped into the moderate category today, implying that (air pollution) control measures seem to be working. For the next three days days, (9th to 11th), wind speed is likely to be moderate and increased ventilation of pollutants is expected,” the Safar bulletin said on Wednesday.Gufran Beig, project director and founder, Safar, said better wind speed and a good mixing height are helping dispersal of local emissions. But, he cautioned that dipping temperatures may have a negative impact on the gains made in terms of air quality improvement in the next few days. “After 11 (December), wind speed will drop and by then, temperatures will drop too. AQI will start rising once again,” said Beig, adding that the impact of stubble burning was now over, with the pollution load now largely from the local sources.Mixing height is an invisible boundary layer of the atmosphere within which movement of air and particles can take place. The lower the mixing height, the lesser the room for pollutants to move or disperse.Delhi recorded a maximum of 24 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, while the minimum was recorded at 10.1 degrees Celsius. While the maximum temperature is expected to remain around 23-24 degrees Celsius until the weekend, the minimum could drop down to 7 degrees Celsius by Sunday. “With snowfall occurring in the higher reaches, its impact will soon be felt in Delhi with large parts in the northern plains recording a drop in minimum temperature by 3-4 degrees Celsius,” said an IMD official.IMD’s forecast shows shallow fog is expected on Thursday morning with the maximum and minimum expected to hover around 24 and 9 degrees Celsius respectively.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 24 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, and the minimum stayed at 10.1 degrees Celsius. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, the maximum temperature is expected to remain around 23-24 degrees Celsius till weekend, and the minimum could drop to 7 degrees Celsius by Sunday. “With snowfall occurring in the higher reaches, its impact will soon be felt in Delhi with large parts in the northern plains recording a drop in minimum temperature by 3-4 degrees Celsius,” said an IMD official.According to the forecast, shallow fog is expected on Thursday morning with the maximum and minimum expected to hover around 24 and 9 degrees Celsius respectively.The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR and adjoining areas held a review meeting on Wednesday with Delhi’s transport department to check compliance of the anti-pollution measures, and enquire about the measures taken to augment public transport.According to directions issued by the CAQM on December 3, schools, entry of trucks into Delhi is banned till further orders; construction activities remain suspended across NCR; and six out of 11 thermal power plants within a 300km radius also remains shut till further orders.“We have informed the CAQM about our plans to add more buses to the existing fleet. Already, 1,000 CNG buses were taken on rent, and more will be added. We also shared our long-term plan for augmenting public buses fleet in the capital,” said a Delhi government official, who asked not to be named.Santosh Harish, Fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, said there is a need to rely on a forecasting mechanism, which can allow resumption of schools, construction activities and the ban on entry of trucks when air quality is relatively cleaner. “If the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) needs to be followed, then the ban on these activities should have been lifted by now. It seems that we are neither following Grap, nor relying on any forecasting mechanism which allows these activities to resume during a relatively clean period,” he said, adding they cannot remain closed for a lengthy period as Delhi’s air will continue to fluctuate in the winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-winds-clean-air-aqi-inches-towards-moderate-101638989363158.html
09-12-2021||Noida||477 industries in NCR to remain shut till December 12 for not using cleaner fuel||The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on late Tuesday night passed an order to keep all industries in the National Capital Region (NCR), which have not switched to the usage of piped natural gas (PNG), shut till December 12. A total of 477 industries in Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida will remain closed for four days starting from Thursday. Ghaziabad has the maximum share of polluting industries. Of the 500 air polluting industries in Ghaziabad, about 80 have either switched to the usage of cleaner fuel like PNG or don’t have the infrastructure for the supply of the fuel in their area yet. The rest 421 industries are still using coal for their operations and hence, will remain closed. There are 10 such polluting industries in Noida, which will stay shut. In Greater Noida, there are 151 polluting industries and a power plant. Of these, 51 use PNG and another 54 use a combination of PNG and coal. There are still 46 industries in Greater Noida, which will stay closed. According to Utsav Sharma, regional officer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Ghaziabad, said the polluting industries in Noida are mostly related to textile and engineering as well as forging and metallurgy.“These are various types of industries in Greater Noida. Most of these industries deal with furnaces, paper, rice mills and textile. The information was conveyed through emails and Whatsapp groups today (Wednesday) and we are ensuring compliance,” said B P Yadav, regional officer, UPPCB, Greater Noida.While the order came in late on Tuesday night, it was passed on to the concerned stakeholders on Wednesday, which leaves just four more days for authorities to implement the order and keep industries shut. The order does mention that it will be reviewed further, but four days still seems to be very little to have any major impact on the pollution levels. Experts and industries questioned the logic of implementing the extreme measure in just four days. According to industry owners, shutting industries even for four days takes a toll on both businesses and production worth thousands of crores.“All industries follow the pollution norms and file compliances regularly. However, shutting industries delays domestic supply as well as export orders and leads to non-productive man hours, which impacts the overall growth of the economy. Eventually, the entire production line is disturbed. Contacts in Faridabad’s textile industries said export orders worth thousands of crores are on hold,” said Rajiv Arora, general secretary, Industrial Area Manufacturers Association, Ghaziabad.Meanwhile, even before the non-compliant industries could be shut down, pollution levels reduced substantially since Tuesday. Experts said that this is mainly because of good wind speed in the past two days. The AQI across NCR has seen a decline since December 6.In Ghaziabad, the AQI of 293 recorded on December 6 fell to 235 on December 7 and further to 229 on December 8. In Greater Noida, the AQI drastically improved from 300 on December 6 to 174 on December 7 and fell further to 154 on December 8. The drop in pollution levels has been steeper in Noida where the AQI of 317 (‘very poor’ category) recorded on December 6 fell to 186 (moderate) on Wednesday. “The improvement in air quality is the result of better wind speed since Tuesday. The wind improved further on Wednesday morning, which helped improve the AQI across NCR. It is a natural environmental phenomenon and cannot be attributed to any of the steps we have taken locally,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/477-industries-in-ncr-to-remain-shut-till-december-12-for-not-using-cleaner-fuel-101638989303031.html
09-12-2021||Dehradun||General Rawat’s ancestral Uttarakhand village was waiting for him to return and settle down||A pall of gloom has descended on Uttarakhand’s Saina village in Pauri Garhwal district, the ancestral home of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who was killed in a chopper crash on Wednesday.His uncle, Bharat Singh Rawat, who has retired from the Army said Gen Bipin Rawat was very attached to his roots in Uttarakhand and his native place in particular. “It is all surreal to me. How can it happen? I was praying that he has survived and wished that he and our bahu (daughter-in-law) get well soon. He wanted to settle here and had even identified a plot of land where he wanted to build his home,” said his uncle over the phone from Pauri. “He had come here in 2018 and told me that he wanted to build a house here. I said we have a lot of land and he can earmark a plot where wants to build his house. How could be leave us like this? He so wanted to live here again,” Singh said.Singh recalled that General Rawat had called him about a month ago and inquired about the road connectivity to the village. The village is still a kilometre’s walk from the nearest proper road.Ravindra Singh, Bharat Singh’s son said though the whole country is in mourning, the people in the village and surrounding areas are feeling a deep personal loss. “Today, we have lost a son of the soil, who made this village and Uttarakhand proud with his achievements. He made us all proud by becoming India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) in 2019 after serving the country as the army chief. His achievements were an inspiration to all of us here. Young men would look up to him and work hard to join the Indian Army. They too wanted to be like him,” he said. People in his maternal village, Thati in Uttarkashi, said he had visited them in 2019 along with his wife. Girveer Parmar, Gen Rawat’s maternal cousin from Thati village said the news of his death had devastated people in the village. “Last time when he had come here in 2019, he had told us that after retiring he would settle in the hills of his state and work for the development of the area with the help of the government.” Mansi Devi, gram pradhan of Birmoli, under which Saina village falls, said as the news of the chopper crash broke, shocked villagers started praying for his well-being. “We didn’t expect he will leave us suddenly like this. The news of his death is yet to sink in. The whole village and people in surrounding areas are mourning his loss and are deeply saddened. He will keep inspiring our youth who want to become like him. His legacy will keep motivating people of his ancestral place,” she said. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said that CDS General Bipin Rawat was brought up in a small village in Uttarakhand’s Pauri district. “On the strength of his extraordinary talent, hard work and indomitable courage and bravery, he rose to the highest post of the army and gave a new direction to the security systems of the country and the Indian Army. Uttarakhand has also suffered a great loss due to his sudden demise. We all will always be proud of this great son of ours,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/general-rawat-s-ancestral-uttarakhand-village-was-waiting-for-him-to-return-and-settle-down-101638989184420.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Emergency patient services hit as resident doctors continue strike||Patient services at Delhi’s central government-run hospitals were severely affected as the strike by resident doctors’ entered 12th day, with medics at Ram Manohar Lohia, Safdarjung, and Lady Hardinge Medical College withdrawing even from emergency services.For the last three days, patients from these hospitals are being referred to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and the Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital. But, doctors from Lok Nayak hospital have also decided to boycott emergency work Thursday onwards.Lok Nayak is also the designated hospital for treatment and isolation of those suspected to have the new omicron variant infection.“Even after boycott by many institutions in Delhi, we continued to run emergency services, but the apathy of the government and the plight of overburdened residents have brought us to a total boycott of services including OPD, OT, ward, and emergency services from Thursday,” said a letter by the resident doctors’ association to the dean of Maulana Azad Medical College that is associated with Lok Nayak hospital.The doctors have been protesting delays in conducting NEET-PG counselling, which has left medical college-hospitals with only two-thirds the number of resident doctors -- considered the backbone of medical care at these hospitals. The doctors say that they have been overworked, and in addition over 42,000 medical students are losing out on a year of education.The counselling has been delayed due to the Supreme Court was hearing a bunch of petitions regarding economic reservation in the examination (NEET-PG).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiemergency-patient-services-hit-as-resident-doctors-continue-strike-101638989182932.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt play on Ambedkar purely patriotic, not political: Sisodia||The Delhi government’s plan to showcase the life of one of India’s founding fathers, Dr BR Ambedkar, in a play is not political but purely patriotic, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s art and culture and tourism minister, said the free show will begin on January 5, will be staged about 50 times throughout next month, and will feature renowned artistes, adding that the finer details of the project were still being worked out by the department.The announcement about the Delhi government organising a play on the Dalit icon and the architect of the Indian Constitution at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium was made by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday.When asked about the timing of the programme in Delhi in the run-up to the assembly elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, which have a Dalit population of 32% and 22% respectively, Sisodia said the move should not be seen through a political prism.The AAP is the principal opposition in the Punjab assembly.“This (the play) is not politics. It is not a political stunt. This is purely deshbhakti (patriotism). We had announced this plan during the beginning of this year itself, in my budget speech to be precise, because we are celebrating 75 years of Independence. It is part of the larger celebrations that are being held in Delhi under that itself,” Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, told HT in an interview.“In fact, let me remind you that the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi is probably the only city-state which has been running so many welfare schemes for Dalits ever since it came to power seven years ago. What the Dalits of this country have faced or are still facing for several decades -- the discrimination has still not been compensated for. But, this play that I am talking about is not merely to showcase Babasaheb as a Dalit leader. Our intention is to showcase him as the architect of modern India. Everyone should take home some inspiration after watching the play,” Sisodia said.Talking about poll promises made by Kejriwal in Punjab -- including free school education and coaching for higher studies to children from the scheduled caste community if his party comes to power -- the deputy CM said the AAP will simply replicate the “Delhi model” in Punjab.“The Delhi government is already running a host of schemes for the children and students from the SC community. We have just promised the same in Punjab too. What is wrong with that? Don’t the people of Punjab deserve the same benefits which the people in Delhi are enjoying? In Delhi, the AAP government is running the Jai Bhim Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana to extend quality education to the underprivileged,” Sisodia said.“Under this scheme, meritorious students belonging to SC/ST/OBC and EWS categories receive free coaching from private institutes for competitive exams such as JEE, NEET, CLAT, Civil Services, Banking, Railways, SSC, among others. If a kid from a family earning less than ₹8 lakh per annum is talented, they no longer have to face the hurdles of poverty. We also provide a stipend of ₹2,500 to the beneficiary students so that they do not face problems in their commute,” he added.
09-12-2021||Delhi||Covid cases spike slightly in Delhi, experts prescribe caution||Delhi on Wednesday reported 65 new cases of Covid-19, the most in a 24-hour period in over 100 days, as new infections continued to slowly inch up in the Capital amid fears of the heavily mutated Omicron variant spreading in the country.Experts have warned that while the increase in cases remains marginal for now, all Covid protocols must be followed strictly, and people should immediately get vaccinated.The seven-day average of new cases (a statistic that represents a region’s Covid-19) curve has now touched 52 infections a day in the past week – the highest since August 13, or 117 days ago. As little as 11 days ago (for the week ended November 27), this number was at 28 new cases a day, on average.To be sure, the number of tests – both RT-PCR and rapid antigen – has also increased during this period. The average daily samples tested in the past week were 57,412, compared to 52,532 for the week ended November 27, official government data shows.Meanwhile, another death was reported on Wednesday due to the disease, taking the total number of fatalities to the viral infection in the Capital to 25,100. This was the second death in the city reported in the month of December.There were seven deaths recorded in Delhi in the month of November, which was the highest since August this year. In October, the city recorded just four deaths — the fewest seen in any month since the start of the pandemic in the country in March last year.Another positive side for the city is that the daily positivity rate, the proportion of samples that returned positive, meanwhile, continues to remain low. On Wednesday, only 0.11% of all samples tested returned positive. While this number has inched up marginally from the 0.06% seen in the final week of November, it remains much below the 0.5% positivity rate at which the first phase of Delhi government’s graded response action plan kicks in.On Sunday, the first case of the Omicron variant, a heavily mutated variant of Sars-Cov-2 that was first detected in South Africa, was found in Delhi. As of Wednesday night, a total of 23 cases of Omicron have been detected in the country. The variant, which has already gained a foothold in Europe, Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe, has forced governments across the world to tighten travel rules again as scientists rush to establish if cases of this variant progress to the severe stage, or if vaccines would be need to be reworked to combat it.Meanwhile, experts said that people should just stick to existing Covid protocols.“Now that Omicron is in the country, it is quite infectious and will most likely spread. However, we don’t need to do anything different to protect against the virus -- those who have not been vaccinated, should get vaccinated; everyone should wear masks; and avoid crowded areas and large gatherings. Anyone who gets symptoms should immediately isolate themselves so that they do not spread the infection. Fortunately, a high proportion of people were exposed to the virus during the second wave -- probably 80% in Delhi as seen in unvaccinated children in the sero survey -- and they will have good protection against re-infection,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“We have to see how effective vaccines would be. During the Delta wave, we saw around 27% breakthrough infections in India. The vaccines will protect against this variant too but we have to see how much,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-cases-spike-slightly-in-delhi-experts-prescribe-caution-101638988952445.html
09-12-2021||Other||Lucknow: UK returnee who tested Covid positive, kept in home isolation||LUCKNOW: A 36-year-old international traveller, who came from UK and tested positive for Covid-19 at the Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport on Tuesday, was sent to home isolation from the Lok Bandhu hospital on Wednesday.“The man, a resident of Gomti Nagar, tested positive in the rapid RTPCR test at the airport. Later, in two other RTPCR test reports, where one was conducted with the same sample he gave at the airport, came negative and therefore he was allowed for home isolation. Third sample was taken at hospital. The man was asymptomatic when he had landed at the airport,” said Ajay Shankar Tripathi, chief medical superintendent of the Lok Bandhu hospital. The man was taken straight from the airport to the Lok Bandhu hospital, which had been declared as Covid facility for the international travellers who are coming from ‘at risk’ countries and test positive for Covid, he said. Passengers from ‘at risk’ countries leave airport only after RTPCR report comes while those coming from other countries leave the airport once they submit details about travel and stay, and give RTPCR samples for Covid test. At risk countries are those where cases of new variant of Covid ‘omicron’ have been reported. “Instructions have been given to the patient, an IT professional who works in UK, to stay in home isolation and follow all Covid protocol and guidelines. He will be in our contact for the next 10-days at least as the genome sequencing report is also awaited,” said Dr Tripathi. Every day the health status of the man will be taken by Covid command centre, he added. The genome sequencing is being done from the sample that was given at the airport and the sample will be tested in a lab in Lucknow. Another international traveller, a woman who had come from Canada few days ago and tested positive for Covid, is also in home isolation. The woman had come to attend a marriage ceremony, but when she gave her sample before returning back to Canada, the report stated that she was Covid positive. “She is in home isolation,” said a senior health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-uk-returnee-who-tested-covid-positive-kept-in-home-isolation-101638988944246.html
09-12-2021||Mumbai||Mayor files FIR against BJP MLA||Mumbai The Mumbai police on Wednesday night registered a First Information Report (FIR) against Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Ashish Shelar on the complaint of city’s mayor Kishori Pednekar for allegedly passing objectionable remarks against her during a press conference on November 30. The police have booked Shelar under Sections 354A (Sexual harassment) and 509 (words, sound or gesture, or exhibition of any object, intending to insult the modesty of any woman) of the Indian Penal Code. A senior police officer confirmed the development. On Twitter, Shelar termed the development as “manipulation of facts” and said that it is an outcome of pressure by ruling party elements to foist false cases against him.On November 30, a fire broke out after a gas cylinder exploded at BDD chawl number 03, Kamgar Vasahat, on Ganpatrao Jadhav Marg in Worli.Post the tragedy, Shelar, while addressing a press conference on December 4, slammed the mayor for visiting the site nearly 72-hours after the incident. Shelar allegedly remarked, “Where were you (the mayor) sleeping for these many hours?”Pednekar took exception to his mention of the word ‘sleeping’. In her letter to state home minister Dilip Walse Patil, she wrote, “The mayor of Mumbai is the first citizen and it is a very important post. The term used to describe me as a woman mayor is objectionable.”The letter stated that Shelar’s remark insulted not only Pednekar but other women as well.Hours before the FIR was filed Shelar on Wednesday night tweeted the letter his lawyer has written to Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale.Shelar tweeted, “I wrote to Mumbai Police CP Shri Hemant Nagrale ji to protest manipulation of facts & against pressure by ruling party elements to foist false case against me !”Shelar’s advocate Usha Andewar’s letter to police commissioner stated, “My clients’ political opponents presently ruling the Maharashtra government are blowing up his statement disproportionately by turning, twisting and distorting the plain meaning and understanding of language and words used in Marathi by him. My client denies that he has made any derogatory words in any form. The same is the brainstorm and imagination of the ruling party to implicate my client falsely. The press release itself is very clear and self-explanatory.”Earlier, the Maharashtra State Commission for Women (MSCW) had also taken the suo moto cognizance of the matter and had asked Mumbai police commissioner to submit a factual report about the alleged objectionable remark passed by Shelar about Pednekar.Responding to the matter, the BJP earlier had issued a statement that the party has filed a complaint with the Mumbai police as a few people having links with the Shiv Sena morphed Shelar’s video and deliberately insulted Pednekar in the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mayor-files-fir-against-bjp-mla-101638988822939.html
09-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi losing its trees due to lack of census, violation of rules||Delhi could be losing thousands of trees every year -- thanks to the absence of a tree census and faulty implementation of existing laws.The trees may not be marked in building plans approved by the corporations -- which means many of them can be cut down, usually without permission.The violations were recently detected by the south division of the forest department, which has since then written a letter to the three corporations, pointing out that according to the unified building bye laws (UBBL), 2016, it is mandatory to mark all features within the site plan of a house or a building, including drains, wells and trees.Yet, few mark trees, both within the boundary walls or just outside, and as a result, the forest department claimed, many trees are going missing -- being cut down without any permission being sought.In the letter, dated October 14, Amit Anand, the deputy conservator of forest (DCF), south, said corporations also need to avoid giving approval to multiple entrances or gates in a new construction as each entrance means trees around it need to be cut down. HT has seen a copy of the letter.If trees inside the plot are duly marked in the site plan (as expected to), the tree officer while looking at a tree felling application could effectively save some trees.“Hence, trees can be saved from unnecessary felling. Further, your esteemed organisation can also rationalise the number of trees to be affected by a project by realigning the design based on existing trees in the area,” he added in his letter.Anand said the problem was not limited to houses alone, but larger construction projects too. “We have had to send back a number of plans recently as they did not show the trees within and outside the boundary wall of the site. In order to decide how many trees can be saved, we first need to know how many trees exist in the first place.”In the absence of a government tree census, activists and environmentalists across the capital have so far been relying on smaller, local-level census of trees to keep track . Concretization and construction are the biggest obstacles in protection of trees. Vallari Sheel, an environmental scientist and urban ecologist who carried out a tree census in 2015-16 in Vasant Vihar, said 80% the trees in neighbourhood were heavily concretised (surrounded by concrete). Sheel counted a total of 4,993 trees, out of which 3,859 trees were found to be heavily concretised.This year, she is again revisiting those trees to get an updated count after a Delhi High Court order asked for trees to be deconcretised and a fresh census to be carried out. According to her, trees are missing at a number of places.“Concretization was the key issue highlighted in the first census and we have observed that each year, 10-15 trees can fall across neighbourhoods simply because they are heavily concretised and cannot withstand strong winds and heavy rain,” Sheel said. “We are also visiting trees that we marked during the 2016 census and we are finding them missing, particularly outside new constructions and houses that were renovated since 2016. Trees which could have been preserved inside are cut down to utilize maximum area and outside, the trees are cut down to maximize on parking space.” .Sarvodaya Enclave, which saw Delhi’s first tree census in 2012, also found 77 trees to be missing seven years later, when a fresh count was carried out in 2019. Padmavati Dwivedi, a tree activist who led the count, says it is not surprising that trees were found to be missing with no agency willing to follow the law.“The building design should be such that existing trees are protected and involved in the existing plan, but instead, almost all trees are being cut down,” said Dwivedi, adding that the government itself has not kept a track of Delhi’s trees. “A government tree census would have meant each tree numbered would be in its records, but this is not the case and the forest department has to rely on citizen efforts.”Others are relying on satellite imagery to identify trees that have possibly been cut down without permission. Verhaen Khanna, founder of the NGO New Delhi Nature Society (NDNS) has been comparing satellite images from Google maps to determine trees that are going missing in his neighbourhood of New Friends Colony.“Whenever there is a new construction happening, the tree is often cut down without permission and even when permission is sought, the tree is shown to be obstructing things in some manner and deemed dangerous, even when there is nothing dangerous about it. This way, even legally, a healthy tree can be cut down,” said Khanna.Residents keeping track of trees getting cut also say there have been instances of permission letters being forged or faked in order to remove a tree obstructing a possible parking space. In Defence colony, a local resident, Rajeev Suri, had to file a complaint with the Delhi Police after two trees – an Alstonia and an Ashoka tree were cut down with the help of a ‘permission letter’. However, after verifying the details with the forest department, he found out no such permission had been given. “This is another modus operandi that is emerging -- fake or forged permission letters are being used to cut perfectly healthy trees,”said environmentalist Bhavreen Kandhari, another resident of Defence Colony.A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) official associated with the layout and building plan approval process said the responsibility to mark trees lay with the forest department, with the UBBL not specifying a need to earmark trees either.“It is an offence to cut down trees without required sanction but the forest department is the primary agency responsible for its enforcement,” the official said.Despite repeated requests, senior officials from North and East MCD did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-losing-its-trees-due-to-lack-of-census-violation-of-rules-101638988705450.html
09-12-2021||Lucknow||UP power men join countrywide protests against Electricity Bill||Power men on Wednesday held protest meetings in various cities of the state, joining the countrywide stir in response to a call by the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCEEE) to oppose the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021.They pledged to resort to a total work boycott the day the Bill is tabled in the current session of Parliament.“Since the contentious Bill is listed for the winter session of Parliament, we held demonstrations today at all district headquarters across the country in all states, including UP, to register our protest,” Shailendra Dubey, chairman, All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF), said.He further said that power employees and engineers from all states of the country will hold a massive demonstration at Jantar Mantar in Delhi on December 15. “Any move of the Central government to table the Bill in Parliament will be strongly opposed by 1.5 million power employees through a total work boycott and day-long demonstrations across the country, the day the Bill is tabled,” he warned. Dubey demanded that the Bill be referred to Parliament’s standing committee on energy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-power-men-join-countrywide-protests-against-electricity-bill-101638988702878.html
09-12-2021||Other||Ahead of foggy days, Gurugram traffic police launch drive for a week||kartik.kumar@htlive.comThe traffic police on Wednesday launched a one-week drive against traffic violations such as speeding, wrong-side driving, illegal parking, underage driving, and triple riding that cause the maximum number of accidents when the visibility is low. The purpose of the drive is to check the number of such violations before foggy conditions set in, officials said.Over 1,500 traffic police personnel will be deputed at 103 points, including Iffco Chowk, Mayfield Garden, Ghata T-point and Rajiv Chowk, said Ravinder Singh Tomar, deputy commissioner of police (traffic).The officials said they expect that the drive would reduce such violations and also bring down the total number of accidents and road fatalities recorded in December and January every year.“This can result in commuters across the city being cautious before committing any such violation as it could lead to the issuance of fines. We hope the drive will help reduce accidents and road fatalities,” said Tomar. He further said that after the drive is over on December 15, the traffic police will start a new drive against the violations that were the highest during this drive. According to the officials, the average monthly number of road fatalities in December and January is nearly double in comparison to the average monthly figures of rest of the year. Last year, Gurugram recorded 880 road accidents in which 375 people were killed, the traffic police officials said, adding that 236 people have been killed in accidents till August 31 this year. However, the officials did not provide monthly data of road accidents in the district.As per the five-day weather forecast for the National Capital Region (NCR) by the India Meteorological Department, the region will witness shallow to moderate fog on Thursday morning, and shallow fog during morning hours from Friday till Sunday.Tomar said that the traffic police have also constituted Fog Action Support Teams (FASTs). Each team constitutes a zonal officer, a constable, two home guards, and two road safety officers.“The FASTs have been given directions to put reflective tapes on heavy vehicles, cycles, tractors, auto-rickshaws, manually pulled rickshaws, trolleys, and carts, as well as on jersey barriers, concrete bollards, and on any other type of structure which can cause accidents in foggy conditions during December and January. The tapes will help commuters spot such structures and vehicles from a distance,” said Tomar.Overall, three such teams have been formed for this task, each deputed in traffic police districts of west, east, and highways, the officials said.In the east district, areas such as Old Gurgaon and newly developed sectors along the Dwarka Expressway come under its jurisdiction, stretches as national highway 48 from Sirhaul toll to Gurugram-Rewari border and the Gurugram section of Sohna Road come under the highways district, and the remaining parts of the city fall in the west district.
09-12-2021||Lucknow||Jewellery, cash worth several lakhs looted in Lucknow, one injured by miscreants||Lucknow Unidentified armed miscreants, who broke into a jewellery shop near Kapoorthala crossing under Aliganj police station limits here on Wednesday afternoon, decamped with cash and gold ornaments worth several lakh rupees, said police officials. The miscreants also shot at an employee of the shop when he resisted their bid to loot. The injured person was undergoing treatment at the trauma centre of King George Medical University (KGMU) where his condition was stated to be critical, they said Nearly five years ago, a robbery was committed at the same jewellery shop on the same pattern but nobody was injured in the previous incident, said a police official. Sharing further details, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Aliganj, Syed Ali Abbas said that the incident occurred at Tirupati Gems and Jewels Pvt Ltd located opposite the Indian Oil office when around three employees were present inside the jewellery shop at around 12.30pm. The shop is owned by a Aliganj resident, Nikhil Agarwal, he said. The officer said that the spot examination revealed that at least four miscreants riding on two motorcycles were involved in the crime. He said two miscreants equipped with firearms entered the shop while two others stayed outside. The miscreants looted cash and around 500 grams of gold ornaments from the front counter and escaped from there, he added. “In between, one of them opened fire at one of the employees, Shravan Kumar, 40, when he tried to resist them. Kumar suffered two bullet wounds in stomach and chest. The glass door installed at the entrance was also damaged in the firing,” he stated. Another police official, privy to the investigation, said that the scanning of video footages of CCTVs installed at the shop suggested that the miscreants did proper recce of the shop before committing the crime. Lucknow Commissioner of Police (CP) DK Thakur also visited the crime scene to examine the spot and issued stern directives to work out the case. He even interacted with the shop owner and employees, and has formed four separate teams to work out the case at the earliest. Incidentally, the jewellery shop was targeted for the second time in past five years. Earlier on January 3, 2017, armed criminals had barged into the shop and robbed gold ornaments worth ₹8 lakh on the same pattern. The miscreants had held hostage the shop owner Nikhil Agarwal at gun point and fled after collecting the ornaments from the shop. 72 hours ultimatum to police President of UP Adarsh Vyapar Mandal Sanjay Gupta along with other office bearers and traders also visited the shop and expressed his resentment over the incident. He said that the incident had created panic among traders and instilled a sense of insecurity in them. Gupta said their organisation has given 72 hours ultimatum to work out of the case or else they would be forced to stage agitation against the police. He also demanded security for the shop owner and other traders who deal with cash and jewellery every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jewellery-cash-worth-several-lakhs-looted-in-lucknow-one-injured-by-miscreants-101638988345053.html
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gajendra Chauhan appointed V-C of Rohtak’s varsity of performing arts||Former television actor Gajendra Chauhan, 65, has been appointed as the new vice-chancellor of Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts, Rohtak. Also read: Covishield production to be halved; Adar Poonawalla says he’s in dilemmaHaryana governor Bandaru Dattatraya, who is the chancellor of the university, appointed Chauhan to the post for three years, according to a notification from the Haryana Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. With the appointment of Chauhan, who is known for his portrayal of Yudhishthira in the historical TV series Mahabharat, Maharshi Dayanand University vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh will be relieved of the additional charge of the V-C. Chauhan had a controversial stint as a chairman of the Pune-based Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) in 2015. He was appointed to the post in June 2015 for three years, with retrospective effect from March 2014. However, following widespread protests against him by FTII students and alumni, who felt it was the government’s attempt to “saffronise the institute“, he could assume office only in January 2016, thereby getting only a 15-month tenure. He was replaced by actor Anupam Kher in October 2017. INLD slams government Indian National Lok Dal general secretary (INLD) and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala slammed the Haryana government over Chauhan’s appointment. In a press statement, Chautala alleged that the government had changed educational and other criteria for appointing Chauhan as the vice-chancellor.“The BJP has been appointing unqualified people as vice-chancellors in Haryana universities. The students of FTII had forced unqualified Chauhan to resign from the chairman post in 2017 and he had always performed in C-grade movies, except TV series Mahabharat. The government should take back its decision to appoint Chauhan as SUPVA’s vice-chancellor,” the INLD general secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gajendra-chauhan-appointed-v-c-of-rohtak-s-varsity-of-performing-arts-101638946819000.html
