10-12-2021||Lucknow||Bhatkhande varsity convocation: Education shapes up character of society, brings prosperity in country, says guv||Lucknow Governor Anandiben Patel and chief guest Pandit Sajan Mishra awarded degrees to 48 students during the Bhatkhande Sangeet Sansthan Abhimat Vishwavidyalaya’s convocation ceremony organised here on Friday. She also congratulated students for their achievements. Speaking on the occasion governor said that the fact that students from abroad, who won medals, showed the popularity of Bhatkhande Sangeet Sansthan in other countries. “The guru is supreme, because only the guru gives you knowledge. He makes you understand what is good or bad, and he gives you self-confidence. Guru alone guides you on the right path. Education has to be taken forward if the country is to. Whatever survey about education is conducted by the state government and the central government, it should be discussed in the university. At present, more than 50% of the girls are anaemic, which must change for betterment of the country,” Anandiben said. Giving an example from Gujarat, she said, “In 2001, only 49% girls were educated, we started the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign in Gujarat. Within 10 years, this figure reached above 99%. At the same time, the ratio of women against men was 904 women against 1000 men. Today, there are 1017 women against 1000 men.” She said, only education shapes up the character of the society, it brings prosperity in the country. In order to popularise music, the university should organise competitions in at least 10 colleges of the city every year and winners should be awarded on January 26 (Republic Day), she added. The governor also directed the university officials to prepare online courses for taking the Indian music to a new height. Padma Bhushan Sajan Mishra, the chief guest, said, “Music is the only science left in which blessings are taken by touching the feet of one’s guru. However, this tradition is slowly disappearing now.” Meanwhile, a minute’s silence was also observed in the memory of CDS General Bipin Rawat who died two days ago in a helicopter crash. A souvenir of Bhatkhande was released and the university students presented captivating performances of Bharatnatyam, Kathak and classical singing on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bhatkhande-varsity-convocation-education-shapes-up-character-of-society-brings-prosperity-in-country-says-guv-101639160724827.html
10-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 176 new Covid cases, two deaths; 74, 509 vaccinated on Friday||PUNE According to the state health department officials, Pune district reported 176 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection on Friday. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million out of which 1.14 million have recovered, 20,071 deaths reported and 1,715 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.The district also saw 74, 509 vaccinations on the day.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 45 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 368,397 and the death toll went up to 6,989 as two more deaths were reported.Pune city reported 82 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 523,775 and the death toll stood at 9,219.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 49 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 270,206 and the toll stood at 3,513.Pune district also saw 74, 509 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWIN dashboard on Friday and in total 1,40,43,925. Out of which 84,16,029 are first doses and 56,27,896 are second doses. A total of 680 sites saw vaccination out of which 536 were government centres and 144 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-176-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-74-509-vaccinated-on-friday-101639160664181.html
10-12-2021||Noida||Ganga water supply in Greater Noida likely to be delayed||The Ganga water supply to Greater Noida may not start by December 31, as planned earlier, officials said on Friday. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has refused to give permission to dig up the area near Bil Akbarpur underpass for laying pipelines and, as a result, a new route will have to be chalked out to connect the primary treatment plant in Dehra to the Jaitpur water storage facility, they said.The NHAI, while refusing permission, said any leakage from the pipeline can flood the underpass and suggested that the Greater Noida authority to change the planned route between Jaitpur and Dehra.“We are looking into this issue and it will be addressed. We will try to complete the project as per the deadline,” said AK Arora, general manager, Greater Noida authority.To provide water to Greater Noida households, the authority has to lay pipelines between the Dehra treatment plant and Jaitpur storage facility. And for that, the authority sought permission from the NHAI since a portion of the network has to cross the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (Kundli – Ghaziabad – Palwal route). But NHAI has refused permission citing flooding concerns in the event of a leakage.“We do not think we will be able to finish the project by December 31 as planned. It will be delayed and may be completed next year,” said a Greater Noida authority official, requesting anonymity. The authority started work on the Ganga water project in 2005 and it was slated to be ready by 2010. It is being executed at a cost of ₹800 crore and when ready, will deliver 85 cusecs of Ganga water to Greater Noida households.“The project was delayed for a long time due to unavailability of land. Farmers had refused to give us land in areas where water pipeline was to be laid out,” said an official from the Noida authority, adding that several land disputes remain unresolved delaying this crucial project.When the project could not be completed by 2010, the authority extended the deadline to 2013. It has missed several deadlines since then and in April 2016, the authority set a March 2018 deadline for the project, but work got delayed once again.
10-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad ramps up testing as four Covid-19 cases reported in a day||The district health department has issued directions to ramp up testing at primary health centres as there has been a minor rise in Covid-19 infections, four of which were detected on Friday, taking the tally of active cases in the district to 12. Of the four Covid-19 cases which came to the fore on Friday, one is a 14-year-old girl who lives in Crossings Republik and is a student of a Greater Noida school. A 74-year-old man from a high-rise in Vasundhara; a 37-year-old male patient from Indirapuram and another 31-year-old man from Sector 7 in Vaishali are among the others who have tested positive for the infection. Officials said all the three male patients have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. The 31-year-old man arrived in Delhi from Patna by flight on December 5 while the girl’s father has a travel history from Gujarat. “We have informed district officials about the girl; they will conduct necessary procedures at her school. Though there is a minor rise in Covid cases, all the patients have mild symptoms and are in home isolation. We are keeping a track of those coming from abroad as well as those arriving from other states. So far, we have sent about 210 samples for genome sequencing and none tested positive for the new variant, Omicron,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. According to official records, there have been very few Covid cases in the district since August. The last time the district had the highest number of active cases (21) was on July 27 this year. “Since there is minor rise in cases, we have asked all the urban primary health centres to conduct at least 50 tests per day. The more we test, chances are more cases may come to the fore,” said Dr Gupta. Currently, the district has a daily target of conducting 3,900 Covid tests via RT-PCR while the target assigned for rapid antigen tests is 3,500. According to official records of the district health department, total 2,075,460 samples have been collected for Covid-19 test since March last year. The health department has collected more than 40,000 samples in the first 10 days of this December. The overall sample positivity is 2.87% while is it is 0.03% for the month of December. Health experts said there seems to be a minor rise in Covid cases. “The testing had decreased after Covid cases started declining. It is a time when testing should be increased to trace the suspected cases and treat them at the earliest. Further, people should take every precaution, such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). Data from the health department shows total 55,692 Covid cases have been reported in the district, which include 461 deaths. The district has recorded 324 cases in June, 65 in July, 26 in August, 18 in September, 14 in October and six in November.
10-12-2021||Pune||PMC unable to start ₹1,000 crore Mula Mutha river development project, deadline extended||PUNE Though the project tenure for the river rejuvenation project is nearing its end, the central government will extend the tenure and ensure the funds are available, said Girish Bapat, member of parliament from Pune. The project is to end on January 31, 2022, but PMC has not been able to even start it. Bapat, and PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar met Union minister Gajendra Sinh Shekhavat on Friday. Bapat said, “Minister Shekhavat promised that project would continue and funds would not lapse. At the same time, he instructed us to issue a work order within a month.” The river rejuvenation project is getting executed with the help of Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). As per the agreement, it was expected that the project work will be completed by January 31, 2022. The Central government approved Rs1,000 crore for this project. The PMC is not required to pay anything. A total of 11 new sewage treatment plants have been approved under it. This project got approved in 2015, but later when the PMC floated tenders, a cartel of bidders quoting costs was exposed. PMC scrapped the tendering process, which took time as the central government and JICA needed to clear the process. Recently, Union minister Nitin Gadkari held a meeting about the same and instructed PMC and the Jalshakti ministry to speed up the work, after which PMC floated fresh tenders for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-unable-to-start-1-000-crore-mula-mutha-river-development-project-deadline-extended-101639159888357.html
10-12-2021||Noida||UP Gate protest site to get cleared by December 15 as farmers pack up for home||It was pack-up time at the UP Gate protest site on Friday as farmers got busy gathering up the last of their belongings and dismantling tents and other makeshift structures that had helped make a one kilometre stretch of National Highway-9 (NH-9) their “home” for the past one year. Farmers said the site will be completely cleared by December 15 and they will all be homeward bound after celebrating “Vijay Divas” on Saturday, to mark their victory in getting Central government to withdraw the three contentious farm laws and accede to their other demands.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), on Thursday, called off the more than a yearlong protest after the Centre accepted their demands, including the withdrawals of cases registered against protesters and compensation for the kin of those who died during the agitation.“We have started packing up our stuff and are happy that we will soon be reunited with our families. The agitation was a success only because it was a collective effort — several of our brothers lost their lives during the course of the agitation,” said Puran Singh, a farmer from Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh.“It took us days to erect temporary structures which often got damaged in the adverse weather and we had rebuild them. But, farmers never lost heart and braved all conditions, all odds, with equanimity. The collective efforts have paid off and now we are looking forward to going home and spending time with our loved ones,” said Malkit Singh, another farmer from Lakhimpur Kheri.The farmer leaders said the site will get completely cleared by December 15, and farmers will start returning home from December 12.“The first batch of farmers will be homeward bound on December 12. As regards the future plans, we will go to different parts of the country where there are similar problems. We will tell people about this agitation and also seek their suggestions,” said Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, a man who had become the face of the agitation.“Farmers have a lot of issues and the rate for their crop is a major problem. This agitation was for the imminent problems that came up. We will also try to reach out to the families of farmers who died during the course of this agitation,” Tikait said.He said for the past year, the UP Gate site had became a village where farmers and people from different parts of the country gathered and interacted.“We feel pained to leave here — UP Gate had became our village where people from different regions gathered and stood together. The one thing that we take away from here is a big family; our was a small family, which now has expanded and grown big. I will move out from here on December 15 only after ensuring that every farmer has left. We will also try to clear one side of the highway for commuters by December 12,” Tikait said.The site on Friday observed no celebrations as a mark of respect for the dead soldiers, including the chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who died in a helicopter crash two days ago.“There was no celebration at UP Gate on Friday; we will observe “Vijay Divas” on Saturday and felicitate people who worked hard to make this agitation a success. We are expecting many farmers to join us for the event. A day later, on Sunday, farmers will start heading home,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader from Uttarakhand and UP Gate site spokesperson from SKM.The Ghaziabad police said it was in touch with farmer leaders and will ensure that their movement back home is smooth.“Most of the farmers camping at UP Gate are from western UP and Uttarakhand and they will be retuning with their tractors and trolleys. We have coordinated with the respective districts to facilitate their smooth movement,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).).
10-12-2021||Pune||Four more Omicron cases found in PCMC||PUNE As per a report from the National Institute of Virology (NIV) on Friday, seven new Omicron cases have been reported in Maharashtra, three from Mumbai and four from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. The total number of positive Omicron cases has now increased to 17. On Friday, the three patients from Mumbai revealed, are males aged 48, 25 and 37 years of age, with a recent travel history to Tanzania, UK and South Africa-Nairobi, respectively. The four patients from PCMC are contacts of a Nigerian woman who was already confirmed as an Omicron case. Of the seven patients, four have been vaccinated. One patient has received a single dose of the vaccine, while one patient has not been vaccinated. One patient is three-and-a-half-years old so not eligible for vaccination. Four patients are asymptomatic, while three have mild symptoms, said the state health report. PCMC officials confirmed that a total of 10 Omicron cases have been reported from the area all of which can be tracked to the three passengers who had returned from Nigeria. Of these 10, five have already been discharged after they tested negative for the infection and rest are in institutional quarantine at the Jijamata hospital, as per state protocol. Dr Laxman Gophane, assistant health officer said, “A total of 340 people who either travelled to foreign countries or have come in close contact with them were tested and reports of 160 tests have been declared, 32 are positive and rest are negative. Ten of the patients are in institutional quarantine. Of the 22 Covid-19 positive patients, 19 are admitted to the New Bhosari hospital and three are at a private hospital. All their samples have been sent for genome sequencing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-more-omicron-cases-found-in-pcmc-101639159285876.html
10-12-2021||Pune||Maharashtra among the bottom ten states with lowest vaccination rate||PUNE Although districts like Pune, Mumbai and Thane have crossed or about to cross 100% partial vaccination among all beneficiaries, Maharashtra still is one of the ten states in the country that have a lower than National average vaccination rate of 86% first dose vaccination among beneficiaries and 53% fully vaccination rate among 18 plus. Some of the worst performing districts in the state include, Thane, Nashik, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar, Nanded and Solapur. However, metro cities like Pune, Mumbai and Kolhapur lag in second dose due beneficiaries.Among the ten states that are at the bottom with coverage of both first and second dose less than the national average include; Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Puducherry, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. The central government has now asked the states to create awareness, mobilisation and vaccination of all eligible beneficiaries with first and second dose of the vaccine through house-to-house visits. Although adequate doses to vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries with both first and second dose aged above 18 years have been made available to all states, beneficiaries are not turning up at the vaccination centres, said officials.During the Friday review meeting, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, “Although Pune has achieved 100% first dose vaccination it is also true that Pune also has the highest number of second dose beneficiaries due. Using the CoWin database and the contact numbers of all beneficiaries the administration will follow up with them and call them individually to the vaccination centre to be fully vaccinated.”One of the officials who attended the meeting said that Pawar is of the opinion that the admin must take stern steps in case people continue to refuse to take the second shot . “If people continue to avoid the second dose, then we might have to use a carrot and stick policy to bring people to the vaccination centres,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-among-the-bottom-ten-states-with-lowest-vaccination-rate-101639159050951.html
10-12-2021||Pune||Four tehsils in Pune district record below 50% second doses, says Ajit Pawar||PUNE Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and state Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil on Friday held a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in Pune. As per information shared by the district administration on Friday, four tehsils in Pune district have administered the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to less than 50% of the eligible population. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar instructed officials to improve the vaccination rate in these parts and warned of strict actions if the second doses are deliberately delayed. In Pune district, Baramati (49%), Bhor (45%), Daund (47%), and Indapur (40%) have a below-50 per cent rate of second-dose delivery. “In these specific tehsils where the percentage of second doses needs to be increased special drives will be conducted. We are giving them an opportunity this week. We will see what sort of response will be received. If people in these towns and tehsils don’t cooperate and keep on ignoring the second dose, then in the next week we will take a strict decision,” said Pawar. In the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) a second-dose rate of 76% and 66% respectively, has been recorded. “The district was left far behind in the vaccination target and when they took strict action on those not taking it, the situation improved. Actually, we are trying to convince people. People are not thinking about their own, and the lives of others. This week we will see the response, otherwise we are also inclined towards taking strict decisions,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-tehsils-in-pune-district-record-below-50-second-doses-says-ajit-pawar-101639158743992.html
10-12-2021||Pune||Five Omicron patients in Pune test negative for the variant||PUNE Five of the seven earlier confirmed Omicron cases in the district have been discharged, after they tested negative for the infection through an RTPCR test. Four more Omicron confirmed cases have been reported on Friday from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal corporation (PCMC). All contacts from the same cases reported earlier. As of Friday Pune had reported 11 confirmed cases of the new Covid variant, the highest for any district in the state. This took Maharashtra’s total tally to 17 Omicron-positive Covid-19 cases. One of the 11 was an index Omicron case in Pune city, a 47-year old male and was discharged on Thursday. The patient was found positive for Omicron through a routine surveillance. He visited Finland from November 18 to 25, 2021. He was tested due to a mild fever on November 29 and was found Covid positive. He has taken both doses of the Covishield vaccine and is completely stable without any symptoms. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer at Pune Municipal Corporation’(PMC) said, “The patient hardly reported any symptoms right from day one. He was under institutional quarantine at a hotel as per protocol. We even tracked down 50 of his close contacts and none of them tested positive for the Covid-19 infection.” In addition to this, 10 from neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation tested positive for the new variant. Initially, three travelers who arrived from Nigeria, were found infected with Covid-19 in Pimpri- Chinchwad, and as of latest reports, a total of seven have tested positive for the new variant after genome sequencing; all from the same family or close contact of the patients who came from Nigeria. Dr Laxman Gophane, medical officer of PCMC said all 10 had tested positive for the new variant and now five have been discharged after they tested negative for the infection. Three out of 10 had come from Nigeria and the rest are close contacts. The 44-year-old woman, a Nigerian citizen of Indian origin, and her daughters, 12- and 18-years old, had come to meet her brother in Pimpri-Chinchwad on November 24, 2021. Her 45-year-old brother with his daughters, 7- and 1.5-years old, had also tested positive for the new variant. Among the four new contacts is also a three and a half year old child. Dr Gophane added that all six patients are still admitted to Jijamata hospital in PCMC, aged 12 and 18, who were part of the earlier detections are still at the hospital as they have tested positive for the infection, however, they have not reported any symptoms. Dr Gophane added, “They could test positive for the infection due to the shredding off of the dead viruses from the body. I myself had tested positive for the infection 1.5 months after I got infected. We will conduct an RTPCR test again three days later and if they test negative they’ll be discharged.” Of the six people, three are under the age of 18, and therefore, have not taken the vaccine. The three adults have taken both doses of the vaccine – two have taken Covisheild, and one, Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-omicron-patients-in-pune-test-negative-for-the-variant-101639157844070.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||Can’t compel rape survivor for her child’s DNA test: Allahabad HC bench||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has ruled that a rape survivor cannot be forced to allow her child to undergo a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) test to determine paternity. A single judge bench of Justice Sangeeta Chandra had on December 3 overturned June 25, 2021 order of the Pocso court, Sultanpur district, directing the DNA test of the rape survivor’s child on the plea of a minor who is an accused in the case. “It is apparent that the learned Additional Sessions Judge has misdirected his energies. The question before the learned Trial Court was not whether the child that was born to the prosecutrix (rape victim) was the child of the opposite party no.2 (rape accused),” said the court.“There was no question for determining the paternity of the child. The question involved in the case was whether rape was committed on the prosecutrix by the opposite party no.2. There was no reason for the prosecutrix to let her child undergo DNA test,” the court observed. “The court must carefully examine as to what would be the consequence of ordering the blood test; whether it will have the effect of branding a child as a bastard and the mother as an unchaste woman,” the court said. “The revision stands allowed,” said the court while overturning the Pocso court’s order for DNA test of the rape survivor’s child. On December 17, 2017, the victim’s mother had lodged a First Information Report (FIR) at Kotwali police station, Sultanpur district, alleging that her minor daughter (14) was raped. In the FIR, the mother had alleged that the accused had raped her daughter about seven months ago and thereafter she got pregnant. As the accused in the rape case was a minor, the proceedings of the case were conducted by the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB). During proceedings of the case, the accused moved an application before the JJB for the DNA test of the baby. But on March 25, 2021, the JJB rejected the application. Thereafter, the accused moved the Pocso court seeking the DNA test of the child. On June 25, 2021, the Pocso court accepted the application and gave order for the DNA test. The victim’s mother then moved the high court against the Pocso court’s order.
10-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC to procure 20 lakh rapid antigen test kits||As the latest Omicron variant of covid-19 looms large, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to procure 20 lakh rapid antigen test kits to detect Covid-19 cases within 15- 20 minutes.These tests are used at malls, railway stations, bus-stops, for detecting Covid positive patients.A proposal for the purchase will be tabled before the civic standing committee in its upcoming meeting next week. It is set to cost the civic body ₹9 per antigen kit. The kits will be purchased by the civic body in batches, and in the first batch 50,000 kits will be purchased for a cost of ₹5 lakh.A senior civic official said, “We have been using rapid antigen kits in cases where we need to quickly detect positive patients. It has also helped us with mass testing, primarily at market places, entry points to malls, at railway stations. RT-PCR tests follow a positive rapid antigen test’s positive result for the virus, but we can immediately quarantine a person tested positive on an antigen test, and check the spread of the infection.”Antigen tests are not useful in detecting Omicron variant. Civic officials say they anyway conduct RT-PCR test if a person is found positive in antigen test. “Only an RT-PCR test can be used to look for the S-gene drop out indicator for the omicron variant,” said Jyoti Gokhale, a microbiologist with Thane based Dr Vaidya’s Laboratory. “Even the RT-PCR tests have to be carried out using specific kits that look for the S (spike) region of the virus,” she said. According to Gokhale, rapid antigen tests detect certain proteins in the SARS-CoV-2, but these tests don’t have any markers or specifications to indicate the presence of a particular variant of the virus. “Therefore, rapid antigen tests can only be used to convey a positive or a negative result for Covid-19. Antigen tests also have high chances of producing false-negative results. Due to this, the government has mandated that positive results through rapid antigen can be considered accurate but a negative result should be followed up with the RT-PCR test for confirmation,” she said. Presently, on an average, BMC conducts between 35,000 and 45,000 covid tests per day, of which about 30-40% are rapid antigen tests, and the rest are RT-PCR tests. Mumbai’s overall daily positivity rate remains around 1%, and the positivity rate of antigen tests kits has remained below 1%. So far, BMC has procured a total of 4,000,000 rapid antigen test kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-procure-20-lakh-rapid-antigen-test-kits-101639156104332.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||Two UP lawyers held in a case of misbehaviour with woman CJM||Police action is likely against some more lawyers with tainted background or chargesheeted in criminal cases after the arrest of two such lawyers on Thursday night in a four-year-old case of causing nuisance and misbehaving with a woman chief judicial magistrate (CJM) on district and sessions court premises here.A senior police official said there was a list of criminal cases in which lawyers were accused as well as chargesheeted but action was not initiated against them. He said as many as five to six lawyers of criminal and tainted background were on the radar and action would be initiated against them soon.Sharing further details about the arrest of two lawyers, another police official said the two lawyers were identified as Abhishek Singh and Atmad Hasan Idrisi. He said the police had filed the chargesheet against the two lawyers in connection with the case registered for misbehaviour with the CJM in 2017. Idrisi has some more criminal cases registered against him, he added.The police action was initiated when the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on November 30 ordered the commissioner of police, Lucknow, to file personal affidavit stating details of cases registered against advocates in the state capital along with the status of investigation and trial in such cases. The next hearing in the high court is scheduled in the matter on Monday (December 13).The bench of Justice Rakesh Srivastava and Justice Shamim Ahmed had on November 30 observed: “It appears that an organised group of advocates is indulging in extortion, money laundering, blackmailing and is creating difficulty in law and order in the court campus, which is difficult to countenance.” “Such a state of affairs, wherein the rule of law stands hijacked by a few anti-social elements, cannot be allowed to continue,” the court had said.The court stated the police commissioner will also revisit the cases in which the final report had been submitted and if it was found that there was some laxity in investigation and all the witnesses did not come forward due to fear of the accused persons, it would be open to him to order further investigation in accordance with law. The court also ordered the district judge, Lucknow, to submit a report on cases pending against lawyers in a sealed envelope on next hearing of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-up-lawyers-held-in-a-case-of-misbehaviour-with-woman-cjm-101639155924263.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||22 lakh metric tonnes paddy purchased in UP so far||The Uttar Pradesh government has purchased around 22 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of paddy so far benefitting more than three lakh farmers in the state, a government spokesman said here on Friday. Paddy procurement from farmers on minimum support price was progressing smoothly in Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2021-22 like it was done in previous years, the spokesman added. “As on December 10, total paddy worth more than ₹3525.78 crore has been purchased from the farmers and the payment is being made within 72 hours of the purchase directly to their bank accounts,” he said. “The state government agencies and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) have procured more than 1.29 LMT of paddy in the last 24-hours,” he added.The spokesman said in line with the instructions given by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, arrangements had been made to ensure farmers were not harassed by middlemen. “Strict monitoring is also being done to make the process smooth,” he said. The CM had given instructions to ensure smooth purchase of the crop and directed the key officers, including ADMs, SDMs, tehsildars to monitor the purchase conducting an on-site inspection of the purchase centres. A total of 4,457 procurement centres had been set up across the state to facilitate direct purchase from farmers against last year’s 4,166 centres in 73 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/22-lakh-metric-tonnes-paddy-purchased-in-up-so-far-101639155442938.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh to discuss poll strategy with SP district, metropolitan chiefs||All district, metropolitan, and assembly constituency presidents of the Samajwadi Party (SP) will assemble in Lucknow as the party’s national president Akhilesh Yadav has summoned them all for a poll preparation and strategy meeting at the party’s state headquarters here on Saturday.“The party national president will address the meeting of all the district, metropolitan, and assembly presidents at the party state headquarters here on Saturday morning,” said SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary. This is the first meeting of these presidents for the 2022 UP assembly elections.As the party has stitched alliances with several small and regional parties, including Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Mahan Dal, etc for the forthcoming state polls, Akhilesh is also likely to discuss coordination of SP outfits in the districts and assembly constituencies with the party’s allies.“The national president will also ask the district, metropolitan and assembly constituency presidents to coordinate with one another for the campaign and once the party and alliance partners begin fielding candidates, they should extend full support to the candidates to help them win their seats,” said an SP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-to-discuss-poll-strategy-with-sp-district-metropolitan-chiefs-101639154846833.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||5-member team of vaccinators trek 16km on foot to jab villagers in remote hamlet||For Dr Harshal Bhore and his team of vaccinators, Wednesday was unlike any other vaccination day. Not only did they have to report early in the morning but also had to trek with heavy temperature-controlled bags for around 16km as part of a three-hour one-way journey to reach their vaccination camp. All these efforts were to ensure that the 138 eligible people in Dapurmal hamlet, 100km from Thane, could get their first dose of vaccine.A team of five vaccinators visited Dapurmal village in Shahpur Taluka at the foothills of Sahyadri ranges. It is not easily accessible. There are a few who travel towards the city on a regular basis. The rest of the population consisting of 246 villagers rely on local produce for their livelihood.The vaccinators belong to the Kasara side of Shahpur Taluka. They are based out of Vihigaon Public Health Centre. On Wednesday, the team gathered at around 8am with vials of vaccine doses stored in temperature-controlled bags and basic medications.“The village is situated amidst a hilly terrain. It does not have a proper approach road and is like a tribal settlement. Hence, we had to walk for 16km carrying the bags. Moreover, we had books and other paperwork in order to note down all the personal details of the villagers and provide them with CoWIN registration. It was with the support of the Asha workers posted in the village that we managed to reach out to the villagers,” said Bhore, community health officer, Shahpur Taluka.The vaccinators also took efforts to counsel and create awareness regarding the importance of vaccination as there was reluctance amidst the villagers. “From among the 246 villagers, around 138 were eligible for vaccination and all of them were provided with the first dose on Wednesday. This included two pregnant ladies and three lactating mothers. After completing the vaccination schedule, a health camp was also conducted,” said Namdev Farde, health assistant, Vihigaon.The vaccinators also provided some stationery and gifts to the students in order to gain the trust of the entire families to get vaccinated. “This village has two Asha workers who had asked all the villagers to stay at home on the day and refrain from going to their workplaces. This helped us achieve 100% first dose vaccination in the village on Wednesday,” said Bharati Thackray, staff nurse at Vihigaon. The villagers travel one hour daily on foot to get water from a river that flows nearby. Block facilitator, Sujata Bhoir, said, “Although it was a tedious day and a long trek to reach and return, we feel accomplished as we have helped them get one step closer to getting immunised from Covid. We are keen to visit the village again for the second jab and fully vaccinate them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5member-team-of-vaccinators-trek-16km-on-foot-to-jab-villagers-in-remote-hamlet-101639154844083.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||Saryu canal project: BJP plans to woo farmers in eastern Uttar Pradesh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to woo farmers in eastern Uttar Pradesh with the inauguration of the Saryu Canal National Project by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Balrampur on Saturday (December 11).On the eve of the inauguration, the BJP launched a massive campaign on social media, as well as in the rural areas of eastern UP, terming the project a major achievement of the party’s double engine government at the Centre and in the state. Party leaders mobilised the cadre to make the inauguration programme successful. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the 6,623-kilometre-long canal system will benefit the farmers in nine districts of eastern UP — Bahraich, Shravasti, Gonda, Balrampur, Siddharthnagar, Basti, Sant Kabirnagar, Gorakhpur and Maharajganj. The canal project will give boost to the agriculture sector in eastern Uttar Pradesh and be an important milestone in the BJP government’s pledge to double the income of the farmers by 2022, he said.Terming the Saryu canal a major gift to the farmers in eastern UP, a BJP leader said it showed the commitment of the party’s governments at the Centre and in the state to the welfare of farmers.When the Prime Minister inaugurates the Saryu Canal National Project on Saturday, protesting farmers will be returning to their villages from Delhi border after the farmers’ unions called off their yearlong agitation, he said. It shows the farmers’ trust in the BJP government, he claimed.Uttar Pradesh Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh said the Saryu Canal National Project will benefit 30 lakh (three million) farmers in eastern UP as the ₹9,802-crore canal will irrigate 15 lakh hectare land in 6,227 villages.Under this project, five rivers have been connected, including the Ghaghra, Saryu, Rapti, Banganga and the Rohini. The sub canals with a length of 6,600 km have been linked to the 318-km main canal.The canal system is an excellent example of the river-linking project launched by the BJP government at the Centre, he said. It will also protect the districts of eastern UP from recurrent floods, the minister said. The Saryu canal project was planned in 1972, but the work on the project started in 1978. Initially, the project was limited to three districts of Devipatan division but expanded to nine districts in 1982.The previous governments completed 52% of the work on the project in four decades whereas the double engine BJP government completed the remaining 48% of the work in four years after the formation of the BJP government in UP in 2017, he said.On Wednesday, the Union cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved funding and implementation of the Ken- Betwa inter-linking rivers project that will benefit farmers in four districts Jhansi, Mahoba, Banda and Lalitpur in Bundelkhand of Uttar Pradesh, along with the nine districts of the same region Madhya Pradesh. 
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Seven new cases in state, tally at 17||Mumbai Maharashtra on Friday detected seven new Covid-19 cases with Omicron variant, pushing the state’s total to 17. Of the seven cases, three were detected in Mumbai including one in Dharavi. The remaining four cases are from Pimpri-Chinchwad in Pune district. Of the 17 found so far, six Omicron infected patients in the state have tested negative for Covid-19, and have been discharged, health department officials said.With the new cases in Mumbai, the total number of cases of the Omicron variant rose to five. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the newly infected patients are males of 25, 37 and 48 years of age. The 25-year-old returned to Mumbai from London on December 1, while the 37 and 48-year-old patients returned to Mumbai from South Africa and Tanzania, respectively, on December 4. All three patients are admitted at Seven Hills Hospital in Marol area of Andheri.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to procure 2,000,000 rapid antigen test kits to quick detection of Covid-19 cases. These tests are used at malls, railway stations, bus-stops, for detecting Covid positive patients.A proposal for the purchase will be tabled before the civic standing committee in its upcoming meeting next week. It is set to cost the civic body ₹9 per antigen kit. The kits will be purchased by the civic body in batches, and in the first batch 50,000 kits will be purchased for a cost of ₹500,000.A senior civic official said, “We have been using rapid antigen kits in cases where we need to quickly detect positive patients. It has also helped us with mass testing primarily at market places, entry points to malls, at railway stations. RTPCR tests follow a positive rapid antigen test’s positive result for Covid-19, but we can immediately quarantine a person tested positive on an antigen tests, and check the spread of the infection.” The Omicron variant has been declared a ‘variant of concern’, with faster transmission rate.“Only an RT-PCR test can be used to look for the S-gene drop out indicator for the omicron variant,” said Jyoti Gokhale, a microbiologist with Thane based Dr Vaidya’s Laboratory.According to Gokhale, rapid antigen tests detect certain proteins in the SARS-CoV-2, but these tests don’t have any markers or specifications to indicate the presence of a particular variant of the virus. “Therefore, rapid antigen tests can only be used to convey a positive or a negative result for Covid-19. Antigen tests also have high chances of producing false-negative results. Due to this, the government has mandated that positive results through rapid antigen can be considered accurate but a negative result should be followed up with the RT-PCR test for confirmation,” she said. Presently, on an average, BMC conducts between 35,000 and 45,000 covid tests per day, of which about 30-40% are rapid antigen tests, and the rest are RT-PCR tests.Dr Mangla Gomare, executive health officer, BMC, said that besides the 25-year-old, the remaining two patients are not residents of Mumbai. “The 25-year-old is a resident of South Mumbai, the 48-year-old is a Chennai resident who had come to Mumbai’s Dharavi for professional work, while the 37-year-old is a resident of Gujarat,” Gomare said.After the reports of the patients came out positive in the RT-PCR tests, the samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS).The BMC also added that the 25 and 37-year-old patients were fully vaccinated, and the 37-year-old has mild symptoms, while the remaining patients are asymptomatic. The 37-year-old was admitted to the hospital by the airport authorities as a precautionary measure while the remaining two patients were hospitalised after their reports came out to be positive.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, said that the Tanzania returnee who went to Dharavi had to take a compulsory test at the airport as he was not vaccinated. “The patient was asked to wait at the airport till reports came, however, he left for Dharavi in the evening and the RT-PCR report came positive. Following which, the local ward office (G/North) tracked the patient and the sample was sent for genome sequencing,” Dighavkar said. Dharavi, a densely populated slum of at least 850,000 people with a population density of 354,167 per square km, was a hotspot of Covid infections in the first wave of Covid-19 in 2020.BMC officials said that the high-risk contacts of all three patients have been tracked and tested, and none of them tested positive.According to the health department, the four new cases in Pimpri-Chinchwad are contacts of a Nigerian national (of Indian origin), who was detected with Omicron strain of the virus on December 5. The 44-year-old-woman, along with her two daughters, had come to Pimpri-Chinchwad on November 24 to meet her brother. “Out of seven patients found today, four have been vaccinated. One patient has received a single dose of the vaccine, while one patient has not been vaccinated. One of the patients is a three-and-a-half-year-old so not eligible for vaccination. Four patients are asymptomatic while three patients have mild symptoms,” a statement from the health department said.Since December 1, 61,439 passengers, including 9,678 passengers from at-risk countries, have arrived at airports in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. The state has found 20 Covid positive cases of people from at-risk countries and five from other countries. The field surveillance is underway of all international passengers that arrived since November 1. Through the airport and field surveillance, 89 samples have been sent for genomic sequencing. Results of 47 are awaited so far, the health department said.Meanwhile, Maharashtra added 695 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the state’s tally to 6,642,372. It reported 12 deaths, taking the death toll to 141,223. Mumbai added 194 new Covid infections and added one fatality. The active case count in the state stood at 6,534.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/seven-new-cases-in-state-tally-at-17-101639154544282.html
10-12-2021||Patna||BJP legislator gets notice after he scorns Bihar leaders, praises Nitish Kumar||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Gyanendra Singh Gyanu who questioned his party’s state leadership’s ability to lead the party to a victory in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, has been served a show-cause notice by the BJP’s disciplinary committee, people familiar with the matter said on Friday.Gyanu, a legislator from Barh seat less than 100km from state capital Patna, has been a vocal critic of the state leadership after party veteran and former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi exited Nitish Kumar’s cabinet in November 2020.. He was later elected a Rajya Sabha member.“He has been given 14 days to explain his position for criticising the party leadership,” said BJP Bihar unit’s disciplinary committee president Vinay Singh.On Friday, Gyanu suggested he doesn’t need that long and will respond in a day or two.“My proximity to chief minister Nitish Kumar and criticism of the state of affairs in the party was not liked by party leaders,” the four-time lawmaker told HT.Gyanu had been in Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) for years and was seen to be close to the chief minister. But he sprung a surprise in August 2015 when he, along with three other party rebels, vaulted into the BJP camp right before the Bihar elections in which the JD(U) partnered with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD).The switch was a huge setback to Nitish Kumar. But after Kumar hit the reset button in 2017, and revived the JD(U) partnership with the BJP, Gyanendra Singh Gyanu and Nitish Kumar are known to have patched up.“In the NDA (National Democratic Alliance), CM Nitish Kumar is the only leader who has a vision. There is no alternative to Nitish Kumar and in the future also, Nitish Kumar will remain the chief minister of Bihar. BJP has become directionless and it doesn’t have a leader in Bihar BJP who can become the Chief Minister,” the Barh MLA said on December 5.“I fear the situation in the state BJP is such that it will have an adverse impact on the party’s performance in 2024 parliamentary elections,” he added, criticising the party for not creating a strong leadership.“Novices were made the ministers or put them in the organization. At one point of time, the likes of Sushil Kumar Modi and Mangal Pandey mattered. If there was any problem in the NDA, Modiji was available to solve it. He had the influence on the legislature party and on the organization. But today there is no one to look after,” Gyanu said, angering the state leadership.On previous occasions too, the BJP MLA has gone public with his criticism of the party’s ministers and once, even went to the extent of accusing all except one or two of corruption.The MLA has been sore about being kept out of the state cabinet. In February, when Nitish Kumar-led NDA government was expanded, Gyanu lamented that the “party ignored old, experienced and dedicated leaders”.
10-12-2021||Lucknow||Special arrangements at KV Corridor for divyang and elderly devotees||Special arrangements, including escalators, lifts and ramps, have been made at the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor for the convenience of elderly and differently abled devotees, said an official. “Special arrangements have been made for the elderly and differently abled devotees so that that they may reach the KV Temple without any hassle. Escalators and lifts have been installed and ramps have been made from Ganga Ghat to the temple complex,” said Varanasi Divisional Commissioner and chairman of Kashi Vishwanath Temple Executive Committee Deepak Aggarwal. With this, elderly and differently abled devotees will be able to reach KV Temple easily to seek blessings of Mahadev Baba Kashi Vishwanath and can perform ‘Abhishek’. Apart from this, devotees may reach the corridor by water way. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham to the people on December 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/special-arrangements-at-kv-corridor-for-divyang-and-elderly-devotees-101639154422803.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||Iran official praises role of AMUs’ Institute of Persian Research in promoting cultural ties||The cultural counsellor of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Dr Mohd Ali Rabbani, visited the Institute of Persian Research of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on Thursday and appreciated the role of the institute in promoting cultural ties between India and Iran.Rabbani also agreed to the proposal of bringing out a literary journal from the institute in collaboration with an Iranian University in common research ventures and assured virtual lectures by renowned Iranian scholars.He acknowledged that the institute had closely worked with Iran Culture House, New Delhi on various projects and its publication programme. During the interactive session Prof Azarmi Dukht Safavi, founder and advisor, and former director of the institute, spoke about the aims and objectives of the institute and described its various achievements. She said during the past years, over 75 books have been published by the institute.Prof Mohd Usman Ghani, director of the institute welcomed the counsellor and expressed hope that the institute will flourish further with his help and guidance.Dr Mohd Ehteshamuddin, assistant professor delivered a vote of thanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iran-official-praises-role-of-amus-institute-of-persian-research-in-promoting-cultural-ties-101639153945835.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Attendance Anxiety||Katrina and Vicky got married. They didn’t invite you.Come to think of it, neither did Anushka and Virat, Deepika-Ranveer, Priyanka-Nick or even RajKummar Rao and Patralekhaa. It could have been due to travel issues. They had destination weddings and everyone knows you don’t travel well.Or perhaps, you were not invited because you don’t know them and have never met them. Still, it would have been nice…At this stage, your chances of getting invited to Ranbir and Alia‘s also appear exceptionally dim.***However, this does not stop you from stressing about what you would wear to all these nuptials. After all, you wouldn’t want to let the side down, would you?Wall- to- wall Sabya in Tuscany for Anushka and Virat’s?Edgy, out-of -the box matchy-matchies for Deepika-Ranveer‘s? A mile-long dramatic veil for Priyanka and Nick’s?For the last, you‘d been eyeing a particular curtain in your drawing-room. How would it have looked trailing five feet from your head across the floor? No?Well, no one’s said dressing for a Bollywood wedding was easy.Rumour has it that Anaita Shroff Adajania is booked till next Diwali, while amorous Bollywood couples wait patiently to secure her dates.Last heard, she was sourcing underwater bridal wear for an upcoming shoot... err …wedding, to be held on a coral reef, eighty kilometres under the ocean, off the Maldivian coast. Apparently, the bride feels it is the best solution to restrict the number of guests during the pandemic. (Also, she knows her future mother-in-law is dead scared of water). Meanwhile, a flock of sea turtles that inhabit the reef are said to have agreed to sign non-disclosure agreements.***Katrina-Vicky got married and of course, along with your outfits, you can’t help stressing about how you’d dance at a celebrity wedding. Perish the thought that you could get away with your tired old ‘screw the light bulbs and wipe your kneecaps’ faux Bhangra routine. Dancing at a celebrity wedding is serious business.One misstep to the bride’s latest break-out hit item number and YOU’RE yesterday’s dog food.Dancing at a Bollywood celeb’s wedding is a religion invented at the altar of Karan Johar and blessed by Aditya Chopra.However, you have to admit that Bollywood celebrities dancing at Bollywood celebrity weddings seems a little like cheating.Like being invited to a sit-down dinner where every other guest is a 3- star Michelin chef, who has brought their own meal, while you’ve arrived with a boiled- egg sandwich. How is it possible not to feel outclassed? Or stressed?***Perhaps the real reason why Kat-Vick, Anushka and Virat or Deepika-Ranveer etc. did not invite you is that they know how stressful attending a wedding is for you. Or attending anything for that matter. That’s because while most people have performance anxiety, you have attendance anxiety.After all, besides the dressing up and the keeping in step to a group rendition of Chaiyya Chaiyya - there’s a lot else that you are required to do on these occasions.Like standing in a long queue to wait your turn to greet the couple.While making small talk with your fellow queue-ees. While balancing yourself on high heels, which have begun to pinch. While hanging on to your saree palluv and hem. Along with your pretty, but impractical evening clutch.And a discreet gift.And (hopefully) a glass of water. Or wine. Or Tequila.Or a couple of Tequilas. Along with your smile.While you stress about what you will say to the couple when you finally reach them.Best to prepare yourself and rehearse a few lines before the mandatory greet and meet and photo–op. Blessings and congratulations are the norm. Telling the groom’s family how you’ve known the bride ever since the days she was expelled as a juvenile delinquent from kindergarten for sundry crimes and misdemeanours - is not.Nor is asking for directions to the nearest loo : “Because you know guys -I’ve been waiting for an hour…”***So, Katrina and Vicky Kaushal got married and you were not invited.That doesn’t mean you didn’t attend. Thanks to 1,654 breathless hyperventilating news reporters, not to mention 97 TV crew camped outside the venue, giving you a blow-by-blow account of every single detail of the event (we mean every single) your presence was assured.You had the special mehendi applied on your hands, you tasted the dishes on the banquet and you demonstrated the courage of your convulsions into the wee hours of the morning along with the best of them. Now Anil Kapoor (God bless him) is on your speed dial. Gurdas Maan is your man.***Katrina and Vicky got married. Badhai ho.Given how deeply you were involved in every aspect of the happy occasion, who says you didn’t attend? In fact, you could have been one of the main invitees. To all of them.Including Virat and Anushka’s and Priyanka and Nick’s and Deepika and Ranveer’s...The jury’s still out on whether or not you were present, wearing your finery, posing for the paps and making your best moves. In fact, the jury’s still out on whether you were present at your own wedding too. But that’s another matter, for another day…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-attendance-anxiety-101639153823819.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||State may ask districts to impose curbs to push 2nd dose numbers||Mumbai The state government is considering asking districts to impose restrictions to encourage full vaccination of citizens, even as seven more cases of the Omicron variant, thought to be at least four times as transmissible as the Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus according to preliminary studies, were detected in Mumbai and Pimpri-Chinchwad on Friday. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar told reporters that the state lagged behind in second dose vaccinations, and hinted that pending further discussion, the administration may be asked to impose restrictions on those who are not yet fully vaccinated. At present, only 47.84% of the state’s population has received two doses of the vaccine that has been proven to reduce severe Covid disease and cut rates of hospitalisation. “We took a stock recently and saw that there are vaccines available. The number of people who have taken the first dose has increased. In the second dose, many districts are lagging behind. It is important for them to take their second dose. Therefore, we have told the administration to carry out awareness campaigns and push for second dose vaccinations by bringing in some restrictions,” Pawar said. Some of the restrictions that the districts could choose from, depending on the local conditions, include restricting the sale of petrol and diesel at fuel stations, entry to government offices, shopping complex, malls, and industrial units under Maharashtra Industries Development Corporation or MIDC and other services offered by the state, a senior government official who did not wish to be named, said. The state calculates the number of people who are due for their second dose by keeping track of those who have crossed the minimum duration of the gap between two doses —28 days for Covaxin and 84 days for Covishield. What this means is that the number is dynamic, and will also include those who have not taken their shot after the 42nd and 113th day, which is the outer limit of the second Covaxin and Covishield shots, respectively. As of Friday afternoon, at least 9.8 million people have crossed the minimum duration for their second dose. Various districts have already imposed restrictions on access to certain amenities for residents who are not vaccinated. The Thane Municipal Corporation this week began to restrict people who are not fully vaccinated from travelling in state buses, with teams checking vaccination certificates of passengers at the main bus depots in the city. In Mumbai, only those who are fully vaccinated (including essential services) are permitted to travel by the local trains. Furthermore, only fully vaccinated Mumbai residents are allowed to enter malls, shopping centres and auditoriums. In Nagpur, the municipal corporation has restricted entry to government offices to those people who are doubly vaccinated. Health department officials said that the restrictions are under consideration as vaccination is not mandatory. The government might ask individual districts to come up with restrictions as motivation to push their numbers. “The Centre has not made the vaccination mandatory. We are looking at having restrictions like not allowing such citizens to enter government offices, in malls and shopping centres, etc. Aurangabad district collector had issed orders sale of petrol and diesel only for those who are vaccinated. Similarly, other districts might be asked to have some restrictions in an attempt to drive the second dose numbers up,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity. Health minister Rajesh Tope was not available for a comment. The Aurangabad district administration in November ordered ration shops, gas agencies and petrol pumps to supply groceries and fuel only to people who had taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Out of the 36 districts in the state, 22 districts (with large rural populations) are a matter of concern for the administration. Nanded has the lowest fully vaccinated beneficiaries with 29.18%, followed by Hingoli (32.09%), Solapur (32.18%), Jalgaon (33.55%), and Osmanabad (34.04%). Other districts that are below the state’s average — 47.84% for double dose, 83.74% for single dose — include Nandurbar, Akola, Beed, Amravati, Latur, Yavatmal, Aurangabad, Ahmednagar, Nashik and Palghar among others. Box Current restrictions * In Mumbai, the state government has only allowed fully vaccinated citizens to get single-journey tickets or a season pass to travel in the local trains. This is in effect in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. *Only fully vaccinated citizens are allowed to enter malls, shopping centres and auditoriums. *Nagpur Municipal Corporation has allowed entry to government offices to only those people who have taken both the doses *Aurangabad district collector has disallowed entry to people who have not taken a single dose of vaccine to government offices, MIDC areas, malls and shopping complex, at heritage sites and tourists spots. 
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Man in Bhiwandi arrested for stealing to impress girlfriend||To make an impression of being rich to his girlfriend’s family, a man allegedly stole cars, bikes and jewellery, and pretended as if they were his own. While the girl’s family fixed the wedding looking at his wealth, the Shanti Nagar police in Bhiwandi foiled his plans and arrested him before the wedding.The accused, Shivsingh Babri, 20, has committed offenses to impress his girlfriend, and all of them are registered at different police stations.DCP of Bhiwandi asked officials to form teams to find the accused. Accordingly, Shanti Nagar police formed a team and started getting details of the accused. Babri, who had around 11 cases of bike, car thefts and chain snatching, registered against him came under the radar of police.A police officer said, “We came to know that he was coming near the Temghar area of Bhiwandi, where we laid a trap and arrested him. During investigation, we learnt that he started stealing to show he was rich. He was caught on CCTV camera and his urge to make more money trapped him. We have recovered cars and bikes worth ₹6.39 lakh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-in-bhiwandi-arrested-for-stealing-to-impress-girlfriend-101639153221632.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Will welcome sons of soil on victorious return from Delhi borders’: Punjab CM Channi on farmers ending protests||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said that his government would welcome the returning farmers from the Delhi borders, even as those that were part of the agitation against the now repealed three farm laws would leave the protest site on Saturday.“Punjab government will welcome the sons of the soils on their victorious return from Delhi borders,” Channi’s office, in a tweet, quoted the CM as saying. “It is the unmatched unity of the various sections of the society which forced the Modi government to roll back the draconian black bills,” he further said.CM @CharanjitChanni says that Punjab government will welcome the sons of the soils on their victorious return from Delhi borders. CM says it is the unmatched unity of the various sections of the society which forced the Modi government to roll back the draconian black bills. pic.twitter.com/CkodZSaaWkFurther, he also said that the BJP government did not listen to the demands of the farmers for almost a year but now wanted to “encash the victory of the farmers” ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab next year, according to a report by news agency PTI.He also said that 700 farmers lost their lives during the agitation and the Punjab government has provided financial aid and jobs to the family members of 350 farmers, assuring the rest would soon be compensated, according to the report.Also read | Farmers sing, dance at Delhi border after Centre's letter on agreed demandsEarlier on Thursday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmer unions spearheading the protests, received a letter from the Union government accepting the various demands of the farmers. The demands included a committee on minimum support price, withdrawal of cases against the farmers and compensation for those dead during the year-long protests. The SKM also said that the farmers will leave for their homes on December 11.“Warmest congratulations to all for historic triumph of the farmers’ movement & coercing Centre Govt. to accept all demands of #farmers. The year-long protest signifies a historic victory for our democracy. It is vital to remember martyrs who laid their lives during this struggle,” Channi had tweeted on Thursday after the decision.Meanwhile, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, in his message, said, “Tonight is the last night of this Satyagraha… Will defeat the darkness of injustice with courage, Just keep moving forward on the path of justice!,” in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-welcome-sons-of-soil-on-victorious-return-from-delhi-borders-punjab-cm-channi-on-farmers-ending-protests-101639152255384.html
10-12-2021||Bhopal||Women beaten up with sticks in dispute over dog's barking; four held||Five women were allegedly beaten up by a group of men after their pet dog barked at the accused in Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur city, police said on Friday. A video of the alleged incident, which took place in Garha locality on December 5, has surfaced on social media, in which men could be seen beating the women with sticks. The police arrested Prince Shrivastava (21) and his friends Monu Vishwakarma (26), Bablu Shrivastava (50) and Sibu Dhaiya (21) in connection with the attack on Wednesday and Thursday, inspector Rakesh Tiwari of Garha Town police said.The trouble started when the dog owned by Sonam Singour (22), one of the victims, barked at her neighbour Prince and he beat the canine with sticks on Sunday, he said. When Sonam objected to Prince's behaviour, a heated argument ensued and the four accused beat up Sonam and four of her relatives, the official said. A case of causing hurt and using obscene language has been registered against the accused, he said, adding that further probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/women-beaten-up-with-sticks-in-dispute-over-dog-s-barking-four-held-101639150613949.html
10-12-2021||Patna||Nine students of IIT-P get over ₹60 lakh annual package job offer||Students at Indian Institute of Technology, Patna (IIT-P), have bagged lucrative job offers with hefty pay packages from domestic and international firms during the first week of phase I placement drive, said officials on Friday. IIT-P officials said the first phase of placement drive, which picked up pace in December, has set a new placement record as there is a steep rise in number of job offers and annual package in comparison to previous years. According to IIT-P, eight BTech students and one MTech student have bagged the highest domestic package of ₹61.3 lakh per annum each from a private firm. Similarly, the second highest annual package worth ₹57.4 lakh has been offered to six students, ₹51.10 lakh per annum to one student, ₹48 lakh per annum to nine students. Besides, Google India has offered job offer worth ₹46.5 lakh per annum to 10 students. Among international firms, the highest package has been offered by Accenture Japan to three students worth ₹47.9 lakh per annum each. The IIT-P’s training and placement cell claimed that this is one of the best years in terms of placements recorded over the decade at the institute.Professor In-charge of training and placement cell Jose V Parambil, said, “Our students have received 252 offers this year, which is 162.50% more than last year’s 96 offers made in the same phase. Besides, 37 pre-placement offers have been made to our students this year.” Kripa Shankar Singh, training and placement officer at IIT Patna, shared that 46 job offers have been extended with more than ₹40 lakh annual package and 68 offers with more than 30 lakh annual package. “Around 300 students of BTech and MTech are participating in the on-going placement drive. So far, more than 78% BTech and more than 40% MTech students have been placed. The first phase of placement drive will conclude in the third week of December”, Singh said. He added that all the recruitment processes like pre-placement talk, test, group discussion, technical interviews, panel interview and management discussions have been organized in virtual modes in view of Covid-19 safety protocols. Altogether, 87 companies dealing in software and IT, finance and banking, analytics & consulting, core engineering, e-commerce, automobile, infrastructure, manufacturing and health care have recruited students for various profiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nine-students-of-iit-p-get-over-60-lakh-annual-package-job-offer-101639151843689.html
10-12-2021||Patna||BJP MLA show caused for criticising party leadership, ministers||Four days after questioning the leadership of his party, Barh BJP MLA Gyanendra Singh Gyanu has been served a show-cause notice by the party’s disciplinary committee for openly and frequently raising voice against the party organisation and ministers. The notice to this effect was issued by the party’s state unit disciplinary committee president Vinay Singh. “He has been given 14 days to explain his position for criticising the party leadership,” said Singh. Confirming the receipt of the letter, Gyanu said he would submit his reply in a day or two. “My closeness with CM Nitish Kumar and criticism of the state of affairs in the party was not liked by party leaders,” he said. Gyanu, who left JD (U) in 2015, praised Nitish Kumar for his vision. “In the NDA, CM Nitish Kumar is the only leader who has a vision. There is no alternative to Nitish Kumar and in future also Nitish Kumar will remain the CM of Bihar. BJP has become directionless and it doesn’t have a leader in Bihar BJP who can become the chief minister,” he said. “I fear the situation in the state BJP is such that it will have an adverse impact on the party’s performance in 2024 parliamentary elections,” he said on December 5 and attacked the party for not creating a strong leadership. “Novices were made the ministers or put them in the organization. At one point in time, the likes of Sushil Kumar Modi and Mangal Pandey mattered. If there would be any problems in the NDA, Modiji was available to solve them. He had an influence on the legislature party and the organization. But today there is no one to look after,” Gyanu said.The BJP MLA, on earlier occasions too, had opened a tirade against his party ministers and had said that barring one or two ministers, all indulge in corruption. Earlier in February, when Nitish Kumar-led NDA government was expanded, Gyanu was vocal after being denied a ministerial berth. “The party ignored old, experienced and dedicated leaders,” he had said.. 
10-12-2021||Patna||Complaints of irregularities hit Bihar’s paddy procurement drive||The state cooperative department’s bid to ensure timely procurement of paddy from the farmers has been crippled by the allegations of irregularities in payment and the general reluctance of the staff engaged in the procurement process of the major Kharif crop in the region.As a result, the department so far could procure only 3.02 lakh metric tonne (MT) of paddy from the farmers against the target of 45 lakh MT, set for 2021-22 fiscal. The state government started the procurement process on November 1 and scheduled to wind it up by January 31. The state government had authorised around 5,200 primary agriculture cooperative societies (Pacs) and Vyapar Mandals (VMs) out of the total 7153 agencies to procure the produce.“On an average, we are receiving 30-50 complaints from the farmers across the state that their product is not being taken by the staff of primary agriculture cooperative societies (Pacs) of Vypar Mandals (VMs) over different reasons. We refer the cases to the cooperative department for resolution. The complaints related to payment of paddy lower than the MSP of ₹1940-1960 per quintal and refusal to buy paddy in the name of excess moisture,” said an executive manning the department’s call centre.Worried over the tardy pace of procurement, chief secretary Tripurari Sharan had on Thursday directed the district magistrates (DMs) of all the districts to expedite the process and sort out issues in the light of complaints received at the call centres on a priority basis. A senior officer of the cooperative department said that an individual farmer is eligible to sell up to 250 quintals of paddy to Pacs/VMs, while sharecroppers are allowed to sell 100 quintals.Agriculture secretary N Saravana Kumar said that over 8.50 lakh farmers had registered themselves with the department’s portal to sell paddy with the government agencies. So far, nearly 41,000 farmers could avail of the facility. Pacs and VMs of Supaul emerged as the highest procurer of paddy with their stock crossing over 23,000MT, while Munger stood at the bottom of the procurement list with around 447MT stock of paddy on Friday.“It could be due to the farmers’ protest in Delhi that the state government launched the procurement from November 1 this year against November 15 year. But getting the MSP of the produce is difficult, as we need to spend some extra bucks to arrange smooth procurement of paddy,” said Vijay Mishra, a farmer of Bikramganj in Rohtas.
10-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath meets kin of Wing Commander in Agra, announces ₹50 lakh aid||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced financial aid of ₹50 lakh ( ₹5 million) for the next of kin and a government job for a family member of Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, who was among the 13 killed in the Tamil Nadu helicopter crash that claimed the life of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on December 8.The chief minister made the announcement after he met the family members of the Indian Air Force (IAF) officer in Saran Nagar locality of Agra and paid floral tributes to his portrait. Yogi Adityanath also gave the assurance that an institution would be named after Wing Commander Chauhan.Yogi Adityanath interacted with the father, sisters and other family members of the Wing Commander and consoled them.“I met the family members of Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan who was killed along with first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) of the nation General Bipin Rawat in the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu on December 8. I am here to express my sincere condolences towards the family,” Yogi Adityanath said after meeting the family members. “The whole nation is pained by the huge loss and stands with the family of the defence personnel who died in the tragedy. I was in Delhi today and paid my tributes to General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat and reached Agra later in the day to meet the family members of Wing Commander Chauhan,” Yogi Adityanath added.“The state government will give financial assistance of ₹50 lakh to the family of Prithvi Singh Chauhan, besides a government job to one family member. An institution is to be named after him. The state government, the public representatives and Agra administration all stand with family in their grief. The cremation of Wing commander Prthvi Singh Chauhan will be conducted with full state honours in Agra,” he further said.“We also pray for the speedy recovery of the lone survivor Group Captain Varun Singh, also from Uttar Pradesh,” he said.Yogi Adityanath reached Agra after flying in from Delhi. Police personnel were deployed and traffic was regulated on the Dayalbagh Road adjoining the Saran Nagar locality. The chief minister’s convoy reached New Agra area at 3.30pm on Friday and he walked through the lane to reach the house of the IAF officer.Earlier in the day, Congress leaders, including former Union minister of state Bhanwar Jitendra Singh and Rajya Sabha member Deependra Hooda, reached the house of the IAF officer, met his father and offered their condolences.
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Despite Kalyan court’s order, no progress in investigation, claims family of 18-month old girl||A day after the case was filed against two Kalyan-based doctors for allegedly prescribing wrong medicines to a one-and-a-half-year-old girl leading to her death, the family has alleged that the police have still not produced the doctors before the court nor are they investigating the matter.The Kolsewadi police claimed that they have no jurisdiction to take action against fake doctors and it is the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) that should investigate. KDMC chose to stay silent on the issue.The clinic where the parents took the girl was in limelight in 2018, when a doctor was arrested for raping a minor. The family, which has been running from pillar to post to seek justice for the girl, claimed to have hit a wall despite court’s orders. They claimed that the police had blamed them five months ago when they approached the police station.Munni Sahani, 26, mother of the deceased girl, said, “I am illiterate, poor and unaware of the legal procedures. However, I do know that I have the right to seek justice for my child even if the protectors of law refused to help. On July 5, we took my daughter to the clinic, where she was given medicine. Later, when she did not recover, I took her again on July 6, when they gave her medicine and steam. After we came home, she slept. At 6pm, I found her dead. I took her to the same doctors, Mohamad Ansari and S Alam, who threw us out and told us that ‘you can’t do anything wrong to us, do whatever you want’.”The parents then went to the police station. However, they refused to take the case. The mother added, “The Kolsewadi police asked us to leave and blamed us that we must have given wrong medicine and not the doctors. We requested a post-mortem but the cops and some government hospital doctors told us that there was no need for a post-mortem as the result would come after a year and we’d waste time.”The family finally got help from lawyer Satyendra Dubey, who fought with them in the Kalyan court. The court asked the police to file the case in the matter against the doctor three days ago. The family claimed that they were unnecessarily called to the police station and made to wait for a whole day without any question or getting information.Sahani said, “We told police five months ago that the doctor who prescribed us the medicine is a fake doctor but no one authenticated the fact. Whatever we earn, we use for basic food and legal proceedings.”Senior police inspector Basir Shaikh didn’t answer as to why they didn’t take any step five months ago. “We have asked KDMC to check the details of the doctor. That’s not our work. Whether our officers informed KDMC five months back or not, I can’t tell you details of all these. Our investigation is on.”Medical health officer of KDMC, Ashwini Patil, too was reluctant to share more insights into this matter. She said, “Whatever inquiry and investigations we have done will be informed to the police and also we are waiting for the directions from Maharashtra medical council for further action.”Dubey said, “Police have added non-bailable offence and they have only detained the two. Both the police and KDMC are merely passing the buck.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/despite-kalyan-court-s-order-no-progress-in-investigation-claims-family-of-18-month-old-girl-101639151181384.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Upward trend at IIT placement, higher number of job offers recorded across campuses||Mumbai One week into placements at the premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and the trend of a higher number of jobs, both domestic and international, as well as higher pay packages compared to the last few years, is common to all institutes. Institutes are witnessing a 25-30% hike in total job offers made this year compared to 2020. At IIT-Bombay, the graduating batch received and accepted over 1,200 jobs in the first six days itself, higher than ever recorded before. “The highest number of job offers have come from Qualcomm (40) this year, whereas, the highest number of international job offers have been made by Rakuten Group, a Tokyo-based e-commerce and online retailing company,” said a spokesperson for the institute. The highest annual package offered to a student of IIT Bombay is of ₹2.05 crore (USD 2.87 lakh) by Uber Systems, USA this year. At IIT-Roorkee, the total number of job offers made to the graduating batch this year stands at 1,171 (including pre-placement offers), nearly 50% more than the 671 jobs recorded in the first week of placements in December 2020. Similarly, at IIT Guwahati, 832 students have been placed in the first ten days of the placements compared to 731 total students registered over two weeks of placements last year. “The first phase of placements ends on December 15 and already more students have been offered jobs this year compared to the first phase of placements last year. We are still waiting to hear from some companies over the next five days. The total number of students placed this year will definitely be higher than last few years,” said Abhishek Kumar, head, Centre for Career Development, IIT Guwahati. While the first phase of placements takes place over two weeks, a handful of IITs wrap up the first phase within one week itself. Officials from IIT Hyderabad ended their week-long placements season with a record of 466 job offers made to 427 students, more than double the number of job offers received by the 2020 batch, where 222 job offers were made in the first phase of placements at the institute. “Several India-based start-ups and companies are among the top recruiters this year. Ten start-ups have offered 36 offers this year. The highest package is ₹65 lakh, and the average package is ₹23lakh as on date for the ongoing first phase of placements,” said a spokesperson for IIT Hyderabad. The overall domestic pay packages were on the higher side this year across IITs, especially on the first couple of days. At IIT-Roorkee, the annual package offered for a domestic role stood at ₹1.8 crores this year compared to ₹80 lakh last year. Similarly, At IIT-Guwahati, multiple numbers of domestic offers of above ₹1.1 crore have been made to students this year. 
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Antilia explosive scare: HC stays Naresh Gor’s release on bail||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday asked cricket bookie Naresh Gor, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and connected murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, not to act on the order of the single-judge bench of HC, which set aside the 25 days stay on the bail granted by a special court in November till it hears the appeal filed by the NIA against the HC order. The HC asked Gor to give the undertaking while hearing his application for permitting his release on temporary cash surety. The NIA appeal will be heard on Wednesday next week. The division bench of Justice Nitin Jamdar and Justice Sarang Kotwal while hearing the NIA’s appeal was informed by advocate Sandesh Patil that the central agency was agitating the order by the HC single-judge who had set aside the order of the special NIA court which had stayed the bail it had granted to Gor for a period of 25 days at the request of the NIA. In the appeal, the NIA had sought a stay of the bail granted by the special NIA court. While assuring the court of cooperating with the agency, senior advocate Shirish Gupte for Gor submitted that in case of being released, his client would surrender to the NIA if its appeal was successful. However, the court said that it would hear the appeal on Wednesday and decide whether the bail order can be stayed or not. “This is a substantive appeal and we are looking at the correctness of the order. Even if we hear it in a prima facie manner, we will make observations on the merits,” the court added. Thereafter, the court asked Gor whether he was willing to give a statement that he would not act upon the bail order until the appeal was heard, to which Gor replied in the affirmative. The single-judge bench of Justice Sandeep Shinde while quashing and setting aside the 25-day stay on the bail order of the special NIA court had also refused NIA’s request to stay the operation of its order. Gor was arrested in March 2021 and was remanded to judicial custody. He had first applied for bail in August 2021 but it was rejected on the grounds that the investigation was still continuing and the chargesheet was not filed. However, in September 2021, after the NIA filed the chargesheet, Gor filed the application for bail claiming that he was not aware of the larger conspiracy in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-explosive-scare-hc-stays-naresh-gor-s-release-on-bail-101639148961363.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||Maid, off honour: Do you treat domestic help with equality?||Domestic helps and nannies are the lifeline of our households yet many a times aren’t treated with that kind of respect. Recently, actor Sumona Chakravarti shared a post about her experience at the airport where a help stood beside a family enjoying a meal at the restaurant. They didn’t bother to offer her food, and didn’t even let her sit! And such disturbing sights,Delhiites claim, are quite common in the city. “I remember, a few weeks back, I had gone out for dinner to a restaurant in a mall. There was a big family there, and they had brought their maid along to take care of their baby. While the baby was sleeping in the stroller, the maid was given a chair a little away from the table and made to sit there. The stroller was also parked right next to her. I just cannot understand why she couldn’t join the family at the table,” rues Manisha Verma, a teacher from Malviya Nagar. Sharing a similar experience, Nikita Parmar, a homemaker from Vasant Kunj, adds: “We were at a fine dining restaurant in south Delhi a few days back, where I saw a family make their help sit at a different table, while they enjoyed their meal elsewhere. It was very clear that the family wasn’t comfortable with their help sitting along with them. I feel this is so unfair! It enraged me so much, but what do you do with such people... If you can’t treat them well, then better not take them along with you.”Some have gone to the extent of taking a stand against this kind of mistreatment, but to no avail. Ishita Bhatt, an environment consultant from Gurugram, recalls, “A month back I saw a lady yelling badly on her help at an indoor kids’ playing area in Gurugram because the kid got hurt while playing. She was scolding her so badly and was so loud that almost everyone present there was feeling bad for the help. I understand that the kid got hurt, but the mother was also present at the time of the child getting hurt, then the responsibility lies with her too. I didn’t know that woman personally, and initially was a little sceptical to interfere in the matter, but her inhuman behaviour towards her help forced me to intervene... I tried to explain her that it was just an accident and the kid was fortunately fine with a little bruises that would get healed in a few days, but she refused to calm down.” However, there are exceptions. Priyanka Seth, a businesswoman from Gurugram says for her help is like her family member. “We are a couple with two kids. My full time help is the fifth member of our family. She travels with us and goes on all the outings in the same manner as we do. She uses those opportunities to learn and grow. For example, she started her flying experience with us. Every time we go to the airport, she’d ask me about it, understanding the process and all. Eventually she gained enough confidence that she recently decided to fly to Kolkata (nearest city to her village) to visit her parents,” says Seth, and Heena Gandhi, a homemaker from Paschim Vihar, chips in, “We recently went to a mall close to our place and at the restaurants there, we saw tables that had families sitting with their helps. Everyone was eating the same meal. I feel this is the minimum that a family can do for someone who is working for them!”Dr Anjana Singhla, a general physician from Saket, opines that at times, onlookers tend to get a bit judgmental. “Sometimes people make arrangements to ensure that the kids are taken care of and there is someone available with them at all times. For instance, they take turns with the help to have food — like I always offer food to my kids’ nanny first and while she is eating, I take care of the kids. Once the nanny is done, she plays with the kids and the I eat my meal in peace. And I think this is a great arrangement. Then again, onlookers might not understand and may jump to judgements. Like this once, a lovely lady told me to not ‘mistreat’ the nanny by not offering food. When I explained to her that the nanny has already eaten, that woman gave me a hug,” she shares.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/maid-off-honour-do-you-treat-domestic-help-with-equality-101639148732444.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||6 arrested for robbing gold trader of Rs46L in Kalamboli||The Crime Branch unit II of Navi Mumbai has arrested six people for robbing a gold trader of ₹46 lakh to get rid of their losses and loans incurred during the pandemic.Police claimed none of the accused have past criminal records. The accused, all in the early 20s, were arrested within 72 hours of the incident, said senior police inspector Giridhar Gore of unit II crime branch. Of the ₹46 lakh stolen, ₹21 lakh was recovered. Police claimed that four more are at large. The incident occurred in the last week of November outside McDonald’s bus stop on the Sion-Panvel Highway at Kalamboli. The complainant had alighted the bus with the cash to purchase gold. The accused threw chilli powder on the complainant and fled with the cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/6-arrested-for-robbing-gold-trader-of-rs46l-in-kalamboli-101639147222008.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Defamation suit: Nawab Malik tenders unconditional apology to HC||Mumbai Maharashtra minorities development minister Nawab Malik on Friday tendered an unconditional apology and assured the Bombay high court (HC) that henceforth, he would not make any comments or pass any remarks against Dnyandev Wankhede, father of the NCB officer Sameer Wankhede, or their family. A division bench of Justice SJ Kathawalla and Justice Milind Jadhav accepted the apology and a further undertaking given by the NCP leader and remanded Wankhede’s plea for interim injunction against Malik for fresh adjudication by a single-judge bench. The apology and reiteration of the undertaking came in response to a notice issued by HC on December 7 to the NCP leader, asking him why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him for apparent wilful breach of the undertaking that he had given earlier. On November 29, Malik had assured HC that he would refrain from making defamatory statements against Wankhede or his family members. Malik on Friday filed a short – four-page affidavit stating that the statements made by him were not intentional, but were made in the course of general interviews to the press and in response to specific questions asked by the media persons during the interviews. “I say that all the three statements, extracts and/or comments at Exhibit C, D & E were neither press releases nor press statements issued by me, or on my behalf,” said the affidavit. “These responses were made in the course of interviews with journalists which covered a large number of topics and a considerable period of time. In the course of such interviews, the journalists had asked specific questions and it was in response thereto that I had made the statements. These responses were made by me in the belief that such responses made in the course of interviews were not within the ambit of the statement made on my behalf to this Hon’ble Court,” it adds. “I had no intention to disrespect, dishonour, overreach the court or breach the said Orders,” stated the affidavit, adding, “I tender my unconditional apology to this Hon’ble Court in respect of the breaches of my undertaking given to this Hon’ble Court as recorded in the Orders dated 25th November 2021 and 29 November 2021.” The NCP leader has reiterated his undertaking to the court and stated that henceforth he will not even answer queries of media persons regarding Wankhede and his family members. However, the affidavit added that the undertaking would not restrain him from making comments on political misuse of central agencies or the acts of their officers. “I however believe my statement would not prevent me from commenting on the political misuse of central agencies and the conduct of their officers in the course of performance of their official duties hereafter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defamation-suit-nawab-malik-tenders-unconditional-apology-to-hc-101639146800604.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||With ample beds, Navi Mumbai civic body claims to be ready to handle 7K patients simultaneously in case of 3rd wave||With 45% increase in oxygen beds as compared to the peak of the second wave in April this year and 100% increase in ICU beds, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has claimed that it is ready to handle more than 7,000 active patients at one go.In terms of oxygen as well, with possession of just 120 dura cylinders during the second wave to now having 93 metric ton storage tanks, 3 PSAs and 200 dura cylinders, NMMC is confident of not falling short of oxygen if ever there is a third wave.In April 2021, there were 12,000 active patients with some in the waiting list to get beds, ventilators and oxygen beds.A total of 6,702 beds were available in April when the second wave was at its peak. The NMMC has increased the bed capacity to 11,635 beds.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “With the past experience, we decided to have enough oxygen for ourselves and not depend on anyone for getting the dura cylinders filled. The necessity of ICU beds was the most and hence we focused on building them first. It takes around three months to get ICU beds ready and hence it is not possible to start getting them ready when the cases start seeing an increase. Meanwhile, the beds without oxygen can be set up within 15 days.”Besides the previous facilities that were available during the second wave, NMMC now has an additional 2,840 beds without oxygen. “These facilities are ready and we have the beds too. Whenever the need arises, all we have to do is place the beds at these facilities,” he added. Besides, 1,100 oxygen beds have been made ready at Mayuresh building in Belapur and GD Pol institute in Kharghar, 400 ventilators are also ready in addition to the 129 that were available previously.Storage tanks to store Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) with a total capacity of 93 metric tons have been fixed, of which three with a total capacity of 60 metric tons is at CIDCO exhibition centre, 20 metric tons at Airoli Municipal Hospital and 13 metric tons at Nerul Municipal Hospital. LMO would be provided by the government, which will be filled in these tanks. Corporation has also made four Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants, of which three are ready and the work on the last one is going on. PSA at Vashi General Hospital, CIDCO Centre and Airoli Hospital are ready while the fourth one is being fitted at Belapur Municipal Hospital. The PSAs can manufacture five to seven litres of oxygen per minute.“The dura cylinders are mobile and can be carried anywhere and can also be provided to private hospitals if required. These storage tanks that we have installed will be used to fill the dura cylinders. As per the government order, we have asked all the private hospitals as well to always be ready with three times the required oxygen,” oxygen nodal officer, Babasaheb Rajale, said.The average requirement of oxygen during the peak of the second wave was around 28 tons per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-ample-beds-navi-mumbai-civic-body-claims-to-be-ready-to-handle-7k-patients-simultaneously-in-case-of-3rd-wave-101639146385612.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik apologises to HC for violating promise not to attack Wankhede family||MUMBAI: Maharashtra minorities development minister Nawab Malik on Friday tendered an unconditional apology to the Bombay high court for his remarks against Dnyandev Wankhede, father of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede, in violation of his earlier undertaking to the high court.In a four-page affidavit, Nawab Malik told the bench that he was under the impression that responses to questions asked by journalists in interviews weren’t covered by his previous undertakings to the court and tendered his unconditional apology.“I tender my unconditional apology to this hon’ble court in respect of the breaches of my undertaking given to this hon’ble court as recorded in the orders dated 25th November 2021 and 29 November 2021,” Nawab Malik said in his affidavit.A division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and Milind Jadhav accepted the senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader’s apology and remanded Dnyandev Wankhede’s plea for an interim injunction against Malik for fresh adjudication by a single judge bench.Malik’s apology - he also reiterated his previous undertaking not to attack the Wankhede family - came after the two-judge bench on Tuesday (December 7) issued notice, asking him why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him for wilful breach of the undertaking that he had given earlier. On November 29, Malik assured the high court that he will refrain from defamatory statements against Dnyandev Wankhede or his family members.The notice was issued after Wankhede’s lawyer cited excerpts from Malik’s interview given after his undertaking where he was alleged to have made defamatory comments against the family.Malik’s affidavit on Friday underlined that the statements were “not intentional”, and made in response to specific questions asked during interviews and not press releases nor press statements.“These responses were made in the course of interviews with journalists which covered a large number of topics and a considerable period of time. In the course of such interviews, the journalists had asked specific questions and it was in response thereto that I had made the statements. These responses were made by me in the belief that such responses made in the course of interviews were not within the ambit of the statement made on my behalf to this Hon’ble court,” the affidavit added.“I had no intention to disrespect, dishonour, overreach the court or breach the said orders,” stated the affidavit, promising that in future, he will not “even answer queries of media persons regarding Wankhede and his family members”.The affidavit however added that the undertaking would not restrain him from making comments on political misuse of central agencies or the acts of their officers. “I, however, believe my statement would not prevent me from commenting on the political misuse of central agencies and the conduct of their officers in the course of performance of their official duties hereafter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-apologises-to-hc-for-violating-promise-not-to-attack-wankhede-family-101639144100624.html
10-12-2021||Other||SHO thrashes man carrying child in his arms, suspended||The station house officer (SHO) of Akbarpur police station Vinod Mishra was suspended on Friday, a day after he brutally assaulted an employee of the health department carrying his child in the district hospital campus where the police had gone to facilitate the resumption of OPD on Thursday.As the video of the beating of the employee Amit Kushwaha went viral, Kanpur Dehat police drew flak from different quarters. Mishra would also face an in-house inquiry ordered into his conduct, said IG Kanpur range Prashant Kumar.ADG Kanpur Bhanu Bhaskar suspended Mishra on Friday following widespread criticism of the police action. Earlier, despite clear instructions, Kanpur Dehat SP Chowdhary had merely had removed SHO Mishra from the charge and attached him to police lines on late Thursday night.The health department employees had stopped working in the OPD of the hospital and were protesting on the campus. They had locked the gates prompting the authorities to call in the police. In the process, the police dealt with the situation with a heavy hand.IG Kumar visited the hospital and met Kushwaha, who works at the admission counter. Kumar said the SHO has been suspended, and an inquiry has been ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-thrashes-man-carrying-child-in-his-arms-suspended-101639143559612.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||Gorakhpur to be developed as special education zone: Pradhan||GORAKHPUR Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday said that Gorakhpur, being developed as a knowledge city through three functional and one under-construction university, would be made a “special education zone” on the lines of special economic zone, as per the Prime Minister’s vision and the requirement of the new National Education Policy (NEP). The idea behind this special education zone was to groom students as global citizens and addressing problems of the world through academic pursuits. Maharana Pratap Education Council and its students would play an important role in achieving this, said Pradhan while addressing the concluding programme of the 89th Founder’s Week celebrations of Maharana Pratap Education Council as the chief guest.Maharana Pratap Educational council is an academic venture of the Gorakhnath temple under which four dozen educational institutions were being run. While DDU Gorakhpur University, Madan Mohan Malviya University of Technology and Mahayogi Gorakhnath University were already functional, Ayush Vishwavidyalay was under construction here. The minister said the NEP had been prepared under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and was in line with the strategic changes in the global scenario. “It aims at making India the No 1 country in the world and the children of India as global citizens,” he emphasized. Pradhan hailed UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath as an epitome of successful leadership, saying his leadership never bothered about issues but always looked at solutions. “Under his leadership, eastern Uttar Pradesh has got the gift of fertilizer factory by PM Modi,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gorakhpur-to-be-developed-as-special-education-zone-pradhan-101639142540724.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Construction debris illegally dumped near mangroves in Ulwe, claim residents||Local residents and activists in Ulwe have claimed that some people were dumping construction debris near the Ulwe mangroves and destroying several trees over the past five to six months.They added that the CIDCO has turned a blind eye to the strategic destruction of mangroves in Ulwe.Developed by CIDCO, Ulwe is one of the new residential areas along the Nerul-Uran Highway, and scores of real estate companies are developing housing complexes there. The residents allege that some of these companies transport their debris to the deserted places near the mangroves at odd hours and dump there.Dattatray Patil, a 41-year-old activist from Ulwe, said, “If you walk towards the mangroves for five minutes from Bamandongri railway station, you will see heaps of debris dumped there. Common people like us cannot generate this amount of debris at home. So, obviously, people who are into the construction business and have projects in this area do this. If this menace is not stopped soon, the debris will severely affect the mangroves here.”The Bombay High Court, in 2010, said that no non-forest activity can be permitted in the areas where mangroves grow even if such areas have not yet been declared as ‘protected forests’.Anil Bhoir, a 52-year-old resident, said, “The construction workers have been dumping debris near the mangroves in Ulwe for the past several years. We came across such incidents earlier and also informed the CIDCO officials about it. But they never take our complaints seriously.”A CIDCO official said, “I am not aware of debris dumped near the mangroves. I will ask our officials to remove them soon. I will also ask them to put a few boards announcing that dumping of debris and other garbage is prohibited near the mangroves.”According to the state mangrove cell, there are 1,471 hectares of mangrove forests in government-owned land in Navi Mumbai, which are protected by the law.
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Pay-and-park attendant outside Kalyan station arrested for missing 2-wheeler||The Kalyan Government Railway Police (GRP) have arrested an attendant with a pay-and-park facility outside the Kalyan station after a two-wheeler went missing from the parking lot earlier this week.The accused is alleged to have scratched out the entry about the vehicle from his register to shirk responsibility of its disappearance when confronted by its owner.According to the Kalyan GRP, the accused has been identified as Amol Shinde (24). The police said that he was arrested after Kalyan resident, Appu Dutta (40), a government servant employed with the State government’s Land Records department, filed a complaint.The police said that on Tuesday, Dutta parked his bike in the pay-and-park area outside the station and went to his Mulund office by train, as per his daily routine. When he returned at night, he was unable to find his bike anywhere and approached Shinde.“As it happened, Dutta had lost the receipt issued to him that morning when he paid for his parking slot. Dutta told this to Shinde and asked him to check his register as there would be an entry in it. Shinde looked through his register, found the entry and scratched it out in front of Dutta. Shinde then said that he had no idea about Dutta’s bike and that it was not his responsibility,” senior police inspector Valmik Shardul, Kalyan GRP said.The incident led to an argument between Dutta and Shinde, and Dutta subsequently approached the police on Wednesday morning. After recording a statement from Dutta, the police registered an FIR and arrested Shinde the same day.The police have charged Shinde with destruction of a document or record to prevent its production as evidence, criminal breach of trust by person entrusted with property and cheating under the Indian Penal Code. After being produced in court, he was remanded in police custody till Sunday. “There are no CCTV cameras covering the parking lot, and we are trying to find out if there have been similar instances of vehicles going missing in the past. We shall be writing to railway authorities to seek this information as well as bring this matter to their notice,” Shardul said.Central Railway officials said that there are no hard and fast conditions imposed on private pay-and-park operators regarding installation of CCTV cameras, and it is left to the operators as to how best they can ensure the security of the vehicles left in their care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/payandpark-attendant-outside-kalyan-station-arrested-for-missing-2wheeler-101639141042706.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||Patients suffer as pharmacists’ two-hour work boycott continues||Patients, who visited government hospitals in the morning hours on Friday, faced difficulty for a second consecutive day as pharmacists abstained from work for two hours, starting 8 am to press for their several demands, including wage revision.Administering injectable drugs, drug distribution and several other works were hampered due to the work boycott by over 7000 pharmacists.“The work boycott began from 8 am, and gate meetings were held at several hospitals including Balrampur, Lok Bandhu and Rani Laxmibai hospital,” said Sunil Yadav, executive president of the Diploma Pharmacist Association, Uttar Pradesh, which has over 7,500 member pharmacists.A long queue of patients was seen at OPD counters of hospitals as pharmacists staged a protest. Sunil Yadav, who is president of the Pharmacists Federation, UP chapter, said pharmacists are demanding wage revision along with other demands.Pharmacists are posted at district-level hospitals, medical colleges, community health centres and primary health centres, and are engaged in drug distribution, and at many places, work in injection rooms to administer injectable drugs and vaccines. Pharmacists are demanding wage revision, right to prescribe drugs, creation of new posts and standardisation of their work. Posts of pharmacists are less against the guidelines, and at some places, there are no pharmacists deployed.“Pharmacists deployed at emergency wards did not join the work boycott. But if our demands are not addressed, we shall go on complete work boycott from December 17, and boycott emergency work from December 20,” said Yadav adding, “Drug distribution is significant work as incorrect dose taken by a patient can do more harm than benefit.” For the past one-week pharmacists in the state have been working with black badges during their duty hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/patients-suffer-as-pharmacists-two-hour-work-boycott-continues-101639139777876.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||PMLA court refuses to disbelieve Sachin Vaze’s statements||Mumbai A special PMLA court in Mumbai refused to disbelieve statements given by dismissed assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze to the enforcement directorate (ED) and said that the statements cannot be thrown out at the stage of bail. While dismissing the bail plea of former home minister Anil Deshmukh’s personal assistant Kundan Shinde, the special PMLA Judge M G Deshpande said that the statements given by the dismissed API to ED cannot be thrown out at this stage of bail merely because he is a person of doubtful integrity. “In order to draw a legal conclusion about the conduct of any person, a trial is the only remedy,” said the court, adding that, “Because, it is a mixed question of law and facts.” The special judge said he had already held that there was a meeting in the house of the then home minister Deshmukh and Vaze, despite being a lower rank officer, took part in it. “Vaze also has boldly accepted that he paid cash to Shinde twice and this cannot be overlooked at this preliminary stage of bail,” said the court. “It is also alleged that cash was transferred through hawala and then sent to trust in the form of donations. In this way, there is a clear case which indicates the generation of Proceeds of Crime, its placement, layering and integration for projecting tainted money as untainted.” ED has arrested Shinde and Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande on June 26, 2021 in connection with money laundering case against Deshmukh. Advocate Ejaz Khan, who represented Kundan Shinde, had argued that apart from Vaze’s statement, there was absolutely nothing against the personal assistant of the then home minister. Khan had contended that the statements of the dismissed API cannot be relied upon as they were actuated by malice. The special court accepted that there was absolutely no corroboration to the statements, but added that collection of illegal money is basically a very secret process. “From the facts, it came out that there was a secret conspiracy amongst Anil Deshmukh, Sanjeev Palande, his personal secretary, dismissed inspector Vaze and (Kundan) Shinde,” said the court. Vaze in his statements to ED had said that on Deshmukh’s instructions, he had collected ₹4.7 crores from some orchestra bar owners in Mumbai and handed over the amount to Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmla-court-refuses-to-disbelieve-sachin-vaze-s-statements-101639138458779.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||HC allows PMLA adjudicating authority to decide on attachment of Deshmukh‘s properties||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday permitted the single-member adjudicating authority constituted under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act to conduct a hearing on the provisional attachment of the properties belonging to former home minister Anil Deshmukh, his wife, son and other members of the family to conclude hearing on whether the attachment was valid or not. However, the court held that no coercive action would be taken pursuant to the completion of the hearing till the next hearing of the challenge by Aarti Deshmukh, to the constitution of the authority on January 10, 2022. The division bench of Justice Gautam Patel and Justice Madhav Jamdar, which is hearing the petition filed by Aarti Deshmukh, was informed by additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Enforcement Directorate (ED), that as per the rules, the single-member adjudicating authority could continue hearing the issue of provisional attachment and the objection raised by Deshmukh in the petition was not maintainable. Deshmukh has claimed that the adjudicating authority has to consist of three members which include one each from the fields of law’, administration and finance or accountancy. Further, one of the members was to be appointed as chairperson of the adjudicating authority and it would function within the department of revenue. Singh submitted that the December 6 order of the bench restraining the adjudicating authority from passing the final order should be modified. The modification Singh said was only to the extent that the authority can pass orders, however, its implementation would be subject to the outcome of the petition. However, senior advocate Vikram Choudhri for Deshmukh objected to Singh’s submissions and said that permitting the adjudicating authority to hear and decide on the issue of provisional attachment would prejudice his client and hence, it should not be allowed to pass orders till the petition was heard on merits. After hearing both sides, the bench held that there would be no prejudice to the petitioner if the authority was permitted to conclude hearing the issue of provisional attachment and pass orders if its implementation was kept pending till the petition was heard and decided by it. While both Singh and Choudhri agreed, Choudhri sought protection from coercive action in the event of any adverse decision by the adjudicating authority which the court allowed. The court then directed ED to file its reply to the petition by January 4 and any rejoinder till January 6 and posted hearing of the petition to January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-allows-pmla-adjudicating-authority-to-decide-on-attachment-of-deshmukh-s-properties-101639138098591.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||UNICEF boost to bring back school dropouts to Thane civic schools||THANE
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Third case of Omicron detected in Dharavi, India tally touches 26||Third case of Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease was detected in Mumbai on Friday. With this, the total count of Omicron cases in the country’s financial capital touched three, while the nationwide tally stood at 26.A 49-year-old Dharavi resident who returned from Tanzania on December 4 was found infected with the highly contagious strain of the virus that was detected late last month in South Africa. Civic body officials said the patient is not vaccinated against Covid-19 and asymptomatic.The sample of the patient was collected at the Mumbai airport which later came out to be positive. After which, his sample was sent for genome sequencing at Kasturba Hospital in the city where it came positive for Omicron. Two of his high-risk contacts have tested negative for the virus so far.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) admitted the patient at Seven Hills Hospital.Earlier in the day, two more cases of Omicron were confirmed in Gujarat's Jamnagar after two contacts of a foreign returnee, who was the first Omicron case in the state, tested positive.In Mumbai, the first two patients of Omicron who tested positive earlier this week had been vaccinated with Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine and had shown no symptoms.They were a 37-year-old man who arrived from South Africa and his 36-year-old friend who landed from the United States.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-third-case-of-omicron-detected-in-city-india-tally-touches-26-101639137466420.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Shankar Mahadevan inaugurates pet corner in Vashi||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has set up a pet corner in Vashi for the benefit of dog owners. The initiative is a part of the Swachh Survekshan 2022 programme initiated by the civic body.The facility was inaugurated at Sector 29 by popular singer and Navi Mumbai resident, Shankar Mahadevan, who is Swachh Navi Mumbai brand ambassador, in the presence of municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, and additional municipal commissioner Sujata Dhole.The pet corner has sand where the pets can litter. It also has a scooper, garbage bags and bin. The area has been spruced up with wall paintings of dogs and pet lovers.Speaking at the inauguration, Mahadevan, who brought along two of his pet dogs, said, “This is a very special day for all of us. The issue of open defecation concerns not just humans but also animals. Navi Mumbai is already open defecation-free with respect to humans. Now, this initiative will ensure that the city will also be free from pet waste soon.”The city has already been recognised as ODF with Water+ ranking in the Swachh Survey.Bangar added, “While most pet owners who take their pets for a stroll ensure that their waste is collected, there are some who litter on the roads, footpaths and other open spaces. We have been levying penalties on them. However, penalising is not the solution. We should also provide alternatives and this pet corner is just for that. We have taken up corners where sand has been made available and provided a scooper and garbage bags.”Scientific disposal is followed in which the owners can pick up the waste and put it in the bag which is then dumped in the bins provided from where it will be taken away. Bangar added that the city would have similar pet corners at 10 locations in the first phase and the number would increase further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shankar-mahadevan-inaugurates-pet-corner-in-vashi-101639137382144.html
10-12-2021||Kolkata||UK returnee tests +ve for Covid in Kolkata; sample sent for genome sequencing||A young woman who arrived in Kolkata from the UK on Friday tested positive for Covid-19, following which a sample was sent for genome sequencing to verify if she has contracted the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, officials said. “The patient was initially rushed to the Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital. Later, she was shifted to a private facility for institutional quarantine,” said a senior official of the state health department. The condition of the 18-year-old UK returnee was stable and she had minimal symptoms, the official said. India has so far reported 23 cases of the Omicron variant of which 17 were detected on Sunday after a cluster of nine Omicron infections emerged in Jaipur and seven in Maharashtra’s Pune district. West Bengal hasn’t reported any cases of the new variant so far. The state has so far registered 1,621,370 Covid-19 cases with 567 new cases reported on Thursday. The confirmed death toll from Covid-19 in the state until Thursday was 19,575.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/uk-returnee-tests-ve-for-covid-in-kolkata-sample-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101639136897335.html
10-12-2021||Pune||Global Village idiot: Why and how a ‘smart city’ is defined by airport experience||PUNE I landed in Hong Kong at 9.10 am, cleared immigration, freshened up, changed into my work suit and made it to the 10 am client meeting with ten minutes to spare. (I had taken the 1.15 am flight from Mumbai, had a good night’s sleep and had a great breakfast in flight). After a full day’s workshop, I left for the airport at 5.15 pm, checked in, cleared immigration, grabbed a bowl of barbecued chicken on steamed rice, spent an hour picking up stuff for the family and chocolates for the team, and then got onto the return flight at 7.45 pm. I was back in Mumbai by midnight.What would have made the trip perfect was if I could have just taken a cab home. But I live in Pune and there were no direct flights out to Hong Kong then (still aren’t). So, I had to factor in two four-hour road trips each time I flew in or out of the country.Between 2006 and 2016, I used to travel frequently to Hong Kong for work. On most visits, I stayed at a business hotel in the nearby town of Tung Chung, which was 10 minutes by cab (15 minutes by bus). (I have also stayed at the airport hotel within the airport complex.) The client offices were usually mid-way between the airport and township. The hotel was part of the commercial and residential area of Tung Chung planned across the low-lying hills - a clean waterfront with ferry pier, office complexes, a township with metro, bus station, malls and hotel. Even when I had clients in town (Kowloon or Hong Kong island or even further), it wasn’t a hassle because the metro rail is super-fast and the bus service was clockwork. I always felt as if I was part of a real-life lego set - life is that efficient in Hong Kong.Dinner was either at the hotel or the Citygate mall or the airport.Every third day, I used to take a bus or cab into the airport to visit the retail shops, browse the book shops, the aviation museum or eat at one of the many local food joints that were part of the airport. Hong Kong airport is a social destination and locals and visitors often shop, meet for drinks or eat at the airport - the entire complex is designed to invite people to interact with the airport, with outlets accessible to everyone and then some outlets can be accessed only by those with a boarding pass. One used to be able to walk in and out of the airport, window shop, grab a drink or a bite and go back home.That’s the kind of airport I hope we get in our city when they eventually decide to build the new one in Purandar taluka of Pune district. I love the current Pune airport because this is my home town and I love flying into the quaint, cute airport. My happiest trips overseas were when Jet Airways ran flights to Abu Dhabi and Singapore, SpiceJet had a Pune-Sharjah and Lufthansa flew to Frankfurt.But it’s going to be difficult to get a digital age airport because historically (and especially post 9/11) airports have been designed to keep non-flyers out.Modern airports (up till the 1990s) have contributed to a city when the airport has been an integral part of the city’s economic, social and cultural life, its aspirations and its future. We are now in the digital age and the emerging megacities are being redesigned around connectivity to the extent that the definition of megacities is all about the volume of people and cargo and services that the city handles and the number of other cities it is connected to. Hong Kong, Singapore, Doha and Dubai are prime examples in Asia and the Middle East where the airports are airport cities in themselves with an entire ecosystem that can be open to non-flyers and that contributes significantly to the local economy.The Hong Kong airport employs more than 78,000 people and it has a well-developed conference, exhibition, retail and entertainment complex which is a destination by itself, apart from being a hub for road and ferry connectivity to Macau and mainland China. There are several examples of such airport ecosystems across the world with varying degrees of public access, keeping and monitoring the real security risks in mind.In recent years, several airports in the USA have been experimenting with not just public access areas but public access beyond security checkpoints as well. Pittsburgh international airport was the first to open to non-travellers in 2017 under what is called ‘Terminal Tourism.’The primary argument here is that there has to be a vision for integrating the airport into the city’s growth from an administrative viewpoint. Further, there has to be a passionate and knowledgeable entity driving the vision for the airport’s design and development, in collaboration with private entities and residents with some government ownership so that it becomes a matter of city, state and nation-building.Towards such an end, as far as Pune is concerned, I feel that local citizens have to do their bit by taking an avid interest in the development and voicing the need for a world-class aspirational airport for starters. We are already on the Smart City road map. Why not expand the horizon to think global while connecting local to regional and creating new opportunities?Sanjay Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-why-and-how-a-smart-city-is-defined-by-airport-experience-101639133056030.html
10-12-2021||Other||Bihar govt chalks out plan to boost tourism in Champaran||Bihar’s tourism department has chalked out a plan to tap the tourism potential of the temples and the sites of the rituals in Champaran. Under the project, tourism amenities will be developed at places like Patjirwa Sthan temple under Pujaha Panchayat in Bairia block West Champaran, the Durga Bagh temple in Betia, Khadda Maai temple in Nautan block, West Champaran and the Amwa Mann, the lake in West Champaran, officials said. The department has decided to spend more than ₹6.74 crores on the development of the Patjirwa Maai Sthaan. It’s believed to be Siddhapeeth, a site where a body part of Goddess Sati, the wife of Lord Shiva, had fallen. Locals believe the feet of Goddess Sati had fallen at Patjirwa Sthan.The Khadda Maai Sthan, another old temple in Nautan block will be developed with more than ₹5.46 crores while the Amwa Man lake will be developed at the cost of ₹14. 61 crores.Most of these places have been related to mythologies and religious texts and draw a large number of pilgrims from the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh as well as from neighbouring Nepal.“But the facilities for pilgrims at these places were missing. We have decided to develop these places as one of the best pilgrimage destinations,” Narayan Prasad, tourism minister, said.Though Champaran is known mainly for the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR), it has several heritage sites, ancient Hindu temples, lakes and water bodies, he added. “Though these old temples are not popular on the national level, it’s been drawing pilgrims from UP and Nepal. With so many pilgrimages and lakes, we are considering creating an exclusive Champaran Circuit. Tourists would love to stay in Champaran for not less than a week,” he said.The Durga Bagh temple is known to attract many devotees, the site, however, remained ignored for decades. “The department will develop a boundary wall here while a mandap for religious functions and basic amenities will also be developed,” he said.At the Patjirwa Sthan, Parikrama Path, Yatri Niwas, public amenities, wedding mandap, parking and signage will be developed while at the Khadd Mai Sthan, the department will develop boundary walls, public amenities, Yatri Niwas, sitting benches signage and parking.The Amwa Man lake too has a picturesque value and once developed, it will draw a large number of tourists, the minister said.“Here, we have planned to have a thematic gate, a viewpoint, jetty, musical fountain, kids bridge, canopy walk and public amenities,” he said.
10-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar receives letter with death threat, to file plaint||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Friday said she had received an anonymous letter in her mailbox containing death threats and foul language. The mayor added the envelope had no seal and that she would file a police complaint regarding the letter.Last year too, an unidentified person had called the Shiv Sena leader on her mobile phone, which was attended by her assistant, and abused her and also allegedly threatened to kill her. She had filed a police complaint on December 22 last year and the man was later arrested in January next year from Jamnagar in Gujarat.The fresh threat to Pednekar came amid the ongoing row over BJP MLA Ashish Shelar’s alleged objectionable remarks against her.Earlier this week, the mayor had filed a complaint against Shelar at the Marine Drive police station in Mumbai for his remarks during a press conference on December 4 regarding the Worli cylinder blast accident last month.Pednekar said Shelar made derogatory remarks about her and said that she visited the blast site after 72 hours. “The mayor of Mumbai is the first citizen and it is a very important post. The term used to describe me as a woman mayor is objectionable,” she wrote to Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil.Following her complaint, Shelar was booked under sections 354 A (4) (making sexually coloured remark) and 509 (words or gestures insulting woman's modesty) of the IPC.Shelar said his remarks against the mayor were distorted a day after the complaint was filed against him. “The police complaint filed against me is based on a press statement made some days ago. The entire video of the press conference is there in public domain. However, to enable a legal action against me, my words have been distorted deliberately,” PTI quoted the BJP MLA as saying.(With inputs from Bureau and Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-kishori-pednekar-receives-letter-with-death-threat-to-file-plaint-101639131422191.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: AAP releases list of 30 candidates||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday released a list of 30 candidates for the Punjab assembly elections early next year, fielding former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh from the Amritsar North seat. Also read: Back in Akali fold, ex-AAP Punjab convener Chhotepur gets Batala ticketSingh was part of the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. He took premature retirement from service in April this year after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the probe report filed by the SIT. The former inspector general of police joined the AAP in June. This is the second list of party nominees and all, except 23, are fresh faces. The others have contested the assembly or Lok Sabha elections in the past. The first list of 10 candidates – all of them sitting AAP MLAs repeated from the seats presently held by them – was released by the party last month. Ex-Congress leader Raman Bahl gets Gurdaspur ticket Raman Bahl, who switched sides from the Congress to the AAP exactly a month ago, has been given ticket from Gurdaspur, according to the list signed by AAP state in-charge Jarnail Singh and state president Bhagwant Mann. Bahl, a former chairman of the Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSSB), is the son of former minister and four-time Gurdaspur MLA Khushal Bahl. He remained president of the Gurdaspur municipal council twice. Sekhwan’s son Jagrup gets AAP ticket from Qadian Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan Mann is the AAP nominee from Kharar. The seat was won by AAP’s Kanwar Sandhu in 2017, but he was suspended for anti-party activities two years ago. Former improvement trust chairman Vibhuti Sharma has been given the ticket from Pathankot, while Jagrup Singh Sekhwan, the son of former minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan, has been named the party candidate from Qadian. Sekhwan Senior died in October, days after joining the AAP. Former MLA Naresh Kataria has been fielded from Zira. Gurmeet Singh Khudian, who was the covering candidate of former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh during the 2017 assembly elections, has been given the ticket from Lambi. His father Jagtar Singh Khudian was MP from Faridkot. The list also includes DCP Balkar Singh (Kartarpur), Ravjot Singh (Sham Chaurasi) Balbir Singh Pannu (Fatehgarh Churian), Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar (Amritsar South), Gurdit Singh Sekhon (Faridkot) Sherry Kalsi (Batala), Lalit Mohan ‘Ballu’ Pathak (Nawanshahr), Lalijit Singh Bhullar (Patti), Daljit Singh (Ludhiana East), Kulwant Singh Sidhu (Atam Nagar). Manwinder Singh Gyaspura (Payal, SC), Jagdeep Singh (Muktsar), Neena Mittal (Rajpura), Harmeet Singh (Sanour), Chetan Singh (Samana) and Madan Lal Bagga (Ludhiana North). Jiwan Singh has been fielded from Gill (SC), Gurlal from Ghanaur, Labh Singh Ugoke from Bhadaur (SC), Lal Chand from Bhoa (SC) and Harbhajan Singh from Jandiala (SC) seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-aap-releases-list-of-30-candidates-101639131376732.html
10-12-2021||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar gets critic Chirag Paswan’s backing on prohibition of liquor||The Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar has found an unexpected ally in its campaign to enforce the prohibition of liquor across the state, with LJP (Ram Vilas) president Chirag Paswan supporting the drive.Paswan, a lawmaker from Jamui and usually a critic of chief minister Nitish Kumar, backed the anti-alcohol drive on Thursday, saying he doesn’t support calls to review the prohibition law as demanded by several parties, including NDA alliance partner HAM-S. “There is lack of awareness in the state. Many people here are not aware of the harm that drugs can cause. Therefore, the prohibition law should remain in force in Bihar. I am not in favour of reviewing the prohibition law,” Paswan saidFormer Bihar chief minister and HAM-S president Jitan Ram Manjhi had on Wednesday questioned CM Kumar’s alcohol ban in Bihar, requesting him to rethink the matter. “The chief minister should rethink the implementation of prohibition. Only poor people are being caught and harassed. Those who are involved in the illegal liquor trade racket are not being arrested… 70 % of the people who are being caught are poor,” Manjhi had claimed. Manjhi also pointed to revenue loss for the state government and dwindling hotel businesses in Bihar as a consequence of the prohibition. “Hotels in tourist spots such as Bodh Gaya are incurring losses. Tourists and programme operators have shifted to alternative venues in Ranchi and Kolkata,” he said, adding that a limited number of people should be given permission to consume alcohol amid state-wide prohibition. His remarks came in the backdrop of recent hooch tragedies in the districts of West Champaran, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Vaisshali, which left more than 40 people dead. The BJP, the NDA’s major alliance partner, has also been demanding a review of the prohibition, with the party’s state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal saying six years have passed since the liquor ban law was implemented and so it’s time to review it. “There is a need to review this law... I believe that its success and failure should be reconsidered,” Jaiswal recently said.
10-12-2021||Pune||5 of 7 Omicron patients in Pune test negative for Covid-19: Maharashtra Dy CM||Five out of seven Covid-19 patients in Pune district, who were earlier detected with Omicron, the new variant of coronavirus, have now tested negative for the infection, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday. Four out of six patients from Pimpri-Chinchwad industrial township and a patient from Pune city have tested negative for the viral infection, Pawar told reporters after a weekly review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the district. "The health of all seven patients is good. Four out of six Omicron patients in Pimpri-Chinchwad and a patient in Pune city have tested negative," said Pawar, who is also the guardian minister of the district.These seven persons, including an NRI woman and her two daughters from Nigeria, had tested positive for Omicron in Pune last week. They were admitted for treatment in city-based hospitals and their latest tests came out negative. The new strain, discovered in Africa last month, has been classified as a 'variant of concern' by the WHO. Pawar further said that 100 per cent of the eligible population in the district has been covered with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccines, and over 1.38 crore shots have been administered so far. The pace of vaccination has increased in the district in the last 10 days, the minister said. "It is true that people were a bit reluctant about taking the second dose, but now after the recent developments (Omicron), the pace of vaccination has increased and queues are being witnessed outside the vaccination centres," Pawar said, adding the focus needs to be on rural areas. "Doctors in the (state) task force (on Covid-19) have advised that we have to administer the second dose at the earliest and if we become successful in that, the situation will be good," he said. The state government has received a list of over 4,500 passengers travelling to Pune district from abroad, Pawar said. "The search is on for these passengers. Passengers are being contacted, their information related to their health is being recorded," he said. Currently, the Covid-19 positivity rate in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits and Pune rural is 1.4 per cent, while in the Pimpri-Chinchwad region, it is 0.7 per cent, Pawar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/5-of-7-omicron-patients-in-pune-test-negative-for-covid-19-maharashtra-dy-cm-101639128079708.html
10-12-2021||Other||Trainee woman sub-inspector dies by suicide in Darbhanga||A trainee woman sub-inspector (SI) died by suicide on Thursday night in Darbhanga, officials said. She shot herself with her service revolver at her residence which is close to the LNMU police station, her place of posting, officials said.City Superintendent of Police (SP), Ashok Prasad, said the 27-year-old trainee SI, posted at University PS, shot herself with her service revolver late last night at her residence under University PS area.The deceased SI stayed together in shared accommodation with another trainee SI, Arti Kumari, who was away on duty at the time of the incident.A resident of Children’s Park locality in Supaul, the deceased trainee SI was unmarried. She was very cheerful and friendly, said many senior cops while expressing shock over her passing away. The City SP, who rushed to the spot for investigation on Friday morning, told reporters that the trainee SI returned from duty at around 10.30 pm on Thursday and soon after trainee SI Arti Kumari left for her night patrolling duty. On Friday morning, when trainee SI Arti returned home from her night duty, the former did not open her room even after repeated knocking on the door. When Arti peeped through the window, she was shocked to see her lying in a pool of blood in the kitchen.The reason behind her suicide is not yet known, further investigation is on, police said. A forensic team from Muzaffarpur has been rushed to the spot for the probe. The deceased SI’s family members could not provide any reason behind the tragic incident. The body has been sent for a post mortem..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trainee-woman-sub-inspector-dies-by-suicide-in-darbhanga-101639128133456.html
10-12-2021||Pune||Pune’s first Omicron patient tests negative for Covid-19, to go home soon||Pune’s first patient who was found to be infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19 tested negative for the virus on Friday. Assistant medical officer of Pune Municipal Corporation, Dr Sanjeev Wavare, said the patient was all set to leave for his residence later in the day.“The first Omicron patient of the Pune city has tested negative in his RT-PCR test and is all set to go home today,” news agency ANI quoted the official as saying.As many as seven people have so far tested positive for the Omicron strain in Pune. Of them, six people, including three Nigerian nationals, were found positive in Pimpri Chinchwad of Pune district, while one case was later detected in Pune city, according to Pune municipal commissioner Rajesh Patil.Also read | 2 more Omicron cases reported in Gujarat, NRI's contacts test positiveMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and home minister Dilip Walse Patil held a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in Pune, the first such meeting after the highly contagious strain was detected in the city.“The meeting is currently underway at the Pune Council Hall. The deputy CM and home minister are joined by other senior officials of the district,” a person familiar with the developments said.The first two cases of the Omicron variant in India was detected in Karnataka, followed by another case in Gujarat’s Jamnagar and another case in Maharashtra’s Dombivli. The variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa in late November, following which the global health body designated it as a variant of concern.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 789 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday and seven more deaths. With 74 new cases, Pune city’s total confirmed cases reached 5,23,693, according to the latest data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-first-omicron-patient-tests-negative-for-covid-19-to-go-home-soon-101639126271800.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board institutes new billing system. Here are key pointers||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has instituted new water consumption rules in the national capital under which no consumer can be charged more than 1.5 times the amount of the bill in the previous month.According to DJB minister Satyendar Rai, an automatic system has been put in place to self-regulate the meter reader's tablet when consumption variance goes 50 per cent higher or lower compared to the previous month's bill. Such a system will strengthen the revenue management system of the board, the minister said.“Now your bill cannot be more than 1.5 times that of the previous month. If it exceeds this, an explanation will be provided to the customer, and he or she may file a complaint. The board will be accountable and responsible for any errors,” Satyendar Jain said in a statement on Thursday.In cases where the current month's bill varies 50 per cent higher or lower than that of the month previous, the new water consumption bill will only be generated by the zonal revenue office once the meter reading image confirms the consumption.“This step will curb the erroneous reading bills that were being generated,” the minister was quoted as saying in the statement.Moreover, to keep a vigil on the water billing system, revenue officers will be conducting random meter reading image audits. These “meter inspector” officials will make personal visits to the site and recheck the images of the meter readings to ensure that the readings are not improper or incorrect. In case it is found that certain incorrect images are being fed, the inspectors have been authorised to take strict against the concerned meter readers.According to HT's sister publication Live Mint, there are currently about 900 meter readers taking readings of about 26.50 lakh consumers in 41 zones in Delhi categorised by the DJB. Of these, only about 18 lakh consumers avail zero bills under Delhi's free water scheme.As per Delhi minister Satyendar Jain, the new rotation system for meter reading in Delhi will make the billing system “stronger and more transparent”. Under this new system, the meter readers will be changed every billing cycle, thus cutting any potential loopholes or discrepancies regarding the existing readers.“This will lead to the smooth functioning of the system and will eradicate any type of corruption involved,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-institutes-new-billing-system-here-are-key-pointers-101639107671784.html
10-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to issue separate guidelines for hostels, Covid-19 clusters: CM Bommai||Separate guidelines would be issued for student hostels and Covid clusters as part of Covid management in the state, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said.Speaking to media persons after the cabinet meeting, he said, details have been obtained from the expert committee on the prevailing situation on Covid and the new variant Omicron."Considering the present positivity rate, there is no need to panic. But still, caution would continue as the committee has advised. Separate Guidelines would be issued for hostels which would include sanitisation, serving of food in staggered batches, maintaining distance, compulsory double dose vaccination for cooking personnel and setting up isolation rooms. Special standard operating procedures would also be released for managing Covid clusters in Bengaluru and other places," Bommai said.The chief minister also said that the vaccination drive would be intensified again as the ministers suggested at the meeting."The precautions and guidelines at border areas of the state would continue. Action has been taken to ensure double dose vaccination and RT-PCR test for students from Kerala."On imposing night curfew, restrictions on Christmas and New Year celebrations, Bommai said that an appropriate decision would be taken next week after taking stock of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-issue-separate-guidelines-for-hostels-covid-19-clusters-cm-bommai-101639104359992.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||General Bipin Rawat's funeral: What are the traffic restrictions imposed in Delhi?||Ahead of India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat's funeral in Delhi on Friday, heavy traffic restrictions have been imposed in several areas of the national capital.News agency ANI reported citing traffic police officials that curbs will be imposed on the K Kamaraj Road in the national capital in view of the high-profile funeral procession. Moreover, public transport will also be diverted on a couple of other routes, affecting the movement of buses and auto-rickshaws.The funeral of General Bipin Rawat, who died along with his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other personnel of the armed forces in an air accident this week, will take place on Friday at 4pm.The bodies of the army couple will be kept at their 3, Kamaraj Marg residence from 11am to 12:30pm for people to pay their final respects. Military personnel can pay their respects between 12:30pm and 1:30pm and the final journey to the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment is scheduled to begin around 2pm.Here are the traffic arrangements in the Capital for Friday, according to the Delhi traffic police:• K Kamraj Road will be closed for public transport soon after the bodies of CDS General Rawat and his wife reach their Kamaraj Marg.• All public transport on this road will be diverted. This change in route will affect buses the most since there is a stop situated near the late CDS' residence.• Whether auto-rickshaws and other means of public transport are also to be stopped will be decided in a meeting among traffic officials on Friday.• The K Kamraj Road, however, will be open to private vehicles, but this can change on the basis of information of VIP movement received by the police. A number of decisions regarding route diversions will be taken later today, according to ANI.• The VIP movement on the roads will start from 7-8am, which will last till late evening.• The DCP (traffic) of the New Delhi Range, the ACP, and other senior police officials will be present near the K Kamaraj Marg on Friday. Along with them, around 75 to 100 police personnel have also been assigned duty from this morning to ensure the smooth conduct of procession all the way from K Kamaraj Marg to Brar Square crematorium.• The final journey to the Brar Square crematorium is scheduled to begin around 2pm onwards. This funeral procession will start from the K Kamaraj Road and proceed towards Rajaji Road, Teen Murti, 11 Murti, Sardar Patel Road, and then from Dhaula Kuan, it will move towards Brar Square via the Narayana Route.• The Delhi Traffic Police have already made adequate arrangements in view of the funeral procession. About 10-12 police vehicles will be constantly behind the procession, and according to the cops, traffic on both sides may even be stopped during this time due to security reasons.The last rites of Gen Rawat will be performed with full military honours. Apart from the CDS and his wife, his defence adviser Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder and staff officer Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh also died in the crash.The other nine defence forces personnel who died in the chopper crash are Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, and Lance Naik B Sai Teja.Group Captain Varun Singh, who is the lone survivor from the crash, has been shifted to Air Force Command hospital at Bengaluru for further treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/general-bipin-rawat-s-funeral-what-are-the-traffic-restrictions-imposed-in-delhi-101639100304198.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Where art meets veggies||The plastic container, filled with neatly stacked green shimla mirch, is defying gravity by clinging to the wall. Little plastic packets, containing corn, are hooked along the wall like a caravan. The bitter karelas, on the other side, are arranged in stand-up position inside another gravity-defying container. And then there are laukis, hanging in front of the counter like a row of chandeliers in a hotel lobby.This has to be one of Delhi’s most eye-catching vegetable stalls. The veggies are arranged artistically. Clearly, great amount of thought has gone into the execution of the display. Of course, it is worth sending a shout-out to many other stalls as well, whose owners deck up their products with care, love and attractive layouts.Tajuddin Vegetable Shop in central Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin, however, takes the art of showcasing vegetables to greater sophistication. The effect is so intense that the awestruck spectator is convinced that the person behind the exhibit is an aesthete of high order. With some shyness, veggie seller Mohsin Qureshi confesses, “I built the new arrangement ahista, ahista (slowly, slowly), over several days.” The slim man, in his 30s, is seated on a chair behind the stall’s counter. Dressed in a black jacket and a cap, he gestures towards his elder brother standing on the street, after whom the establishment is named. Tajuddin founded the shop about 25 years ago, here on the intersection of three narrow by-lanes beside the Nal Wali Masjid.The shop’s new look is a month old. Tajuddin notes that almost every visitor is gushing at the decoration. “When people stop by to get gaajar, mooli or tamatar, they just want to rush back home. And then they gradually start to notice...”Mr Mohsin recalls the intense admiration of his close friends. “Akbar, who runs a restaurant in the Basti; Shanu, who is a businessman; Feroze, who has a job in Lajpat Nagar… they all gave full marks to my styling.” Tajuddin says his younger brother has an innate sense of elegance. Mr Mohsin shows mobile phone photos of his home (located close-by on “Karim Hotel Wali lane”) in which he recently made alterations to a room. A new mirror stands out, consisting of a series of smaller mirrors.The two brothers have six married sisters. They visit their mother every Sunday. Since they prefer to stay in purdah, they haven’t actually seen the shop’s new appearance. “Last Sunday, I did a video call with all of them and showed the dukaan,” says Mr Mohsin. The sisters gushed over the props.Indeed, every person interested in how artists rustle out art from the ordinariness of their everyday life ought to visit this stall. It’s open daily from 6am to 10pm. Watch out for the peacock feathers crowning a bunch of lettuce leaves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-where-art-meets-veggies-101639089840655.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||HC pulls up SDMC over inaction against hawking||The Delhi high court on Thursday pulled up officials of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) for their failure to prevent unauthorised hawking in Nehru Place and instead “complaining” to the court about vendors not complying with orders.A bench of justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla said it was “astonished” and “surprised” that an SDMC officer was telling the court about the violation of its orders to keep the Nehru Place area free of hawkers, instead of taking action himself.The court, which was hearing a batch of petitions concerning vending in the area, took exception to an affidavit filed by the SDMC, which said that certain vendors were “occupying much larger space” than mandated and were regularly flouting restrictions with impunity. The affidavit was filed in a related contempt case.“We are astonished. Are these people powerless? Don’t they have any power? Why are they complaining to us? We should be complaining to them.. What is he (officer) doing? He is the person at the ground level…What sort of affidavit is this? Is this some joke or what? They are supposed to ensure compliance. Does he want to work or does he want us to retire him.. He is saying he can’t do anything? What is he getting salary for? He doesn’t want to act.. He is at the ground level,” the bench observed.During the hearing, the counsels for SDMC claimed that the erring vendors were not complying with the restrictions concerning the time of vending as well, it further noted. The court remarked that while the SDMC official was “telling us the truth”, he had to take action at the ground level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-pulls-up-sdmc-over-inaction-against-hawking-101639089587445.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||Sharjeel gets bail in Jamia case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam, in a case of alleged violence at Jamia Millia Islamia in December 2019 during protests against the amended citizenship law.Imam will, however, remain in jail as he is accused in three other cases related to violence in Delhi.The FIR under which he was granted bail involves offences such as rioting, conspiracy, attempt to commit culpable homicide, voluntarily obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions, and assault.Chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar granted him bail on furnishing ₹25,000 bond, with a surety of like amount.“Considering the nature of the offence, and the fact that he was not arrested during the investigation, the [bail] application is allowed,” the judge ordered.In October, the court denied Imam bail for allegedly delivering an inflammatory speech and inciting violence during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in 2019, saying free speech cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony.Besides this case, Imam is also accused of being the “mastermind” of the February 2020 riots, which left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA.He was also arrested in another case under UAPA and sedition for his alleged speeches at two universities in 2019, where he allegedly threatened to cut off Assam and the rest of the northeast from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sharjeel-gets-bail-in-jamia-case-101639088295882.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||Air quality panel squads crack down on 228 polluting units||The 40 flying squads constituted by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) have cracked down on 228 industrial units and construction sites violating pollution control norms.A statement issued by the CAQM on Thursday said that from 1,215 cumulative inspections carried out till December 7, pollution norm violations were reported from 228 units across various sectors in Delhi and the National Capital Region.“…Out of these, closures have been identified 128 industries, 58 construction and demolition sites and 42 commercial and residential complexes operating diesel generator sets,” the statement read.The statement added, “Not only have closure orders been issued with respect to grossly violating units, but flying squads have also further verified physical closure of operations and 111 such units have so far been closed down, till further orders...”The CAQM has been conducting regular reviews of pollution control measures being taken by Delhi and NCR states since the onset of winters when pollution levels tend to spike in the region. The latest review with the state governments and pollution control bodies was carried out on December 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-quality-panel-squads-crack-down-on-228-polluting-units-101639086206274.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Mercury dips to season's low, pollution up||The minimum temperature in Delhi on Thursday fell to a season-low of 8.4 degrees Celsius, showed data from the central weather office, as clear skies paved the way for cooler days and nights.The pollution levels too stayed in the ‘poor’ zone for the second straight day, though forecasters did warn that the air quality may worsen marginally this week.The minimum temperature at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, on Thursday was a notch below normal, and lower than the previous day’s recording of 10.1°C.The maximum temperature in the Capital, meanwhile, was 23.5°C, one below normal, and down marginally from 24°C on Wednesday.Weather forecasters said that cloudy skies in Delhi over the past few days kept temperatures from dipping, adding that clearer skies over the coming week will see the mercury fall further.“When you have cloudy skies, the heat from the surface gets trapped and cooling does not happen at a fast rate. Now that Delhi is likely to have clearer skies the minimum temperatures will remain around 7-8°C,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services.He added that heavy snowfall in parts of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu & Kashmir played their part in reducing Delhi’s mercury.“Delhi has been receiving consistent winds from the northwest. Since there has been heavy snowfall in parts of Himachal Pradesh, J&K and Uttarakhand, colder winds from there are helping bring down the temperatures,” he said.Owing to the cloud cover over the city for much of the month, Delhi has so far this December been warmer than normal, according to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The minimum temperature has oscillated between 10-12°C over the last week, and on December 5, it rose to 15°C (three above normal).And while clear skies helped keep the city’s pollution levels in the ‘poor’ zone on Thursday, they did increase marginally from the previous day, showed recordings from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Delhi’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) rose to 289 on Thursday, from 237 on Wednesday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Forecasts said that they air is likely to worsen on Friday.“The air quality over Delhi is likely to deteriorate marginally but remain in poor to lower end of very poor category owing to slow wind speed. No major deterioration in air quality is forecast for the next two days,” the pollution forecast by the Union ministry of earth sciences’ early warning system read||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-dips-to-season-s-low-pollution-up-101639085034824.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||High court puts Chandigarh MC on notice on plea seeking stilt parking||The high court on Thursday put Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) on notice on a plea from a local activist Hemant Goswami, demanding that stilt parking along with at-least four stories, must be allowed by Chandigarh administration to address the parking issues and to retain the progressive character of Chandigarh. The high court has sought response by March 21. His counsel, APS Shergill, had stated that allowing stilt parking with up to four stories is a step in the right direction as it will help Chandigarh take care of the parking problem and also address the issue of the growing population. All over the country stilt with four stories are considered low rise building and country wide experience has shown that allowing stilt at the ground level is effective in addressing road-side parking problem, the plea says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-puts-chandigarh-mc-on-notice-on-plea-seeking-stilt-parking-101639084900934.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi water bills cannot be more than 1.5 times last month’s bill, says Jain||In a shift of its billing policy, state water minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said a Delhi resident’s water bill for any given month cannot be more than 1.5 times the previous month’s amount.“If the bill crosses this limit, an explanation will be provided to the customer and the consumer can issue a complaint. The Delhi Jal Board will be held accountable and responsible for any errors,” Jain said.A DJB official said that there will be a system check to stop billing from meter reader tablets if consumption variance is over 50% higher or lower in comparison to the previous bill.“Directions have been issued that a bill with more than 50% variance will be generated by the zonal revenue office only after confirmation of consumption, according to the meter reading image. A daily meter reading image audit on a random basis will be done by revenue officers. In case of improper images, the senior inspectors will re-check the site and in case of a variation, action will be taken against meter reader,” official said.A government official stated that grievances were received by the officials wherein the meter readers either do not upload a picture of the current meter reading or upload a random image and put a reading as deemed fit by them. “Under current system, this exercise has no check until a consumer lodges a complaint about the same,” official added.Delhi Jal Board employs 900-meter readers who are authorised to take readings of about 2.65 million consumers under 41 zones of the city.About 1.8 million consumers avail zero-bills under the 20 kilolitre free water scheme, the agency says. The water utility will also deploy rotation system for the meter readers. “Under the new system, meter readers will be changed in every billing cycle. This will help in eradicating any type of corruption involved,” the government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-water-bills-cannot-be-more-than-1-5-times-last-month-s-bill-says-jain-101639084573148.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Truckers march again causes jam on Airport Road||Commuters were on the receiving end after members of the All India Truck Ekta union began their march to gherao the deputy commissioner (DC)’s office at administrative complex in Mohali on Thursday, over the demand of reviving truck unions. The union has been protesting at Chhat light points on Airport road since December 6. The protest march once again caused a huge traffic jam, stretching up to 3km on one side of the Airport Road. The protestors were stopped at Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan in Sohana. Mohali police had already made arrangements for diverting the traffic from Chhat traffic lightpoint to other possible roads but could not avoid the jam. District vice-president of the union, Amandeep Singh said, “During the 2017 assembly elections, all truck unions in the state were dissolved by the Congress government, then led by CM Captain Amarinder Singh. As now there is a Congress government led by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, we demanded that Channi government restore the unions. We also demand that the rates of transport should be increased as truck operators were already suffering from the economic downturn.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-truckers-march-again-causes-jam-on-airport-road-101639084601395.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Food inspector held with ₹20k bribe in Ambala||An inspector-level officer of the district food and supplies controller (DFSC) was arrested by the state vigilance bureau while accepting a bribe of ₹20,000 from a depot holder in Ambala’s Barara, officials said on Thursday. The inspector, Vinod Dubey, was held with his agent Anish in an operation on Wednesday evening, inspector (vigilance) Satbir said. “A depot holder Praveen Kumar complained to us about Vinod’s demand for bribe. The accused threatened to give his depot license to some other merchant if he failed to pay up. A team was constituted to arrest Anish red-handed and later Vinod,” the inspector added. Satbir further said Vinod has earlier extricated a similar amount twice from the complainant and the matter is under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/food-inspector-held-with-rs-20k-bribe-in-ambala-101639084303411.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh slipped in Swachh Rankings under BJP: Alka Lamba||Congress trained guns on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the city beautiful slipping sharply in the Swachh Survekshan rankings.Releasing the “chargesheet” against the BJP’s six-year rule in the MC on Thursday, the Congress made “poor” solid waste management as the main thrust of its takedown of the BJP’s performance in last six years.The chargesheet also includes 15 point-by-point report card on BJP vision document ‘Sankalp Patra’ of last election.Alka Lamba, national spokesperson of AICC, said, “The city is no longer being seen as ‘city beautiful’ with its ranking slipping to 66th spot.” During its previous 14-year tenure at MC, the Congress made Chandigarh a top city with world class roads, exquisite parks, and good quality of life for its citizens, asserted Alka.On BJP state president Arun Sood’s claims that poor solid waste management was a Congress legacy, the Congress city chief Subhash Chawla, said, “This is standard BJP practice to blame others for its failures. How many times has the BJP penalised the company running the waste processing plant if it was working properly! I challenge Sood for an open debate on the issue.”The Congress also attacked the BJP on the financial position of the MC.“The BJP increased taxes on water, sewerage and property tax. In fact, the sewerage tax at 30% of the water bill is the highest such tax in the country. Despite a huge increase in the taxes, the revenue earnings of the Corporation have gone down drastically in last four years,” said Chawla.“The central government grants to the city have come down significantly. This shows that the BJP government in Delhi is simply not interested in the growth and welfare of the city,” added Chawla.On the Aam Admi Party, Lamba, said, “The Aam Admi Party (AAP) is the B-team of the BJP and it’s trying to damage the Congress only at BJP’s behest. BJP is using money, fear of investigation agencies to create such b-teams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-slipped-in-swachh-rankings-under-bjp-alka-lamba-101639084124100.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu crime branch books Mohali firm for duping woman||The crime branch, Jammu, on Thursday registered a criminal case of cheating against Mohali-based proprietors of Hirra Consultations and Services Private Limited for duping a woman. The woman had approached the consultancy for arranging her permanent settlement in Canada under the SINP Programme and had paid ₹3,41,300 to them. “A criminal case under the relevant Sections has been registered against suspects Reet Koura of Sector 79, SAS Nagar, Punjab, and Kulvir Singh Koura of Makorar Sahib, Sangrur, Punjab, both proprietors of Hirra Consultations and Services Pvt Ltd,” said a spokesman. “They duped the complainant of ₹3, 41,000 on the pretext of arranging her permanent settlement in Canada under the SINP pogramme,” he added. The victim, Geeta Anand of Durga Nagar, Jammu, had lodged a complaint with the crime branch, Jammu. After making the payment and completing the formalities, the complainant approached the Hirra Consultations to know as to whether her case was processed for the Canadian Embassy. The said suspected company adopted delaying tactics on one pretext or the other and duped her of her money. “The omissions and commissions on the part of the suspects prima facie constitute offenses punishable under Section 420 of the IPC. Accordingly, a formal case has been registered in crime branch police station for investigation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-crime-branch-books-mohali-firm-for-duping-woman-101639084063022.html
10-12-2021||Gurugram||Right-wing groups double down on namaz protest, Muslims dig in heels||The Gurugram Police and the district administration are on high alert as Muslim groups on Thursday reiterated that they will offer namaz on Friday at all 37 designated sites, and the Hindu outfits planned to disrupt them and hold religious functions at those places.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said no one will be allowed to disturb peace in the city, and take law and order into their hands. Gurugram Police said at least five police stations were “on alert” and have been assigned duties for Friday.“We have elaborate security arrangements and will ensure the safety and security of people offering namaz,” Garg said.Rajender Kumar, assistant commissioner of police, said the police will ensure no confrontation will take place at spots where trouble is expected.“More than 100 policemen are deployed at suspected spots, and we will ensure that no confrontation takes place,” he said.Right-wing groups have been protesting against Friday namaz in open public spaces in Gurugram since 2018. The same year, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims to perform the Friday prayers. However, in November, the number of sites was cut down to 20 after members of the right-wing outfits continued to protest and disrupt prayers. The Muslim groups have maintained that they were forced to use public spaces since there were not enough mosques in the city.Hindu Sena members on Thursday said they will organise a “bhajan programme” at the Sector 37 site on Friday, and have invited people to join them. They said they were planning to park cars and trucks all over the ground.Praveen Yadav, a member of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, said nobody will be allowed to offer namaz at the Sector 37 site. “The ground belongs to Khandsa village and no outsider will be allowed to encroach it. The majority of Muslims coming to offer prayers here are from Bangladesh and do not even have any identification card. They are being brought here to disrupt the peace in the city,” he said.Altaf Ahmad, spokesperson for the Gurgaon Muslim Council, said the Muslims in Gurugram will offer namaz at all 37 sites, and the administration will be responsible for their safety. “If any right-wing Hindu outfit threatens us, or tries to confront us, it will be the responsibility of administration and police to ensure our safety. We will visit the sites only to offer namaz, and it is our right. If other groups want to give it a communal colour, they should be booked and action should be taken against those creating nuisance,” he said.Members of the Hindu outfits added that they will protest at the Sector 44 site.Meanwhile, members of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti and the Muslim Rashtriya Manch with the deputy commissioner to chalk out a plan for Friday.Mahavir Bhardwaj, state president of Samiti, said, “The matter has been resolved as Gurugram Imam Sanghathan has agreed not to offer namaz in the open and people who have vested interests are trying to politicise the issue. Those offering namaz in public places will be held responsible if any untoward incident is reported from that site (Sector 37),” he said.Khurshid Rajaka, coordinator of Gurugram Imam Sanghathan, who is also the national convener of Muslim Rashtriya Manch, said they have planned to offer prayers at six sites such as Shyam Chowk, Shankar Chowk , Huda land opposite Spicejet office in Udyog Vihar, Golf course, Leisure valley and Huda land in Sector 69. .The Gurugram Muslim Council has maintained that the Muslim Rashtriya Manch was colluding with the Hindu outfits, and did not represent the Muslims in the city.
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: PAU’s protest snowballs into political issue||The protest by Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU) Daily Paid Labour (DPL) union, contractual employees’ union and teachers’ associations snowballed into a political issue, with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal addressing protesters during a visit on Thursday.In his address, Grewal assured the SAD/BSP-combine, if elected to power, would revise the pay scales and put into motion a process for permanent recruitments. Grewal, who has visited protesters in the afternoon, empathised with the DPL employees, saying “It is not possible to run a house in ₹7000. Some of them are working for nearly 15 to 20 years on the same pay scale.” “Sadly, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who claims to be a common man, could not see the plight of these workers. The government should look into their plight and increase wages. Some provision has to be made to accommodate them and increase their pay scale to ₹21,000. Else the SAD/ BSP government will get their pay scale revised,” he added. Grewal meets teachers’ associationsGrewal later met with protesting members of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO), also listening to their demands. The development took place a day after cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu persuaded Harmeet Singh Kingra, the president of the PFUCTO and the PAU Teachers’ Association, to end his seven-day-long hunger strike. Ashu had also requested the protesting teachers to end their strike, after giving them assurances of raising their demands of regularisation and increment in salaries in the next cabinet meeting. The protesters, however, refused to cede until an official notification was issued announcing the same. Fissures emerge between protesting unionsFissures between the DPL union and the contractual employees’ union, who have displayed a united front so far, also became increasingly apparent following mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu’s December 7 visit. A faction of contractual employees, led by Jagwinder Singh Grewal, have abstained from the protest site over the last two days. Sandhu had given assurances on taking up the issue of hiring contractual staff for 500 vacant posts of the university, while retaining the DPL staff on contractual basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianapaus-protest-snowballs-into-political-issue-101639083822764.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Anti -encroachment drive continues amid protest||The traffic police wing along with the Tehbazari municipal corporation continued their anti-encroachment drive in different areas of the old city on Thursday. During the drive, the team seized over a dozen stalls installed on the roads. The drive went smoothly at Old Sabzi Mandi Road, Books Market, Kesar Ganj and Rekhi Cinema Road but when the team seized counter installed outside a mobile repair chowk on Clock Tower Road, the counter owner claimed cash in the drawer of the counter. Later, he along with other stall owners and shopkeepers blocked a side of road to register their protest. The shopkeepers also blamed the team for seizing material kept inside the shops. Finally, senior deputy mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra reached the spot and pacified the protestors. Malhotra assured the counter owner that his cash would be returned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-anti-encroachment-drive-continues-amid-protest-101639083702382.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||MeT forecasts clear weather in Himachal till December 13; Manali admn opens Rohtang Tunnel||People of Himachal would get relief from the biting cold as the MeT department has forecast clear weather till December 13.The Manali administration has opened the Rohtang Tunnel for all kinds of tourist vehicles as the BRO has restored the road on the north portal side which was blocked due to heavy snowfall earlier this week. A huge tourist rush was witnessed in the Sissu of Lahaul-Spiti after the reopening of the tunnel. Earlier, only four-wheel drive vehicles were allowed to pass the tunnel.Meanwhile, Keylong, the administrative headquarters, was the coldest in the state with nigh temperature recorded at - 8.9 °C while Kalpa shivered at - 1.6 °C. Manali saw a low of - 0.2 °C.Shimla recorded night temperature at 4.9 °C while the hill station of Kufri recorded 1.6 °C. Dharamshala recorded a low of 7 °C, Palampur 6 °C and Dalhousie 5.4 °C.Shimla MeT centre director Surender Pal said the minimum temperature dropped by 1-2 °C while the maximum temperatures increased by 1-2 °C. Una was warm at 27 °C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/met-forecasts-clear-weather-in-himachal-till-december-13-manali-admn-opens-rohtang-tunnel-101639083581856.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||52 Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh recorded 52 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,27,805 while the death toll mounted to 3,842 after two patients died of the contagion. Eleven cases each were reported from Hamirpur and Solan, eight each from Kangra and Mandi, four each from Bilaspur, Shimla and Una and one each from Kullu and Sirmaur. The active cases have come down to 672 while the recoveries have reached 2,23,274 after 100 people recuperated. In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is the worst hit among all 12 districts logging 52,086 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 32,014 cases and Shimla with 28,003 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/52-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-101639083529023.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: Farooq Abdullah decries use of religion for political objectives||Without naming the BJP, National Conference president Dr Farooq Abdullah on Thursday decried the machinations of playing religious card for furthering political objectives, saying “they always see religion in danger whenever elections are around the corner”. “Lord Rama or almighty Allah can never be in danger, the politicians may be,” he said while addressing a day-long convention of party’s SC Cell here this afternoon. He said religion is not to divide the people but to serve humanity and do well for all. Dividing and discriminating against the people in the name of religion is exploitation that has to be opposed. He expressed anguish over Scheduled Castes still being discriminated against in most parts of the country and deprived of their rights. Though a change has taken place due to reservation as a result of which the community can take pride in producing good doctors and engineers, the backwardness and economic deprivation are still continuing, he said. He exhorted the community to unite and take sagacious decisions during elections so that their elected public-spirited representatives can bring about the desired transformation in their socio-economic and political emancipation. He said the National Conference has always espoused the cause of the community and ensured their participation in decision-making by getting their representatives in the Legislative Council. He regretted that the conditions of the Scheduled Castes have not improved despite the nation getting Independence nearly 75 years ago “I urge the SC community to unite under the banner of the National Conference to ensure their overall growth and progress”, he said and exhorted them to identify honest representatives who can be mandated for elections. He said elections are going to be held and it is only a matter of time. He also referred to the poverty and exploitation of the poor over seven decades ago, saying it was his party that took pioneering and revolutionary measures by making tillers owners of the landholding they were toiling with their sweat and blood. Reiterating his concern about curbs to the media for reporting freely and objectively, Dr Abdullah wondered over the government response that nothing like this is happening or any order having been issued to impose curbs on the media. He said this is yet another lie being spread by the government as the mediapersons know what they face for writing the truth, which at times is against the interest of the executive. He said editors of some media houses have told him what they are made to face for writing the truth. Farooq also reiterated that the people of Jammu and Kashmir will peacefully seek restoration of their snatched rights. He said the people are yearning for getting their rights back. Earlier two minutes of silence was observed as a mark of respect for CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife and other ranks who died on Wednesday in a tragic helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-farooq-abdullah-decries-use-of-religion-for-political-objectives-101639083525396.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||192 Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir; Srinagar reports highest infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported 192 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday, an official health bulletin said. There were no deaths. Of the total cases, 134 cases were reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 58 infections. Kashmir reported the highest 65 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 33 cases in Jammu and 24 in Baramulla district. As many as 15 districts saw single-digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 558 followed by Baramulla and Reasi districts with 259 and 203 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 135 with active positive cases reaching 1,696.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 59,448 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.714 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,32,205 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.17%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,38,390 and the death toll has reached 4,489.The officials said that 54,803 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,153 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 870 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/192-covid-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-srinagar-reports-highest-infections-101639083464021.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dysfunctional waste plant of Chandigarh is Congress’ legacy: Arun Sood||Listing the achievements of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the last six years, the party’s state president Arun Sood on Thursday dismissed Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s “guarantees” as poll gimmicks and blamed Congress for the dysfunctional waste processing plant.Sood, along with senior party leader Satyapal Jain and mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, presented the “report card” of the party’s performance in last six years. All mayors in the last six years were from the saffron party. The party also has 20 councillors in the outgoing MC house.The party has prepared a 28-page booklet listing its more than 50 achievements in different socio-development areas. It plans to distribute three lakh copies among the city’s electorates.On its failure to deliver on promises to resolve lal dora issue and regularisation of violations in Chandigarh Housing Board houses, Sood, said, “For lal dora, we are coming with a land pooling policy. We have not allowed a single demolition in the CHB violation cases and are working to resolve it.”Coming under severe criticism from the opposition parties for “poor” solid waste management in the city, Sood, said, “The dysfunctional waste processing plant is a legacy of Congress’s misrule. We are now rectifying the situation, and all set to upgrade it as per IIT Ropar’s report. Congress leaders had even gone to Europe for ‘studying the technology” but in the end signed a one-sided contract in favour of the private company with no exit clause. The city is paying price for Congress’s mistakes.”On the Dadumajra garbage dump, Sood said, 45% of the legacy waste has been removed.AAP’s free water promise will cost residents moreAttacking AAP, which is contesting its first MC polls in the city, Sood, said, “The party is promising 20,000 litre free water, which in Chandigarh costs ₹20 per month. But, as per their Delhi Model, rate slab sharply surges after 20,000 litre, it costs ₹24 per kilolitre. So, by giving a relief of ₹20, they want to burden the people with ₹400.”On AAP’s promise of installing CCTV cameras across the city, Sood, said, “In Delhi, they have installed 1,800 CCTVs, but in Chandigarh we have already installed more than 2,000 smart cameras.”
10-12-2021||Delhi||2 dead, child hurt as truck topples on car||A couple were killed after a truck lost control and toppled on their car in south Delhi’s RK Puram area late on Wednesday, while their six-year-old daughter suffered minor injuries and survived, said the police. The driver of the truck was arrested on Thursday afternoon.The couple were identified as Manish Sharma (37) and Kshipra Joshi (32), who died a day after their wedding anniversary, which they celebrated at Sharma’s brother house in Rajasthan’s Bhiwadi, according to a friend of theirs.Joshi was a homemaker, and Sharma worked as a legal consultant with a private firm.They were returning home to Noida from Bhiwadi with their daughter Mishika when the accident took place on Ring Road, near the Hyatt Regency in RK Puram, the police said.A hydraulic crane was deployed at the spot to help with rescue efforts, after personnel from the Delhi Fire Services (DFS) and police failed to free the couple and the child from the car, which was practically flattened.The rescue teams used gas cutters to cut the mangled car and rescue the three occupants.All three were taken to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where the couple succumbed to their injuries, said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma.He said that around midnight, the RK Puram police station received a call reporting the accident.A police team reached the spot and found that the dumper toppled onto the car after hitting a divider. The driver of the truck fled after the accident.“A case was registered and the driver arrested in the afternoon (Thursday) following raids at his possible hideouts,” said the DCP.The truck driver told the police that he had turned his vehicle to the right side of the road when another vehicle attempted to overtake it.The speeding truck then hit the divider, due to which the driver lost control and his truck fell onto the car, which was moving parallel to it on the left.“The front of the car was badly crushed. Since the couple was seated on the front seats, they were severely hurt, while their daughter was on the backseat and survived. The girl was also admitted to the hospital but was discharged after being administered immediate medical attention,” said a police officer.Sharma’s friend, Vivek Pathak, said a passerby used Sharma’s cellphone to contact a friend and inform them of the mishap. The friend, Nitin, then informed Sharma’s family, said Pathak.Meanwhile, traffic on the carriageway was disturbed for nearly an hour, and the police opened up the service lane as an alternate route.Normalcy was restored on the main carriageway around 1am, said senior police officers who were present at the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-dead-child-hurt-as-truck-topples-on-car-101639083243218.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Railway police short on staff despite security threats||After receiving a series of threats from the ISI and a few national rebel groups, the Northern Railways has decided to step up security measures at stations. The latest move, however, has brought to fore the lack of manpower with the Government Railway.The jurisdiction for the local GRP troops stretches from Sahnewal to Goraya and from Ludhiana to Nanaksar. Thirty-four personnel, divided into 17 patrol teams, have so far been deputed.“We have a staff of around 50 people but many security personnel remain busy with administrative and legal work including PO Staff, headquarters Staff, summoning staff, naib court, etc. We somehow manage to depute a total of 17 patrolling teams but the area is so vast that we require more strength,” an official, who did not wish to be named, said.A senior GRP official rued the government’s indifferent attitude towards security measures. “We keep getting threats from ISI and even from rebel groups in the country including those active in Kashmir. After a recent grenade blast near the Pathankot army camp and even after the tiffin bomb incident in Amritsar, we were asked to alert our forces but no one bothered to fill the vacancies here. After people retire, the government should immediately recruit someone so that we can work with higher efficiency”, the official said.He further added that the rules mandate the patrolling staff to work in three shifts of eight hours each, but due to the shortage in staff, senior officials have been forced to extend the shifts to up to twelve hours.He also highlighted the problems being faced by the security personnel in managing the massive footfalls at railway platforms.The GRP and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Wednesday held a meeting with the local senior section engineer (SSE) to ensure better coordination. The security forces requested the engineering staff, including the railway gangmen, to stay alert while working at the tracks.“The meeting was aimed at ensuring better coordination between the security forces and the railway staff deputed on tracks. They can immediately alert us in case they witness any suspicious activity on the railway tracks. We need to be more careful in winters amid fog”, an official said.
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Courageous commander with mettle: People of Baramulla pay tributes to Gen Bipin Rawat||In North Kashmir’s Baramulla town, locals and officers who served alongside General Bipin Rawat had fond memories about his tenure as the GoC of the division almost a decade ago.The Dagger Division or the 19 infantry Division is one of the Army’s strategic divisions that overlooks the Line of Control from the Gulmarg to Nowgam sectors. In 2012, General Rawat had served as the General Officer-in-Command (GoC) of the division and during his tenure, he had developed personal friendships with many locals and the officers in the police and the administration. He was in touch with them even after becoming the Army Chief and the CDS.Soon after an air crash that resulted in the death of General Rawat, many locals posted their pictures with him that were taken on various occasions and described him as an upright officer.“A sad day for the country. A gentleman officer and a courageous commander with mettle. Fond memories of him leading from the front and we would often see him at the forefront with joint teams of SFs in counter-terror operations. The nation owes you gratitude for your selfless service. RIP sir,” wrote senior superintendent of police Imtiyaz Hussain while posting his picture along with General Rawat taken in Baramulla.Imtiyaz had worked with General Rawat when he was heading the 5 Sector RR and Hussain was an additional SP, Sopore. Both the officers remained in touch till the death of the CDS on Wednesday.Nisar Ahmad, a scribe from Binner village in Baramulla, had an old connection with General Rawat. “I knew his family for long. His father was also a senior Army officer in Baramulla and knew my father since the 80s. General Rawat even attended my wedding in 2005 when he was the Sector Commander and posted in Sopore.” Nisar said he was planning to meet him next week in New Delhi. “For me, he was a family friend, and will miss him. He used to message me on every festival. “Another young police officer from Baramulla, Sheikh Adil, also shared a few pictures that he had taken with the CDS. “In the passing away of General Bipin Rawat, the country has lost a great leader in uniform. It’s a colossal loss. Some fond memories.”A former principal of Baramulla Degree College, Harbajan Singh Bali, also posted pictures with the CDS that he had taken during his tenure in Baramulla.BJP leader Mushtaq Nowsheri also posted his picture with the family of General Rawat while remembering his services in north Kashmir and for the country.Meanwhile, a function was organised by the Army at Sherwani Hall at Baramulla to pay tributes to General Rawat. It was attended by civilians also. Lt Gen DP Pandey, GOC, Chinar Corps, along with GOC, Dagger Division, Maj Gen Ajay Chandpuria and prominent persons from the civil and the district administration paid homage. “General Rawat had tremendous affection and love for people where he served, especially in Baramulla, Uri and Sopore,” Pandey said. Meanwhile, candles were lit in Machil, Keran and Baramulla in the memory of General Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/courageous-commander-with-mettle-people-of-baramulla-pay-tributes-to-gen-bipin-rawat-101639083406316.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||MeT predicts rain, snow in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh||The weather office has predicted snow and rains in the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh next week as chilly nights and sunny days continued for the fourth day on Thursday in Kashmir. Director, meteorological department of J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus said the weather will remain dry in both the union territories till December 14.“Light to moderate snow/rain is likely at scattered places of J&K and Kargil on December 15, especially over Zojila-Drass and Zanskar area, “ he said. He said there would be no major snowfall till December 20 in both the UTs.“Warmer days and colder nights in both the UTs till December 14,” he said. Meanwhile, nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the fourth day on Wednesday with the mercury plunging to - 5.8 °C in the snow resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir.The days remain warm as the sun continues to come out bright and break the effect of chilling night temperatures.The night temperature in all weather stations remained below zero.In north Kashmir, Gulmarg recorded a slight improvement in night temperature with the mercury settling at - 5.8 °C as against - 6 °C a night earlier.In south Kashmir, the mercury dipped to - 4.9 °C at the mountainous resort of Pahalgam in Anantnag district.The summer capital Srinagar recorded - 2.1 °C as against - 0.4 °C a night earlier. It was - 3.3 °C in Awantipora, - 2.4 °C in Kupwara, 1.5 °C in Kokernag and - 2.1 °C in Qazigund.In the union territory of Ladakh, Drass recorded bone chilling - 15.4 °C while it was - 10 °C in Leh during the night.The weather conditions improved in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday after a day of light rains and snow in J&K and Ladakh.Srinagar had received rains on Sunday while snow fell on mountainous areas like Gulmarg in north Kashmir and Shopian in south Kashmir. Some areas of Jammu were hit by hails. Moderate snowfall was also reported at Kargil, Zanskar and in the higher reaches of Leh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/met-predicts-rain-snow-in-jammu-and-kashmir-ladakh-101639083344010.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Omicron begins to cast shadow over Himachal tourism industry||Badly hit during the first and second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the tourism industry which has started to recover again fears losses due to the emerging Omicron variant as tourists have started to cancel their advance bookings. Though Himachal hasn’t reported a single case of Omicron infection, the tourism industry is anticipating tough times.After two years were lost to the pandemic, people involved in the travel and hospitality sectors were expecting good business this winter season. However, they are seeing their hopes being dashed again.“Tourism was the worst hit in the last two years due to the pandemic. The industry was slowly coming back on track in the last two months but now the new variant has created a fear among tourists and we are also worried it would hit our business,” said Sanjay Sood, president of Shimla Hoteliers’ Association.He said tourists have started to cancel their advance bookings as the variant has been reported in India also.This would not only hurt the business but also result in job loss as it happened during the first and second wave, he said.“Tourism in Himachal is the worst-hit sector. We were gradually on the path of recovery but the Omicron threat has made the visitors wary now,” said MK Seth, president, Himachal Pradesh Tourism Stakeholders Association.Meanwhile, tourists coming to Himachal are also extra cautious after the Omicron cases reported in Delhi.“We have come from Karnataka. We were also scared before travelling but we decided to come here,” said Amit Kumar, a tourist from Mumbai.“Local residents have an impression that the tourists must be carrying the virus. However, we are taking extra care while travelling,” he said.Tourism is said to be the backbone of Himachal’s economy. The sector contributes ₹12,000 crores to the state’s economy annually which is 7% of Himachal’s GDP.Before the Covid-19 outbreak, roughly two crore tourists, domestic and foreign, would visit Himachal every year.In 2020, the number dropped to around 32 lakh. This year the number was expected to rise, but the new variant has created a scare among the industry people.As per the tourism department data, the state has nearly 6,000 registered hotels, homestays and guest houses state. In 2019, the state had witnessed a jump of 4.63% in tourist arrival. A total of 1.72 crore people visited the state that year of them over 3 lakh were foreigners. This year so far 40,98,592 tourists visited Himachal Pradesh in October while only 3,972 foreign tourists visited Himachal. Maximum tourists visited Kangra, which is also famous for its ancient temples, total 1,82,423 tourists visited Solan, which adjoins Haryana and Punjab, a total of 2,72,048 tourists visited the district. The majority of the tourist visiting Solan were domestic from Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab. Vijay Inder Karan, a hotelier in Dharamshala, said the new variant had definitely hit the tourism industry.“We are getting walk-in tourists from the neighbouring states, but there are no bookings. Many bookings have also been cancelled. We have already suffered a lot due to Covid. There is a fear among people that it may result in another lockdown which means no business and jobs loss,” he added.
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Shunted Sector-39 SHO posted in PCR wing||A day after being shunted from the post of Sector-39 station house officer, inspector Ashok Kumar was posted with the police control room (PCR) on Thursday. Inspector Ashok Kumar was transferred after a cycle thief escaped from the police station lock-up in the wee hours of Tuesday. The accused, identified as Divesh Gupta, 27, of Balongi in Mohali, slipped out after bending the rusty bars of the lock-up. Police have so far failed to trace him. 5 cops transferred to PCR The Chandigarh police also transferred five other police personnel to police control room (PCR) on Thursday. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Satyawan from traffic wing, ASI Balkar Singh from operations cell, ASI Kanwar Pal from crime branch, head constable Anil Kumar from crime branch and head constable Pawan Kumar from police lines have been posted with the police control room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-shunted-sector-39-sho-posted-in-pcr-wing-101639083220795.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Non-local snatchers, robbers giving cops a run for their money||Despite expending energy and resources in keeping tabs on known Ludhiana-based snatchers, petty thieves and robbers, police are often blindsided by inter-district gangs, which hop from one city to the next, giving the cops a run for their money. Cops say the umpteen means of transportation and easy movement between the cities are to blame. They are drafting out a plan of action to strengthen security at entry and exit points to the city. “It has been observed that the culprits are repeat offenders, already facing trial in criminal cases in different cities. As they are already under the scanner of the police in a particular city, they move to other places and flee after committing the crime,” says commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar.The commissioner says that small-time criminals meet gangsters in jail, where they form their own small gangs. “After getting bail, they execute crimes in new cities, with the help of their local aides,” he says, while adding that the accused usually stay in rented accommodations in the city for a short span of time. On what is the way out, Bhullar says, “We will request the court to increase the security deposit needed to bail out the accused. We will also initiate action against people who do not get their tenants verified by the police, which allows them to hide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-non-local-snatchers-robbers-giving-cops-a-run-for-their-money-101639082802345.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer agitation called off: Khaps in Jind revoke decision to boycott BJP-JJP leaders||After the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of various farm unions, on Thursday announced to end their over-a-year-long agitation and vacate the protest sites from Saturday, the farmers’ and khap leaders camping at Jind’s Khatkar toll plaza also decided to revoke their decision of boycotting the entry of rulling BJP-JJP leaders in their villages.Azad Palwan, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Jind president, said after the SKM formally announced to suspend the agitation, they had also decided to revoke their decision of boycotting the entry of ruling party leaders in their villages.“Thousands of farmers from Jind will visit the Delhi borders to take part in the Vijay Diwas on Saturday and others will celebrate the victory at Khatkar toll plaza. Now, we have no problem with the BJP-JJP leaders. They can visit the district and take part in political, social or government programmes. We have no personal enmity with them,” he added. Jind district, which falls in the heart of Haryana, emerged as the central point of farmer agitation. BKU spokesman Rakesh Tikait also addressed his first rally after the Republic Day violence at Jind’s historical Kandela village in February. The khaps and farmers had announced to boycott the entry of BJP-JJP leaders in their villages and due to this Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala failed to visit his constituency, Uchana Kalan, during the year-long period. The farmers had also uprooted the helipad area earlier when Dushyant was expected to take part in a social programme at Uchana, following which he cancelled his visit.Satbir Singh Pahalwan, head of Khera khap, said the khaps had always stood by every section of society during difficult times.“Most of the people in rural areas are dependent on agriculture and we backed them during the year-long stir. We had taken several measures, including social boycott of BJP-JJP leaders during this time. As we won the battle, now we announce to revoke our decision of banning ruling party leaders’ entry in the villages,” he added.Sikkim Devi, a prominent farmer leader from Jind, said women had played a huge role in the success of the year-long agitation.“Our langar sewa would be continued until all farmers reached safety at their homes. This agitation will be known for the unity of youths, aged, women and children. We had broken the boundaries of bad relations with Punjab farmers over the issue of the Satluj-Yamuna link. The opponents attempted various strategies to weaken our agitation but it stood solid like a rock,” she added.Farmers start packing goods at Tikri, SinghuThe farmers camping at Singhu and Tikri borders have started packing up their trolleys, trucks, cars after the SKM announced to leave the protest sites on Saturday after the Union government accepted their demands. The protesters also celebrated their victory by chanting slogans after the SKM announced to suspend the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-agitation-called-off-khaps-in-jind-revoke-decision-to-boycott-bjp-jjp-leaders-101639082706031.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kiran Choudhary for resolution to demand guaranteed MSP from Centre||Congress leader Kiran Choudhary on Thursday said the Haryana government should pass a resolution in the state assembly to raise a demand to the Union government to enact a law guaranteeing minimum support price to farmers. Terming it a historical agitation, Choudhary praised farmer leaders for forcing the government to repeal the three agriculture laws.She also accused the BJP-JJP coalition government in the state of failing to check corruption in government recruitments. She said corruption was at its peak in the recruitment boards, but the government failed to take required steps to deal with it and provide relief to aspirants.“The BJP-JJP have lost ground in the state as people of every section of society are suffering due to their wrong policies. The Congress will continue to raise the issues pertaining to the general public,” Choudhury said during her visit to Karnal.She said the party will move an adjournment motion on the issue of corruption in the upcoming Assembly session. She refused to comment on a question regarding former Congress state president Ashok Tanwar joining the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kiran-choudhary-for-resolution-to-demand-guaranteed-msp-from-centre-101639082699700.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||JJP’s show of strength in Hooda’s stronghold Jhajjar||Aiming to expand its political base across Deswali and Ahirwal belts of Haryana, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) held a public rally at Jhajjar’s Dadri Toye village on Thursday to mark its third foundation day. Eyeing Jat votes, JJP showed its strength in former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s stronghold Jhajjar, where Congress had won all four seats in the 2019 assembly pollsHaryana deputy chief minister and JJP’s main face Dushyant Chautala presented the list of works done by the BJP-JJP government in two years, while his father and JJP national convener, Ajay Chautala, lambasted Hooda, and his estranged brother and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Singh Chautala. Except Narnaund MLA Ram Kumar Gautam, who has differences with Dushyant, JJP’s nine legislators attended the rally. Wrestler Geeta Phogat, elder sister of BJP leader Babita Phogat, also shared the stage with Badra MLA Naina Chautala.‘PM won farmers’ hearts’Addressing the gathering, Dushyant thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for repealing the three farm laws and said with this decision he had won farmers’ hearts.“December 9 is a historical day. We formed the JJP on this day, the Constitution’s first meeting was also held on December 9, 1946, and now the farmers’ have also announced to suspend their agitation on this day. The opposition parties tried to dismantle the state’s atmosphere during the farmers’ stir, but the public has shown intelligence in maintaining peace and harmony,” he added.Listing works done by the BJP-JJP government for the welfare of farmers, Dushyant said they had increased mandis for wheat and paddy procurement amid the Covid-19 second wave.“During Congress’s time, farmers had to wait for a month to get payment of their crop from the commission agents, while our government has been transferring the amount in farmers’ accounts after 72 hours of procurement. If we fail to pay them on time, our government is giving them a 9% rate of interest on the dues,” he said.Stating that the government had fulfilled 40% of promises being listed in the manifesto, the deputy chief minister said pensions had been increased by ₹500 in 500 days. “We ensured 75% reservation for Haryana youths in state’s private jobs. Our government has also ensured 50% reservation for women in panchayat raj and free travel pass for girls in roadways and private buses, which have a government permit,” he said.“If any bus operator charges fare from school- and college-going girls, make a video of the incident and I will cancel the permit of that bus,” he added.Ajay Chautala slams Hooda, AbhayJJP patriarch Ajay Chautala slammed leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his estranged brother and INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala, who is also the Ellenabad MLA.“Hooda had grabbed farmers’ land at minimal rates and sold them at high rates to property dealers. He did nothing during his 10-year tenure. Few days ago, his pappu son (Deepender) said the Union government had shifted the airport site from Haryana to another state. I want to ask him what he and his father did in this regard. Dushyant brought the airport to Hisar for the state’s development,” he claimed.“Earlier, Chautala sahab (OP Chautala) did not want to talk to INLD’s current state president, Nafe Singh Rathee, and former Badli MLA Naresh Sharma had spoken ill about the INLD chief. But now both are roaming with him (Abhay). I can say that he (Abhay) can’t hold the party together. His tall claims were exposed in the Ellenabad bypoll where he won by a thin margin,” the JJP chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jjps-show-of-strength-in-hooda-s-stronghold-jhajjar-101639082694825.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fortified rice: Tender allotment to Maharashtra firms under lens in Haryana||Serious anomalies pointing to cartelisation have come to light in the allotment of tenders to three Maharashtra-based companies, selected to supply about 14,700 metric tonnes (MT) of fortified rice kernel (FRK) in 11 Haryana districts during the 2021-22 kharif marketing season.Cartelisation happens when a group of independent companies join hands to control production, sale and prices of commodities to obtain monopoly and limit competition.The fortification initiative is an outcome of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s August 15 announcement that rice fortified with micronutrients will be made available at ration shops, for mid-day meal and every scheme by 2024.Rice fortification adds micronutrients like iron, folic acid and Vitamin B12. It is aimed at combating anaemia due to malnutrition, and is regarded as a cost effective, preventive and effective strategy to address the nutrition problem, as per the NITI Aayog. Common partner for three companies Bid documents show that the three Maharashtra-based companies, which individually won the bids for supply for 14,700 MT fortified rice had a common consortium partner, Rana Milk Foods Pvt Ltd. Perusal of the consortium agreements made by the three successful bidders (Maharashtra companies) – Nirav Silk Mills, Alkey Synthetics and Virag Enterprises – shows that Rana Milk Foods was made a part of the consortium by all three companies for the purpose of bidding and execution of work thereafter.This despite the fact that all three companies had given sworn undertakings that they had not formed any partnership, joint venture or consortium, directly or indirectly, with any other party for the purpose of participating or executing the FRK tender. ‘Tender to be rejected in case of cartelisation’ As per clause 4 (iv) of the terms and conditions of the tender, the Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department will reject the tender and forfeit the earnest money in case of any clear indication of cartelisation.The clause also stipulates that if the information given by the tenderers in the tender document and its annexure is found to be incorrect at any stage, the department will disqualify or terminate the contract.FRK Manufacturers Association vice-president Anuj Bansal alleged that it was a clear case of cartelisation. “The three firms have been favoured in the tendering process. Haryana-based firms which have installed extruder machines at high costs could not even participate in the bids as the department changed the criteria of annual turnover of at least ₹65 crore each in past three years to annual turnover of ₹10 crore for fortified food products in past two year. We are new entities in the fortified food trade. How can we have an annual turnover of ₹10 crore in this sector?’’ Bansal asked. Association’s president Ram Niwas alleged that the tender process was designed to allocate tenders to selected firms. “The government has allotted tenders to the firm which had offered about ₹59.64 plus GST per kg for supplying fortified rice. But the Haryana-based firms were ready to give the same quality rice at ₹45-50 per kg,” said Ramesh Midha, a member of the association.Tendering process fair, no irregularity, says director Director general, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, Vijay Dahiya, when asked about Rana Milk Foods figuring in all three consortiums and other irregularities, said the technical committee that examined the documents submitted by the bidders had found all papers in order. “The terms and conditions were changed on the basis of pre-bid consultations. Substantive changes were made on the basis of demands and discussion with prospective bidders,’’ Dahiya said. He further said that the FRK tender was allotted after taking into account the lowest bid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fortified-rice-tender-allotment-to-maharashtra-firms-under-lens-in-haryana-101639082690703.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Northern Railways resumes unreserved ticketing in 20 pairs of trains||The Ambala division of the Northern Railways is all set to resume unreserved ticketing and sitting facility in 20 pairs of trains from Monday.Seven of these have stoppage at the Chandigarh Railway Station.The move comes after the Union ministry of railways directed the zonal railways to regulate the operations of trains with regular numbers and fares, thus ending the special Covid status after more than 1.5 years. “The train numbers have been changed, and unreserved ticketing at the window, app and vending machine at stations will also resume,” a divisional spokesperson said. Seven trains that will halt at Chandigarh and other stations under the division include Chandigarh-Lucknow-Chandigarh Express (12232/31), Hemkunt Express/Katra-Rishkesh-Katra (14610/09), Dehradun-Amritsar-Dehradun Express (14631/32), Hoshiarpur-Delhi-Hoshiarpur Express (14012/11), Unchahar Express/Chandigarh-Prayagraj-Chandigarh (14218/17), Amritsar-Chandigarh-Amritsar Superfast (12242/41) and Intercity Express/Amritsar-Chandigarh-Amritsar (12412/11). The other trains are Jammu-Varanasi-Jammu Express (12238/37), Fazilka-Delhi-Fazilka Express (14508/07), Amritsar-Sirhind-Amritsar Express (12460/59), Pathankot-Delhi-Pathankot Superfast (22430/29), Shan-E-Punjab Express/Amritsar-New Delhi-Amritsar (12498/97), Jammu Mail/Katra-Delhi-Katra (14034/33), Doulatpur Chowk-Delhi-Doulatpur Chowk Express (14554/53), Jammu-Rishikesh-Jammu Express (14606/05), Jalandhar City-New Delhi-Jalandhar City Express (14682/81), New Delhi-Lohiya Khas-New Delhi Express (22479/80), Moga-New Delhi-Moga Intercity Express (22486/85), Uttar Sampark Kranti Express/Katra-New Delhi-Katra (12446/45) and Nochandi Express/Prayagraj-Saharanpur-Prayagraj (14511/12).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/northern-railways-resumes-unreserved-ticketing-in-20-pairs-of-trains-101639082687302.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gita is a unique universal inspiration for welfare of humanity, says Haryana governor||Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya, along with his Gujarat counterpart Acharya Devvrat, inaugurated the three-day international seminar on “Vishwa Guru Bharat: Lessons from Bhagvad Gita” at Kurukshetra University on Thursday.Speaking on the occasion, Dattatreya said, “Today, the dream of making a self-reliant India can be fulfilled only by moving forward after getting inspiration from the verses of Gita. The central point of all principles of Gita is to make man aware of his duties and the main purpose of Gita is to give a message to a person not to deviate from the path of duty in all circumstances.”“Gita is not a holy book of one religion, but is a unique universal inspiration for the welfare of all living beings. Whenever we stray from the path or we are in confusion, the guidance from Gita helps us,” he added.Devvrat said Gita was the essence of the Vedas. “The cure for all evils like lust, anger, attachment and greed is in the Gita. Gita is a religious book as well as a philosophy of life, adopting which any nation can develop itself.”Education minister Kanwar Pal and minister of state for sports and youth affairs Sandeep Singh were also present on the occasion, along with Kurkshetra MP Nayab Saini and religious leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gita-is-a-unique-universal-inspiration-for-welfare-of-humanity-says-haryana-governor-101639082682825.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Domicile reservation in private industries: HC asks Haryana why law should not be stayed||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday asked the Haryana government as to why law on domicile-based 75% reservation in private industries in the state should not be stayed. The high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli acted on the plea of the Faridabad Industries Association, demanding that the law, Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, notified in November, be declared unconstitutional, and rules, if any framed there under, be put in abeyance. The law provides for 75% reservation to local youth in private sector jobs that offer monthly salary of less than ₹30,000. It will come into effect from January 15, 2022, and will be applicable for 10 years. It covers private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms. The petitioner is a premier industry body in north India, formed in 1952 with 500 members. Their counsel, senior advocate Akshay Bhan, had submitted that the law specifically excludes central government and state government from the purview of its application, thereby creating a situation wherein there was a reservation in private employment, but not in public employment. “Thus, the Act disproportionately places the burden of provision of employment for persons domiciled in the state on private businesses, and the same is contrary to all norms of constitutionality as well as propriety,” he had argued. Bhan had further maintained that the law had failed to take into account the fact that businesses operated in a competitive global economy and that the reason for India’s astronomical growth in the past two decades could largely be attributed to its ability to put to work its highly skilled but cost-effective labour, and provide world-class goods and services at competitive rates. The law is also in violation of Article 16 of the Constitution, which provides that no citizen shall be ineligible for or discriminated against in respect of employment on ground only of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth, residence or any of them. The state’s response has been sought by January 12, 2022. Meanwhile, another petition filed by the Gurgaon Industrial Association was withdrawn on Thursday to make some changes in the plea. One more petition has been filed by the Rewari Chamber of Commerce and industry on the issue, which is yet to be taken up by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/domicile-reservation-in-private-industries-hc-asks-haryana-why-law-should-not-be-stayed-101639082680635.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet nod to regularise 4,587 contractual safai sewaks, sewermen||The Punjab cabinet on Thursday gave the go-ahead to regularise the services of 4,587 safai sewaks and sewermen working on contract basis in the urban local bodies department. The regularisation of these employees would put an additional annual financial burden of ₹46 crore during the first three years of probation, according to an official release. After the probation period, annual increment and other allowances would be paid. This financial burden would be borne by the urban local bodies department. Punjabi mandatory for direct recruitment It was decided to implement the requisite qualification of Punjabi language for direct recruitment in the boards, corporations, commissions, authorities, etc. along with all the departments in letter and spirit. The cabinet also directed the departments to immediately amend the service rules to make provision of knowledge of Punjabi language compulsory under section 17 of the Punjab Civil Services (General and Common Conditions of Service) Rules, 1994. It declared the activity of excavation of brick earth/ordinary earth from area up to 2 acres and depth up to 3 feet as non-mining activity to ensure the supply of bricks at affordable rates. The brick kiln owners will have to apply for licence as per Form ‘A’ and obtain the license in Form ‘B’ for the purpose. The places where excavation is done beyond above specified limits, the case would be dealt with under the Punjab Minor Mineral Rules (PMMR), 2013, and prevailing guidelines. The brick kiln owners had submitted representations highlighting the problems in obtaining environment clearance besides other issues. Reduced power tariff from Nov 1 It also decided to give relief of ₹3 per unit in power tariff to domestic consumers having sanctioned load up to 7 kW from November 1 instead of December 1. The decision would involve a financial burden of ₹151 crore on the state exchequer. Acceding to the consent of the management of the Government Aided Private School, Public High School, Kukarpind, in Jalandhar district, the cabinet gave the approval to take over of the school by the government in public interest along with all the assets. It also decided to take over Janta High School, Phuldiwal, in the district (private school affiliated to PSEB) which remained closed since 2008. Regularisation of standalone buildings Another decision was to facilitate regularisation of standalone buildings which were constructed without prior permission of the housing and urban development department outside municipal limits, urban estates and industrial focal points on “as-is-where-is basis” by charging regularisation fee. The applications can be submitted till December 31, 2022, said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-nod-to-regularise-4-587-contractual-safai-sewaks-sewermen-101639082501534.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Yet another rape-robbery accused booked for not appearing in court||Four days after two of his accomplices were booked for not appearing in court after being granted bail, another proclaimed offender accused of gang raping a woman during a robbery was booked on the same charges on Thursday.The accused, Mohammad Bashir of Moti Nagar, was declared a proclaimed offender on January 22. Assistant sub-inspector Surjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Section 174A (non-appearance in response to a proclamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Focal Point police station. On December 5, the police had booked his accomplices Suraj Kumar of Bihar and Barjesh Kumar of Dhandhari, who had also been declared proclaimed offenders.The Case On June 5, 2018, the accused along with 10 other accomplices had robbed metal worth ₹10 lakh from a factory in Mangali village. The robbers had also assaulted the labourers and their families living on the premises. Six members of the gang, including the three proclaimed offenders, had raped the 34-year-old wife of one of the labourers, while the others held her husband captive.A case had been registered under Sections 392 (robbery), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy), and 376-D (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code against 12 unidentified robbers. Later, some of the robbers were identified and arrested.The police have been conducting raids for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-yet-another-rape-robbery-accused-booked-for-not-appearing-in-court-101639082443116.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: 203 in fray for 35 wards, rebels still pose a challenge||Even though some rebel candidates withdrew their candidature on the last date of withdrawal of nominations, those still in fray continue to pose a challenge for parties as the city goes to the polls on December 24.In all, 11 candidates withdrew their nominations, leaving 203 candidates in the contest for 35 seats. Earlier, nominations of 102 candidates were rejected after scrutiny of papers by the state election commission (SEC).The BJP managed to persuade three of its leaders. BJP state president Arun Sood saidthat Rashmi (ward 9), wife of party leader Devendra Singh, and Yashpal Yadav (ward 25) withdrew on Thursday. Ramesh Kumar Nikku (ward 32) had withdrawn from the contest on Wednesday.Some of the BJP rebel candidates still left in the fray include Manpreet Kaur (ward 9), Suresh Kumar (ward 15), Narinder Chaudhary (ward 26), Mukesh Kumar (ward no. 32) and Kripanand Thakur (Ward 20). All of them are independent candidates.Among Congress rebel candidates, Kamal Kumar, a former organising secretary of the Congress, is contesting on an Aam Admi Party (AAP) ticket from ward no. 3. Former senior Congress functionary Hira Lal Kundra (ward 19) and Prem Lata (14) are also contesting on AAP ticket. Meanwhile, another Congress rebel, Rajinder Kaur Panag is SAD candidate from ward 18.Congress candidates contesting as independents include Krishan Lal (ward 3), Prem Pal Chauhan (ward 15), and Roshan Lal Badoni (ward no. 29. Meenu Chawar, an independent candidate in ward no 4, withdrew in favour Congress candidate Jannat Jahan. The move came after her husband Sahil Chawar, a former general secretary of Chandigarh unit of AAP, joined the Congress at Congress Bhawan, Chandigarh, here on Thursday.Candidates who withdrew nominationsAmritpal Kaur from ward 1, Meenu and Sunita from ward 4, Urvashi Sharma from ward 6, Deshraj, from ward number 7, Gurdeep Singh from ward 8, Rashmi from ward 9, Ajay Jha from ward 20, Yashpal Yadav from ward No-25, Karamjit Kaur from ward No-29 and Ramesh Sharma from ward No-32.Maximum candidatesWith 10 in fray, ward 15 and 29 have the maximum candidates in the cityWard 11 and 23 have the minimum, 3, candidates in the contest.
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Our govt will take up restoration of Chandigarh, Punjabi-speaking areas to state: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said that they will take up the pending issues of restoring Chandigarh and Punjabi-speaking areas to Punjab once their alliance forms government after the 2022 assembly elections. Addressing rallies in support of the party’s Patiala (rural) candidate Jaspal Singh Bittu Chatha and Nabha nominee Kabir Dass, the SAD chief said, “The SAD-BSP alliance is committed to redress all grievances of the people of Punjab. Also, we have a consistent stand on the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue.” “We will not allow the reconstruction of the SYL canal. On the other hand, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has supported handing over Punjab river waters to Haryana and Delhi,” he added. The Akali Dal has a 100-year history of fighting for the rights of the farmers and the underprivileged sections of society, he claimed. “The AAP is mindlessly copying our 13-point programme for the people of Punjab. Their national convener Arvind Kejriwal promised ₹1,000 per month to all women in the state without taking into consideration whether the well-do actually needed such relief,” he said.Claiming that AAP was trying to befool Punjabis as Capt Amarinder Singh did earlier, he asked Kejriwal to tell as why he had not implemented any of the promises he made here in Delhi.“Once the SAD-BSP alliance government is formed, a criminal case will be registered against former Congress minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for embezzling crores of rupees meant for distribution to scheduled caste students under the SC scholarship scheme. “Dharamsot was indicted by an additional chief secretary for embezzling ₹69 crore. The scam is actually bigger than this. All those who committed the crime will be punished,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/our-govt-will-take-up-restoration-of-chandigarh-punjabi-speaking-areas-to-state-sukhbirbadal-101639082082789.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt issues order to drown out protest slogans with DJs during CM’s visits||The “common man’s” chief minister, who loves to step out of his vehicle to meet the common man, seems to be bothered by the noise created by protesting organisations on his visits to different parts of the state. The Punjab Police, it seems, have found out a novel way to drown out the noise of protesting employees and unions at the venues of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s functions. An order has been issued to all deputy commissioners and district police heads to arrange DJs to play out loud gurbani/religious songs at the venues of protests during the CM’s visit so that sloganeering becomes inaudible. The orders were issued by the special protection unit of the police, copies of which have been sent to the chief minister’s principal secretary and the director general of police (DGP).“Whenever there is a protest during the CM’s visit to your respective district, religious hymn or songs should be played by installing DJs on the spot so that the voice of protesters’ slogans could not be heard at the venue of the function,” the order read.The order, however, was withdrawn later in the evening after it drew flak, saying its was a clerical error. Inspector general of police (special protection unit) AK Pandey issued a letter to all deputy commissioners, police commissioners and SSPs withdrawing the order. Jakhar, opposition slam move, call it undemocratic Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar attacked the Channi government over the move. He tweeted, “It couldn’t be true! Sacrilegious and a mockery of democracy.” Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said that people have a democratic right to protest or raise their voice for their demands. “The Congress government has exposed itself with these orders.”Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema too condemned the move, saying the government is trying to suppress the voice of people. “But first they must understand that Gurbani teaches one to raise their voice against persecution and oppression,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-issues-order-to-drown-out-protest-slogans-with-djs-during-punjab-cm-s-visits-101639081901770.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Women outnumber men at Punjab CM Channi’s Payal rally||Women in large numbers thronged the venue of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s rally at Payal on Thursday, outnumbering their male counterparts. The womenfolk said they had come with a hope that their long-standing grievances will be resolved. Channi, who addressed his first rally in the area after becoming CM, began his address by acknowledging that the number of women present in the audience was indeed “huge”. “Your number reminds me of ‘melas’ (fairs) where women used to greet and meet each other. My wife is also from a humble background like me. We are not fake like Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal who wants to invade Punjab and make it his home. Why would you want an outsider when the real aam admi is in front of you?” he asked.Punjab was not shamlat (common) land where outsiders can come and rule, he said, taking a jibe at the Delhi CM. “The AAP chief makes tall claims whenever he visits Punjab but the truth is that he is totally ignorant about the ethos, culture or the issues of the state and what it stands for,” Channi added. He listened to grievances of women who flagged inflated power bills. Some raised issues related to property disputes, accusing the police of turning a blind eye to their complaints. Others had issues pertaining to unemployment and not being able to get the benefit of government schemes. One Baljit Kaur started crying over her power supply being snapped in a case of electricity theft. This prompted the CM to stop his speech and call her to the stage. He instructed the deputy commissioner to address her issue. He, however, remarked that there was the possibility of such woman being “planted” by his political rivals. ‘SAD, BJP, Capt have formed troika’ Coming down heavily on his predecessor Captain Amarinder Singh, Channi said he could not achieve anything during his tenure and has now joined hands with the BJP which is inimical to the interests of Punjab. “Amarinder and Sukhbir Badal are befooling the people of Punjab. The reality is that the Shiromani Akali Dal, the BJP and Amarinder have together formed a troika,” he claimed. The SAD indulged in an open loot of the state and it is due to the dictatorial attitude of the Badal family and Majithia that the party has been weakened. “As long as Sukhbir and Majithia are there, the Akali Dal cannot regain its lost ground,” Channi said, adding that the fleet of buses was acquired by the Akali leaders by looting the hard-earned money of people. The sacrilege cases, he said, were being pursued vigorously and the guilty will not be allowed to go scot-free. Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the Congress would not rest as long as the people of Punjab were satisfied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/women-outnumber-men-at-punjab-cm-channi-s-payal-rally-101639081602658.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Calling off farm stir: Main demands met, but confusion remains on some, says KMSC||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), which has a stronghold in Punjab’s Majha region, on Thursday agreed with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)’s decision to call off the protest against the central government against the three farm laws. The organisation, however, pointed out that while their main demands were met, confusion still prevails on some.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint platform of the protesting farmer unions, has announced that it had accepted the Centre’s proposal to resolve pending demands and called off the year-long agitation. KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “Some points in the proposal letter issued by the Centre are not clear. For instance, there is no clarity on fixing minimum support price (MSP) for crops. The central government has not backtracked from going ahead with its agenda of privatising the power sector through the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2021, as it said the step would be taken in consultation with the stakeholders that also include private companies.” “Meeting the demand of withdrawal of the cases registered against the farmers is appreciable, but it is yet to been seen what will happen next. The point on the stubble burning is also satisfactory,” Pandher said, adding that there was no mention of the Lakhimpur Khiri incident in the proposal. Also, there is no mention of the two men arrested on charges of murder in connection with the Lakhimpur Khiri incident and demand of removal of Union minister of state Ajay Mishra, he added. “Even as the demands of the morcha are met, there is no end to the problems of farmers and the common man. Therefore, the struggle for farmers will continue through various means,” the KMSC leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/calling-off-farm-stir-main-demands-met-but-confusion-remains-on-some-says-kmsc-101639081420431.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Wanted for hurting religious sentiments, Anil Arora arrested||After a month and a half of being on the run, Anil Arora, who was wanted by the police for his incendiary remarks that had hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community, was arrested in Panchkula on Wednesday night. Several police teams had been looking for Arora. However, it was the team led by inspector Beant Juneja who had arrested the accused, while he was trying to check into a hotel. Arora had run out of funds, and was trying to arrange for food, and a place to stay. Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said Anil Arora and Vasu Syal of Zira of Ferozepur were main accused in the case. “In the viral audio clip, it is clear that Syal had first made the derogatory statements, followed by Arora.” Nine people have been arrested in the case so far. However, one of the accused persons, Ashish Thakur, is based in the UK. Bhullar said that the police will initiate proceedings for the extradition of the accused.The police had announced a ₹1 lakh cash reward for the arrest of Arora, who was the leader of a Hindu outfit, and a former Bharatiya Janata Party worker. Arora has been booked under Sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code at Division 3 police station on October 20.The accused was produced in court on Thursday evening and was remanded two days in police custody. He, however, had to face the ire of the people who gathered at the court complex and raised slogans against the accused. One protestor even tried to hurl a shoe at Arora, but the police stopped him. Security was beefed up at the court complex before Arora was brought there.Different Sikh organisations had staged protests in the city and blocked the roads at Samrala Chowk, Bharat Nagar Chowk and Jagraon Bridge seeking the arrest of the accused.Case at a glanceOctober 20: An FIR was lodged against Anil Arora at the Division 3 police station.October 26: A reward of ₹1 lakh announced for leads on Arora.October 26: Police arrest Shalu Aggarwal of Panchkula; Rosy Jain, and her husband Amit of Pakhowal Road; Mahesh Chander, his wife Sushma Rani of Janakpuri; and Umesh Kumar of New Guru Nanak Nagar in Mundian Kalan for providing shelter and help Arora avoid arrest.November 8 : Police arrest Umesh Kumar Gandhi of Mundian Kalan, Arora’s neighbour and distant relative. He had provided shelter and financial help to Arora after he was booked. Police also recovered ₹10 lakh from the house of Arora’s sister. November 13: Police arrest Vasu Syal of Ferozepur, a close aide of Anil Arora.November 15: Sanjiv Sharma of Jalandhar, a close aide of Vasu Syal arrested. Sharma had given ₹20,000 to Vasu and had also helped him evade arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-wanted-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-anil-arora-arrested-101639081360443.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: A multitude of unaddressed problems plague ward 32||Residents of Ward 32, a general ward, which comprises Sectors 44 and 51, have been awaiting a representative to tackle the plethora of issues ailing these areas.The ward earlier also included Colony Number 5, covering parts of Sectors 50 and 51. But it was cleared out in 2013 and its residents were allotted one-room houses under the slum rehabilitation scheme in Dhanas.The vacated land has since remained in a state of neglect. Adarsh Dhingra, a nearby resident, said the land had stayed abandoned for eight years, leading to snakes, littering and foul smell.The road in front of Model Jail in Sector 51 has been in a bad shape for at least three years. The park in front of the jail is also a picture of neglect with huge growth of wild grass.For smooth traffic flow, a makeshift roundabout was set up by the traffic police at an intersection. The barrels used are all rusted now and are not even stationed in a circle, beating its purpose.Sector 51 is also home to several retired cops, who live in the Chandigarh Police Cooperative Housing Society. Society’s president retired deputy superintendent of police (DSP) SC Sagar described their share of problems. “For installing a temporary canopy to keep rain from entering the apartments, retired cops are slapped with huge fines. It is embarrassing to be treated like criminals, when all we have done is protect our house from rain,” he said.Sector 44 forms the bigger part of the ward, but even its residents complain their problems aren’t addressed.President of the Sector 44-B Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Swadesh Talwar said, “Since Sector 44 was separated from Sectors 34 and 35, it has remained neglected. The roads here are crying for repair, while the community centre is in a shambles despite many requests to the authorities.”President of the Sector 44 RWA, Anish Garg added, “Parking remains troublesome, especially in the MIG flats area. Community parking is urgently required here. The next councillor must also tackle the deteriorating law and order situation. Sanitation also requires attention, as heaps of garbage can be seen scattered across the sector.”Shopkeepers in Sector-44 market are also a disenchanted lot. President of the Sector 44-C market association and former president of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, Anil Vohra said, “There is only one entrance to the market, where also a vending zone has been set up, leading to chaos. Full-scale dhabas are being run in the vending zone, which the next councillor must take a stand against. The public toilets need to be upgraded, while the corridor in front of the shops requires re-tiling.”Know Your WardGeneral wardVoters: 15,500 votesWard areas: Sector 44 and Sector 51Key issues:Bad roads in the wardArea vacated by razing Colony Number 5 needs to be developedParks and the Sector 44 community centre need better maintenanceLocal voicesThe roads in Sector 44 are in a bad shape. The community centre here needs to be repaired and upgraded.Swadesh Talwar, president of the Sector 44-B RWAHousing society residents pay property tax on the lines of independent houses and also maintenance charges. The next councillor must meet people and address their issues.Achhar Chand, resident of Sector 51The law and order situation in the sector needs improvement. Community parking is the need of the hour.Anish Garg, 49, president of Residents Welfare Federation, Sector 44The southern sectors with societies are ignored and get fewer amenities compared to the northern ones. The next councillor must address our society’s problems.SC Sagar, president of the Chandigarh Police Cooperative Housing Society, Sector 51-D||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-a-multitude-of-unaddressed-problems-plague-ward-32-101639081242946.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Order to curb NCR pollution: Two thermal plants shut, Punjab paying ₹15 crore daily to buy power from grid||With two thermal power plants at Lehra Mohabbat and Ropar ordered to shut their operations till December 15 due to high level of pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR), the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is buying electricity at exorbitant rates from the national grid. The state is paying ₹15 crore, including ₹2 crore as transmission charges, to the power exchange daily for the electricity that can be generated at ₹4 per unit in own thermal plants, officials said. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the NCR in its November 26 order had said that the NTPC’s Jhajjar unit, the Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Station (RGPTC) at Hisar, the Panipat plant, Talwandi Sabo plant, Nabha Power Ltd, Rajpura, could remain operational. But in a November 30 order, Punjab was asked to keep the Lehra Mohabbat and Ropar plants shut till December 15.The Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) is left with coal for only less than a day and is running at 50% load. As such, the PSPCL has to pay ₹2.25 crore per day as fixed charges to the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) due to non-generation for shortage of coal. According to an Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) order, the private plants get fixed charges if coal shortage is not attributed to them. Also, one of the two units of the Rajpura plant is under maintenance.“Both the Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat plants have coal for 9 and 16 days but have been asked to stop generation by the CAQM. To meet the shortfall, the PSPCL is purchasing more than 400 lakh units per day from the exchange,” admitted a PSPCL official. It was strange that the plants at Jhajjar, Hisar and Panipat, which are located very close to the NCR, were allowed to run whereas plants in faraway places like Lehra Mohabbat and Ropar are barred from generating electricity, he added. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said the corporation’s move to purchase power from the grid is not causing any financial loss as prices are equivalent to the electricity produced in Punjab. “It will adversely affect Punjab only if the prices of power at the grid exceed ₹4.5 per unit,” he said.
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adds 256 Covid deaths to its tally||The Chandigarh health department on Thursday added 256 Covid fatalities to its tally, while stating that the data has been reconciled after matching the figures from the cremation ground. With this, the toll of Chandigarh jumped from 820 to 1,076, surpassing the figures of Mohali (1,073) and Panchkula (379). “The health department was reconciling the figure of Covid-19 deaths with the record maintained at the cremation ground. During the process of reconciliation, it was observed that there was a mismatch of 359 deaths. On the forms of 359 deceased, the cremation ground had mentioned Covid-19 as the cause of death, but there no Covid confirmation certificates from hospitals. The UT government or private hospitals didn’t have any records of these people,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg.These 359 people had died since the pandemic broke out in March 2020.Garg added, “The health department then contacted the families of each of these persons and it was found that 256 deaths, of the 359, were actually the deaths due to the virus, in accordance with the existing guidelines. Also, 22 deaths, which are mentioned as Covid death at cremation ground, could not be proved as there is no document about Covid positivity. However, the remaining 81 deaths either relate to residents of other states or their addresses are incorrect or could not be traced.”It was observed that most of the people, out of the remaining 81, were from neighbouring states, including Punjab and Haryana.Thus, the number of deaths of residents of UT Chandigarh due to Covid-19 will be treated as 1,076 instead of 820, the health department said, adding that the data of these 256 deaths is being added on the portal of the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The health department is still contacting the families of 103 deceased people, (22 people who had no Covid positive report and 81 people with links from other states or remained untraceable). The data is also being shared with the concerned state governments.The UT health secretary also informed that families of these 256 deceased people are now eligible for ex-gratia of ₹50,000 each, which is being given to the next kin of the deceased in accordance with the guidelines of the Union government and Supreme Court.In April this year, Hindustan Times had reported the ‘mismatched’ death tallies of the health department and cremation ground. As per HT’s reports in April, the health department’s official numbers indicated 42 Covid deaths in Chandigarh, but the cremation grounds in the city said the number is as high as 70.In April this year, the tricity had reported 43,068 Covid cases besides 311 fatalities. With 46,245 cases and 790 deaths, May 2021 had proved to be the deadliest for the tricity since the pandemic began in March last year. But following the restrictions on public movement and businesses, the curve started going down.29 kin of Covid-19 deceased get ex-gratiaChandigarh administration received 138 applications for ex gratia assistance as minimum standard relief of ₹50,000 to the next of kin of the deceased who died due to Covid 19. Of them, 29 applicants have got their claim of total ₹14,50,000 via direct benefit transfer mode. Rest of the applications are under process for release of payment.The claimants can submit their application through a form to the sub-divisional magistrate along with specified documents, including a death certificate, certifying the cause of death due to Covid.The claimants can download the application form online from chandigarhdistrict.nic.in19 more test positive in tricityAs many as 19 fresh infections of Covid-19 were reported in the tricity on Thursday, with Mohali recording 12 of them. Four cases were reported from Chandigarh and three from Panchkula. On Wednesday, the tricity’s daily tally was 22. No death was reported on the day, but UT health department had added a backlog of 256 Covid-related deaths. Tricity’s active cases tally rose to 155 on Thursday, with 69 patients still being infected in Mohali, 63 in Chandigarh, and 23 in Panchkula.Chandigarh asks PGI to hand over 20 unused ventilators The UT administration on Thursday asked the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to hand over the 20 PM Cares fund ventilators that were discarded by the institute on grounds that these were ‘unfit’ for patients. The hospital authorities had said there were some technical glitches in the ventilators.UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “All the ventilators received under PM Cares fund have been installed at the government hospitals of Chandigarh. However, there were some technically unfit ventilators with PGIMER and GMCH. The issue was taken up with the Centre and a team had visited to repair these ventilators at GMCH. There are 20 ventilators at PGIMER that have not been put to use till date. We have asked PGI to give us these ventilators so that we can install them in our hospitals after getting them repaired.”The PGI had previously said that the ventilators may not be fit for ventilating critically ill patients, and that these should be checked properly before allowing it to be used on patients due to safety concerns.The technical difficulties discovered while evaluating the quality of ventilators were stated in the reports, including the fact that the prescribed respiratory rate could not be achieved for paediatric patients and that chronic leak of 10 to 20% was seen in adult settings.However, PGIMER director Dr Surjit Singh, said, “The ventilators have technical glitches and we have already sent the complaint to director health services. The UT health department can take back the ventilators from us if they want.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-adds-256-covid-deaths-to-its-tally-101639081060453.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||CDS Rawat’s chopper crash: Pall of gloom at Naik Gursewak’s native village in Tarn Taran||A pall of gloom descended at Dode Sodhian in Tarn Taran district when the news of the death of Naik Gursewak Singh in a chopper crash along with Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and others in Tamil Nadu reached his native village. People from the area and members of various political, social and religious organisations descended at the village to express their condolences. Gursewak’s remains are expected to reach the village on Friday. Gursewak is survived by his father Kabal Singh, wife Jaspreet Kaur, daughters Simratdeep Kaur (9), Gurleen Kaur (7) and son Fatehdeep Singh (3), officials said. He also leaves behind five brothers and two sisters. He was recruited in the 9 Para (Special Forces) in 2004 and was deputed in the security cover of Gen Rawat for a long time.His wife Jaspreet said, “Since I was sick, he was worried about my health daily. I called him over the phone a day before the mishap, but could not speak to him properly as some party was going on there. Later, we tried to establish contact with him but his phone was switched off.” A teary-eyed Kabal Singh said, “He called me daily and enquired about the goings-on here. I am eager to hear his voice.”Gurbaz Singh, the village sarpanch, said, “Gursewak was a good human being and he was loved by all the villagers. We are short of words to express our shock over his untimely demise. He joined duty on November 15 after helping preparing a playground in the villages for the youths. His death is not only a loss to his family, but to the village and the. He was an inspiration for the youngsters.” Also, former Khemkaran MLA and Akali leader Virsa Singh Valtoha met the family and sought a financial aid of ₹1 crore to Gursewak’s family and a government job to one member.
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Meet the ardent fitness enthusiasts of Chandigarh||Back in 2016, Dr Sunaina Bansal, a gynaecologist, read an article that Denmark was the happiest country in the world primarily owing to its culture of cycling. Immediately, she bought a cycle and started pedalling to her workplace and In 2017, she formed “Cyclegiri”, a group to promote cycling as a mode to get fit. It now has over 1,000 members and organises cycle rides and spreads awareness about achieving fitness through cycling. “I make it a point to use my cycle to go to the hospital I work for atleast four times a week. Chandigarh has many cycle tracks and is an ideal city for long rides.We have also tied up with Chandigarh administration and traffic police on several occasions and organised cyclothons,” said Dr Sunaina. Till last March, Gursimran Sidhu, 39, who is the construction business, led an unhealthy lifestyle where he was constantly travelling and bingeing on junk food. Contracting Covid-19 forced him to think about his health and fitness, which led him to join a group of friends who would run 10km-12km everyday to remain fit. “I had put on lot of weight and wanted to shed it. I started running 10-12km every day and ate healthy for a few months. As a result, I lost 14 kgs and now, running is part of my life,” said Gursimran. Naveen Kumar Tanwar, an income tax officer, became an avid cyclist during the time the pandemic started. As all gyms were closed, he bought a cycle and would go for long rides on every morning. “I started cycling vigorously last year. I enjoyed it so much that I would cycle every day and on weekends, I planned long route rides. As a result, I lost almost 15 kgs of weight and developed a wonderful hobby. I have cut down on the using my car and last weekend , I even cycled to Jalandhar,” said Naveen, 41. With availability of municipal corporation parks, open gyms and the administration-run multi-purpose complexes, there are ample facilities in the city for residents to use. In August, around 150 docking stations were built in Chandigarh where over 1,250 bicycles were made available for public to use under Chandigarh Smart City Limited. Under this scheme more docking stations are to be built with more bicycles to be made available in the future. The city has around 200-km cycle tracks. “We used to conduct many marathons in the tricity before the pandemic hit. But, at the individual level, people are running every day to remain fit. We plan to organise a marathon soon, after things improve,” said Chetan Wadhwa, co-founder of NGO Chandigarh Runners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/meet-the-ardent-fitness-enthusiasts-of-chandigarh-101639080882504.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU employees can once again avail leave travel concession||Panjab University (PU) employees can once again avail leave travel concession/home town concession (LTC/HTC) as per the normal provision of the scheme. PU had last year suspended LTC/HTC amid financial strain during the Covid pandemic.A communication in this regard was issued recently by the varsity administration to department heads and principals of the constituent colleges. “The facility to avail LTC/HTC to the employees of PU is admissible and continues to be applicable as per the normal provision of the scheme,” states the communication issued by the varsity. Last year, the pandemic had pushed PU into financial crises and forced its management to implement cuts under various budget heads. Besides the suspension of LTC/HTC and budget provisions under the seminar and field work head for financial year 2020-21, there was a trimming of 20% on the budget provisions of office and other general administrative expenditure.Carry forward allowedThe varsity has also announced that as per the rule, employees who are unable to avail LTC/HTC within a particular block of four/two years, which is block year 2018-2021, are entitled to carry forward the same for the first year of the next block year with the permission of the department head/controlling officer or registrar before December 31, 2021.The communication issued states that it will be the responsibility of the employee concerned to submit the copy of approval in the establishment branch before December 31 and no request will be entertained after that. Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) in July had requested the varsity to resume the LTC for the employees. PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “We are happy that the LTC facility has been resumed as per the aspirations of the teachers.”
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 62 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Thursday reported 62 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 603,638, according to a medical bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality in Ludhiana, the death toll reached 16,616 in the state, it said. The state’s positivity rate was 0.25%, the bulletin said. The number of active cases rose to 378. Among the fresh cases, Ferozepur registered 30 new cases, Mohali 12 and Patiala and Hoshiarpur five each, the bulletin said. With the recovery of 31 patients from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 586,644 the bulletin said.At least 16,302 Covid tests were done on Thursday and 118,444 were vaccinated, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-62-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101639080462215.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU: SFS holds protest over increase in rates of eatables in hostels||Irked over the hike in the rates of eatables at Panjab University’s hostels, members of the Students For Society (SFS) on Thursday held a protest at the Student Centre. They demanded that previous rates be restored and regularisation of food rates at the Student Centre.PU revised the rates of eatables in the university hostels for 2021-22 academic session on the representation of contractors of mess and canteens. The move however has drawn criticism from the student. Student bodies have already submitted representations to the varsity demanding rollback of the revised rates.Sandeep from SFS said that increasing food rates is a direct attack on students and will make education inaccessible for marginalised sections of society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pusfs-holds-protest-over-increase-in-rates-of-eatables-in-hostels-101639080102547.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Jaitu MLA quits AAP||Former Jaitu MLA Baldev Singh on Thursday resigned from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). He sent a one-liner letter to AAP state unit president Bhagwant Mann to inform him about his decision to quit the party. This is the second time Singh has quit the party. He first left the party in January 2019 and then contested the Lok Sabha election. Though he later returned to the AAP fold, Singh was disqualified from the membership of the state assembly by the speaker on October 26 this year under the anti-defection law for leaving the party on whose ticket he was elected. As per the Tenth Schedule included in the Constitution in 1985 and popularly known as the anti-defection law, a member can be disqualified if he or she voluntarily gives up membership of a party. He was unlikely to get the AAP ticket for the upcoming elections. While Singh could not be contacted, a party spokesperson said they had not received his resignation letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exjaitu-mla-quits-aap-101639080041754.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||UP cold, to get colder by weekend||The minimum temperature in the state capital dropped to the 10-degree Celsius mark for the first time this season as a cold wave gripped most parts of the state on Thursday. The minimum temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 10.4 degrees Celsius which is a degree above normal. The temperature reflected a drop of 3 degrees in the last 48 hours.“The cold winds moving in the state from west to east are the primary reason for the marked drop in temperatures in the last two days. The minimum temperature will drop further in the coming days,” said JP Gupta, director, Uttar Pradesh MeT Department.According to a forecast issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature across UP is expected to drop by three degrees by the end of this week. As per the forecast, Lucknow will experience a minimum temperature of 9 degrees Celsius on Friday. The drop in temperature will be accompanied by cold wind.“A low pressure atmospheric zone has developed over central and west UP that is pulling cold winds from the colder northern regions. The low pressure zone will take some time to subside,” said Gupta. The MeT department has also warned of heavy fog in the morning across the state.Considering the forecast, the state MeT department has alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions suggesting that they make appropriate arrangements to fight the cold.The lowest temperature in UP was recorded in Etawah where the mercury dipped to 5 degrees Celsius, 1 degree below normal. Jhansi recorded the highest day temperature in UP where mercury was recorded at 23 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cold-to-get-colder-by-weekend-101639079862795.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cong, SAD plunged Punjab’s power dept into fiscal mess: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and MLA Aman Arora on Thursday blamed the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) governments for plunging the state’s power department into fiscal deficit. In a statement, Arora said they not only threw Powercom into a quagmire of subsidies to reap the harvest of votes, but also paved the way for power mafia. “Powercom’s burden of liabilities was increasing and revenue going down,” he said in a statement, pegging its financial deficit at ₹2,000 crore. He also accused the Congress government led by Charanjit Singh Channi of playing tricks of providing cheap electricity and cancelling the power deals to improve their image in the eyes of people. “The Congress is trying to deceive the people in the name of taking action against the power mafia,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-sad-plunged-punjab-s-power-dept-into-fiscal-mess-aap-101639079860959.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Vijay Hazare Trophy: Tilak’s ton helps Hyderabad beat Delhi||Out of the Indian team, Shikhar Dhawan failed again to make a mark in the ongoing Vijay Hazare Trophy, as he scored mere 12 runs for Delhi in a match against Hyderabad at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali on Thursday. Led by an impressive 123-ball knock of 139 runs from 19-year-old Tilak Verma, Hyderabad beat Delhi by 79 runs to take four points.Batting first, Hyderabad scored a daunting total of 325/6 in 50 overs. Delhi bowlers struggled against the opposition batsmen. Batting at number three, Tilak hit eight sixes and seven fours during his 123-ball stay at the wicket. Chandan Sahani too came good and made 74-ball 87 runs to propel his team. In reply, Delhi scored 245/9 in 50 overs. Shikhar was caught by Chandan at cover point on the bowling of Kartikeya Kak. Tanay Thyagarajan bowled well to take three wickets for Hyderabad. Last match centurion, Himmat Singh, made 47 runs for Delhi.Saurashtra drub HaryanaMeanwhile, Saurashtra recorded a five-wicket win over Haryana in a match played at the Sector 16 Stadium in Chandigarh. Jharkhand beat Uttar Pradesh by eight wickets in a match played in Mullanpur. Mohammed Nazim scored match-winning 102-ball knock of 116 runs for the winning team.Uttarakhand beat Chandigarh by three wickets in a match played in Rajkot. Chandigarh’s Sarul Kanwar’s 97-ball knock of 98 runs went in vain.Punjab beat RailwaysPunjab logged a three-wicket win over Railways in a match played in Ranchi on Thursday. Railways scored 250 runs in 48.3 overs batting first. Mohammad Saif scored 60 runs. For Punjab, leg-spinner Mayank Markande claimed four wickets while medium-pacers Sanvir Singh took three and Arshdeep Singh picked two dismissals.Replying, Punjab scored 252 runs, losing seven wickets in 48 overs. For Punjab, Gurkeerat Mann scored 81 runs off 78 balls with help of seven boundaries and three sixes and Anmolpreet Singh scored 54 runs off 81 balls with help of six boundaries and one six.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vijay-hazare-trophy-tilak-s-ton-helps-hyderabad-beat-delhi-101639079800158.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt approves 4-laning of Patiala-Sirhind road||The Punjab government has approved the four-laning of Mata Gujri Marg, also known as the killer stretch, from Patiala to Sirhind. The total stretch of 29km will be widened at a cost of ₹119.6 crores. State public works department minister Vijay Inder Singla said the work on the 29km stretch, to be widened at a cost of ₹119.6 crore, will start soon. The 8km stretch from Patiala to Baran has already been four-laned. “A new steel structured bridge has been proposed over the Bhakhra canal. A total of ₹109.38 crore will be spent on the road, whereas the steel bridge on Bhakhra canal will cost ₹10.22 crore,” the minister said.Singla added that Punjab government has accepted the long-pending demand of the residents of Patiala to four-lane the road from Patiala to Sirhind GT Road. “Patiala-Chamkaur Sahib is not only an important route for social, business purpose, but it’s a religious route also as it connects Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib in Patiala, Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib and Gurdwara at Chamkaur Sahib,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-approves-4-laning-of-patiala-sirhind-road-101639079682305.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow jewellery shop loot follow-up: Police suspect involvement of professionals||Criminals who struck at an Aliganj jewellery shop in Lucknow, conducted reconnaissance of different routes, prepared two teams of two members each, and used different routes to escape after committing the crime, said police officials on Thursday.This knowledge has led them to infer that those who committed the loot were a seasoned and professional gang.On Wednesday, unidentified armed miscreants broke into Tirupati Gems and Jewels Pvt Ltd, near Kapoorthala crossing, under the Aliganj police station limits and fled with cash and gold ornaments worth several lakh rupees. The miscreants shot at one Sharavan Kumar, an employee of the shop, when he resisted their bid.A police official privy to the investigation, said that the police had scanned video footage of over two dozen CCTVs installed on different routes heading towards the jewellery shop. He said the video footage analysis suggested that the loot was committed in a well-planned manner.He said four people are suspected to be involved in the crime—two entered the shop while two remained outside the shop to keep a watch on police movement. He said one of them had visited the shop even on Tuesday apparently to collect information about a number of employees, footfall of customers at different times of the day and conducted reconnaissance of different approach and exit routes of the area. “One of the suspects is spotted moving around on Tuesday and even present at the time of the crime on Wednesday,” he said. The official said that the footage also suggests that they worked in two teams comprising two members each. He said one team committed the crime while the other team remained in the background to come in if the first team got trapped while executing their plan. He said the two teams even escaped from the spot by different routes that later merged at the same crossing.“We are trying to ascertain the route towards which they all moved after committing the crime by connecting the dots with the help of video footage available on different routes leaving from Aliganj area,” he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-jewellery-shop-loot-follow-up-police-suspect-involvement-of-professionals-101639079500184.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Literati is back with its hybrid 9th edition||With its message of hope, the ninth edition of the trilingual literature festival ‘Literati’ will kick off on Saturday. With the pandemic abated, but not quite over, the festival, which is organised by the Chandigarh Literary Society (CLS), will be held in a hybrid format with three sessions to be held at the UT Guest House, and the remaining to be conducted online. Literati21 shall open with a virtual inaugural session on December 11, it will shift to the offline mode at the UT Guest House on December 12 with the release of Gurjot Kaler’s book, The Battle Of Longewala, followed by a keynote address by actor Divya Dutta. A session will also be held on Rama’s Footsteps with Neelesh Kulkarni, after which Dolly Guleria and Sunaini Sharma will regale the audience.The virtual session will be graced by authors such as Rakesh Omprakash Mehra, Vandana Kohli, Esther David, Anil Swarup, Raza Mir, Jupinderjit Singh, Lily Swarn, Deepak Gupta Dr Archana Singh, Parinda Joshi, Jim Davidson, and Kishwar Desai. On the theme this year, CLS chairperson and festival director Sumita Misra, says, “This year, the theme is ‘manifesting hope’ as long lockdowns and the coronavirus pandemic has changed people’s perspective, and many writers have crafted words in poems and prose that have spelt hope.“Hope is a powerful word that represents faith and possibilities and that is what CLS had been instilling through its programmes over the years,” says author and TEDx speaker Vivek Atray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-literati-is-back-with-its-hybrid-9th-edition-101639079443411.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir congratulate farmers for ‘historic’ victory||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday congratulated the farmers for their historic victory. In a statement, Sukhbir said the victory on the borders of Delhi was a win for the entire farming community of the country. “The annadaata has given a clear-cut message to the rulers of the country that no laws can be framed on agriculture without taking them into confidence,” he said, adding that SAD had forced the BJP-led government at the Centre to repeal the three agricultural laws, and also paved the way for making the minimum support price (MSP) a legal right. Sukhbir welcomed the farmers’ decision to return to their homes. “Your peaceful and democratic protest and sacrifices will be remembered for the years to come,” he said, while remembering those who sacrificed their lives during the year-long stir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-congratulate-farmers-for-historic-victory-101639079440026.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman among two held with marijuana||Two people including a woman were arrested by the crime branch of Chandigarh Police with 10-kg marijuana each in separate cases. A resident of Sanjay Colony, Phase-1, Industrial Area, was nabbed and booked under the NDPS Act. The accused has been identified as Lakhman Parsad, 45. Meanwhile, a woman from Pinjore was nabbed near Peer Darga in Mauli Jagran The accused has been identified as Meenu, 35.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSDiscussion held on air pollution  “We need to look beyond the stubble burning issue and also into dust and emissions from municipal waste, industries,and burning of plastic while dealing with air pollution,” said  Rana Gurjeet Singh, Punjab cabinet minister. He was speaking at an event, “Vision: Clean Skies for Punjab”, organised at Zirakpur by the Centre for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP). Golf: City’s Lakhmehar leads the packLakhmehar Pardesi was the sole leader after the second round of the 14th Leg of the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour at the Tollygunge Club in Kolkata on Thursday. Lakhmehar leads by one shot over Chandigarh’s Saaniya Sharma and Ridhima Dilawari. Cricket: Luvepreet, Monarch shineLed by efforts from Luvepreet Saini (4 for 39) andMonarch Goyal (64 runs), Chandigarh Cricket Academy beat Sukhwinder Tinku Cricket Academy-A, Mohali by six wickets in the 3rd North Zone late Sh Panna Lal Memorial U-23 cricket tournament at the IVCA Cricket Ground in Dera Bassi,on Thursday.    Manimajra man held with knife  A resident of Shastri Nagar, Manimajra, was arrested with one kamanidar knife near EWS Flats in Bapu Dham Colony. The accused has been identified as Davinder Kumar, 25. A case under Arms Act was registered at the Sector 26 police station.   3 held for gambling in separate cases Three people were arrested while gambling from different parts of the city. Rakesh Kumar of Phase1, Mohali, was arrested in Sector 41 and ₹11,200 was recovered from him. Pawan Kumar of Sunny Enclave, Kharar, was arrested in Dhanas and ₹3,250 was recovered from him. Also, Naresh of New Indira Colony, Manimajra, was nabbed near the Grain Market in Sector 26 and  ₹1,340 was recovered from his possession. Cases were registered against all three of them and they were released on bail.  2 held with illicit liquorTwo people were arrested with illicit liquor from different parts of the city. A resident of Phase-2, Ram Darbar,was held with 72 halves of countrymade liquor near Mandi Ground in Ram Darbar. The accused is Rohit, 31. Meanwhile, Manoj, 37, of Dadumajra colony was arrested with 56 bottles of countrymade liquor from behind the Community Center in DMC. Cases under Excise Act were registered against both of them and they were later granted bail.   City’s U-19 cricketers make to India Asia Cup team  Cricketers Harnoor Singh and Raj Angad Bawa have been selected in the India team for the Asia Youth Under-19 Cup being organised in Dubai from December 23 onwards.  Both the players had stellar performances in the UTCA domestic matches and impressed the selectors in the Challengers Trophy with their abilities. Apart from this, both of them performed well in the recently concluded Under-19 tri-series in Kolkata. Both the players have been asked to report in Bangalore on December 11.Lucky draw for vaccinated residentsThe UT health department on Thursday conducted a lucky draw for residents who got vaccinated in Chandigarh between November 18 to November 30. A total of 200 winners were selected through a computerised draw at the UT Secretariat from 43,134 people who got vaccinated in this time period. The winners will be awarded with gift hampers of ₹2,000 each from Trident Group, ₹1,000 each in case from Kandhari Beverages and food and beverages coupons of ₹1,000 each from Hotel and Restaurant Association of Chandigarh.Ex-tehsildar, son booked for fraud The Panchkula police have booked a dismissed tehsildar and his son for allegedly duping a resident of Sector 2 of ₹60 lakhs on the pretext of providing him a government job. The accused have been identified as Mohinder Sangwan, who was sacked from the revenue department and his son, Sikander Sangwan. The complainant, Aditya Dutt, stated in the FIR that the terminated Tehsildar allegedly promised him the job of naib tehsildar and took ₹60 lakhs from him. However, they didn’t fulfill the promise and nor returned the money. A cheating case has been registered.Chandigarh MC removes illegal hoardingsthe municipal corporation on Thursday removed hoardings put up illegally on different locations across the city. The MC removed the banners put up by administration, political parties, social and business firms. Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Sector 23, in collaboration with Beenu Rajpoot films and Agrimaa Society of Arts, Delhi, organised the two-day Dharmananda North Zone Traditional Yogasana Competition, 2021, on December 8 and 9. Competitions were held in categories including traditional, artistic and rhythmic yogasana for both boys and girls. The chief guest of the occasion was UT education secretary Sarpreet Singh Gill and guest of honour was Dharmanand Sharma, former chairperson of the department of philosophy, Panjab University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-among-two-held-with-marijuana-101639079381511.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC defers hearing in Punjab’s drugs menace case to Jan 11||The hearing on Punjab’s drugs menace case has been deferred to January 11.The matter was to be taken up by the bench of justice AG Masih and justice Sandeep Moudgil but in view of the latter not holding the court on Thursday, the hearing was adjourned for next month, according to people familiar with the case.The court on the last date of hearing had said that it would take up the issue of whether sealed cover reports about the alleged involvement of politicians and the role of police officers are to be opened or not. These reports are lying in a sealed cover since mid-2018.During the hearing on Monday, Punjab advocate general DS Patwalia had told the court that he has advised the government to take action in drugs cases as there was no embargo from the court to proceed further, according to legal sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-defers-hearing-in-punjab-s-drugs-menace-case-to-jan-11-101639079322490.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers end stir: Capt hopes for constructive political environment, resolution of MSP issue||Congratulating farmers over the triumphant culmination of their over year-long agitation against the farm laws, Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday hoped it would pave the way for a more constructive political environment for the progress of the farming community, who constitute the backbone of India’s economic growth and sustainability.In a statement, Amarinder said he is happy the farmers’ fight has reached its logical conclusion and the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments agreed in principle to follow his erstwhile government’s decision in Punjab to compensate the families of farmers who had lost their lives during the agitation. The Amarinder Singh-led Congress government had announced ₹5 lakh in financial aid and a job for one member each of the deceased farmers’ families in December 2020 and January 2021, respectively. He has since quit the Congress and floated his own party.The former CM expressed relief that the agitating farmers, farm labourers and their families will finally be back in the warm comfort of their homes after camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year. He hoped the lingering issue of MSP, for which the Centre had constituted a committee, would also be resolved soon to the satisfaction of the farmers. He further hoped all future legislations and decisions concerning the farming community, which has been at the forefront of India’s progressive march since Independence, would be taken in the spirit of mutual agreement, after due consultation with all the stakeholders.Asserting his party’s unequivocal support for the farmers, Amarinder said that, as in the past, he would continue to do everything in his power to protect their interests and ensure their welfare. He pointed out that as the chief minister of Punjab, he had not only supported the farmers’ fight for the repeal of the farm laws but had ensured that they were not, in any way, harassed even when they were sitting in protest across the state or marching towards Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-end-stir-capt-hopes-for-constructive-political-environment-resolution-of-msp-issue-101639079140900.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Woman national shooting player ends life in Faridkot||A budding national shooting player, Khushseerat Kaur Sandhu, 17, died by suicide at her residence in Faridkot on Wednesday night.Police said no suicide note was recovered from the spot and prima facie no foul play is suspected. Sandhu had participated in several international and national events.Faridkot city SHO Harjinder Singh Dhillon said preliminary investigation reveals that Sandhu was battling depression over her recent sports performances. He said the matter is being investigated from all angles. Dhillon said a shooting sport weapon was used in the crime.Family sources said the girl was a promising swimmer as well and switched to shooting about three years ago. In 2020, she won 11 medals in the national junior championship. Sandhu had returned from Delhi last week after participating in the national-level games. But she was dissatisfied with her performance as she was unable to win any medal in individual events.In September, she participated in the junior world championship held in Peru and was unable to perform well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-national-shooting-player-ends-life-in-faridkot-101639078963303.html
10-12-2021||Other||70% of KV Corridor to have green cover||The green cover in the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor will be spread over 70% of the area with plants of Rudraksha, Parijat, Ashok, and Bael majorly taking up space. With the corridor being built over 5.5 lakh square feet area, 3.5 lakh square feet will have green cover.Special arrangements have been made for planting trees with four-foot diameter pits being made in the flooring of marble, granite and pink stones of Chunar. Trees and plants up to six to 15 feet are being planted in these pits.These plants will also spread greenery in Baba’s courtyard. When the devotees take water and take steps of faith towards Baba’s court, then they will see greenery on both sides.Varanasi divisional commissioner and chairman of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Executive Committee Deepak Agrawal said that Rudraksh, the favourite plant of Mahadev, is being planted in a large area of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor aka Kashi Vishwanath Dham to the devotees of Lord Shiva on December 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/70-of-kv-corridor-to-have-green-cover-101639078960122.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||UK court turns down India’s appeal to extradite KZF member||The high court in England on Thursday rejected an appeal by Indian authorities seeking permission to appeal against a magistrates’ court order turning down the extradition on human rights grounds of Kuldeep Singh, wanted in India as an alleged senior member of the banned terrorist organisation Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF).Singh, alias Keepa Sidhu, is charged with conspiring with others to commit terror activities in Punjab dating back to 2015-16, including a plot to assassinate then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal.The 44-year-old is also accused of recruiting youths in Punjab to the banned KZF organisation by offering them money and organising a meeting of separatists in a gurdwara.District judge Gareth Branston, presiding over the extradition case at Westminster Magistrates’ Court here, ruled in January that as the offences carry maximum sentences and “no possibility of a review of such a life sentence with a view to its commutation, remission, termination or conditional release”, it would be contrary to Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights.“The district judge’s comprehensive and clearly reasoned judgment cannot be faulted,” high court justices Nicola Davies and Pushpinder Saini said in their judgment, handed down at the Royal Courts of Justice here.“There are no grounds upon which it would be appropriate for this court to interfere with the discretion exercised by the district judge,” they conclude.Singh faces a total of four charges in India, under sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act related to raising funds for terrorism, conspiracy and being a member of a terror outfit and of the Arms Act related to firearms offences.The court documents note that he is accused of being a point of contact in Punjab and liaising with the head of the KZF, who was residing in Pakistan, and other co-accused members of the organisation, who lived in Belgium and England.Singh, who entered the UK illegally in 2005, was on immigration bail when he was arrested at Loughborough Immigration Reporting Centre in eastern England in October 2019.In September 2020, the Indian authorities were successful in revoking bail granted to him at the magistrates’ court level.Singh – who used a Punjabi interpreter in court – then remained remanded in judicial custody for the duration of the extradition hearings before District Judge Branston, which concluded in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uk-court-turns-down-india-s-appeal-to-extradite-kzf-member-101639078719902.html
10-12-2021||Other||Disupte over possession of house: HC issues notice to UP dy CM Maurya||In an alleged dispute regarding possession of a house in Kalindipuram Awas Yojna, Prayagraj, the Allahabad high court on Monday issued a notice to UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to file his counter affidavit to the allegations made against him in the petition. A two-judge bench comprising justice Manoj Kumar Gupta and justice OP Tripathi fixed January 10, 2022 as the next date of hearing in the case. In its order dated December 6, the court on Maurya, who is respondent No.6 in the petition, observed, “It seems that despite our previous orders, no counter affidavit has been filed by the State-respondents. There are serious allegations of mala fides against the respondent no. 6. It is stated that with his support that the private respondent is trying to grab the house of the petitioner.” Advocate Jagat Narain Mishra, appearing for petitioner said the petitioner bought the house from the earlier owner who handed over the possession of the house to the petitioner but after the letter of deputy CM, dated March 14, 2018, police illegally dispossessed the petitioner from his house. Earlier on October 6, 2021 the court had observed, “The grievance urged in the instant petition is that the petitioner, who owns House No.GI 456 EWS, Basera Kalindipuram Awas Yojna, Prayagraj, was dispossessed of the house on 06.06.2018 by the intervention of the State machinery. In support of the said contention, reliance has been placed on a communication sent by respondent No.6 to Senior Superintendent of Police, Allahabad dated 14.03.2018 wherein it is mentioned that respondent No.9 had requested for possession of the house being delivered to her on basis of certain enquiry report and the Senior Superintendent of Police was directed to take necessary steps and inform him accordingly.” “It has further been alleged that with oblique motives, the petitioner was thereafter implicated in false case by lodging a FIR against him. The petitioner is alleged to have made complaints in this respect to various authorities but no heed was paid to the same and hence, the instant petition has been filed.”, further observed the court. Fixing January 10, 2022 the court said, “We adjourn the hearing and post the matter on 10.01.2022. Meanwhile, issue notice to respondent no. 6 calling upon him to file counter affidavit in reply to the allegations leveled against him. The State-respondents are also granted time to file a counter affidavit by the next date.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/disupte-over-possession-of-house-hc-issues-notice-to-up-dy-cm-maurya-101639077939428.html
10-12-2021||Patna||Fund crunch at IGIMS halts genome sequencing in Bihar||Lack of funds to buy reagents has forced the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) to stop next generation sequencing (NGS), amid all the buzz around Omicron, the new Covid-19 variant, and steps being taken to contain its spread. Delhi, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka are among some Indian states to have reported the deadly variant, believed to be virulent in nature. Bihar has not reported any Covid-19 case of the new variant so far, as it awaits genomic sequencing results of four Covid-19 positive patients, having international travel history, said health officials. Their samples have been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, the nearest mapped Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomics consortium (INSACOG) laboratory for genomic sequencing to ascertain the strain of the Covid-19 virus. The IGIMS is the only institute in Bihar to be part of the INSACOG, comprising 28 national laboratories, to monitor the genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the pandemic. The institute stopped NGS amid shortage of funds to buy reagents, after having tested one sample in the last week of November that was found positive for the Delta variant, said doctors at the institute requesting anonymity. The 53-year-old patient had a travel history of United Kingdom. He had gone to attend a marriage ceremony in Motihari town of East Champaran district, where he fell ill and was admitted to a private hospital in Patna. Prior to this, the institute had done trial run of two archived samples of the second wave (April to June), which tested positive for the Delta variant, the doctor quoted above said. Sources at the institute said the reagents for NGS were costly. It cost ₹15 lakh (approx.) for one run of the machine. A maximum of 96 samples could be accommodated in one run. It generally took a minimum of 10 days to get the test result, which involved multiple tests. The machine aborts the sample if, at any stage, the quality of the test was not up to the mark. In such event, one had to re-run the entire process, leading to delay in getting the precise result, said a microbiologist at the institute. Officials at State Health Society, Bihar, said funds for purchase of NGS reagents were on way, after the IGIMS made a formal request for it on December 7. “Based on information of travellers from “at risk” countries on the Air-Suvidha portal of the government of India, as many as 957 of the 1,200-odd samples of international travellers collected from the last week of November have tested negative, while four are positive. The samples have been sent for genomic sequencing. Results of the remaining 239-odd samples are awaited,” executive director of the State Health Society, Sanjay Kumar Singh, said on Tuesday. 
10-12-2021||Jaipur||Omicron: All 9 patients in Rajasthan test negative, discharged from hospital||All the nine people in Rajasthan who were found infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus were discharged from a government hospital here on Thursday after they tested negative for the infection twice, health minister Parsadi Lal Meena said.Their reports for blood, CT scan and all other tests are normal and they have been advised to remain in home quarantine for a week, he said.Principal of Sawai Mansingh Medical College, Dr Sudhir Bhandari, said research on the Omicron variant is currently underway."The spread of this variant is rapid but it is not as fatal as the Delta variant," he said.Meanwhile, 38 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan, officials said.Jaipur reported the highest number of fresh cases at 18.With this, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state increased to 260, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/omicron-all-9-patients-in-rajasthan-test-negative-discharged-from-hospital-101639076719862.html
10-12-2021||Other||UP minister reviews preparations for mayors’ conference in Kashi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address a mayors’ conference to be held in Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Trade Facilitation Centre (TFC), Kashi on December 17. Urban Development Minister Ashutosh Tandon reviewed the preparations for the event at TFC and instructed officers to make proper arrangements. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Union Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri will inaugurate an exhibition on “Changing Urban Environment” in TFC campus.In the exhibition, development works which made remarkable changes in urban areas across the country as well as Uttar Pradesh (UP) will be displayed, said officials.Officials said mayors will share success stories of project from their respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-minister-reviews-preparations-for-mayors-conference-in-kashi-101639077163845.html
10-12-2021||Lucknow||A corporation that turns beggars into entrepreneurs||“Charity breeds poverty. But investment creates wealth.” This simple yet potent thought led to the setting up of ‘Beggars Corporation’ that aims at turning vagabonds into entrepreneurs.Set up in January 2021 by social worker Chandra Mishra in Varanasi, the constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the corporation aim is not to rehabilitate beggars through donations but instead transform them into entrepreneurs by equipping them with desired skills.“Presently 55 beggars from 12 families have turned businessperson’s by forming a self-help group. They are not only making conference bags, laptop bags, common bags of paper and cloth but are supplying them to top hotels of Varanasi, multinational companies. Recently, they supplied hundreds of bags for delegates who participated in national executive meeting of BJP in Delhi,” said Mishra convener of Common Man Trust and founder of Beggars Corporation.He added, “I am not here for rehabilitating the beggars through donations but I am here to transform them into entrepreneurs. I want them to realise the importance of labour. I want to provide them employment and help them lead a dignified life.”On the reason why he chose this, Chandra said, “I came to know that Indians donate ₹34242 crore annually (according to figures of Bill and Belinda Gates Foundation’s 2017 report) to India’s 413,670 beggars (figures from ministry of social justice and empowerment). I thought if that amount is invested then it would create more wealth. In India, West Bengal has highest 85000 beggars followed by Uttar Pradesh which has 65,835 beggars. Varanasi where I work has more than 12,000 beggars out of them 6000 are healthy adults. If the donated money is used for training them into employment generators then it would change the picture of the economy.” Encouraged by the success of pilot project, corporation has decided to eliminate begging from Varanasi by March 2023. “Now, we are working out employment models, building capacities for the startups without help from the government. Charity breeds poverty. But investment creates wealth. If beggars can be entrepreneur’s then nobody can be unemployed,” he said.On the challenges, he said “First I had to convince the beggars to work. I followed the formula of Nobel Laureate Dr Mohammed Yunus who financed more than 1 lakh self-help groups (SHG) of beggars in Bangladesh and all of them not only returned the principal amount but are running successfully running their SHGs. To my surprise most of the beggars agreed to work. Once beggars agreed to work the second challenge was to sell the products manufactured by them.”Mishra said, “Now we have decided to enlist Beggars Corporation as a profit company and within five years we will also bring the IPO in the market. We are ready to pump in ₹2.55 crore from angel investors and venture capitalists. We don’t want any monetary help from the government but we want them then to help us in marketing the products manufactured by beggars, besides helping us in identifying beggars, issuing them identity cards, providing treatment to disabled beggars and alternate livelihood to fit beggars wherever possible. This would help us solve the major problem of beggary in India. We are ready to invest but will need a bit of help from the government too.”Mishra said, “Besides employment, educating the next generation of beggars is also important. For that we established a morning school—”School of Life”. This is an integrated system of normal education where besides educating them we impart skill training, personality development to transform child beggars into responsible citizens. Through this we want to ensure that no beggar kid takes up begging again.”
10-12-2021||Bhopal||Give 50% fare concession to PwDs with UDID card, MP bus operators told||The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday issued a directive to all bus operators in the state to provide 50 per cent concession in fares to 'divyangjan' (people with disabilities) after they show their unique identification card. The directive, issued by MP transport commissioner to all regional, additional and district transport officials, lays down that any person presenting the 'Unique Disability ID' issued by a competent authority of the Centre or the state must be given 50 per cent concession in bus fare. A state public relations department official said the Centre's Divyangjan Empowerment department was providing Unique ID for Persons with Disabilities (UDID) to divyangjan, which allows them to avail benefits of different welfare schemes. Madhya Pradesh is ahead of the other states in the country in issuing UDIDs, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/give-50-fare-concession-to-pwds-with-udid-card-mp-bus-operators-told-101639076007401.html
10-12-2021||Other||Environment ministry denies NOC to Kanpur Lucknow expressway||The Kanpur-Lucknow expressway has hit a major roadblock as the ministry of environment, forest and climate change has not issued the mandatory no objection certificate (NOC). The ministry has red flagged certain points. The project manager National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) NN Giri said efforts were underway to address the concerns of the ministry. The tenders for the project would open next week, he said. In order find solution to the issues raised by the ministry, the project director would meet the chief conservator of forest in Lucknow in a day or two, said officials who are privy to developments. The 62.75 km long and six lane expressway is one of the key projects. The NHAI has completed the land acquisition but the few patches of land marked for forest conservation are the major concern. The area, where expressway and the ring road would merge near Lucknow, is the four hectares of forest land. “The three patches are the cause of concern in taking the NOC,” said one official. The ₹4,500 crore expressway would run parallel to NH27 and would have two elevated portions between Amausi and Bani on the East end and it would run on the face till Azad Nagar in Unnao from Kanpur where it would get connected to the Ganga bridge. This expressway would also be linked to the proposed ring road in Kanpur, Meerut-Prayagraj expressway and Unnao-Lalgunj highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/environment-ministry-denies-noc-to-kanpur-lucknow-expressway-101639076204729.html
10-12-2021||Noida||Housing society in Greater Noida west revives its Covid Care Centre||Fearing another wave of Covid-19 in the light of the Omicron variant of the virus, residents of Panchsheel Greens-1 in Greater Noida West have started a Covid care centre in the premises of the society. This is the same centre which was started by the Apartment Owners’ Association (AOA) in March this year to provide oxygen to Covid-infected residents of the society. Reports of the emergence of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 has made residents alert and they want to be prepared for the worse, said Vikas Vashisht, president of Panchsheel Greens-1 AOA.“During the second wave of Covid-19, we were not prepared with oxygen supplies and beds in the society. Many of the residents here became critical due to lack of beds and oxygen. We do not want a repeat of the same and hence decided to restart the Covid care centre and keep it ready in case of any emergency as a precautionary measure,” said Vashisht, Covid cases had started surfacing in the society from the beginning of March but it was only by the end of that month that the AOA could arrange oxygen cylinders, concentrators for common use and create a Covid care centre, he added. At the peak of the second wave in mid-April, over 250 residents of the society were down with Covid. The society has 2,000 houses, of which 1800 are occupied.“The oxygen cylinders were brought from Jammu as they were not available anywhere around NCR. Over 80 patients used the facilities between March and May at the centre,” said Vashisht.Later, the Covid care centre in the common area of the society was shut down in June after number of cases started declining. Since then, it had not been used. “On Thursday, we decided to refill the oxygen cylinders and turned on the three oxygen concentrators to check the facilities. The centre has five beds, two 100 litre-capacity oxygen cylinders, three 7-litre capacity oxygen concentrators, PPE kits, hand sanitisers, face shields, face masks, oximeters, hand gloves and wheel chair,” said Anurag Mathur, vice president of the AOA.A resident, who is a general physician at a private hospital in Greater Noida west, will be providing medical assistance at the centre. All the facilities are free of cost for the residents.“We will be conducting a complete audit of all residents to make a note of how many are fully vaccinated and how many are still left. We have appealed to all the residents to get both shots of Covid-19 vaccine soon, if they have not taken it yet. The AOA will also enforce Covid protocols strictly,” said Mathur.When asked about the initiative, district magistrate Suhas L Y said, “The AOAs can take initiative inside the societies for the well-being of the residents as they deem fit.”
10-12-2021||Noida||Pollution levels spike in Ghaziabad, Noida as wind speed drops||After a day of respite on Wednesday, when the air quality in Noida and Greater Noida was recorded in the “moderate” zone, pollution levels once again spiked on Thursday to take the air quality back to the “poor” category, as wind speeds dropped, according to officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s 4pm bulletin on Thursday, Greater Noida and Noida recorded air quality index (AQI) of 297 and 277, respectively, in the “poor” category— they were both in the “moderate zone” on Wednesday. The AQI of Ghaziabad, meanwhile, was at 303, under the “very poor” category — it was in the “poor” category on Wednesday. “The conditions in Ghaziabad are different from those in Greater Noida and Noida. Here, we have a huge vehicle base and also thousands of vehicles that pass through the state highways and national highways criss-crossing the city. Local sources such as vehicular emissions impact AQI levels as also the adverse meteorological conditions,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UP pollution control board, Ghaziabad. An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered ”good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 ”moderate”, 201 and 300 ”poor”, 301 and 400 ”very poor”, and 401 and 500 ”severe”. HT visited the outskirts of Ghaziabad city on Thursday morning and saw moderate fog, with reduced visibility, on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway and the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, near Dasna and Masuri. “The foggy conditions prevailed till 10am Thursday after which sunshine was visible and the skies cleared up. The visibility remained low only during the morning hours,” said Ajay Yadav, a resident of Dasna. The IMD officials said there is no prediction of fog as such for the next couple of days in Delhi or nearby areas. “Fog will happen once the temperature starts declining further. Even then, fog depends on a number of conditions. The wind speed on Thursday was calm and this could have resulted in the accumulation of pollutants,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist from IMD. A forecast by the Union earth ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, on Thursday, winds are likely to be moderate, enhancing mixing and ventilation of pollutants for next three days. “Air quality for the next three days is likely to improve gradually but within the lower end of ”poor” or “moderate” category. During December 12-14, low winds are likely, leading to weak dispersion and degradation of air quality. From December 15 onwards, significant improvement is expected due to high wind speed,” the forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pollution-levels-spike-in-ghaziabad-noida-as-wind-speed-drops-101639075779013.html
10-12-2021||Pune||Court stays own order directing cops to file case against Pune mayor||A court in Pune has stayed its order directing the police to register a case under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, an advocate representing the mayor said on Thursday. Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Janhavi Kelkar had, on Wednesday, issued an order directing the police to register an FIR under section 156 (3) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) regarding the alleged offence. Earlier, a man had approached court seeking an FIR under relevant sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act alleging that Mohol and three others, including a contractor, had conspired to raze public toilets in a slum in Bhimnagar in Kothrud, which the latter represents as corporator. Advocate SK Jain, representing Mohol, said he moved an application seeking a stay on the order passed by the court and it was granted on Thursday. Meanwhile, Mohol refuted the allegations and said the toilet block was removed legally by Pune Municipal Corporation as it was coming in the way of a DP road. Mohol said all the people from the area had been rehabilitated under SRA schemes, but one individual was refusing to relocate and was using the complainant to get him booked under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. "The demolition of toilets, etc is part of administrative work and I have nothing to do with that," Mohol added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/court-stays-own-order-directing-cops-to-file-case-against-pune-mayor-101639075375192.html
10-12-2021||Mumbai||HC extends Nirmala Uppuganti’s hospice stay by four months||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) has permitted Nirmala Uppuganti, who is accused of having alleged links to the Maoists, to be kept in a hospice for palliative care for four months. Uppuganti, who was arrested by NIA and was kept at Byculla Women’s prison, was shifted to a hospice after HC’s direction as she has stage four cancer. The division bench of Justice Nitin Jamdar and Justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the petition of Uppuganti seeking treatment for her cancer, was informed by advocates Dr Yug Choudhry and Payoshi Roy that their client was terminally-ill and needed urgent hospitalisation. On September 9, the HC had directed Uppuganti to be shifted to a hospice at Bandra for 12 weeks and posted the hearing of the petition to December 17. However, on November 29, Uppugantis lawyers had approached the court and sought an urgent hearing as the under trial required immediate treatment at Tata Hospital. The court had asked the prison authorities to get a report from the hospital which was submitted to the bench on December 8. The report signed by the Professor Medical Oncology and Professor Surgical Oncology and Associate Professor Radiation Oncology and signed by the Director of Tata Memorial Hospital said, “The prognosis (outcome) of such a patient is poor and treatment offered is essential with palliative intent (symptom directed and not with intention to cure cancer) and is chronic (long term) without the need of any admission in hospital (unless any acute emergency arises) and generally such patients are managed at home/hospice care as standard practice.” In light of the report, the court extended the September 9 arrangement four months and posted the petition for hearing on April 8, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-extends-nirmala-uppuganti-s-hospice-stay-by-four-months-101639075603855.html
10-12-2021||Noida||Traffic to resume on Delhi-Meerut Expressway only after NHAI inspections||Farmers weren’t the only ones feeling happy and relieved on Thursday to hear the Samyukta Kisan Morcha announce that the yearlong agitation against the farm laws has been called off and protest sites will be vacated, the latest by December 12. Commuters too were a much relieved lot as finally, a year of harrowing snarls and long winding diversions was drawing to a close.But the officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said opening of National Highway 9 (NH-9) and the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) lanes will take more time and a round of inspections to assess damage, if any, to the highway, of which the expressway is a part. Only when all infrastructure facilities are found to be intact will be road be opened to commuters, they said. The Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the highway/expressway has been shut since December 3 last year when farmers erected the dais at the site, hampering the movement of thousands of vehicles. The protest also resulted in closure of Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Hindon elevated road which ends at UP-Gate. “The safety of commuters is our prime concern. We will conduct inspections and assess any issues/damage to the DME. Once all issues are resolved and rectified, we will open the highway/expressway to commuters. This may take a week or more,depending on the condition of roads/infrastructure,” said Arvind Kumar, project director, NHAI. “Once the site is vacated by farmers, our teams will assess the entire stretch from UP-Gate to Indirapuram,” he added. During their over yearlong occupation, protesting farmers have been using the electricity taken directly from overhead lines to power gadgets such as televisions and washing machines and for charging mobile phones and laptops. They also erected hundreds of tents after drilling through the bitumen layer. Cracks were also visible on the road surface after the Delhi Police, on October 30, removed their heavy barricading and iron spikes put in place to deter farmers from taking a tractor march to Delhi, after a similar rally on Republic Day ended in violence and the death of a farmer and injuries to hundreds of policemen. Earlier in September, the NHAI raised concerns about the maintenance issues related to DME as a result of the ongoing farmers’ protest. They also shot a letter to the Ghaziabad administration for resolution of issues resulting out of farmers’ protest and also due to non-maintenance of DME. “Due to farmers’ protest for over a year, traffic was diverted through sector 2, Noida, to Anand Vihar border near Kaushambi and also through the Hindon Canal Road. No vehicle was allowed from Pratap Vihar to UP-Gate. Opening UP-Gate will provide relief to thousands of commuters. About 300 of our personnel were deployed there on a daily basis, besides additional deployment during initial days,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). Residents said for over a year, commuters faced a lot of hardship in commuting to their offices and making other trips. “Normally, there are about 5,000 to 6,000 vehicles passing through Kaushambi. As a result of the diversion, the traffic volume through Kaushambi spiked to about 70,000 vehicles per day. It is a great relief that UP-Gate will now be vacated,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments RWA.
10-12-2021||Delhi||Farmers protest: At Singhu, elation makes way for hectic cleaning||It was time to pack up and head back home. There was a sense of anticipation among farmers at the Singhu protest site since early Thursday as whispers made the rounds that today might finally be the day when their yearlong protest against the erstwhile farm laws may be called off. By afternoon, bated anticipation gave way to relief and elation as the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions helming the protest, declared an end to the protests.Soon, the protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border was a beehive of activity as farmers went into overdrive dismantling tents, pack up belongings, sweeping away the litter and cleaning up a stretch of road that they called their “home” for over a year.The SKM in its address on Thursday said farmers will start retreating from Delhi’s border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur from 9 am on December 11. Farmers said the extra time given is to ensure these locations are cleared up and left the way they were when farmers first arrived on November 26, 2020.“We had called this place our home; we cannot simply leave it the way it is now. We built tents and houses which protected us from the inclement weather and we will now remove each and every structure before we depart,” said farmer Satnam Singh from Patiala, as he swept clean the area where his bamboo hut stood till Thursday morning.Farmers HT spoke to at the Singhu border were jubilant and relieved, albeit with a tinge of sadness. “There are some fond and not so fond memories attached to this place,” said Gurnam Singh, 73.“We lost a lot of brothers camping here and some nights were particularly hard; but there was strength in togetherness and we pulled through. Now, we are happy to be going back home, having achieved all that we set out to do,” said Tarn Taran, a farmer from Punjab.Sixty-year-old Harpreet Kaur from Sangrur, who was camping at the border along with her grandchild, was busy bidding farewell to those already leaving the site on tractor-trolleys. “We were like one family; we bonded with people from different villages and states overnight. What we achieved happened only because of the persistence of each and every one of us,” she said.Closer to the main stage, there is a party-like atmosphere, with multiple tractors parked outside, their speakers blaring popular Punjabi tracks to which farmers were shaking a leg.In comparison, the main stage, which usually was jam-packed with protesters eager to hear the fiery speeches, remained deserted, save for the farmers who will dismantle it overnight.“It will take some time to restore this place to the way it was— about four or five days. We will gradually send items back home in trucks. Several trucks will be needed for the fresh produce alone which was being used to cook langar (community food),” says Sukhpal Singh from Patiala.Jogi Ram from Jakhauli village near Sonepat in Haryana was among those leaving the site on Thursday itself. Having camped at Singhu for nearly 10 months, he says justice has finally been delivered. “We called in a few others to help dismantle our bamboo huts. Each and every item will be loaded onto a truck and we will leave for home tonight, which is not too far. This place was our home and we will not leave it dirty,” he said.For Ravinder Nayak, a vendor selling clothes at Singhu border for the past six months, the day was bittersweet. “We will miss selling items here and the atmosphere that existed, but we also understand that farmers need to go back home. I am glad they got what they wanted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-at-singhu-elation-makes-way-for-hectic-cleaning-101639075363197.html
10-12-2021||Noida||Farmers start dismantling tents in UP's Ghazipur, protest site to get cleared in 2 days||With the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a coalition of 40 farmer unions that was leading the yearlong agitation against the now repealed farm laws, calling off the protest on Thursday, after the government accepted their demands, farmers at the UP-Gate site started dismantling tents while others raised slogans in victory and distributed sweets to those around to mark their happiness— they will finally get to go home victorious. As farmers went about packing up belongings and other infrastructure that they had put up during the course of their yearlong protest on Delhi-Ghaziabad border, the SKM said all protest sites will be vacated by December 11. It will take about two days to clear the site at UP-Gate as it is currently spread over an area of a kilometre, the farmers said. “This is a major milestone in the farmer’s protest movement — the government has accepted all our demands and we will now go home. We will start removing tents and other infrastructure and clear the area by December 12. On December 11, we will celebrate Vijay Diwas (Victory Day). We again apologise to commuters who faced hardships on NH-9 for such a long time,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader from Uttarakhand and UP-Gate site spokesperson for SKM. Farmers in their hundreds arrived at UP-Gate on November 28, 2020, under the banner of Tikait-led Bharatiya Kisan Union with an intention to march to Delhi in protest. But when they were stopped from entering Delhi by the police, little did know that the border-point — roughly, the area under the UP-Gate flyover— was going to be their home for the next one year. A day later, farmers arrived en masse in cars, tractors and trucks from Uttarakhand and parts of Uttar Pradesh and occupied the nearby areas and set up their dais on National Highway 9. There they stayed put — through the winter cold, the aggressive second wave of the pandemic, the heatwave, the downpour and the squalls; stoically bearing with the police barricades and deaths of fellow protesters —till on November 19, on the occasion of Guru Purab, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the three farm laws will be repealed, a promise that Parliament kept on the first day of the winter session. Even then, farmers refused to move.They demanded a legal guarantee for the minimum support price (MSP) for crops, the withdrawal of cases registered against protesting farmers and compensation for the kin of farmers who died during the agitation. The government called them for talks and acceded to their demands, paving the way for the SKM to call off the protest on Thursday. “We asked farmers not to hold any celebrations on December 10 as a mark of respect to soldiers, including chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others, who died in a helicopter crash on Wednesday. On December 10, these soldiers will be cremated. So, there will be no celebrations,” Bajwa said. The farmers at UP-Gate, numbering about 200-300 on Thursday, were glued to social media as the SKM took up the crucial meeting at Singhu Border in the afternoon. As news spread, there were chants of “Kisan Ekta Zindabad’ while some of the farmers started slowly dismantling tents. “It is good that farmers will get to return home but it is a fact that the government accepted our demands only after a year. I have been at the site since the beginning of the agitation, which saw many ups and downs. Many of our brothers also lost lives during the agitation and that is very painful. The farmers braved adverse weather conditions but stayed together and saw the protest to its victory,” said Buta Singh, a farmer from Uttarakhand. Pyara Singh, another farmer from Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, said it was a victory of farmers but it came at a heavy price. “Hundreds of our farmers lost their lives and that could have been avoided had the government paid us heed. If the government had to accept our demands, it could have done so much earlier. The development has given hope that we will get a better price for our crop,” he added. The SKM in a statement said, “Current agitation stands suspended. Battle has been won and the war to ensure farmers’ rights, especially to secure minimum support price as a legal entitlement for all farmers, will continue. Considering that the nation is mourning the demise of CDS General Bipin Rawat and his associates, SKM has decided to postpone all celebrations with regard to the victory of farmers, and celebratory rallies will be taken out day after tomorrow on December 11 when farmers leave the morcha (protest) sites together in victory rallies.” 
10-12-2021||Delhi||‘Tiffin bomb’ blast at Rohini court in Delhi, one hurt||A low-intensity blast took place inside a courtroom at the Rohini court complex on Thursday morning, injuring a policeman, who was posted there as a naib court, triggering panic and raising serious questions over the security arrangements that were strengthened after a gangster was shot dead inside another courtroom by two gunmen in September.The police have not ruled out a terror attack even as no group has come forward to claim responsibility for the blast that took place at 10.30am inside courtroom 102.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said the “minor, low-intensity” explosive was kept in a laptop bag. “The spot was cordoned off. Forensic and the National Security Guard (NSG) teams inspected and examined the site as well as the explosives. The forensic experts collected the debris from the spot for examination. We are waiting for the reports. A case has been registered and investigation is being carried out by the special cell,” Biswal said.Though top police officers did not divulge the nature of the explosives, officers who visited the blast site called it an “improvised explosive device (IED) blast”. They said that the explosive device that was kept in a black laptop bag, and was attached to an unidentified electronic device.They said a medium size battery, usually used in two-wheelers, and a timer may have been used to trigger the explosive substance, which, the police officers suspect could be ammonium nitrate. A damaged metal tiffin box, some small iron screws, shrapnels and wires were found at the explosion site, the officers said asking not to be named.Investigators who spoke on condition of anonymity said court proceedings were yet to begin when the blast took place. Besides head constable Rajeev, a naib court, who was injured in the explosion, at least seven other people were inside the courtroom on the first floor.Lawyers and litigants said that a commotion broke out in the building as soon as the explosion took place. “I was waiting for my case’s hearing in courtroom number 9 on the ground floor when an explosion shook us. I saw people running on the floor and screaming that a bomb has gone off. The police personnel had cordoned off the first floor when I reached there,” said Sangram Singh, a lawyer.Initial probeA senior police officer, who did not want to be named, said initial findings suggested that the bag containing the IED was placed near a wooden partition at the entrance of the court room. He said the injuries to the head constable suggest that he might have stepped on the bag carrying the explosive device.Investigators, however, were not able to tell how the device was brought inside the court complex through a double-layer of security that was put in place after gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi was shot dead by two gunmen who stormed a hearing and opened fire at him. They security staff gunned down the two assailants who entered the court dressed as lawyers.Following the incident, the courts directed the city police to take immediate steps to enhance security at all seven district courts in the city.Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana also visited the Rohini court a day after the shooting, and took stock of the situation. Asthana later announced that security at Delhi’s seven district courts will be upgraded on par with that of the Delhi high court, and said that a slew of measures such as deploying paramilitary personnel and regular security audits will be implemented.The police commissioner could not be reached for his comment on Thursday’s blast, and the major security lapse at the Rohini court.Lawyers outragedLawyers practising at the Rohini court said it was an “attack on the judiciary” and asked how could a person carrying an explosive device go through the double security layer, and then trigger an explosion.“This is an attack on our democracy, and an attempt to intimidate the judiciary. People visit courts to seek justice. September’s shooting incident and today’s (Thursday’s) blast in the courtroom show that criminals have no fear of law. These incidents are nothing but attempts to intimidate judicial officers, lawyers, court staffers and litigants,” said Shekhar Gehlot, a lawyer.Vikas Kumar, another lawyer, said, “After September’s shooting incident, a two layer security apparatus was installed at all the gates of Rohini court. Litigants as well as lawyers are allowed only after showing IDs, and being frisked both manually as well as going through metal door frame detectors . All bags are scanned in X-ray machine. Still, the suspect entered the court with an explosive device. It speaks volumes about the state of the police security.”
10-12-2021||Noida||Park in Noida’s Sector 74 awaits development||An undeveloped park in Sector 74, which has been proposed for development by the Noida authority has been lying idle for years, worrying residents in the area who claim that the garbage and waste water accumulating in the park could lead to the outbreak of several air and water-borne diseases.The vacant land has become a sort of dumping ground, sheltering mounds of garbage which have been dumped illegally. The land also has several pockets, where sewage water has accumulated over the course of time. The plot also has swings and a trampoline, which are used by children from a nearby slum close to Sarfabad village.“This area, earmarked by the Noida authority, is to be developed into a park. However, it has not seen any development in the past few years. There are two such plots here that need immediate attention. The garbage, sewage water and the condition of the area, in general, is not just an eyesore for residents but also a health hazard. We have been following up with the authority since 2017, but nothing has been done yet,” said Arun Sharma, president of the Apartment Owners Association (AOA), Supertech Capetown. Residents said that while the threat of an outbreak of water borne diseases looms large due to the vacant plot, that has become a harbour for both garbage and waste water, chances are that the dirty water may seep underground and upset the water table. Recent reports of over 20 people of a housing society in a neighbouring sector suffering from hepatitis A and jaundice has also worried residents.“Jaundice, typhoid, colitis, dengue and malaria are just some of the various diseases that such poor living conditions can cause. There are many other health risks. Most of these builders extract ground water for supply illegally, since they have not taken the requisite permissions from the authorities. The sewage water being let out in this ground must have already polluted the ground water. Children are at maximum risk,” says Ritika Sinha, a resident of Golf City in Sector 75.Officials from the Noida authority said the horticulture department recently visited the area and is planning to start development of the park soon. “It had been left fallow till now, but discussions have started to develop the park. We have also discussed with the forest department to develop a portion of the park as a Miyawaki forest,” said Indu Prakash, officer on special duty of the Noida authority.Miyawaki is a traditional Japanese plantation technique to plant fast growing trees densely in a small area close to each other.Prakash added that dense plantation was being considered as the 7X sectors have high population and not enough trees. More plantation can also help control pollution in the area. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/park-in-noida-s-sector-74-awaits-development-101639075122090.html
10-12-2021||Noida||Four arrested for snatching cellphones in Greater Noida||Police arrested four persons on Thursday in connection with cellphone snatchings in Greater Noida. They have also recovered eight cellphones and two stolen motorcycles from their possession.The suspects were identified as Rohit Kumar (24), Arjun Singh (23), Karan Singh (25) — all residents of Greater Noida’s Kasna, and Ravinder Singh (25) — a resident of Bulandshahr.Based on a complaint by Sitember Kumar (30), a resident of Kasna in Greater Noida, a case was registered under Section 392 (robbery) of the IPC against the four men at the Beta 2 police station on Monday.According to Anil Kumar, in-charge of Beta 2 police station, Sitember was talking to someone over the phone outside a factory on Monday when three of the suspects committed the snatching. “I was talking to someone over phone when three men on a motorcycle snatched my cellphone and escaped,” said Sitember in his complaint.A police team identified the suspects after scanning CCTV footage of nearby areas. On Thursday, police received a tip about the three suspects who were roaming in the Sigma 2 area on two motorcycles. A police team stopped the suspects for checking. “They were arrested from the Sigma 2 area, and eight cellphones and two stolen motorcycles were recovered from their possession,” said Anil Kumar. It was after the interrogation of the three men that the fourth suspect, Ravinder, was arrested, said police. The suspects mostly targeted factory workers when they left their workplaces in the evening. “It was revealed during police investigation that the suspects have at least 10 cases registered against them. They used to snatch cellphones and sell them at cheap rates. The suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Thursday,” Anil Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-arrested-for-snatching-cellphones-in-greater-noida-101639074940376.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi accident: Couple dead, child hurt after truck topples onto car in RK Puram||A couple were killed after a truck toppled onto their car in south Delhi’s RK Puram area late on Wednesday, while their six-year-old daughter suffered minor injuries and survived, said the police. The driver of the truck was arrested on Thursday afternoon.The couple were identified as Manish Sharma (37) and Kshipra Joshi (32), who died a day after their marriage anniversary, which they celebrated at Sharma’s brother house in Rajasthan’s Bhiwadi. Joshi was a homemaker, and Sharma worked as a legal consultant with a private firm.They were returning home to Noida from Bhiwadi with their daughter Mishika when the accident took place on Ring Road, near the Hyatt Regency in RK Puram, the police said.A hydraulic crane was deployed at the spot to help with rescue efforts, after personnel from the Delhi Fire Services (DFS) and police failed to free the couple and the child from the car, which was practically flattened. The rescue teams used gas cutters to cut the mangled car and rescue the three occupants.All three were taken to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where the couple succumbed to their injuries, said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma.He said that around midnight, the RK Puram police station received a call reporting the accident. A police team reached the spot and found that the dumper toppled onto the car after hitting a divider. The driver of the truck fled after the accident.“A case was registered and the errant driver was arrested in the afternoon following raids at his possible hideouts,” said the DCP.The truck driver told the police that he had turned his vehicle to the right side of the road when another vehicle attempted to overtake it. The speeding truck then hit the divider, due to which the driver lost control and his truck fell onto the car, which was moving parallel to it on the left.“The front of the car was badly crushed. Since the couple was seated on the front seats, they were severely hurt, while their daughter was on the backseat and survived. The girl was also admitted to the hospital but was discharged after being administered immediate medical attention,” said a police officer.Sharma’s friend, Vivek Pathak, said a passerby used Sharma’s cellphone to contact a friend and inform them of the mishap. The friend, Nitin, then informed Sharma’s family, said Pathak.Meanwhile, traffic on the carriageway was disturbed for nearly an hour, and the police opened up the service lane as an alternate route. Traffic was restored on the main carriageway around 1am, said senior police officers who were present at the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-accident-couple-dead-child-hurt-after-truck-topples-onto-car-in-rkpuram-101639074764503.html
10-12-2021||Delhi||Probing extortion by Tihar jail officers in Ankit Gujjar case, says CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday told the Delhi high court that it was investigating the “larger angle” of extortion by jail officials into the death of gangster Ankit Gujjar.Gujjar, 29, was found dead in his cell in Tihar jail on August 4, following which his mother moved the court seeking a CBI inquiry. On September 8, the high court said that it was a clear case of custodial violence and transferred the probe to the central agency.According to the first information report, Gujjar’s mother, Geeta, has accused jail officers of demanding ₹1 lakh as protection money from Gujjar when he was lodged inside the prison.Informing the court about the status of the investigation in the case, CBI informed justice Mukta Gupta that it was “going beyond” the allegations of extortion levelled by Gujjar’s family against the jail officials. The counsel for CBI said that the agency was examining the bank statements of the accused jail officials to ascertain if they got the money.“We are examining extortion and murder. We are going beyond the case and looking into the larger conspiracy... We have sought the bank account (of relevant persons),” the CBI counsel said.The counsel asserted that the CBI was “linking the chain” and “within a month”, the grievances raised by the petitioner, Gujjar’s mother, would be sorted out.On Thursday, the judge granted time to the CBI to file a detailed status report on the investigation in a sealed cover and posted the matter for hearing on January 17, 2022.Lawyer Mehmood Pracha, appearing for the petitioners, stated that there were eye-witnesses who needed adequate protection against coercion inside the jail, and submitted that the CCTV cameras were deliberately switched off at the time of the incident.However, CBI counsel said that adequate care was being taken for the protection of the witnesses, including the undertrials, whose statements have been recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/probing-extortion-by-tihar-jail-officers-in-ankit-gujjar-case-says-cbi-101639074760826.html
10-12-2021||Noida||Yeida files FIR against pvt developer for ‘illegal’ sale of plots in Jewar||To curb the illegal sale of plots under the guise of a government scheme, a practice that is largely rampant in Jewar, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Thursday started a crackdown against those who are developing unauthorised housing projects in the area and luring gullible people. The authority filed an FIR against a private developer in Kasna police station for cheating buyers by claiming that the Yeida has ‘approved’ the housing project. According to the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Industrial Area Development Act, 1976, no private developer can execute housing or other projects without the approval of the Yeida on around 2.68 lakh hectares of area spread between Greater Noida and Agra along the Yamuna Expressway. Despite repeated communications, the private developer could not be reached for comments. Established by the Uttar Pradesh government in 2001, the Yeida had notified at least 2.68 lakh hectares of agricultural land for planned development. It means any development--be it housing, industrial or other usage-- that takes place without obtaining the requisite approval for the layout and building map from the Yeida is ‘unauthorised’.“We filed the FIR against the company that was selling the plots in violation of the rules. We have also appealed in the past via advertisements that the buyers should not be lured by such developers, who are developing illegal projects. From the time works at the Noida international airport have been expedited, several real estate agents have become active on YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. We will take strict action against such developers,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Yeida. Real estate consultants are approaching people through social media, text messages, phone calls and have also put up hoardings on Jewar-Bulandshahr road to lure potential homebuyers. Residents around the area allege that developers are selling a 100 square metre plot for anything between ₹15- ₹20 lakh depending on the location. The rates are, however, not fixed.Yeida officials were startled to see social media users putting up the authority’s logo on their display advertisements while offering industrial plots earlier this week.U B Singh, station house officer of Jewar police station, said, “We have suggested the authority to put up warning boards too at prominent locations for creating awareness. We are taking action against developers who are violating law.”
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Civil Service officer’s car snatched at gunpoint in Mohali||The car of a Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officer was snatched at gunpoint on the road dividing Sectors 86 and 87 in Mohali on Wednesday night around 10.45pm. Rajesh Tripathi, the additional secretary of information technology, was returning to his official residence at Purab Premium Apartments in Sector 88 from Phase 11 in Mohali when the incident took place. Investigating officer Amrik Singh said Tripathi was driving back alone in his Maruti Ertiga. “On reaching the dividing road in Sectors 86 and 87, four men in a Maruti Swift car waylaid him. Three men stepped out of the car and pointed a pistol at him. They asked him to get down from the car and drove away in it. Tripathi managed to note down the number of the Swift car in which the assailants came,” said the cop. “We have already sent our police parties to Moga and Faridkot districts,” he added. The investigating officer said a resident, Gagandeep Singh, outside whose house the incident took place took Tripathi to the police station. “We are checking the closed circuit television camera (CCTV) footage and are hopeful of arresting them soon,” Amrik Singh said. A case was registered against unidentified persons at Sohana police station. On November 28, passersby caught an armed carjacker, who was trying to flee with a car snatched on gunpoint on Kharar-Landran road. Two of his accomplices, however, managed to flee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-civil-service-officer-s-car-snatched-at-gunpoint-in-mohali-101639034010434.html
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Top leaders get into campaign mode as political temperature soars in J&K||As the winter chill sets in, political temperature in Kashmir has started soaring. With an eye on elections, all top leaders in J&K are already in campaign mode, testing waters and strengthening their public connect.Though no poll dates have been announced yet, majority of mainstream leaders are hoping that elections could be held within next few months once the delimitation process gets over. In recent days, three former chief ministers and leaders of mainstream political parties have addressed several gatherings across J&K, which saw formidable crowds. Former leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad attended a series of rallies and sought restoration of statehood, along with land and job reservations for people. “He (Azad) held rallies in all regions of J&K and the response was tremendous. This is also an effort to strengthen the Congress at the grassroots level,” said GN Monga, vice-president of the Jammu and Kashmir Congress. He said these rallies were effort made to reach out to the people, who were dejected after the abrogation of Article 370. “More rallies will be held in coming days by Azad and other party leaders,” he added. National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah just ended his tour to Chenab valley, where he addressed several political rallies which drew huge crowd. Omar targeted the Centre for taking away special status of J&K and vowed to continue his fight for restoration of the statehood and special status. He even blamed the Congress for not strongly defending the Article 370 that was granted by their leadership. Omar’s political adviser Tanvir Sadiq said the response from public was overwhelming. “The sad part is that people are not happy. They are upset and disillusioned with what happened post-August 5, 2019. They are disappointed with the way this state has been broken into two parts and downgraded to a UT. They want answers as to why a prosperous state like ours was put in situation where we are today.” Tanvir said the government’s claims of development and prosperity post-August 5 have proved wrong. “There is no accountability or redressal at any level. All J&K faces is destruction, helplessness, unemployment, poverty and injustice,” he said, adding that it was not a part of their election outreach. “This was a part of the leadership contact programme,” he said. While PDP president Mehbooba Mufti addressed people in north Kashmir’s Bandipore, BJP state president Ravinder Raina held rallies at Tanghdar and Uri close to the LOC and promised the border residents various development projects. “The aim of these programmes by the PDP leadership is to make people aware of their rights and keep them ready to fight for justice,” said a PDP leader.The People’s Conference led by Sajjad Lone and the Apni Party led by Altaf Bukhari also organised political programmes in different parts of Jammu and Kashmir to show their political strength.“These rallies are a part of the public outreach, especially post-abrogation of Article 370. And when there is talk of elections in J&K, no party wants to remain in oblivion. They prepare their cadre for polls whenever dates are announced,” said People’s Conference spokesperson Adnan Ashraf. He said his party was organising small meetings in different parts of Kashmir, but big rallies were also in the offing. “May be later this month,” he said. ‘A pre-assembly election posturing’Pervaz Majid, a political analyst who teaches journalism at Amar Singh College, said the mainstream politicians visiting hinterland is perhaps Delhi’s measured and guarded approval for warming up to the assembly election. “In fact, statements by these political leaders — from Omar Abdullah to Azad to Ravinder Raina indicate a pre-assembly election posturing. What amazes is that people in good numbers attend their rallies; again an indicator of the public mood for an election wherein they want their MLAs around for grievance redressal,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/top-leaders-enter-campaign-mode-as-political-temperature-soars-in-jk-101638736595127.html
